DATA PROTECTION (AMENDMENT)
REGULATIONS 2018

DATA PROTECTION (AMENDMENT) REGULATIONS 2018
1.

Amendments to the Data Protection Regulations 2015 ..................................................... 2

2.

Insertion of new sections ................................................................................................... 9

3.

Short title, extent and commencement ............................................................................. 11

DATA PROTECTION (AMENDMENT) REGULATIONS 2018
Regulations to amend the Data Protection Regulations 2015.
Date of Enactment: 1 February 2018
The Board of Directors of the Abu Dhabi Global Market, in exercise of its powers under Article 6(1) of
Law No. 4 of 2013 concerning the Abu Dhabi Global Market issued by His Highness the Ruler of the
Emirate of Abu Dhabi, hereby enacts the following Regulations–
1. Amendments to the Data Protection Regulations 2015
(1)

The Data Protection Regulations 2015 are amended as follows.

(2)

All references to "data" in those regulations shall be substituted by references to "Data", except
where indicated below:

(3)

(a)

in the sentence stating “Regulations to make provision for the protection of personal
data within the Abu Dhabi Global Market and for connected purposes” in the recitals
to the Data Protection Regulations 2015;

(b)

in subsections 5(1)(n), 17(1) and 17(6);

(c)

in the sentence stating “For the purposes of section 5 of the Data Protection Regulations
2015 (the "Regulations") for the transfer of Personal Data to data controllers
established in jurisdictions outside the Abu Dhabi Global Market which do not ensure
an adequate level of data protection ("Non-Abu Dhabi Global Market Data
Controllers")” in Schedule 1;

(d)

in the terms “third party data controller”, “data transfer agreement” or “data protection
standards” in subparagraph (2) of paragraph 3 of Schedule 1;

(e)

in subparagraph (2) of paragraph 7 of Schedule 1;

(f)

in the sentence stating “For the purposes of section 5 of the Data Protection Regulations
2015 (the "Regulations") for the transfer of Personal Data to Data Processors
established in jurisdictions outside the Abu Dhabi Global Market which do not ensure
an adequate level of data protection” in Schedule 2; and

(g)

in the terms “data processor”, “data protection obligations” or “data protection aspects”
in subparagraphs 1(d), 11(1) and 11(3) of Schedule 2.

For subsection (1) of section 4, the following shall be substituted—
"Except as set out in section 5, a transfer of Personal Data to a Recipient located in a jurisdiction
outside the Abu Dhabi Global Market may take place only if the jurisdiction is listed in
Schedule 3 or has been designated by the Registrar under subsection (3)."

(4)

For paragraph (c) of subsection (2) of section 4, the following shall be substituted—
“if the Personal Data do not emanate from the Abu Dhabi Global Market, the country of origin
and country of final destination of the Personal Data; and”.

(5)

For subsection (3) of section 4, the following shall be substituted—

2

“Certain jurisdictions are hereby designated as providing an adequate level of protection for
Personal Data for the purposes of subsection (1). These are listed in Schedule 3 to these
Regulations. Additional jurisdictions may be designated by the Registrar from time to time to
the list of jurisdictions considered to fall under subsection (1) which shall be deemed to be part
of Schedule 3 by a publication to such effect on the Registrar's website.”
(6)

In section 4, a new subsection (4) shall be inserted as follows—
“The Registrar may also, by publication to such effect on the Registrar’s website, withdraw a
designation from a jurisdiction designated under subsection (3) or listed in Schedule 3 if the
Registrar considers that: (a) the relevant jurisdiction no longer provides an adequate level of
protection for Personal Data for the purposes of subsection (1); and (b) such removal is
warranted in order to further the protection of Personal Data.”

(7)

In section 5, the number "(1)" shall be inserted before the words "A transfer or a set of transfers
of Personal Data to a Recipient" and any existing references to paragraphs (a) to (n) of section
5 of the Data Protection Regulations 2015 prior to the date of commencement of these
Regulations shall be construed as references to the corresponding paragraphs (a) to (n) of
subsection (1) of section 5 of the Data Protection Regulations 2015 accordingly.

(8)

In section 5, a new subsection (2) shall be inserted as follows—
“(2)

A transfer or set of transfers of Personal Data to a Recipient which is not subject to
laws which ensure an adequate level of protection within the meaning of section 4(1)
shall still be regarded as having been made pursuant to subsection 5(1)(m) if –
(a)

a legally binding agreement had been entered into between the transferor and
Recipient prior to the date of commencement of the Data Protection
(Amendment) Regulations 2018 (being 1 February 2018); and

(b)

the agreement mentioned in subsection (a) above is in the form previously
contained in Schedule 1 or 2 of the Data Protection Regulations 2015 prior to
the amendments made by the Data Protection (Amendment) Regulations 2018,

regardless of whether such transfer occurs prior to or after the effective date of the Data
Protection (Amendment) Regulations 2018 (being 1 February 2018).”
(9)

In subparagraph (v) of paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of section 6, for the words "5(k)", the
words "5(1)(k)" shall be substituted.

(10)

In subparagraph (v) of paragraph (c) of subsection (1) of section 7, for the words "5(k)", the
words "5(1)(k)" shall be substituted.

(11)

In subsection (5) of section 9, for the words “as soon as reasonably practicable”, the words
“without undue delay, and where feasible, not later than 72 hours after becoming aware of it.”
shall be substituted.

(12)

In subsection (1) of section 12, for the words "data controller", the words "Data Controller"
shall be substituted.

(13)

For subsection (3) of section 12, the following shall be substituted—
“(3)

A Data Controller must also notify the Registrar of–

(a)

the appointment of a Data Processor, within one month of the appointment;

3

(14)

(b)

the cessation of a Data Processor, within one month of the cessation;

(c)

any change in the particulars of any Data Processor, within one month of the change;
and

(d)

any change in its business contact details, within one month of the change.”

Subsection (4) of section 12 shall be renumbered “12(6)” and new subsections (4) and (5) shall
be inserted as follows—
“(4)

The notifications required by subsections 12(1) and 12(3)(a) must be submitted to the
Registrar on an annual basis where the Personal Data Processing is to continue in the
subsequent year.

(5)

The annual notification in subsection 12(4) must be submitted to the Registrar, with
payment of such fee(s) as prescribed by Schedule 4 of these Regulations, within one
month of the previous annual notification expiring."

(15)

In paragraph (c) of subsection (3) of section 14 the word “and” shall be omitted.

(16)

For paragraph (d) of subsection (3) of section 14, the following shall be substituted—
“(d)

(17)

(18)

In subsection (3) of section 14, new paragraphs (e) and (f) shall be inserted as follows—
“(e)

impose fines in the event of non-compliance with its direction; and

(f)

impose fines in the event of non-compliance with these Regulations and any rules made
pursuant to these Regulations.”

For subsection (2) of section 16, the following shall be substituted—
“(2)

(19)

issue directions or warnings and make recommendations to Data Controllers;”

In particular, the Board when exercising the power in subsection (1) may make rules
in respect of–
(a)

forms, procedures and requirements under these Regulations;

(b)

the keeping of the register of notifications established under section 13;

(c)

the conduct of the Registrar and its staff in relation to the exercise of powers
and performance of functions under these Regulations;

(d)

the procedures relating to the imposition of sanctions or fines and the recovery
of fines under Part 6;

(e)

the level of fees payable for any matter listed in Schedule 4 to these
Regulations or the level of fees payable for any other matter or step, and shall
be entitled to amend any of the amounts specified in Schedule 4; and

(f)

requiring any other fees to be paid in connection with any application or
notification.”

For subsection (1) of section 17, the following shall be substituted—

4

“(1)

(20)

(a)

to do or refrain from doing any act or thing within such time as may be
specified in the direction; or

(b)

to refrain from Processing any Personal Data specified in the direction or to
refrain from Processing Personal Data for a purpose or in a manner specified
in the direction.”

For paragraph (b) of subsection (2) of section 17, the following shall be substituted—
“(b)

(21)

If the Registrar is satisfied that a Data Controller, Data Processor or data controller
established outside the Abu Dhabi Global Market has contravened or is contravening
these Regulations or any rules made under these Regulations, the Registrar may issue
a direction to the Data Controller requiring him to do either or both of the following–

a statement to the effect that the Data Controller may refer the matter to the Court for
review.”

For subsection (3) of section 17, the following shall be substituted—
“(3)

A Data Controller, who fails, without reasonable excuse, to comply with–
(a)

any direction issued by the Registrar under this section;

(b)

these Regulations; or

(c)

any rules made pursuant to these Regulations,

commits a contravention of these Regulations and shall be liable to a fine of up to USD 25,000.”
(22)

For subsection (4) of section 17, the following shall be substituted—
“(4)
A Data Controller, who receives a direction under this section may refer the matter to
the Court for review within three (3) months of the issuing of the direction.”

(23)

In section 17, a new subsection (8) shall be inserted as follows—
“(8)
Court Procedure Rules may make provision for any reference to the Court under
subsection (4).”

(24)

In section 17, a new subsection (9) shall be inserted as follows—
“(9)
A Data Controller may ask the Registrar to review the direction within fourteen (14)
days of receiving a direction under this part of the Regulations. The Registrar may receive
further submissions and amend or discontinue the direction.”

(25)

For subsection (3) of section 19, the following shall be substituted—
“(3)

Without prejudice to subsection (1) above, none of sections 4, 5, 6, 7, 10, 11, 17 or 17A
shall apply to the Board, the Court, the Regulator or the Registrar if the application of
these sections would be likely to prejudice the proper discharge by those entities of
their powers or functions in so far as such powers or functions are designed for
protecting members of the public against–
(a)

financial loss due to dishonesty, malpractice or other seriously improper
conduct by, or the unfitness or incompetence of, persons carrying on any
Controlled Activities; or

5

(b)
(26)

dishonesty, malpractice or other seriously improper conduct by, or the
unfitness or incompetence of, persons carrying on Regulated Activities.”

In section 19, a new subsection (4) shall be inserted as follows—
“(4)
The restrictions in these Regulations relating to the transfer of Personal Data and
Sensitive Personal Data do not apply to the Board, the Court, the Regulator or the Registrar if
disclosures are made pursuant to any memorandum of understanding or other arrangements for
information exchange to any other governmental or other regulatory body or authority whether
in the Abu Dhabi Global Market or otherwise for the purpose of assisting the performance by
any such person of its functions and powers or made in good faith for the purposes of the
exercise of the functions and powers of the Board, the Court, the Regulator, or the Registrar or
in order to further the Court’s, the Board’s, the Regulator’s or the Registrar’s objectives.”

(27)

For section 20, the following shall be substituted—
“In these Regulations, unless the context indicates otherwise, the defined terms listed below
shall have the following meanings–
“Abu Dhabi Global Market” has the meaning given to “Abu Dhabi Global Market” in the
Interpretation Regulations 2015;
“ADGM Founding Law” means Law No. 4 of 2013 concerning the Abu Dhabi Global Market
issued by His Highness the Ruler of the Emirate of Abu Dhabi;
“Board” has the meaning given to “Board” in the Interpretation Regulations 2015;
"Company" has the meaning given to that term in the Financial Services and Markets
Regulations 2015;
"Controlled Activities" means controlled activities as defined in the Commercial Licensing
Regulations 2015;
"Court" has the meaning given to “Courts” in the Interpretation Regulations 2015;
“Court Procedure Rules” has the meaning given under Part 7 of the ADGM Courts, Civil
Evidence, Judgments, Enforcement and Judicial Appointments Regulations 2015;
"Data" means any information which–
(a)

is being processed by means of equipment operating automatically in response
to instructions given for that purpose;

(b)

is recorded with the intention that it should be processed by means of such
equipment; or

(c)

is recorded as part of a Relevant Filing System or with the intention that it
should form part of a Relevant Filing System;

"Data Controller" means any person in the Abu Dhabi Global Market (excluding a natural
person acting in his capacity as a staff member) who alone or jointly with others determines the
purposes and means of the Processing of Personal Data;
"Data Processor" means any person (excluding a natural person acting in his capacity as a staff
member) who Processes Personal Data on behalf of a Data Controller;

6

"Data Subject" shall mean the natural person to whom Personal Data relate;
"Group" has the meaning given to that term in the Financial Services and Markets Regulations
2015;
"Identifiable Natural Person" means a natural person who can be identified, directly or
indirectly, in particular by reference to an identification number or to one or more factors
specific to his biological, physical, biometric, physiological, mental, economic, cultural or
social identity;
"Personal Data" means any Data relating to an identified natural person or Identifiable Natural
Person;
"Processing" means any operation or set of operations which is performed upon Personal Data,
whether or not by automatic means, such as collection, recording, organisation, storage,
adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by transmission, dissemination
or otherwise making available, alignment or combination, blocking, erasure or destruction, and
"Processed", "Processes" and "Process" shall be construed accordingly;
"Recipient" means any person to whom Personal Data are disclosed, whether a Third Party or
not, but does not include any person to whom disclosure is or may be made as a result of, or
with a view to, a particular inquiry by or on behalf of that person made in the exercise of any
power conferred by law;
“Registrar” means the “Registration Authority” as that term is defined in the Interpretation
Regulations 2015;
"Regulated Activities" has the meaning given to it in the Financial Services and Markets
Regulations 2015;
“Regulator” means the “Financial Services Regulator” as that term is defined in the
Interpretation Regulations 2015;
"Relevant Filing System" means any set of information relating to an Identifiable Natural
Person to the extent that, although the information is not processed by means of equipment
operating automatically in response to instructions given for that purpose, the set is structured,
either by reference to individuals or by reference to criteria relating to individuals, in such a
way that specific information relating to a particular individual is readily accessible;
"Sensitive Personal Data" means Personal Data revealing or concerning (directly or indirectly)
racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, criminal record,
trade-union membership and health or sex life;
"Staff" include past, existing or prospective employees, directors, partners, trustees, officers,
office holders, temporary or casual workers, agents and volunteers; and
"Third Party" means any person other than the Data Subject, the Data Controller, the Data
Processor and the persons who, under the direct control of the Data Controller or the Data
Processor, are authorised to Process the Personal Data.”
(28)

In subparagraph (a) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 the word ""Data"," is to be inserted before
the words "Personal Data".

(29)

For subparagraph (i) of paragraph (2) of section 3 of Schedule 1, the following shall be
substituted—

7

"the third party data controller processes the Personal Data in accordance with the laws of a
jurisdiction outside the Abu Dhabi Global Market that has been designated under the
Regulations or by the Registrar as providing adequate protection for Personal Data;".
(30)

Subparagraphs (5) to (7) of section 5 of Schedule 1 shall be renumbered as paragraphs (1) to
(3). All references to subparagraphs (5) to (7) of section 5 of Schedule 1 shall be construed as
references to the corresponding subparagraphs (1) to (3) of section 5 of Schedule 1 of the Data
Protection Regulations 2015 accordingly.

(31)

For subparagraph (3) of paragraph 8 of Schedule 1, the following shall be substituted—
“(3)
Either Party may terminate these Clauses if each jurisdiction in which the Data Importer
is incorporated or operates or uses the Personal Data is either: (a) subject to a designation under
section 4 of the Regulations by the Registrar; or (b) is or becomes listed in Schedule 3 to the
Regulations.”

(32)

In subparagraph (a) of paragraph 1 of Schedule 2, the word ""Data"," is to be inserted before
the words "Personal Data".

(33)

For subparagraph (4) of paragraph 6 of Schedule 2 the following shall be substituted—
“(4)
In addition to the Data Exporter's entitlement to terminate the Clauses in accordance
with Clause 5(a), either Party may terminate these Clauses if each jurisdiction in which the Data
Importer and each of its Subprocessors is incorporated or operates or uses the Personal Data is
either: (a) subject to a designation under section 4 of the Regulations by the Registrar; or (b) is
or becomes listed in Schedule 3 to the Regulations.”

(34)

In Schedule 3, for the words "by the Registrar", the word "herein" shall be substituted.

(35)

In Schedule 3, insert new subparagraph (1) “Andorra” and renumber the remaining
subparagraphs accordingly.

(36)

In Schedule 3, at subparagraph (6) after “Canada”, insert “(provided the recipient is subject to
the Canadian Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act [PIPED Act])”.

(37)

In Schedule 3, after subparagraph (9) insert new subparagraph (10) “Dubai International
Financial Centre” and renumber the remaining subparagraphs accordingly.

(38)

In Schedule 3, insert new subparagraph (12) “Faeroe Islands” and renumber the remaining
subparagraphs accordingly.

(39)

In Schedule 3, at subparagraph (42) for the words “applicable US-EU or US-Switzerland Safe
Harbours”, the words “EU-US Privacy Shield” shall be substituted.

(40)

For Schedule 4, the following shall be substituted—
FEES
The following fees are payable by a Data Controller or Data Processor in respect of the
applications and notifications made in accordance with the Regulations–

8

Application or notification

Fee payable (USD)

Application for initial registration as a Data 300
Controller
Application for initial appointment of a Data Nil
Processor (per appointment if more than one Data
Processor)
Annual renewal of registration as a Data 100
Controller
Annual renewal of appointment of a Data Nil
Processor (per appointment if more than one Data
Processor)
Notification of Data Controller no longer Nil
Processing Personal Data and/or removal of a Data
Processor
Notification of change in the particulars of an Nil
appointed Data Processor
Notification of a change in the contact details of a Nil
Data Controller
Application to obtain a permit to process Sensitive 100
Personal Data
Application to obtain a permit to transfer Personal 100
Data

2. Insertion of new sections
(1)

Following section 17, new sections 17A,17B and 17C shall be inserted as follows—
“17A. Fines
(1)

The Board may make rules in respect of the procedures relating to the imposition and
recovery of fines under this Part.

(2)

Where the Registrar considers that a Data Controller has contravened–
(a)

any direction issued by the Registrar under section 17,

(b)

these Regulations; or

(c)

any rules made pursuant to these Regulations,

the Registrar, by written notice (a “monetary penalty notice”) to the Data Controller,
may impose a fine in respect of the contravention.

9

(3)

A monetary penalty notice is a written notice requiring the Data Controller to pay to
the Registrar a fine of an amount determined by the Registrar as the Registrar may
consider appropriate.

(4)

The amount determined by the Registrar must not exceed the maximum fine specified
in section 17(3).

(5)

The fine must be paid to the Registrar within the period specified in the monetary
penalty notice.

(6)

The monetary penalty notice must contain such information as may be prescribed.

(7)

A Data Controller, who receives a monetary penalty notice under this section, may
refer the matter to the Court for review of–
(a)

the issue of the monetary penalty notice;

(b)

the amount of the fine specified in the notice.

(8)

Court Procedure Rules may make provision for any reference to the Court under
subsection (7).

(9)

If, within the period specified in the monetary penalty notice–
(a)

(b)

the Data Controller pays the fine specified in the notice to the Registrar–
(i)

subject to paragraph (ii) below, no proceedings or actions pursuant to
this Part may be commenced, whether in the Court or otherwise, by
the Registrar against the Data Controller in respect of the relevant
contravention; and

(ii)

without prejudice to paragraph (i) above, neither the imposition nor
payment of a fine shall restrict the Registrar from taking any action
against a Data Controller or refrain from doing any act or thing in
relation to any continuing contravention; or

if all or any portion of a fine has not been paid at the end of the period stated
in a monetary penalty notice, the obligation of the Data Controller to pay the
fine is enforceable as a debt payable to the Registrar. The Registrar may apply
to the Court for the recovery of the debt.

(10)

In this section “prescribed” means prescribed by rules made by the Board pursuant to
these Regulations.

17B.

Certificates

A certificate that is signed by the Registrar and states that a direction under section 17 was
issued to, or a monetary penalty notice prescribing a fine under section 17A was imposed on, a
Data Controller is–
(a)

conclusive evidence of the giving of the direction or the imposition of the notice to the
Data Controller; and

(b)

prima facie evidence of the facts contained in the direction or the notice,

10

in any proceedings commenced under sections 17(4), 17(5), 17(6) or sections 17A(7) and
17A(9)(b).”
17C. Referral to the Court
(1) Any Data Controller who is found to contravene these Regulations or a direction of the
Registrar may refer the matter to the Court for review of the issuing of the finding or
direction within three (3) months.
(2) The Court Procedure Rules may make provision for any reference under subsection (1)."
3. Short title, extent and commencement
(1)

These Regulations may be cited as the Data Protection (Amendment) Regulations 2018.

(2)

These Regulations shall apply in the Abu Dhabi Global Market.

(3)

These Regulations come into force on 1 February 2018.

11


