REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
COMMISSIONER FOR PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA
OFFICE OF COMMISSIONER
________________________________________________________________________

DECISION
No 2, Dated 10/03/2010
ON
DETERMINING THE PROCEDURES FOR THE ADMINISTRATION OF
REGISTRATION OF DATA, ENTERING THE DATA, THEIR
PROCESSING AND RETRIEVAL

In reliance on the Law No 9887, dated 10.03.2008 “On Protection of Personal Data”, on
decisions of the Parliament of Albania No 211, dated 11.09.2008 "On election of the
Commissioner for Protection of Personal Data”, no 225, dated 13.11.2008 "On the
approval of the organic structure and categories of job positions of the office of the
Commissioner for Protection of Personal Data”, as well as abiding by the obligations set
out in point 6 of Article 27, of the law mentioned above, I

DECIDED:
determining the procedures for the administration of registration on the data, entering of
the data, their processing and retrieval in accordance with the requirements of the law No
9887, dated 10.03.2008 “On Protection of Personal Data”, as follows:
I.

Administration of registration

1. Storing and preserving the data shall be done only for one or many specific clear
and legitimate aims.
a) The data may be stored for one or many specific aims, for legitimate aims
declared clearly, and their processing shall be done only based on these aims.
b) In accordance with this rule:
i. every individual has to know the reason of collection and storing his data;
ii.

the aim for which the data are collected should be legitimate;

iii.

you should be aware for the administration of the data you possess.

2. The data shall be stored in a correct and careful manner, being accurate,
comprehensive and updated.
a) The individual shall be granted all rights provided for in the law “On Protection
of Personal Data”.
b) In the interest of your activity or business, you should obtain accurate data for the
effects of efficiency and effective decision-making.
c) In accordance with this rule, you should make sure that:
i. your official and computer based procedures be sufficient for appropriate
verifications to ensure a high level of accuracy of data;
ii.

the general requirements for storing the updated personal data shall be
considered completely;

iii.

appropriate procedures must be imposed, applied, implemented, including
the periodic review and the control to ensure that all data had been kept
updated.

3. The data shall be kept no longer than necessary for the purpose for which they have
been collected or further processed.
a) The controllers of the data are responsible and they should be clear about the time
frame within which the data should be stored and the reason why the information
is being kept;
b) You should appoint a person responsible for ensuring that the files or databases
are regularly monitored in order for the personal data not to be longer than
necessary;
c) You must have:
i.
a clear policy about the timeframe for keeping all the personal data in
accordance with instructions of the Commissioner;
ii.

clear-cut and approved rules for the management, official procedures,
computer procedures being applied for the implementation of such policy.

4. The right to access by the entity of the data
a) every individual about whom you keep personal data shall be entitled:
i.

to be given a copy of the data that you keep about him or her;

ii.

to know the category of the data and the aim of their processing;

iii.

to know the identity of those to whom you have disseminated data;

iv.

to know the source of data, as long as this is not at variance with the
public interest;

v.

to know the logic, and the arguments included in automatic decisions;

vi.

to be informed about the data in the form of opinions, unless such opinions
have been provided confidentially or in secrecy, even in cases where the
fundamental human rights suggest that they should have access to the data
in question.

b) The controllers shall have clear coordination procedures in order to make sure that
all the manual files and the computer files have been controlled about data in
connection with which the request to access has been made;
c) in order to file a request to access, the entity of the data shall:
i.
file a written application (which may include also application by mail);
ii.

provide any detail which may be necessary to assist in the identification
and in finding out, localizing all information which you may keep about
him/her;

d) In response to the request for access, you shall:
i. provide individuals with information very accurately and within 30 days
from receiving the request;
ii.

offer clear information about the persons, such as every code needs to be
explained.

e) If you do not possess any information with regard to the request filed by the
individual, you shall make this known to him within 30 days;
f) If you restrict the right of individuals to access in compliance if one of the few
restrictions provided for in the law, you shall inform the entity of the data in
writing within 30 days and included in that statement shall be the grounds of
refusal. At the same time the individual shall be informed about his right to
complain with the Commissioner of the protection of data with regard to the
refusal or to file a request to control the exclusion in the concrete case.
g) Every individual about whom a controller of data keeps personal data shall also
have other rights in addition to those foreseen in this law, that is the right to
access. Included there shall be the right to request the deletion or correct
indication of any inaccurate information, the right to oppose, the right to complain
with the Commissioner for the protection of data etc.
5. Security of data (Article 27)
a) The appropriate security measures shall be taken against unauthorized access,
disclosure or destruction of data, as well as against their accidental loss. High
security standards are essential for all the personal data;
b) A minimum security standard shall include:
i.
the right of IT specialist to restrict the number of personnel in accordance
with the appropriate procedures;
ii.

encoding the computer systems by passwords;

iii.

keeping the information on the screen of the computers or in the manual
files, hidden from unauthorized persons seeking to get to know the data;

iv.

making all the technical arrangements to safeguard the data, guaranteed
technical acts for finding, tracking and determining the acts with the data
through the specific elements of the computer program being applied, as
well as the awareness of the personnel about this;

v.

appropriate destruction and disposal to the appropriate place of all acts and
documentation containing unnecessary personal data, if the aim of
collection, storing and processing them as well as the timeframe set to this
effect has expired (it must be understood that the entire process from the
collection to the destruction of data, including the latter, is considered to
be processing and bears the same responsibility for the controllers in the
event of violation of rules);

vi.

appointing a certain person to be responsible for the safety of data and
updating them;

vii.

safeguarding the capability of general and specific instructions of the
Commissioner for the protection of personal data about the safety of
personal data.

6. Transfer of data
a) Where the issue is about the level of sufficiency of protection of personal data, the
type of personal data shall be considered, as well as the aim of use and duration of
processing of data, legislation of the transferring country and the legislation of the
recipient country, including here issues about the protection of personal data of
foreign citizens and the measures for the protection of personal data made use in
these countries. The decision in these cases shall be based on the following points:
i. whether the data have been used for the purpose for which they have been
transferred, whether the aim may be changed, but only with the consensus of
the controller of the data having transferred data, based on the consent of the
person connected to the data;
ii. whether the individual may learn the aim for which his/her data had been
used, to whom the data had been given, and whether they can be rectified or
deleted in appropriate cases, if they are collected carelessly or have not been
updated, and in this case, due to confidentiality of the procedure, the
implementation of an international agreement is needed;
iii. whether a foreign controller applies the same procedure, means and measures
for the protection of personal data;
iv. whether and authorized person has been appointed, capable of providing
information about this field;

v. whether a foreign recipient may transfer the data only under the condition that
the other foreign country where the data transferred to ensure an efficient
protection of the data of foreign citizens;
vi. whether an efficient legal protection has been insured for all the personal data
that are transferred.

II.

Entering the data (Articles 5,6,20,22,27)
1. Reception, collection, storing as well as entering the data into installed and
specific computer programs or databases, as well as setting up the manual files,
for the management of your activity, shall be conducted fairly.
2. In order to obtain data in the fair way, the entity of the data shall, at the time
when the data are being collected, be informed about:
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
f.
g.

name of controlling entity;
purpose of collection of data;
identity of any representative set for the purpose of the law;
persons for categories of persons whose data may be discovered;
existence of the right to access their personal data;
the right to rectify the data being inaccurate or processed in an unfair way;
cases when the personal data have not been taken from the entity of data, or
they have not been taken at the time when the data of the entity had been
processed for the first time, or at the time of declaration of a third party, and
all these data should be insured to the entity of data;
h. name of controlling entities of data by which these data have been received, as
well as the name of controlling entities to whom these data are disseminated;
3. The entering and processing of data shall be determined as a priority subject
matter of the contract entered into between the controlling entity and the
processors, based on the aim for which they shall be requested, collected, entered
or processed manually or electronically.
4. The contract shall contain the conditions and the criteria based on which the
data are requested, collected, entered into or processed manually or electronically
by the processor of the data provided for in the contract.
5. The contract shall provide for the technical conditions of the security of the
data, as well as provide for these data to be deleted at the moment of expiry of the
contract.
6. The controlling entities shall take the necessary measures of guaranteeing the
implementation of conditions and criteria foreseen in the contract by the
controllers.

III.

Processing of data (Articles 5,6,7)

1. To the effect of the fair processing, the personal data shall be taken in a fair way
and the entity of the data shall have given his consent for the processing.
2. The data may be processed even without the consent of entity of the data where the
processing is necessary for one of the following reasons:
a) enforcement of the contract where the entity of the data is a party;
b) where processing is a legal obligation;
c) to prevent impairing the health of the entity of the data;
d) to prevent serious losses or damages to the property of the entity of the data;
e) to protect the high interests of the entity;
f) if processing is done within the legal framework of the activities of preventing
and criminal prosecution as well as in the field of defence and nation security,
where the processing is conducted by the competent authorities determined by
law;
g) for the accomplishment of another function of public nature for public interest
by a person;
h) for the purpose of legitimate interests of the controller of the data, unless in a
separate case the processing of the data is not justified.
3. To the effect of having a fair processing of the sensitive data, these data shall be
taken in a fair way and at least one of the following conditions shall be met:
a) The entity of the data has expressed his own consent, readable and in written form
for the processing of his sensitive data, after being informed in full and
understandable way about the aim for the data. When these entities are not able to
do such a thing, due to physical or mental impossibility or due to age, the consent
shall be given by one of the parents or the legal custodian (account shall be
taken of the principle that the consent of the entity cannot legitimize which is
forbidden by law);
b) where the entities have not expressed that consent, but processing is necessary for
one of the following reasons:
i. for meeting or performing an obligation or any right by the controlling
entities in the field of employment provided for by law;
ii.

to prevent impairing the health of the entity of the data or another person,
or violation of his personality;

iii.

to prevent the loss or damage to property, and to protect the high interests
of the entity of the data, in those cases where consent cannot be provided
due to different reasons;

iv.

to prevent impairing the health of another person or violation of his
personality, damages to the property of the third person, in those cases
where the consent had been hidden;

v.

upon being done by a non-profit making organization, within its members
or persons having a connection to this organization;

vi.

when the processed data are public as a result of the initiative of the entity
of the data;

vii.

to the effect of having legal advice, or having a connection to legal
proceedings;

viii.

for medical purposes;

ix.

for the purpose of paying a tax obligations;

x.

in connection with social well-being.

4. The data shall be sufficient, appropriate and not superfluous .
a) Make sure that you have requested and kept only the minimum of the personal
data which you need for reaching the purpose;
b) Establish specific criteria by which you are going to evaluate what is appropriate,
necessary and not superfluous and apply and use these criteria for each unit of
information of personal data for the purposes that they have been collected or
kept;
c) Make sure that the requested, collected, stored or processed information is:
i.
sufficient with regard to the purpose that you have requested;
ii.

appropriate with regard to the purpose for which you have requested it;

iii.

not superfluous with regard to the purpose for which you have requested
it.

d) Undertake a periodic revision concerning the importance of the personal data
requested by the entities of data through various channels through which the
information has been collected, that this, the form, address, Internet etc. as well as
an inspection has to be undertaken referring to the above basic criteria of any
personal information already been kept.
IV.

Disclosure (dissemination) of the data

1. Disclosure or dissemination of the data shall be in compliance with the aim for
which they have been collected, or processed;
2. The concrete evidence of compliance may be:

a) whether the use of data is done referring to the purpose for which they are kept;
b) whether you disclose or disseminate the data according to this purpose or
purposes;
c) whether you disclose or disseminate the data of the entity of the data or other
controlling entities with the consent of the entity of the data;
d) whether disclosure or dissemination is done in accordance with requirements or
seen in law;
e) whether the processor of the data appointed by you processes the data based on
the law, on this decision and all the instructions of the Commissioner.
V.

Confidentiality (Article 28)
The controllers, processors and persons being informed about the processed data,
in the course of carrying out their functions, shall be obliged to preserve the
confidentiality and reliability even after the completion of the function. These data
shall not be disseminated, provided for the case is foreseen in the law.
In all the cases, this implies that they shall not disclose to any unauthorized person
personal data which they know or learn about them in the course of work. The
obligation to preserve the confidentiality lasts endlessly. The obligation does not end
if persons do not assume their functions. The infringement of the obligation of
confidentiality consists a criminal offence provided for in the Criminal Code (Article
23).

Responsible for abiding by the requirements of this decision shall be all public and
private controllers.
This decision shall enter into effect on 10.03.2010 and shall be published in our official
website, www.kmdp.al

COMMISSIONER

Flora ÇABEJ (POGAÇE)

