REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
THE ASSEMBLY
LAW
No. 9887 dated 10.03.2008
As amended by the Law No. 48/2012, date 26.04.2012
Official translation of the text published
in the Official Journal No.53, date 16.05. 20121
ON PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA
Based on articles 78 and 83 point 1 of the Constitution,
upon a proposal of the Council of Ministers,
THE ASSEMBLY
OF THE REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
DECIDED:
1
The translation was comissioned by the EU funded Project “Strengthening
of the Data Protection Commissioner office in Albania, for alignment with EU
standards”

2

3

CHAPTER I
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Article 1
The object
This law aims at defining the rules for the protection
and legal processing of the personal data.

Article 2
General Principle
The legal processing of the personal data shall respect
and guarantee the fundamental rights and freedoms of
persons and in particular their right to privacy.

Article 3
Definitions
For the purposes of this law, the following terms have
these meanings:
1. “Personal data” shall mean any information relating
to an identified or identifiable natural person, directly or
indirectly, in particular by reference to an identification
number or to one or more factors specific to his physical,
physiological, mental, economic, cultural or social identity.
4

5

2. “Judicial record” is any data referring to decisions
in criminal, civil, administrative filed or to documentations
of criminal and civil registry, administrative sanction, etc.
3 “Anonymous data” is any data which in its origin or
during its processing may not be associated to any identified
or identifiable individual.
4.“Sensitive data” shall mean any piece of information
related to the natural person in referring to his racial or
ethnic origin, political opinions, trade union membership,
religious or philosophical beliefs, criminal prosecution, as
well as with data concerning his health and sexual life.
5. “Controller” shall mean the natural or legal person,
public authority, agency or any other body, which alone or
jointly with others determines the purposes and means of
processing of personal data, in compliance with the laws
and secondary legal acts applicable, and who is responsible
for the fulfilment of obligations defined by this law.
6. “Personal data subject” shall mean any natural person, whose personal data are being processed.
7. “Processor” shall mean a natural or legal person,
public authority, agency or other body which processes
personal data on behalf of the Controller.
8. “Filing system” shall mean any structured set of
personal data, which are accessible according to specific
criteria, whether centralized, decentralized or dispersed on
a functional or geographical basis.
9 “Means of processing” shall mean automatic, semi
automatic and mechanic means which process personal data
10 “Electronic instruments” shall mean the computer,
computer programmes and any other electronic or automatic
means used for the processing.
11. “Direct marketing” shall mean the communication
of the promotional material, by every mean and way, using
personal data of legal or natural persons, agencies or other
entities with or without interference.

12. “Processing of personal data” shall mean any operation or set of operations which is performed upon personal data, whether or not by automatic means, such as collection, recording, organization, storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, transmission, dissemination or otherwise making available, alignment or combination, photographing, reflection, entering, filling in, selection, blocking, erasure or destruction, even though they are
not recorded in a data base.
13. “Recipient” shall mean a natural or legal person,
public authority, agency or any other body to whom data
are disclosed, whether a third party or not. The authorities
which may receive data in the framework of a particular
inquiry shall not be regarded as recipients.
14. “Person in charge”, shall mean the individual who
is authorised by the head of the institution or the competent
person to perform processing actions.
15. “Third party” shall mean any natural or legal person, public authority, agency or any other body other than
the data subject, the controller, the processor and the persons who, under the direct authority of the controller or the
processor, are authorized to process the data.
16. “Transmission” shall mean the transfer of personal
data to recipients.
17 “Supervision” shall mean the careful follow-up of
processing of personal data by all the controllers and processors through collaboration, control, administrative investigation and inspection in order to prevent violations and
if appropriate, to impose administrative sanctions so as to
ensure the enforcement of orders, instructions and recommendations of the Commissioner, in compliance with the
fundamental human rights and freedoms.

6

7

18. “Monitoring of personal data” shall mean the continuous, comprehensive, effective and planned work of the
institutions in the following aspects: leadership, management, organisation, assistance, cooperation, awareness and
familiarity meetings, guidance, reporting to the Parliament,
publication, various explanations, replying to complaints,
activities, seminars and lectures, documentation, drafting of
rules, agreements, contracts, instructions, decisions, recommendations, control of execution of fines, creation and
opening of records, as well as other issues related to regular
exercising of activity.
19. “Communication” means communication of personal data to one or more subjects different from the interested
person, representative of the head of the institution in the
territory of the country, competent persons and persons in
charge, in any form, even by making it available or providing consultation.
20. “Disclosure” shall mean the communication of information on personal data to undefined parties, in any form,
even by making it available or accessible.
21. “Blocking” means the retention of personal data
while suspending any other processing operation.
22. “International transfer” shall mean the transfer of
personal data to recipients in a foreign state.
23. “Automated decision making” shall mean a kind of
assessment of individuals, carried out entirely automatically,
without an individual’s intervention.
24. “Data subjects consent” shall mean any indication
in writing, freely given and fully informed on the reason for
which his data will be processed, which signifies the data
subject agreement that personal data relating to him to be
processed.

25. “Historical purposes” shall mean processing for study, investigation, research and documentation of persons,
facts and past circumstances.
26. “Statistical purposes” shall mean processing for statistical investigation or statistical results, including through
statistical information systems.
27. “Scientific purposes” shall mean processing for
systematic study and investigation in order to develop scientific knowledge in a particular area.

8

9

Article 4
Scope
1. This law shall apply to the processing of personal
data, wholly or partly by automatic means and to the processing by other means of a personal data stored in a filing
system, or are intended to form part of a filing system.
2. This law shall apply to the processing of personal
data by:
a) Controllers established in the Republic of Albania;
b) Diplomatic missions or consular offices of the Albanian state;
c) Controllers who are not established in the Republic
of Albania, making use of any equipment situated in the
Republic of Albania;
3. In circumstances stipulated in point 2 (c) of this article, the controller designates a representative established in
the territory of Albania. Stipulations of this law applying to
controllers are also applicable to their representatives.
3/1. This law applies also to the public authorities that
process personal data in the areas stipulated under article 6,
paragraph 2 of this law

4. This law is not applicable to processing of data:
a) by a natural persons for purely personal or family
purposes;
b) only in case the information is provided about public
officials or public (state) administration servants, reflecting
their public, administrative activities or issues related to
their duties.

CHAPTER II
PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA

Article 5
Protection of personal data
1. Protection of personal data is based on:
a) a processing that is fair and lawful;
b) a collection for specific, clearly defined and legitimate
purposes and shall be processed in a way that is compatible
with these purposes;
c) adequate data, which are relevant to the purpose of
their processing and not excessive in relation to such purpose;
ç) accurate data, and where necessary, updated; every
reasonable step must be taken to ensure that data which are
inaccurate or incomplete, having regard to the purposes
for which they were collected or for which they are further
processed, are erased or rectified;
d) keeping data in a form that allows the identification
of data subjects for no longer than it is necessary for the
purpose for which they were collected or further processed;
2. The controller is in charge for applying these requirements to all kinds of processing of data, be it automatically
or by other means.

10

11

Article 6
Legal criteria for processing
1. The personal data may be processed only if:
a) personal data subject has given his consent;
b) processing is necessary for the performance of a
contract to which the data subject is party or in order to negotiate or amend a draft/contract at the request of the data
subject;
c) in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject;
ç) to comply with a legal obligation of the controller;
d) for the performance of a legal task of public interest
or in exercise of powers of the controller or of a third party
to whom the data are disclosed;
dh) processing is necessary for the protection of the legitimate rights and interests of the controller, the recipient or
any other interested party. However, in any case, processing
of personal data cannot be in clear contradiction with the
data subject right to protection of personal life and privacy.
2. Processing of personal data in the framework of crime
prevention and prosecution activities, in cases of a criminal
offence against the public order and other violations in the
field of criminal law, defence and national security, shall be
performed by official authorities as stipulated in the law.
3. In the event, the controller or processor carries out
personal data processing for the purpose of offering business
opportunities or services provided that the data were taken
from a public list of data.
The controller or processor cannot process further the
data specified in this paragraph, if the data subject has expressed his disagreement or has objected their further processing. No additional personal data is attached to the data
specified above without the consent of the data subject.
12

4. The controller is allowed to keep in its own filing
system the personal data even after the data subject has
objected proceesing under paragraph 3 of this Article. Such
data can be used only if the data subject gives his content.
5. Collection of personal data which is related to a data
subject solely for reasons of direct marketing is allowed
only if the data subject has given his explicit consent.

Article 7
Processing of sensitive data
1. Except for cases specified in point 2 and 3 of this
Article, processing of data that reveal racial or ethnic origin, political beliefs, trade unions membership, religious or
philosophical beliefs, criminal convictions and health and
sexual life is prohibited.
2. Processing of sensitive data shall be done only if:
a) the data subject has given his consent, which may
be revoked at any given moment making illegal any further
processing of data;
b) it is in the vital interest of the data subject or another
person and the data subject is physically or mentally incapable of giving his/her consent;
c) it is authorized by the responsible authority for an
important public interest, under adequate safeguards;
ç) It is related to data which are manifestly made public
by the data subject or is necessary for the exercise or defence
of legal rights;
d) data are processed for historic, scientific or statistical
research, under adequate safeguards;
dh) data are required for the purposes of preventive
medicine, medical diagnosis, the provision of health care,
treatment or management of health care services and data
13

are used by medical personnel or other persons with the
obligation to preserve confidentiality;
e) data are processed by non-profit political, philosophical or religious organisations and trade unions for purposes of their legitimate activity, only for members, sponsors, or other persons related to their activity. These data
shall not be disclosed to a third party without the consent of
the data subject unless otherwise stipulated by law.
ë) data processing is necessary for the purpose of accomplishing a legal obligation and specific rights of the controller in the field of employment in compliance with the
Labour Code.
(Point 3 abolished)

Article 8
International transfer
1. The international transfer of personal data is done
with recipients from states which have an adequate level of
personal data protection. The level of personal data protection
for a state is established by assessing all circumstances
related to processing, nature, purpose and duration of
processing, country of origin and final destination, legal
provisions and security standards in force in the recipient
state. States that have an adequate level of data protection
are assessed under a decision of the Commissioner.
2. International transfer of personal data with a state that
does not have an adequate level of personal data protection
may be done when:
a) it is authorised by international acts ratified by the
Republic of Albania and are directly applicable;
b) data subject has given his/her consent for the international transfer;
14

c) the transfer is necessary for the performance of a
contract between the data subject and the controller or for
the implementation of pre-contractual measures taken in
addressing the data subject’s request, or the transfer is necessary for the conclusion or performance of a contract between the controller and a third party, in the interest of the
data subject;
ç) it is a legal obligation of the controller;
d) it is necessary for protecting vital interests of the
data subject;
dh) it is necessary or constitutes a legal requirement
over an important public interest or for exercising and protecting a legal right;
e) transfer is done from a register that is open for consultation and provides information to the general public.
3. Exchange of personal data to the diplomatic representations of foreign governments or international institutions in the Republic of Albania shall be considered an
international transfer of data.
					

Article 9
International transfer of data that need to be
authorized

1. In cases other than those provided for in Article 8
herein, the international transfer of personal data with a
state that does not have an adequate level of data protection, shall be carried out upon an authorization from the
Commissioner, if adequate safeguards are foreseen with respect to the protection of the privacy and fundamental human rights and freedoms, as well as regarding the exercise
of the corresponding rights.
15

2. The Commissioner, after making an assessment, under the specification provided in point 1 of this Article and
point 1 of Article 8 may give the authorisation for transfer
of personal data to the recipient State by defining conditions and obligations.
3. The Commissioner issues instructions in order to
allow certain categories of personal data international transfer to a state that does not have an adequate level of personal data protection. In these cases, the controller is exempted from the authorization request.
4. The controller shall submit a request for authorisation
to the Commissioner prior to the data transfer. In the authorization request, the controller shall guarantee the observance of the interests of the data subject to protection of
confidentiality outside the Republic of Albania.

CHAPTER III
SPECIAL DATA PROCESSING
Article 10
Processing for historical, scientific and
statistical research

1. Personal data collected for any purpose, may be
further processed for historic, scientific or statistical research purposes provided that the data is not processed in order
to take measures or decisions related to an individual.
2. The disclosure of sensitive data for scientific research
shall take place only in case of an important public interest.
Personal data shall be used exclusively by individuals who
are bound by confidentiality.
3. When data processing is made in a manner that
allows the identification of the data subject, the data should
immediately be encrypted in order for the subjects to be no
longer identifiable. Encrypted personal data shall be used
exclusively by individuals bound by confidentiality.

Article 11

Processing of personal data and freedom
of expression

1. The Commissioner defines under a specific instruction the terms and conditions when processing for journa16

17

listic, literature or artistic purposes may be exempted from
obligations deriving under articles 5, 6, 7, 8, 18, and 21 of
this law.
2. The exemptions, under this article, may be allowed
up to the extent that they reconcile the right to protect personal data with the ruled governing the right to freedom of
expression.
3. The actions of the controller or processor being in
objection with the above points and the code of ethics shall
consist in administrative infraction.

CHAPTER IV
RIGHTS OF DATA SUBJECT
Article 12
Right to access
1. Every data subject is entitled to obtain free of charge
from the controller upon his written request:
a) confirmation whether or not his personal
data are being processed, information on the purposes
of processing, the categories of processed data and the
recipients or categories of recipients to whom personal
data are disclosed;
b) communication to him in a comprehensible form
of the data undergoing processing and of any available
information as to their source;
c) in case of automated decisions taken based on
Article 14 herein, information about the logic applied in the
decision-making;
The information about the data shall be communicated
in the form they were at the time when the request was
made.
2. Within 30 days upon receipt of the request, the controller informs the data subject or explains the reasons why
the information cannot be provided.
3. The right to access, as provided for in section 1 herein,
shall be exercised in respect of the constitutional principles
of freedom of speech and information, freedom of press

18

19

and professional confidentiality and it may be restricted if
it violates national security interests, the foreign policy, the
economic and financial interests of the state, prevention and
prosecution of criminal offences.
4. The right to access cannot be exercised in cases
provided for in Article 10 (1) herein.
5. If access is denied on arguments of violation of
national security interests, foreign policy, economic and
financial interests of the state, prevention and prosecution
of criminal offences or of the freedom of speech and information or press freedom, the data subject may require from
the Commissioner to check on the exemption for the concrete case. The Commissioner shall inform the data subject
about the undertaken measures.

Article 13
The right to request blocking,
rectification and erasure

1. Every data subject has the right to request blocking,
rectification or erasure of his data, free of charge whenever
he is informed that data relating to him are irregular, untrue,
and incomplete or have been processed and collected in
contradiction with the provisions of this law.
2. Within 30 days from receipt of the data subject request, the controller shall notify the data subject on the lawful
processing of the data, whether the blocking, rectification
or erasure has been carried out or not.
3. When the controller does not carry out the blocking,
rectification or erasure of the data requested, the data subject
has the right to file a complaint with the Commissioner.

20

Article 14
Automated decision
1. Each person shall be entitled not to be subject to
decisions, that cause legal effects on him or that influence
him significantly and the decision is based only on the automatic processing of the data, which aim at assessing certain
personal aspects related to him, particularly his efficiency at
work, his credibility or behaviour.
2. A person may be subject to a decision taken under
point 1 herein, when the decision:
(a) is taken in the course of entering into or performance
of a contract, provided the request for entering into or the
performance of the contract, lodged by the data subject, has
been satisfied, or if there are adequate measures to safeguard his legitimate interests, such as the possibilities allowing him to point out his views;
(b) is authorized by a law which also lays down measures
to safeguard the data subject’s legitimate interests.

Article 15
The right of the data subject to refuse
1. The data subject, pursuant to the law, has the right
to object, at any time, free of charge the processing of data
related to him carried out under letter “d” and “dh” of article
6 of this Law, unless otherwise stipulated by the law.
2. The data subject has the right to demand the controller
not to start processing, or if processing has started, to stop
processing of personal data related to him for the purposes
of direct marketing and to be informed in advance before
personal data are disclosed for first time for such purpose.

21

Article 16
The right to complain
1. Every person who claims that his rights, freedoms
and legal interests concerning his personal data have been
violated shall have the right to complain or to notify the
Commissioner and to request his intervention to remedy
the infringed right. Following this complaint, in accordance
with the Code of Civil Procedure, the data subject may file
a complaint in court.
2. When the data subject has filed a complaint, the
controller shall have no right to make any changes to the
personal data until a final decision ruled.

Article 17
Compensation of the damage
Everyone who has suffered damage due to an unlawful processing of personal data is entitled to compensation, pursuant to the rules defined by the Civil Code.

22

CHAPTER V
OBLIGATIONS OF THE CONTROLLER
AND PROCESSOR

Article 18
Obligation to Inform
1. The controller, when collecting personal data, shall
inform the data subject on the scope and purpose for which
personal data are being processed, the person who is going
to process the data, on the mean of processing, except for
when the data subject is already aware of such information.
The controller shall inform the data subject on the right to
access and the right to rectify the data concerning him.
2. In case the controller processes personal data obtained from the data subject, it is obliged to inform the data
subject whether the provision of the personal data is obligatory or optional. If the data subject, under a legal or secondary act, is obliged to provide personal data for processing, the controller informs him on this fact as well as
on the consequences of refusal to provide personal data.
3. The controller is not obliged to provide information
and to inform when personal data are not obtained by the
data subject, if:
a) it processes personal data exclusively for the purpose
of historical, statistical and scientific research and if provision of such information is not possible or demands disproportionate efforts;
23

b) it is mandatory for the controller to process personal
data on grounds of a legal provision;
c) it is processing data made public;
ç) it processes personal data obtained on grounds of
consent of the data subject.
4. The controller, while processing personal data pursuant to letter letter “dh” point 1 of Article 6 and letter “ç”
point 2 of Article 7, regarding the exercise or protection of
legitimate rights, is obliged to inform data subject on processing of personal data related to him.
5. The duty to inform, regulated under this Article, may
be performed by the processor on behalf of the controller.

Article 19

Obligation to rectify and erase
1. Upon its own initiative or upon the request of the
data subject, the controller shall carry out the blocking, rectification or erasure of personal data, when it ascertains
that personal data are inaccurate, untrue, and incomplete or
have been processed in contradiction with the provisions of
this law.
2. Within 30 days from receipt of the request by the
data subject, the controller informs the data subject whether
the blocking, rectification or erasure has been carried out.
3. The controller informs the recipient of personal data
on the rectification or erasure of the personal data transmitted before the rectification or erasure.

24

Article 20
Obligations of the Processor
1. The controllers may recruit processors to process
personal data. The processor shall guarantee lawful and safe
use of data. All personal data processors shall have the following obligations:
a) to process data only according to the instructions of
the controller; not to transmit data unless so instructed by
the controller;
b) to take all required safety measures, in compliance
with this law and to employ operators who are bound by
confidentiality;
c) to create in agreement with the controller the necessary technical and organisational requirements for the fulfilment of the controller’s obligations to ensure the protection of data subjects’ rights;
ç) to hand over to the controller after the completion
of the processing service all the results of processing and
documentation containing data or to keep or destroy them
on controller’s request;
d) to make available to the controller all information
necessary to control the compliance with the obligations
stemming from the abovementioned provisions.
2. Obligations of point 1 are stipulated in the written
contract entered into between the Controller and Processor.

25

Article 22
Content of notification

CHAPTER VI
NOTIFICATION

Article 21
Responsibility to notify
1. Every controller shall notify the Commissioner about
the processing of personal data for which he is responsible.
The notification shall be made before the controller processes the data for the first time, or when a change of the processing notification status is required, under Article 22 of
this law.
2. The processing of personal data the sole purpose of
which is to keep a record, which in accordance with the
law or sub-legal acts provides information for the public
in general, is exempted from the obligation to notify the
processing of data.
3. Data that are processed for the purpose of protection
of the constitutional institutions, interests of national security, foreign policy, economic or financial interests of the
state, prevention or prosecution of the criminal offences are
exempted from the obligation to notify.
4. Other cases on which notification is not necessary
are established under a decision of the Commissioner.

The notification shall contain the following:
a) name and address of the controller;
b) purposes of processing of personal data;
c) categories of data subjects and the categories of the
personal data;
ç) recipients and the categories of recipients of the personal data;
d) the proposal on the internacional transfer that the
controller aims to carry out;
dh) a general description of the measures for the security
of personal data.

Article 23

Examination procedure
The Commissioner examines all notifications and when
a notification is insufficient the Commissioner shall order
the controller to complete the notification content specifying a given deadline.
If the controller does not complete the content of the
notification within the given deadline, the notification shall
be considered as not executed.

Article 24
Prior checking
1. Authorization by the Commissioner is required for:
a) processing of sensitive data in accordance with
Article 7, item 2, letter ‘c’ herein;

26

27

b) processing of personal data in accordance with
Article 9, item 1, herein;
2. In cases when the data processing in compliance
with point 1 herein is authorized by a legal provision, an
authorization from the Commissioner is not required.

primary or secondary legislation provides information for
the public in general.
5. The Commissioner decides on deregistration of
controller, mainly upon its own request if the purpose or
purposes for which the notification and registration is made
cease to exist.

Article 25
Beginning of processing
1. The processing of data begins after the notification.
2. The data processing that requires an authorization in
accordance with Article 24, item 1 herein, may start only
following receipt of the authorization.

Article 26

Publication of processing
1. As regards the data for which an authorization is
required, a special decision is made and reflected in the register that is administered by the Commissioner and open for
consultations by any person.
2. The register shall contain information according to
Article 22 herein, except for the information according to
Article 22 and letter ‘dh’ herein, which is not to be published.
3. The controller exempted from the obligation to notify shall at least make available the data about the name
and address, the categories of personal data processed, the
purposes of processing, the categories of recipients. In case
an international transfer of is intended, the controller is
obliged to notify to the Commissioner.
4. This article shall not apply to processing the purpose
of which is to keep a record, which in accordance with the
28

29

CHAPTER VII
SECURITY OF PERSONAL DATA

Article 27
Measures for the security of personal data
1. The controller or the processor shall take appropriate organizational and technical measures in order to protect personal data from unlawful or accidental destruction,
accidental loss, from access or disclosure to unauthorized
persons, especially when the processing of data takes place
in a network, as well as from any other unlawful form of
processing.
2. The controller shall take the following special security measures:
a) defines the functions of the organizational units and
those of the operators as regards the use of data;
b) data shall be used with the order of authorized
organizational units or operators;
c) instructs all operators concerning their obligations,
in conformity with this law and the internal regulations on
data protection, including the regulations on data security;
ç) Prohibits access of unauthorized persons to the
working facilities of the data controller or processors;
d) data and programmes shall be accessed only by authorized persons;
dh) Prohibits access to the filing system and their use
by unauthorized persons;
30

e) Operation of the data processing equipment shall
be carried out upon authorization and every device shall
be secured with preventive measures against unauthorized
operation;
ë) records and documents the alteration, rectification,
erasure, transfer, etc.
2.1. The controller is obliged to document the technical
and organizational measures adjusted and implemented to
ensure protection of personal data in compliance with the
law and other legal regulations.
3. The data recorded shall not be used for different
purposes which are not compliant with the purpose of collection. Acquaintance with or processing of the data registered in files for a purpose other than the right to enter the
data shall be prohibited. In case data are used to guarantee
national security, public security, for prevention or investigation of a criminal offence, or prosecution of the author
thereof, or of any infringement of ethics for the regulated
professions, it is exempted from this rule.
4. Documentation of the data shall be kept for as long as
it is necessary for the purpose for which they were collected.
5. The security level shall be in compliance with the
nature of personal data processing. Detailed rules on data
security shall be specified by decision of the Commissioner.
6. Procedures for the administering of the data registration, data entry, their processing and disclosure shall be
regulated by a decision of the Commissioner.

31

Article 28
Data Confidentiality
Controllers, processors and persons who come to know
the content of the processed data while exercising their
duty, shall remain under obligation of confidentiality and
credibility even after termination of their functions. These
data shall not be disclosed save when otherwise provided
by law.
Everyone acting under the authority of the controller or
the processor shall not process the personal data on which
he/she has access, without the authorization f the controller,
unless it is mandatory by law.

CHAPTER VIII
THE COMMISSIONER FOR THE PERSONAL DATA
PROTECTION

Article 29
The Commissioner
1. The Commissioner for the Protection of Personal
Data is the independent authority in charge of supervising
and monitoring the protection of personal data by respecting and guaranteeing the fundamental human rights and
freedoms in compliance with the law.
2. The Commissioner is a public legal person.
3. Information ensured by the Commissioner while exercising his duties shall be used only for supervisory purposes in compliance with the legislation on the protection
of personal data. The Commissioner shall remain under
obligation of confidentiality even after termination of his
functions.

Article 30
The rights
1. The Commissioner has the right to:
a) conduct an administrative investigation, have access
to personal data processing and collect all necessary information with the view of fulfilling his supervisory obligations;
32

33

b) order for the blocking, erasure, destruction or suspension of the unlawful processing of personal data;
c) issue instructions prior to the data processing and
ensure their publication;
2. In cases of recurring or intentional serious infringement of law by a controller or processor, especially in cases
of recurring failure to carry out the Commissioner’s recommendations, he acts in compliance with article 39 herein and
may report the case publicly in accordance with his duties
or report it to the Assembly and the Council of Ministers.
2.1 In case the violation consists in a crime, it makes
the respective report.

Article 31

Responsibilities
1. The Commissioner is in charge of:
a) giving opinions on legal and secondary draft acts related to personal data, as well as projects required to be
implemented by the controller alone or jointly with others;
a/1) giving recommendations for the implementation
of the obligations deriving from the law on protection of
personal data and assures publication thereof;
b) authorizing in special cases the use of personal
data for purposes not designated during the phase of their
collection by observing the principles of article 5 of this law;
c) authorizing the international transfer of personal data
in compliance to article 9 herein;
ç) issuing guidelines that regulate the length of retention
of personal data according to their purpose in the activity of
specific sectors;
d) ensuring the right to information and the exercise of
the right to rectify and update data;
34

dh) authorizing the use of sensitive data in compliance
with Article 7 point 2 letter ‘c’ herein;
e) checking the processing of data in conformity with
the law, ex officio or upon request of a person when such
a processing is exempted of the right to information and to
inform the person that the check is carried out and whether
the process is lawful or not;
ë) addressing of complaints the data subject related to
the protection of his/her rights and freedoms, for processing
of personal data and informing him/her on the settlement of
the complaint submitted;
f) issuing guidelines on security measures in the activity
of specific sectors,
g) overseeing the execution of penalties;
gj) encourage the controller to draft the of codes of
ethics and their assessment;
h) the publication and explanation of the rights related
to the data protection and the periodic publication of his
activities;
i) cooperating with the supervisory authorities on the
personal data of foreign states regarding the protection of
individuals who reside in those states;
j) representing the supervisory authority in the field of
personal data protection in the national and international
events;
k) exercising other legal obligations.
2. The Commissioner shall create a register to document
all notifications and authorizations that he performs in
exercise of his powers in the field of personal data protection.
3. The Commissioner shall submit an annual report to
the Assembly and reports in front of the Assembly when
asked to do so. In addition he may ask to the Assembly to
be heard for issues that he deems to be important.

35

Article 32
Obligation to Cooperate

Article 35
Election Criteria

1. Public and private institutions shall collaborate with
the Commissioner by providing all the information it requires for the fulfilment of duties, and shall notify the Commissioner on the implementation of given recommendations immediately upon termination of the deadlines assigned thereto.
2. The Commissioner shall have the right to access
computer and filing systems that process personal data and
all the documentation related to their processing and transferring, with the view of performing his rights and duties as
stipulated in the law.

Every Albanian citizen may be elected for the position
of Commissioner if he/she meets the following criteria:
a) University degree in law;
b) breadth of knowledge and extinguished activities in
the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms;
c) outstanding professional skills and a clean ethic and
moral profile;
ç) not less than 10 years of work experience as a lawyer;
d) has not been convicted for a criminal offence by a
court final decision;
dh) no disciplinary measures taken to remove him from
duty or from the civil service.

Article 33

Election and term of office
The Commissioner shall be elected by the Assembly
upon a proposal of the Council of Ministers for a 5 year
term eligible for re-election.

Article 34
Incompatibility of the function
The function of the Commissioner shall be incompatible
with every other state function, affiliation in political parties
and partaking in their activities, with every other profitable
activity, save teaching.

36

Article 36
Termination of the mandate
1. The mandate of the Commissioner shall have an early termination when:
a) he is given a final court decision for committing a
criminal offence;
b) he is absent from duty without justification for more
than one month;
c) he resigns;
ç) a final court decision declares his ineffectiveness.
2. The Commissioner may be discharged by the Assembly when:
a) he fails to act in compliance with the provisions arising from this law or other legal acts;
b) he engages in activities that generate a conflict of
interests;
37

c) cases of incompatibility with the function are identified.
3. When the post of the Commissioner is vacant, the
Council of Ministers proposes to the Assembly the new
nominee within 15 days. The Assembly elects the new
Commissioner within 15 days upon receipt of the nomination.

Article 38/a
Publication
1. The instructions, decisions of the Commissioner, except for those issued pursuant to letter “b” of article 30 and
article 39 of this law, are published in the Official Journal.
2. The annual report and the special reports are made
public.

Article 37
Office of the Commissioner
1. The Assembly shall determine the remuneration of
the Commissioner, the organizational structure and remuneration for the employees of the Commissioner for the
protection of personal data. These employees shall enjoy
the status of civil servant.

Article 38
Budget
The Commissioner has his own independent budget
which is funded by the state budget and donators not represent any conflict of interest.
Administration of such donations is made according to
the agreement with the donators and the Albanian legislation
in force.

38

39

CHAPTER IX
ADMINISTRATIVE SANCTIONS

Article 39

Administrative offences
1. Cases of data processing in contradiction with the
provisions of this law do not constitute any criminal offence
and are subject to a fine as follows:
a) the controllers who use personal data against Chapter
II “Processing of Personal Data” are fined from 10 000 to
500 000 ALL;
a/1) the controllers who used personal data against
Chapter III “Special processing of data” are fined from
15000 up to 200 000 ALL.
b) controllers, who do not meet the obligation to inform,
as specified in Article 18 of this law, shall be fined from 10
000 ALL to 300 000 ALL.
c) controllers, who do not meet the obligations to
rectify or erase data, specified in Article 19 of this law, shall
be fined from 15 000 ALL to 300 000 ALL;
ç) controllers or processors, who do not meet the obligations defined in Article 20 of this law, shall are fined
from 10 000 to 300 000 ALL
d) controllers, who do not meet the legal obligation to
inform laid down in Article 21 herein, shall be fined from
10 000 ALL to 500 000 ALL; 		
40

dh) controllers or processors, who do not take the data
security measures and do not observe the duty to keep
confidentiality, provided for under Articles 27 and 28 of this
law, are fined from 10 000 ALL to 150 000 ALL.
dh/1) controllers or processors acting against point 2 of
article 32 of this Law are fined from 100 000 up to 1 000
000 ALL.
2. As regards the above offences, legal persons shall
be fined double the figure for the fine specified in point 1
herein.
3. Maximum of the fine is doubled in cases of failure
to comply with Article 16 point 2 and when the data are
processed without an authorization pursuant to Article 31
point 1 (b).
4. Fines shall be imposed by the Commissioner when he
finds that the obligations set forth in the law are infringed.

Article 40
Appeal
The appeal against administrative sanction with fine is
addressed at the court in the terms and under the procedures
governing the administrative proceedings..

Article 41

Execution of fines
1. Fines shall be paid by the offender not later than 30
days from the imposing of the fine. When the deadline expires, the decision becomes an executive title and is executed in a mandatory manner by the bailiff office, upon request
of the Commissioner.
2. Fines are cashed in the state budget.
41

CHAPTER X
FINAL PROVISIONS

Article 42
Sub legal acts
Council of Ministers shall issue the sub legal acts in
line with Articles 7, 8 and 21 herein.

Article 44
Entry into force
This law enters into force 15 days after its publication
in the Official Journal.
Adopted on 26.04.2012
“Declared under Decree No. 5671, date 21.03.2008
and No.7451, date 08.05.2012 of the President of the
Republic of Albania, Bamir Topi”

Article 43
Repeals
Law no. 8517, dated 22.07.1999 “On the protection of
personal data” is repealed.

42

43

