Department of International Law
Secretariat for Legal Affairs
Multilateral Treaties Home Page >>> click aquí
Treaty Home Page >>> click aquí
Signatories and Ratifications Home Page >>> click aquí

MULTILATERAL TREATIES
» AMERICAN CONVENTION ON HUMAN RIGHTS "PACT OF SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA" (B-32)
Preamble
The American states signatory to the present Convention,
Reaffirming their intention to consolidate in this hemisphere, within the framework of democratic institutions,
a system of personal liberty and social justice based on respect for the essential rights of man;
Recognizing that the essential rights of man are not derived from one's being a national of a certain state, but
are based upon attributes of the human personality, and that they therefore justify international protection in
the form of a convention reinforcing or complementing the protection provided by the domestic law of the
American states;
Considering that these principles have been set forth in the Charter of the Organization of American States, in
the American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man, and in the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, and that they have been reaffirmed and refined in other international instruments, worldwide as well as
regional in scope;
Reiterating that, in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ideal of free men
enjoying freedom from fear and want can be achieved only if conditions are created whereby everyone may
enjoy his economic, social, and cultural rights, as well as his civil and political rights; and
Considering that the Third Special Inter-American Conference (Buenos Aires, 1967) approved the
incorporation into the Charter of the Organization itself of broader standards with respect to economic, social,
and educational rights and resolved that an inter-American convention on human rights should determine the

structure, competence, and procedure of the organs responsible for these matters,
Have agreed upon the following:
PART I - STATE OBLIGATIONS AND RIGHTS PROTECTED
CHAPTER I - GENERAL OBLIGATIONS
Article 1. Obligation to Respect Rights
1. The States Parties to this Convention undertake to respect the rights and freedoms recognized herein and to
ensure to all persons subject to their jurisdiction the free and full exercise of those rights and freedoms,
without any discrimination for reasons of race, color, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion,
national or social origin, economic status, birth, or any other social condition.
2. For the purposes of this Convention, "person" means every human being.
Article 2. Domestic Legal Effects
Where the exercise of any of the rights or freedoms referred to in Article 1 is not already ensured by
legislative or other provisions, the States Parties undertake to adopt, in accordance with their constitutional
processes and the provisions of this Convention, such legislative or other measures as may be necessary to
give effect to those rights or freedoms.
CHAPTER II - CIVIL AND POLITICAL RIGHTS
Article 3. Right to Juridical Personality
Every person has the right to recognition as a person before the law.
Article 4. Right to Life
1. Every person has the right to have his life respected. This right shall be protected by law and, in general,
from the moment of conception. No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his life.
2. In countries that have not abolished the death penalty, it may be imposed only for the most serious crimes
and pursuant to a final judgment rendered by a competent court and in accordance with a law establishing
such punishment, enacted prior to the commission of the crime. The application of such punishment shall not
be extended to crimes to which it does not presently apply.
3. The death penalty shall not be reestablished in states that have abolished it.
4. In no case shall capital punishment be inflicted for political offenses or related common crimes.
5. Capital punishment shall not be imposed upon persons who, at the time the crime was committed, were
under 18 years of age or over 70 years of age; nor shall it be applied to pregnant women.
6. Every person condemned to death shall have the right to apply for amnesty, pardon, or commutation of

sentence, which may be granted in all cases. Capital punishment shall not be imposed while such a petition is
pending decision by the competent authority.
Article 5. Right to Humane Treatment
1. Every person has the right to have his physical, mental, and moral integrity respected.
2. No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman, or degrading punishment or treatment. All persons
deprived of their liberty shall be treated with respect for the inherent dignity of the human person.
3. Punishment shall not be extended to any person other than the criminal.
4. Accused persons shall, save in exceptional circumstances, be segregated from convicted persons, and shall
be subject to separate treatment appropriate to their status as unconvicted persons.
5. Minors while subject to criminal proceedings shall be separated from adults and brought before specialized
tribunals, as speedily as possible, so that they may be treated in accordance with their status as minors.
6. Punishments consisting of deprivation of liberty shall have as an essential aim the reform and social
readaptation of the prisoners.
Article 6. Freedom from Slavery
1. No one shall be subject to slavery or to involuntary servitude, which are prohibited in all their forms, as are
the slave trade and traffic in women.
2. No one shall be required to perform forced or compulsory labor. This provision shall not be interpreted to
mean that, in those countries in which the penalty established for certain crimes is deprivation of liberty at
forced labor, the carrying out of such a sentence imposed by a competent court is prohibited. Forced labor
shall not adversely affect the dignity or the physical or intellectual capacity of the prisoner.
3. For the purposes of this article, the following do not constitute forced or compulsory labor:
a. work or service normally required of a person imprisoned in execution of a sentence or formal decision
passed by the competent judicial authority. Such work or service shall be carried out under the supervision
and control of public authorities, and any persons performing such work or service shall not be placed at the
disposal of any private party, company, or juridical person;
b. military service and, in countries in which conscientious objectors are recognized, national service that the
law may provide for in lieu of military service;
c. service exacted in time of danger or calamity that threatens the existence or the well-being of the
community; or
d. work or service that forms part of normal civic obligations.
Article 7. Right to Personal Liberty

1. Every person has the right to personal liberty and security.
2. No one shall be deprived of his physical liberty except for the reasons and under the conditions established
beforehand by the constitution of the State Party concerned or by a law established pursuant thereto.
3. No one shall be subject to arbitrary arrest or imprisonment.
4. Anyone who is detained shall be informed of the reasons for his detention and shall be promptly notified of
the charge or charges against him.
5. Any person detained shall be brought promptly before a judge or other officer authorized by law to exercise
judicial power and shall be entitled to trial within a reasonable time or to be released without prejudice to the
continuation of the proceedings. His release may be subject to guarantees to assure his appearance for trial.
6. Anyone who is deprived of his liberty shall be entitled to recourse to a competent court, in order that the
court may decide without delay on the lawfulness of his arrest or detention and order his release if the arrest or
detention is unlawful. In States Parties whose laws provide that anyone who believes himself to be threatened
with deprivation of his liberty is entitled to recourse to a competent court in order that it may decide on the
lawfulness of such threat, this remedy may not be restricted or abolished. The interested party or another
person in his behalf is entitled to seek these remedies.
7. No one shall be detained for debt. This principle shall not limit the orders of a competent judicial authority
issued for nonfulfillment of duties of support.
Article 8. Right to a Fair Trial
1. Every person has the right to a hearing, with due guarantees and within a reasonable time, by a competent,
independent, and impartial tribunal, previously established by law, in the substantiation of any accusation of a
criminal nature made against him or for the determination of his rights and obligations of a civil, labor, fiscal,
or any other nature.
2. Every person accused of a criminal offense has the right to be presumed innocent so long as his guilt has
not been proven according to law. During the proceedings, every person is entitled, with full equality, to the
following minimum guarantees:
a. the right of the accused to be assisted without charge by a translator or interpreter, if he does not understand
or does not speak the language of the tribunal or court;
b. prior notification in detail to the accused of the charges against him;
c. adequate time and means for the preparation of his defense;
d. the right of the accused to defend himself personally or to be assisted by legal counsel of his own choosing,
and to communicate freely and privately with his counsel;

e. the inalienable right to be assisted by counsel provided by the state, paid or not as the domestic law
provides, if the accused does not defend himself personally or engage his own counsel within the time period
established by law;
f. the right of the defense to examine witnesses present in the court and to obtain the appearance, as witnesses,
of experts or other persons who may throw light on the facts;
g. the right not to be compelled to be a witness against himself or to plead guilty; and
h. the right to appeal the judgment to a higher court.
3. A confession of guilt by the accused shall be valid only if it is made without coercion of any kind.
4. An accused person acquitted by a nonappealable judgment shall not be subjected to a new trial for the same
cause.
5. Criminal proceedings shall be public, except insofar as may be necessary to protect the interests of justice.
Article 9. Freedom from Ex Post Facto Laws
No one shall be convicted of any act or omission that did not constitute a criminal offense, under the
applicable law, at the time it was committed. A heavier penalty shall not be imposed than the one that was
applicable at the time the criminal offense was committed. If subsequent to the commission of the offense the
law provides for the imposition of a lighter punishment, the guilty person shall benefit therefrom.
Article 10. Right to Compensation
Every person has the right to be compensated in accordance with the law in the event he has been sentenced
by a final judgment through a miscarriage of justice.
Article 11. Right to Privacy
1. Everyone has the right to have his honor respected and his dignity recognized.
2. No one may be the object of arbitrary or abusive interference with his private life, his family, his home, or
his correspondence, or of unlawful attacks on his honor or reputation.
3. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such interference or attacks.
Article 12. Freedom of Conscience and Religion
1. Everyone has the right to freedom of conscience and of religion. This right includes freedom to maintain or
to change one's religion or beliefs, and freedom to profess or disseminate one's religion or beliefs, either
individually or together with others, in public or in private.
2. No one shall be subject to restrictions that might impair his freedom to maintain or to change his religion or
beliefs.

3. Freedom to manifest one's religion and beliefs may be subject only to the limitations prescribed by law that
are necessary to protect public safety, order, health, or morals, or the rights or freedoms of others.
4. Parents or guardians, as the case may be, have the right to provide for the religious and moral education of
their children or wards that is in accord with their own convictions.
Article 13. Freedom of Thought and Expression
1. Everyone has the right to freedom of thought and expression. This right includes freedom to seek, receive,
and impart information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either orally, in writing, in print, in the
form of art, or through any other medium of one's choice.
2. The exercise of the right provided for in the foregoing paragraph shall not be subject to prior censorship but
shall be subject to subsequent imposition of liability, which shall be expressly established by law to the extent
necessary to ensure:
a. respect for the rights or reputations of others; or
b. the protection of national security, public order, or public health or morals.
3. The right of expression may not be restricted by indirect methods or means, such as the abuse of
government or private controls over newsprint, radio broadcasting frequencies, or equipment used in the
dissemination of information, or by any other means tending to impede the communication and circulation of
ideas and opinions.
4. Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 above, public entertainments may be subject by law to prior
censorship for the sole purpose of regulating access to them for the moral protection of childhood and
adolescence.
5. Any propaganda for war and any advocacy of national, racial, or religious hatred that constitute incitements
to lawless violence or to any other similar action against any person or group of persons on any grounds
including those of race, color, religion, language, or national origin shall be considered as offenses punishable
by law.
Article 14. Right of Reply
1. Anyone injured by inaccurate or offensive statements or ideas disseminated to the public in general by a
legally regulated medium of communication has the right to reply or to make a correction using the same
communications outlet, under such conditions as the law may establish.
2. The correction or reply shall not in any case remit other legal liabilities that may have been incurred.
3. For the effective protection of honor and reputation, every publisher, and every newspaper, motion picture,
radio, and television company, shall have a person responsible who is not protected by immunities or special

privileges.
Article 15. Right of Assembly
The right of peaceful assembly, without arms, is recognized. No restrictions may be placed on the exercise of
this right other than those imposed in conformity with the law and necessary in a democratic society in the
interest of national security, public safety or public order, or to protect public health or morals or the rights or
freedom of others.
Article 16. Freedom of Association
1. Everyone has the right to associate freely for ideological, religious, political, economic, labor, social,
cultural, sports, or other purposes.
2. The exercise of this right shall be subject only to such restrictions established by law as may be necessary in
a democratic society, in the interest of national security, public safety or public order, or to protect public
health or morals or the rights and freedoms of others.
3. The provisions of this article do not bar the imposition of legal restrictions, including even deprivation of
the exercise of the right of association, on members of the armed forces and the police.
Article 17. Rights of the Family
1. The family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is entitled to protection by society and
the state.
2. The right of men and women of marriageable age to marry and to raise a family shall be recognized, if they
meet the conditions required by domestic laws, insofar as such conditions do not affect the principle of
nondiscrimination established in this Convention.
3. No marriage shall be entered into without the free and full consent of the intending spouses.
4. The States Parties shall take appropriate steps to ensure the equality of rights and the adequate balancing of
responsibilities of the spouses as to marriage, during marriage, and in the event of its dissolution. In case of
dissolution, provision shall be made for the necessary protection of any children solely on the basis of their
own best interests.
5. The law shall recognize equal rights for children born out of wedlock and those born in wedlock.
Article 18. Right to a Name
Every person has the right to a given name and to the surnames of his parents or that of one of them. The law
shall regulate the manner in which this right shall be ensured for all, by the use of assumed names if
necessary.
Article 19. Rights of the Child

Every minor child has the right to the measures of protection required by his condition as a minor on the part
of his family, society, and the state.
Article 20. Right to Nationality
1. Every person has the right to a nationality.
2. Every person has the right to the nationality of the state in whose territory he was born if he does not have
the right to any other nationality.
3. No one shall be arbitrarily deprived of his nationality or of the right to change it.
Article 21. Right to Property
1. Everyone has the right to the use and enjoyment of his property. The law may subordinate such use and
enjoyment to the interest of society.
2. No one shall be deprived of his property except upon payment of just compensation, for reasons of public
utility or social interest, and in the cases and according to the forms established by law.
3. Usury and any other form of exploitation of man by man shall be prohibited by law.
Article 22. Freedom of Movement and Residence
1. Every person lawfully in the territory of a State Party has the right to move about in it, and to reside in it
subject to the provisions of the law.
2. Every person has the right lo leave any country freely, including his own.
3. The exercise of the foregoing rights may be restricted only pursuant to a law to the extent necessary in a
democratic society to prevent crime or to protect national security, public safety, public order, public morals,
public health, or the rights or freedoms of others.
4. The exercise of the rights recognized in paragraph 1 may also be restricted by law in designated zones for
reasons of public interest.
5. No one can be expelled from the territory of the state of which he is a national or be deprived of the right to
enter it.
6. An alien lawfully in the territory of a State Party to this Convention may be expelled from it only pursuant
to a decision reached in accordance with law.
7. Every person has the right to seek and be granted asylum in a foreign territory, in accordance with the
legislation of the state and international conventions, in the event he is being pursued for political offenses or
related common crimes.
8. In no case may an alien be deported or returned to a country, regardless of whether or not it is his country of

origin, if in that country his right to life or personal freedom is in danger of being violated because of his race,
nationality, religion, social status, or political opinions.
9. The collective expulsion of aliens is prohibited.
Article 23. Right to Participate in Government
1. Every citizen shall enjoy the following rights and opportunities:
a. to take part in the conduct of public affairs, directly or through freely chosen representatives;
b. to vote and to be elected in genuine periodic elections, which shall be by universal and equal suffrage and
by secret ballot that guarantees the free expression of the will of the voters; and
c. to have access, under general conditions of equality, to the public service of his country.
2. The law may regulate the exercise of the rights and opportunities referred to in the preceding paragraph
only on the basis of age, nationality, residence, language, education, civil and mental capacity, or sentencing
by a competent court in criminal proceedings.
Article 24. Right to Equal Protection
All persons are equal before the law. Consequently, they are entitled, without discrimination, to equal
protection of the law.
Article 25. Right to Judicial Protection
1. Everyone has the right to simple and prompt recourse, or any other effective recourse, to a competent court
or tribunal for protection against acts that violate his fundamental rights recognized by the constitution or laws
of the state concerned or by this Convention, even though such violation may have been committed by
persons acting in the course of their official duties.
2. The States Parties undertake:
a. to ensure that any person claiming such remedy shall have his rights determined by the competent authority
provided for by the legal system of the state;
b. to develop the possibilities of judicial remedy; and
c. to ensure that the competent authorities shall enforce such remedies when granted.
CHAPTER III - ECONOMIC, SOCIAL, AND CULTURAL RIGHTS
Article 26. Progressive Development
The States Parties undertake to adopt measures, both internally and through international cooperation,
especially those of an economic and technical nature, with a view to achieving progressively, by legislation or
other appropriate means, the full realization of the rights implicit in the economic, social, educational,

scientific, and cultural standards set forth in the Charter of the Organization of American States as amended
by the Protocol of Buenos Aires.
CHAPTER IV - SUSPENSION OF GUARANTEES,
INTERPRETATION, AND APPLICATION
Article 27. Suspension of Guarantees
1. In time of war, public danger, or other emergency that threatens the independence or security of a State
Party, it may take measures derogating from its obligations under the present Convention to the extent and for
the period of time strictly required by the exigencies of the situation, provided that such measures are not
inconsistent with its other obligations under international law and do not involve discrimination on the ground
of race, color, sex, language, religion, or social origin.
2. The foregoing provision does not authorize any suspension of the following articles: Article 3 (Right to
Juridical Personality), Article 4 (Right to Life), Article 5 (Right to Humane Treatment), Article 6 (Freedom
from Slavery), Article 9 (Freedom from Ex Post Facto Laws), Article 12 (Freedom of Conscience and
Religion), Article 17 (Rights of the Family), Article 18 (Right to a Name), Article 19 (Rights of the Child),
Article 20 (Right to Nationality), and Article 23 (Right to Participate in Government), or of the judicial
guarantees essential for the protection of such rights.
3. Any State Party availing itself of the right of suspension shall immediately inform the other States Parties,
through the Secretary General of the Organization of American States, of the provisions the application of
which it has suspended, the reasons that gave rise to the suspension, and the date set for the termination of
such suspension.
Article 28. Federal Clause
1. Where a State Party is constituted as a federal state, the national government of such State Party shall
implement all the provisions of the Convention over whose subject matter it exercises legislative and judicial
jurisdiction.
2. With respect to the provisions over whose subject matter the constituent units of the federal state have
jurisdiction, the national government shall immediately take suitable measures, in accordance with its
constitution and its laws, to the end that the competent authorities of the constituent units may adopt
appropriate provisions for the fulfillment of this Convention.
3. Whenever two or more States Parties agree to form a federation or other type of association, they shall take
care that the resulting federal or other compact contains the provisions necessary for continuing and rendering
effective the standards of this Convention in the new state that is organized.
Article 29. Restrictions Regarding Interpretation

No provision of this Convention shall be interpreted as:
a. permitting any State Party, group, or person to suppress the enjoyment or exercise of the rights and
freedoms recognized in this Convention or to restrict them to a greater extent than is provided for herein;
b. restricting the enjoyment or exercise of any right or freedom recognized by virtue of the laws of any State
Party or by virtue of another convention to which one of the said states is a party;
c. precluding other rights or guarantees that are inherent in the human personality or derived from
representative democracy as a form of government; or
d. excluding or limiting the effect that the American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man and other
international acts of the same nature may have.
Article 30. Scope of Restrictions
The restrictions that, pursuant to this Convention, may be placed on the enjoyment or exercise of the rights or
freedoms recognized herein may not be applied except in accordance with laws enacted for reasons of general
interest and in accordance with the purpose for which such restrictions have been established.
Article 31. Recognition of Other Rights
Other rights and freedoms recognized in accordance with the procedures established in Articles 76 and 77
may be included in the system of protection of this Convention.
CHAPTER V - PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITIES
Article 32. Relationship between Duties and Rights
1. Every person has responsibilities to his family, his community, and mankind.
2. The rights of each person are limited by the rights of others, by the security of all, and by the just demands
of the general welfare, in a democratic society.
PART II - MEANS OF PROTECTION
CHAPTER VI - COMPETENT ORGANS
Article 33
The following organs shall have competence with respect to matters relating to the fulfillment of the
commitments made by the States Parties to this Convention:
a. the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights, referred to as "The Commission;" and
b. the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, referred to as "The Court."
CHAPTER VII - INTER-AMERICAN COMMISSION ON HUMAN RIGHTS
Section 1. Organization

Article 34
The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights shall be composed of seven members, who shall be
persons of high moral character and recognized competence in the field of human rights.
Article 35
The Commission shall represent all the member countries of the Organization of American States.
Article 36
1. The members of the Commission shall be elected in a personal capacity by the General Assembly of the
Organization from a list of candidates proposed by the governments of the member states.
2. Each of those governments may propose up to three candidates, who may be nationals of the states
proposing them or of any other member state of the Organization of American States. When a slate of three is
proposed, at least one of the candidates shall be a national of a state other than the one proposing the slate.
Article 37
1. The members of the Commission shall be elected for a term of four years and may be reelected only once,
but the terms of three of the members chosen in the first election shall expire at the end of two years.
Immediately following that election the General Assembly shall determine the names of those three members
by lot.
2. No two nationals of the same state may be members of the Commission.
Article 38
Vacancies that may occur on the Commission for reasons other than the normal expiration of a term shall be
filled by the Permanent Council of the Organization in accordance with the provisions of the Statute of the
Commission.
Article 39
The Commission shall prepare its Statute, which it shall submit to the General Assembly for approval. It shall
establish its own Regulations.
Article 40
Secretariat services for the Commission shall be furnished by the appropriate specialized unit of the General
Secretariat of the Organization. This unit shall be provided with the resources required to accomplish the tasks
assigned to it by the Commission.
Section 2. Functions
Article 41

The main function of the Commission shall be to promote respect for and defense of human rights. In the
exercise of its mandate, it shall have the following functions and powers:
a. to develop an awareness of human rights among the peoples of America;
b. to make recommendations to the governments of the member states, when it considers such action
advisable, for the adoption of progressive measures in favor of human rights within the framework of their
domestic law and constitutional provisions as well as appropriate measures to further the observance of those
rights;
c. to prepare such studies or reports as it considers advisable in the performance of its duties;
d. to request the governments of the member states to supply it with information on the measures adopted by
them in matters of human rights;
e. to respond, through the General Secretariat of the Organization of American States, to inquiries made by the
member states on matters related to human rights and, within the limits of its possibilities, to provide those
states with the advisory services they request;
f. to take action on petitions and other communications pursuant to its authority under the provisions of
Articles 44 through 51 of this Convention; and
g. to submit an annual report to the General Assembly of the Organization of American States.
Article 42
The States Parties shall transmit to the Commission a copy of each of the reports and studies that they submit
annually to the Executive Committees of the Inter-American Economic and Social Council and the InterAmerican Council for Education, Science, and Culture, in their respective fields, so that the Commission may
watch over the promotion of the rights implicit in the economic, social, educational, scientific, and cultural
standards set forth in the Charter of the Organization of American States as amended by the Protocol of
Buenos Aires.
Article 43
The States Parties undertake to provide the Commission with such information as it may request of them as to
the manner in which their domestic law ensures the effective application of any provisions of this Convention.
Section 3. Competence
Article 44
Any person or group of persons, or any nongovernmental entity legally recognized in one or more member
states of the Organization, may lodge petitions with the Commission containing denunciations or complaints
of violation of this Convention by a State Party.

Article 45
1. Any State Party may, when it deposits its instrument of ratification of or adherence to this Convention, or at
any later time, declare that it recognizes the competence of the Commission to receive and examine
communications in which a State Party alleges that another State Party has committed a violation of a human
right set forth in this Convention.
2. Communications presented by virtue of this article may be admitted and examined only if they are
presented by a State Party that has made a declaration recognizing the aforementioned competence of the
Commission. The Commission shall not admit any communication against a State Party that has not made
such a declaration.
3. A declaration concerning recognition of competence may be made to be valid for an indefinite time, for a
specified period, or for a specific case.
4. Declarations shall be deposited with the General Secretariat of the Organization of American States, which
shall transmit copies thereof to the member states of that Organization.
Article 46
1. Admission by the Commission of a petition or communication lodged in accordance with Articles 44 or 45
shall be subject to the following requirements:
a. that the remedies under domestic law have been pursued and exhausted in accordance with generally
recognized principles of international law;
b. that the petition or communication is lodged within a period of six months from the date on which the party
alleging violation of his rights was notified of the final judgment;
c. that the subject of the petition or communication is not pending in another international proceeding for
settlement; and
d. that, in the case of Article 44, the petition contains the name, nationality, profession, domicile, and
signature of the person or persons or of the legal representative of the entity lodging the petition.
2. The provisions of paragraphs 1.a and 1.b of this article shall not be applicable when:
a. the domestic legislation of the state concerned does not afford due process of law for the protection of the
right or rights that have allegedly been violated;
b. the party alleging violation of his rights has been denied access to the remedies under domestic law or has
been prevented from exhausting them; or
c. there has been unwarranted delay in rendering a final judgment under the aforementioned remedies.
Article 47

The Commission shall consider inadmissible any petition or communication submitted under Articles 44 or 45
if:
a. any of the requirements indicated in Article 46 has not been met;
b. the petition or communication does not state facts that tend to establish a violation of the rights guaranteed
by this Convention;
c. the statements of the petitioner or of the state indicate that the petition or communication is manifestly
groundless or obviously out of order; or
d. the petition or communication is substantially the same as one previously studied by the Commission or by
another international organization.
Section 4. Procedure
Article 48
1. When the Commission receives a petition or communication alleging violation of any of the rights
protected by this Convention, it shall proceed as follows:
a. If it considers the petition or communication admissible, it shall request information from the government
of the state indicated as being responsible for the alleged violations and shall furnish that government a
transcript of the pertinent portions of the petition or communication. This information shall be submitted
within a reasonable period to be determined by the Commission in accordance with the circumstances of each
case.
b. After the information has been received, or after the period established has elapsed and the information has
not been received, the Commission shall ascertain whether the grounds for the petition or communication still
exist. If they do not, the Commission shall order the record to be closed.
c. The Commission may also declare the petition or communication inadmissible or out of order on the basis
of information or evidence subsequently received.
d. If the record has not been closed, the Commission shall, with the knowledge of the parties, examine the
matter set forth in the petition or communication in order to verify the facts. If necessary and advisable, the
Commission shall carry out an investigation, for the effective conduct of which it shall request, and the states
concerned shall furnish to it, all necessary facilities.
e. The Commission may request the states concerned to furnish any pertinent information and, if so requested,
shall hear oral statements or receive written statements from the parties concerned.
f. The Commission shall place itself at the disposal of the parties concerned with a view to reaching a friendly
settlement of the matter on the basis of respect for the human rights recognized in this Convention.

2. However, in serious and urgent cases, only the presentation of a petition or communication that fulfills all
the formal requirements of admissibility shall be necessary in order for the Commission to conduct an
investigation with the prior consent of the state in whose territory a violation has allegedly been committed.
Article 49
If a friendly settlement has been reached in accordance with paragraph 1.f of Article 48, the Commission shall
draw up a report, which shall be transmitted to the petitioner and to the States Parties to this Convention, and
shall then be communicated to the Secretary General of the Organization of American States for publication.
This report shall contain a brief statement of the facts and of the solution reached. If any party in the case so
requests, the fullest possible information shall be provided to it.
Article 50
1. If a settlement is not reached, the Commission shall, within the time limit established by its Statute, draw up
a report setting forth the facts and stating its conclusions. If the report, in whole or in part, does not represent
the unanimous agreement of the members of the Commission, any member may attach to it a separate opinion.
The written and oral statements made by the parties in accordance with paragraph 1.e of Article 48 shall also
be attached to the report.
2. The report shall be transmitted to the states concerned, which shall not be at liberty to publish it.
3. In transmitting the report, the Commission may make such proposals and recommendations as it sees fit.
Article 51
1. If, within a period of three months from the date of the transmittal of the report of the Commission to the
states concerned, the matter has not either been settled or submitted by the Commission or by the state
concerned to the Court and its jurisdiction accepted, the Commission may, by the vote of an absolute majority
of its members, set forth its opinion and conclusions concerning the question submitted for its consideration.
2. Where appropriate, the Commission shall make pertinent recommendations and shall prescribe a period
within which the state is to take the measures that are incumbent upon it to remedy the situation examined.
3. When the prescribed period has expired, the Commission shall decide by the vote of an absolute majority of
its members whether the state has taken adequate measures and whether to publish its report.
CHAPTER VIII - INTER-AMERICAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS
Section 1. Organization
Article 52
1. The Court shall consist of seven judges, nationals of the member states of the Organization, elected in an
individual capacity from among jurists of the highest moral authority and of recognized competence in the

field of human rights, who possess the qualifications required for the exercise of the highest judicial functions
in conformity with the law of the state of which they are nationals or of the state that proposes them as
candidates.
2. No two judges may be nationals of the same state.
Article 53
1. The judges of the Court shall be elected by secret ballot by an absolute majority vote of the States Parties to
the Convention, in the General Assembly of the Organization, from a panel of candidates proposed by those
states.
2. Each of the States Parties may propose up to three candidates, nationals of the state that proposes them or of
any other member state of the Organization of American States. When a slate of three is proposed, at least one
of the candidates shall be a national of a state other than the one proposing the slate.
Article 54
1. The judges of the Court shall be elected for a term of six years and may be reelected only once. The term of
three of the judges chosen in the first election shall expire at the end of three years. Immediately after the
election, the names of the three judges shall be determined by lot in the General Assembly.
2. A judge elected to replace a judge whose term has not expired shall complete the term of the latter.
3. The judges shall continue in office until the expiration of their term. However, they shall continue to serve
with regard to cases that they have begun to hear and that are still pending, for which purposes they shall not
be replaced by the newly elected judges.
Article 55
1. If a judge is a national of any of the States Parties to a case submitted to the Court, he shall retain his right
to hear that case.
2. If one of the judges called upon to hear a case should be a national of one of the States Parties to the case,
any other State Party in the case may appoint a person of its choice to serve on the Court as an ad hoc judge.
3. If among the judges called upon to hear a case none is a national of any of the States Parties to the case,
each of the latter may appoint an ad hoc judge.
4. An ad hoc judge shall possess the qualifications indicated in Article 52.
5. If several States Parties to the Convention should have the same interest in a case, they shall be considered
as a single party for purposes of the above provisions. In case of doubt, the Court shall decide.
Article 56
Five judges shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business by the Court.

Article 57
The Commission shall appear in all cases before the Court.
Article 58
1. The Court shall have its seat at the place determined by the States Parties to the Convention in the General
Assembly of the Organization; however, it may convene in the territory of any member state of the
Organization of American States when a majority of the Court considers it desirable, and with the prior
consent of the state concerned. The seat of the Court may be changed by the States Parties to the Convention
in the General Assembly by a two-thirds vote.
2. The Court shall appoint its own Secretary.
3. The Secretary shall have his office at the place where the Court has its seat and shall attend the meetings
that the Court may hold away from its seat.
Article 59
The Court shall establish its Secretariat, which shall function under the direction of the Secretary of the Court,
in accordance with the administrative standards of the General Secretariat of the Organization in all respects
not incompatible with the independence of the Court. The staff of the Court's Secretariat shall be appointed by
the Secretary General of the Organization, in consultation with the Secretary of the Court.
Article 60
The Court shall draw up its Statute which it shall submit to the General Assembly for approval. It shall adopt
its own Rules of Procedure.
Section 2. Jurisdiction and Functions
Article 61
1. Only the States Parties and the Commission shall have the right to submit a case to the Court.
2. In order for the Court to hear a case, it is necessary that the procedures set forth in Articles 48 and 50 shall
have been completed.
Article 62
1. A State Party may, upon depositing its instrument of ratification or adherence to this Convention, or at any
subsequent time, declare that it recognizes as binding, ipso facto, and not requiring special agreement, the
jurisdiction of the Court on all matters relating to the interpretation or application of this Convention.
2. Such declaration may be made unconditionally, on the condition of reciprocity, for a specified period, or for
specific cases. It shall be presented to the Secretary General of the Organization, who shall transmit copies
thereof to the other member states of the Organization and to the Secretary of the Court.

3. The jurisdiction of the Court shall comprise all cases concerning the interpretation and application of the
provisions of this Convention that are submitted to it, provided that the States Parties to the case recognize or
have recognized such jurisdiction, whether by special declaration pursuant to the preceding paragraphs, or by
a special agreement.
Article 63
1. If the Court finds that there has been a violation of a right or freedom protected by this Convention, the
Court shall rule that the injured party be ensured the enjoyment of his right or freedom that was violated. It
shall also rule, if appropriate, that the consequences of the measure or situation that constituted the breach of
such right or freedom be remedied and that fair compensation be paid to the injured party.
2. In cases of extreme gravity and urgency, and when necessary to avoid irreparable damage to persons, the
Court shall adopt such provisional measures as it deems pertinent in matters it has under consideration. With
respect to a case not yet submitted to the Court, it may act at the request of the Commission.
Article 64
1. The member states of the Organization may consult the Court regarding the interpretation of this
Convention or of other treaties concerning the protection of human rights in the American states. Within their
spheres of competence, the organs listed in Chapter X of the Charter of the Organization of American States,
as amended by the Protocol of Buenos Aires, may in like manner consult the Court.
2. The Court, at the request of a member state of the Organization, may provide that state with opinions
regarding the compatibility of any of its domestic laws with the aforesaid international instruments.
Article 65
To each regular session of the General Assembly of the Organization of American States the Court shall
submit, for the Assembly's consideration, a report on its work during the previous year. It shall specify, in
particular, the cases in which a state has not complied with its judgments, making any pertinent
recommendations.
Section 3. Procedure
Article 66
1. Reasons shall be given for the judgment of the Court.
2. If the judgment does not represent in whole or in part the unanimous opinion of the judges, any judge shall
be entitled to have his dissenting or separate opinion attached to the judgment.
Article 67
The judgment of the Court shall be final and not subject to appeal. In case of disagreement as to the meaning

or scope of the judgment, the Court shall interpret it at the request of any of the parties, provided the request is
made within ninety days from the date of notification of the judgment.
Article 68
1. The States Parties to the Convention undertake to comply with the judgment of the Court in any case to
which they are parties.
2. That part of a judgment that stipulates compensatory damages may be executed in the country concerned in
accordance with domestic procedure governing the execution of judgments against the state.
Article 69
The parties to the case shall be notified of the judgment of the Court and it shall be transmitted to the States
Parties to the Convention.
CHAPTER IX - COMMON PROVISIONS
Article 70
1. The judges of the Court and the members of the Commission shall enjoy, from the moment of their election
and throughout their term of office, the immunities extended to diplomatic agents in accordance with
international law. During the exercise of their official function they shall, in addition, enjoy the diplomatic
privileges necessary for the performance of their duties.
2. At no time shall the judges of the Court or the members of the Commission be held liable for any decisions
or opinions issued in the exercise of their functions.
Article 71
The position of judge of the Court or member of the Commission is incompatible with any other activity that
might affect the independence or impartiality of such judge or member, as determined in the respective
statutes.
Article 72
The judges of the Court and the members of the Commission shall receive emoluments and travel allowances
in the form and under the conditions set forth in their statutes, with due regard for the importance and
independence of their office. Such emoluments and travel allowances shall be determined in the budget of the
Organization of American States, which shall also include the expenses of the Court and its Secretariat. To
this end, the Court shall draw up its own budget and submit it for approval to the General Assembly through
the General Secretariat. The latter may not introduce any changes in it.
Article 73
The General Assembly may, only at the request of the Commission or the Court, as the case may be,

determine sanctions to be applied against members of the Commission or judges of the Court when there are
justifiable grounds for such action as set forth in the respective statutes. A vote of a two-thirds majority of the
member states of the Organization shall be required for a decision in the case of members of the Commission
and, in the case of judges of the Court, a two-thirds majority vote of the States Parties to the Convention shall
also be required.
PART III - GENERAL AND TRANSITORY PROVISIONS
CHAPTER X - SIGNATURE, RATIFICATION, RESERVATIONS, AMENDMENTS, PROTOCOLS,
AND DENUNCIATION
Article 74
1. This Convention shall be open for signature and ratification by or adherence of any member state of the
Organization of American States.
2. Ratification of or adherence to this Convention shall be made by the deposit of an instrument of ratification
or adherence with the General Secretariat of the Organization of American States. As soon as eleven states
have deposited their instruments of ratification or adherence, the Convention shall enter into force. With
respect to any state that ratifies or adheres thereafter, the Convention shall enter into force on the date of the
deposit of its instrument of ratification or adherence.
3. The Secretary General shall inform all member states of the Organization of the entry into force of the
Convention.
Article 75
This Convention shall be subject to reservations only in conformity with the provisions of the Vienna
Convention on the Law of Treaties signed on May 23, 1969.
Article 76
1. Proposals to amend this Convention may be submitted to the General Assembly for the action it deems
appropriate by any State Party directly, and by the Commission or the Court through the Secretary General.
2. Amendments shall enter into force for the States ratifying them on the date when two-thirds of the States
Parties to this Convention have deposited their respective instruments of ratification. With respect to the other
States Parties, the amendments shall enter into force on the dates on which they deposit their respective
instruments of ratification.
Article 77
1. In accordance with Article 31, any State Party and the Commission may submit proposed protocols to this
Convention for consideration by the States Parties at the General Assembly with a view to gradually including

other rights and freedoms within its system of protection.
2. Each protocol shall determine the manner of its entry into force and shall be applied only among the States
Parties to it.
Article 78
1. The States Parties may denounce this Convention at the expiration of a five-year period from the date of its
entry into force and by means of notice given one year in advance. Notice of the denunciation shall be
addressed to the Secretary General of the Organization, who shall inform the other States Parties.
2. Such a denunciation shall not have the effect of releasing the State Party concerned from the obligations
contained in this Convention with respect to any act that may constitute a violation of those obligations and
that has been taken by that state prior to the effective date of denunciation.
CHAPTER XI - TRANSITORY PROVISIONS
Section 1. Inter-American Commission on Human Rights
Article 79
Upon the entry into force of this Convention, the Secretary General shall, in writing, request each member
state of the Organization to present, within ninety days, its candidates for membership on the Inter-American
Commission on Human Rights. The Secretary General shall prepare a list in alphabetical order of the
candidates presented, and transmit it to the member states of the Organization at least thirty days prior to the
next session of the General Assembly.
Article 80
The members of the Commission shall be elected by secret ballot of the General Assembly from the list of
candidates referred to in Article 79. The candidates who obtain the largest number of votes and an absolute
majority of the votes of the representatives of the member states shall be declared elected. Should it become
necessary to have several ballots in order to elect all the members of the Commission, the candidates who
receive the smallest number of votes shall be eliminated successively, in the manner determined by the
General Assembly.
Section 2. Inter-American Court of Human Rights
Article 81
Upon the entry into force of this Convention, the Secretary General shall, in writing, request each State Party
to present, within ninety days, its candidates for membership on the Inter-American Court of Human Rights.
The Secretary General shall prepare a list in alphabetical order of the candidates presented and transmit it to
the States Parties at least thirty days prior to the next session of the General Assembly.

Article 82
The judges of the Court shall be elected from the list of candidates referred to in Article 81, by secret ballot of
the States Parties to the Convention in the General Assembly. The candidates who obtain the largest number
of votes and an absolute majority of the votes of the representatives of the States Parties shall be declared
elected. Should it become necessary to have several ballots in order to elect all the judges of the Court, the
candidates who receive the smallest number of votes shall be eliminated successively, in the manner
determined by the States Parties.

