21/01/2004
Publication
date:
003
Publication
number:
16
Publication
year:
Document date:18/12/2003
01.2. Acts
Body:
Qualified Act 15/2003, of 18 December, of personal data protection
Summary:
_______________________________________________

Qualified Act 15/2003,
of 18 December, of personal data protection.
(Translator’s note: A qualified law is a law which, to be passed, requires a higher
majority than other laws).
Whereas the General Council (Parliament) in its session of 18 December 2003 approved
the following:
Act 15/2003, of 18 December, qualified law of personal data protection.

Exposé of grounds
The purpose of this Act is to regulate the processing carried out by private
persons and entities and by the Public Administration over data corresponding to
individuals.
This regulation seeks to fulfil three fundamental objectives: first, to supply a
sufficient and reasonable degree of protection for the right that everyone has to privacy,
a fundamental right recognised by the Constitution in article 14; second, that this
protection does not involve establishing excessive obligations which could hinder or
make seriously difficult the financial, administrative or management activities of
Andorran public or private entities; third, to bring Andorran legislation closer to the
regulations of neighbouring countries in these matters. The regulation contained in this
Act seeks to express a balance between these three principles.
Regulation of the processing of personal data is not unknown in our country. In
fact, the Regulation on the public sector data bank, approved in 1976, already
established a whole series of provisions for the processing of personal data, although
limiting the field of action to the use of the data of persons administrated in the public
sector.
Taking this precedent into account, the regulation established in this Act
contains a specific provision relating to the processing of data by the Andorran

Administration and includes other questions considered fundamental in the regulation of
personal data processing.
Thus, the first chapter of the Act regulates the territorial and material ambit,
with identification of the matters which, for their specific nature, must be excluded from
its field of application; the second chapter defines the fundamental principles applicable
to any personal data processing; the third chapter, the specific requirements applicable
to the processing of personal data by private entities; chapter four, the specific
requirements for personal data processing by public entities; chapter five, infringements
and sanctions arising from non­compliance with the Act; chapter six, the requirements
applicable to international communication of personal data; chapter seven, the public
authority in charge of overseeing compliance with the Act; and, finally, there are the
provisions of a transitional, additional and final nature which facilitate compliance with
the Act.
Chapter one. Purpose, ambit of the Act and exclusions
Article 1
Purpose
The purpose of this Act is to protect and guarantee, with regard to the processing
and use of personal data, the fundamental rights of individuals, especially those relating
to privacy.
Article 2
Ambit of application
This Act is applicable to data of a personal nature which are susceptible of being
processed and to any subsequent use of these data.
Article 3
Definitions
For the purposed of this Act the following definitions are understood:
1. Personal data: all information relating or linked to identified or identifiable
individuals.
2. Personal data processing: any operation applied to or carried out involving
personal data, whether or not computerised.
3. Personal data file: structured and organised assembly of personal data,
whatever may be its form or method of creation, storage, organization and access.
4. Processing manager: the individual or legal persona, whether of a public or
private nature, with decision over personal data processing and the means used for this
processing, and which oversees that the intended purposes of the processing correspond
to those specified in the rule or decision to create the file.

5. Supplier of personal data services: individual or legal persona, of a public or
private nature, which processes the data for the account of the processing manager, or
accesses the personal data in order to supply a service in favour of or under the control
of the processing manager, provided that the data accessed are not used for its own
purposes, and are not made available outside the instructions received or for purposes
other than the service to be supplied to the manager.
6. Interested party: individual to whom the personal data the subject of
processing correspond.
7. Public registries: all the personal data files of which the processing manager is
a public entity to which the interested parties are obliged to supply their data for the
purpose of entries or other functions.
8. Accessible public registries: public registries to which any citizen or entity,
whether public or private, can have access.
9. Communication of data: any assignment of personal data made by the
processing manager in favour of a third person ultimate recipient of the data, provided
that the data are used by the ultimate recipient for its own purposes, including any
access that the ultimate recipient may have to the data under the control of the
processing manager.
10. Ultimate recipient: third party, individual or legal persona, of a public or
private nature, having access to data communication.
11. Sensitive data: data referring to political opinions, religious beliefs,
membership of political or trade union organizations, health, sex life or ethnic origin of
the interested parties.
12. Files of a private nature: personal data files the processing manager of which
is an individual or legal persona of a private nature or a public authority company
subject to private law.
13. Files of a public nature: personal data files the processing manager of which
is the Public Administration.
14. International data communication: all data communication, or all access to
data by a supplier of personal data services, when the ultimate recipients of the
communication or the suppliers of services are resident abroad, or make use of means of
processing personal data located abroad for the data communication or for the supply of
the service.
15. Rules governing the creation of files of a public nature: decrees approved and
published by the General Administration or, in the case of the communes (local
councils), the provisions applicable in accordance with the Qualified Act of delimitation
of the competences of the communes, destined to regulate the creation, modification or

deletion of files of a public nature, in accordance with the requirements established in
articles 30 and 31 of this Act.
Article 4
Territorial ambit
This Act applies to the creation of files and personal data processing by
processing managers resident in the Principality of Andorra, or constituted in
accordance with the Laws of the Principality of Andorra.
This Act also applies to data processing carried out by processing managers not
resident in the Principality or not constituted in accordance with the Laws of the
Principality of Andorra, when they use means of processing located in the territory of
the Principality.
Article 5
Matters excluded
The processing of personal data relating to the following matters falls outside the
ambit of application of this Act:
State Security
Investigation and prevention of criminal infringements
Article 6
Personal files
Personal data processing is outside the ambit of this Act when the processing
manager is an individual, and the data are destined to exclusively individual purposes,
such as personal diaries or personal address books or contact details of interested parties
related with the individual managing the processing.
Article 7
Data of individuals linked to their business, professional or commercial activity.
The data of individuals, linked to their business, professional or commercial
activity, are outside the Act in the following circumstances:
a) Data of the personnel of legal personas or trading or professional
establishments, when the information linked to the individual refers only to his
belonging to the company or establishment, or to his professional capacity in the
company or establishment itself.
b) Data of individuals belonging to professional groups, whenever the data refer
only to the person’s professional activity and his or her membership of a specific
professional group.

c) Data of self­employed professionals or professional or commercial
establishments, when the data refer only to their professional or trading activity.
Article 8
Supplementary application of the Act
This Act will apply, in an alternative sense, to everything not regulated in the
regulations applicable to public registries and in the regulations applicable to banking
secrecy. In the case of contradiction between this personal data Act and the specific
regulations mentioned, the latter will prevail, but in no case can be understood repealed
by this qualified Act of personal data protection.
Article 9
Professional secrecy
This Act will apply with an additional nature to the rules regulating professional
secrecy, for activities and professions subject to this obligation, which governing rules
may in no case be understood as repealed by this Act.
Chapter two. Principles applicable to the personal data processing

Section one. General principle
Article 10
Adaptation to the law
Personal data processing is only lawful when carried out in conformity with the
provisions of this Act.

Section two. Quality of the data
Article 11
General requirements for all processing
Personal data processing may only be carried out by processing managers if they
meet the following requirements:
a) That the processing is carried out for the purposes envisaged in the regulation
or in the decision to create personal data files.
b) That the data subject to processing correspond to the real personal data of the
interested parties, and that, for these purposes, measures are taken to update them or
delete them.
c) That the data are preserved during the maximum time periods applicable in
accordance with the current regulation and, in any case, during the maximum time
period necessary for the purpose envisaged for their processing.

In accordance with the specific legislation and in view of the historic or
scientific values, the procedure by which it is decided to maintain the integrity of certain
data must be established by regulation.
Article 12
Confidentiality and security
The processing managers must establish the technical measures and organization
necessary to guarantee the confidentiality and security of the personal data subject to
processing.
If all or part of the processing is entrusted to the suppliers of personal data
services, the processing manager is responsible to ensure that the suppliers have
established sufficient technical measures and organization to guarantee the
confidentiality and security of the data subject to the service. To this end, the processing
managers must require from the personal data service suppliers that they establish the
technical and organizational measures considered minimum by the processing manager,
provided that these minimum measures correspond with those that the manager himself
has established for the processing of data under his own control and of an analogous
nature to those subject to the service.

Section three. Right to information
Article 13
Obtaining the data from the interested party
At the time of collection of the data, the interested party has the right to be
informed by the processing manager of the following circumstances:
a) Identity of the processing manager.
b) Purpose of processing of data asked for.
c) Ultimate recipients or types of ultimate recipients of the data.
these.

d) Rights of access to, rectification and deletion of his data and how to exercise

e) His right not to grant consent to the data processing, and the consequences of
not granting it.
Article 14
Exceptions to the right to information
The processing managers are not obliged to give the information indicated in the
preceding article when this is included in the rules for the creation of files of a public
nature envisaged in article 30.

Article 15
Right of opposition
Any interested party has the right to oppose his data being the subject of
processing by a processing manager, when the latter has not obtained the data directly
from the interested party himself.
For these purposes, when an ultimate recipient of personal data is the subject of
a communication of data, and within a maximum time of fifteen days counting from
when the data were received, he must advise the interested parties whose data has been
received of the following circumstances:
a) Identity of the new processing manager.
b) Identity of the individual or legal persona from whom the manager has
received the data.
c) Purpose of processing the data obtained.
d) Ultimate recipients or types of ultimate recipients of the data.
e) Rights of access to, rectification and deletion of their data and how to exercise
these.
Within a maximum period of one month from the time when the interested
parties have been informed of the above circumstances, the latter may exercise their
right of opposition, requesting the new processing manager to delete their data. If the
right of opposition has not been exercised by the end of this period, it is understood that
consent is given for the processing by the new manager.
Article 16
Exceptions to the right of opposition
Article 15 is not applicable when the communication of data takes place in any
of the following circumstances:
a) When the communication of data is between entities of a public nature, and
this communication is established in the rules for creation of files of a public nature
envisaged in article 30.
b) When the communication of data is necessary for compliance with the
purposes and functions of public registries.
c) When the communication of data takes place in compliance with a current
rule, or in order to comply with a current rule.

d) When the communication of data is necessary for compliance with
contractual obligations established between the interested party and the processing
manager, or is necessary for compliance with, development and control of other legal
relationships which may exist between the interested party and the processing manager.
e) When the communication is necessary to preserve the vital interest of the
interested party.
f) When the communication is required by a judicial order.

Section four. Legitimisation for processing
Article 17
Consent
The processing of personal data may only be carried out by processing managers
with the unequivocal consent of the interested parties.
Article 18
Exceptions to the consent
The consent of the interested parties for the data processing is not necessary if
any of the following circumstances apply:
a) When the data processing corresponds to entities of a public nature, provided
that the processing is done within the limits established in section a) of article 11.
b) When the data processing is necessary for compliance with the purposes and
functions of public registries, pursuant to their regulations.
c) When the data processing is carried out in accordance with a current rule.
d) When the data subject to processing has been obtained from accessible public
registries.
e) When the data processing is necessary for compliance with contractual
obligations established between the interested party and the processing manager, or is
necessary for compliance with, development and control of other legal relationships
which may exist between the interested party and the processing manager.
party.

f) When the processing is necessary to preserve the vital interest of the interested

g) When the processing is carried out exclusively for historical or scientific
purposes, or for artistic or literary expression.
Article 19
Sensitive data

Sensitive data can only be the subject of processing or communication with the
express consent of the interested party. The creation of files for the exclusive purpose of
collecting or processing sensitive data relating to political opinions, religious beliefs,
membership of political or trade union organizations, health, sex life or ethnic origin of
individuals is prohibited.
Article 20
Exceptions to the express consent for sensitive data
The express consent of the interested party for the processing or communication
of sensitive data is not necessary if any of the following circumstances apply:
a) When the processing or communication of sensitive data is done by or
between entities of a public nature, being strictly necessary for compliance with their
legitimate functions and purposes, and can be included in the rules of creation of files of
a public nature envisaged in article 30.
b) When the processing or communication of sensitive data is necessary for
compliance with the purposes and functions of public registries, pursuant to their
regulations.
c) When it is necessary in order to preserve the vital interest of the person
concerned.
d) When the data have been obtained from accessible public registries.
e) In relation to the processing of sensitive data relating to health, when the
processing or communication is made by medical, health or social work professionals,
and is necessary for diagnosis and medical treatment or for health or social care.
f) In relation to the processing of sensitive data relating to health, when the
processing or communication is necessary for the epidemiological studies or for the
prevention and treatment of epidemics.
Article 21
Files relating to criminal or administrative offences or sanctions
Files relating to criminal or administrative offences or sanctions may only be
created by judicial or administrative public entities which, pursuant to a current rule,
have the capacity of imposing administrative sanctions or resolving legal proceedings of
a criminal nature.

Section five. Rights of the interested parties
Article 22
Right of access

Any interested party has the right to be informed by the processing manager of
his data which are the subject of processing. The manager can only refuse this right of
access on the grounds envisaged in this Act.
The manager, if it does not correspond to him to refuse access to the data, must
inform the interested party within a maximum time of five working days counting from
the time when the manager received the application from the interested party.
The manager must deliver the information by the means he considers most
suitable, either through direct visualisation of the data, or by despatch in printed form,
or in any other way that he deems fit.
In every case, any refusal of access to the data must be for a defined reason and
will be capable of being appealed before the competent jurisdiction.
Article 23
Right of rectification
Any interested party has the right to ask the processing manager to correct the
data subject to processing, if they are erroneous.
The manager can only refuse this right of rectification on the grounds envisaged
in this Act.
For the exercise of the right of rectification, the manager may ask the interested
party to supply the necessary documents to accredit the correctness and reality of the
new data, and may reject the application if the interested party does not supply these
documents or the reality of the new data is not accredited.
In every case, the processing manager must communicate to the interested party
the refusal of the application, or the effective correcting of the data, within a period of
one month, counting from when he received the application from the interested party if
the application is accompanied by all the documents necessary to check the reality and
correctness of the new data, or to count from when the manager receives all these
documents.
In every case, any refusal of access to the data must be for a defined reason and
will be capable of being appealed before the competent jurisdiction.
Article 24
Right of deletion
Every interested party has the right to require the processing manager to delete
the data subject to processing.
The manager can refuse this right of deletion in the following cases:

a) When the preservation of the data is necessary for the processing manager, in
accordance with a valid rule.
b) When the preservation is necessary for compliance with the lawful purposes
of the file manager, in the maximum periods established in Article 11(c).
c) When the preservation is necessary in virtue of the legal relationship or
contractual obligations existing between the interested party and the file manager, or in
the case of possible legal or out of court claims or administrative obligations arising
from these legal relationships or contractual obligations.
The file manager will have a maximum time of one month, counting from when
he received the application from the interested party, to communicate the effective
deletion of the data or the refusal of the application, if any of the circumstances
indicated in the preceding paragraph apply.
In every case, on refusal of the application, for which there must be a defined
reason, the interested party may appeal against the decision before the competent
jurisdiction.
Article 25
Exercise of the rights of access rectification, deletion and opposition
The exercise of the rights set out in articles 15, 22, 23 and 24, cannot be
subjected by the file manager to any formality, nor to payment by the interested party of
the expenses which may correspond to it.
Article 26
Right to compensation
The sanctions envisaged in chapter five of this Act are understood without
prejudice to the third party liability which may be incurred by the processing manager in
the case of non­compliance with the Act.
Chapter three. Files of a private nature
Article 27
Obligation of registration
Individuals or legal personas of a private nature who are the data processing
managers must register the files of personal data under their control in the public
registry managed by the controlling authority indicated in chapter seven. The manager
must register the file before creating it.
Article 28
Content of the registration

At the time of registration, the file manager must supply the following
information to the controlling authority:
a) Name and address of the processing manager.
b) Structure of the file.
c) Purpose of the data processing.
d) Type of data subject to processing.
e) Sources from which the data will be obtained.
f) Period of preservation of the data.
g) Ultimate recipients or categories of ultimate recipients to whom it is
envisaged to communicate the data.
h) International communications of data envisaged.
i) Generic description of the technical and organisational measures applied in
processing the file, in accordance with article 12 of this Act.
Article 29
Updating the registration
Similarly, if after the first registration there are amendments of the information
supplied to the controlling authority in accordance with article 28, the manager must
inform the aforesaid controlling authority of these changes at the time when they occur,
for the corresponding registry records.
Chapter four. Files of a public nature
Article 30
Rules of creation of files
The creation, modification or deletion of files of a public nature must be carried
out by means of a rule of creation, which must be approved by the public entity
managing its processing, and must be published in the Official State Gazette of the
Principality of Andorra before the creation, modification or deletion of the file.
The approval of a rule of creation of a file of a public nature is not necessary for
files of personal data under the control of entities of a public nature relating to public
registries which have their own regulation, nor to those to which reference is made in
matters excluded from the ambit of this Act, in accordance with article 5.
Article 31
Content of the rules of creation

The rules of creation and modification of files of a public nature must contain, at
least, the following information:
a) Purpose of processing the file.
b) Sources from which the personal data will be obtained.
c) Type of data which the file will contain.
d) International communications of data which it is envisaged to effect.
e) Other entities of a public nature with which it is envisaged to exchange
personal data for the purposes of file management.
f) Identification of the organs managing the file and the organs before which the
rights of access, rectification, deletion and opposition may be exercised.
g) Generic description of the technical and organisational measures applied to
the file processing, in accordance with article 12.
Article 32
Exceptions to the exercise of the rights of access, rectification, deletion and opposition
The managers of files of a public nature can refuse the exercise of the rights of
access, rectification, deletion and opposition by the interested parties when they
consider that this could endanger:
a) Public security.
b) Administrative actions destined to ensuring compliance with taxation
obligations.
c) Prevention or prosecution of administrative offences.
d) Prevention or prosecution of criminal offences.
e) The public interest or that of the interested party himself.
Chapter five. Infringements and sanctions
Article 33
Infringements and sanctions for files of a private nature
Non­compliance with this Act by individuals or legal personas of a private
nature is subject to administrative sanction. The first non­compliance by a file manager
will be sanctioned with a fine of up to a maximum of €50,000, and subsequent non­

compliances by the same manager will be sanctioned with a fine of up to a maximum
€100,000.
The amount of the sanction will be set by the controlling authority, taking into
account the following criteria:
a) The specific circumstances of the infringement.
b) The seriousness of the non­compliance.
c) The number of people affected.
d) The damage caused to interested parties.
e) Repetitions.
Article 34
Infringements and sanctions for files of a public nature
The proceedings and sanctions to apply in the case of non­compliance with this
Act by public entities are those established in the regulating provisions of the
disciplinary regimes. For these purposes, the sanctioning capacity corresponds to the
controlling authority established in chapter seven of this Act, without prejudice to the
administrative appeals provided in the Administrative Regulations or the legal protection
to which the interested parties are entitled.
Chapter six. International communication of data
Article 35
Requirements for the international communication of data
No international data communication may be effected unless the current
regulations in the country of destination establish a level of personal data protection at
least equivalent to that established in this Act.
Article 36
Countries with equivalent protection
It is understood that the following have a level of protection equivalent to this
Act:
a) Member countries of the European Union.
b) Countries declared by the European Communities Commission as countries
with protection equivalent.
c) Countries declared as such by the Andorran Data Protection Agency.

Article 37
Exceptions
The prohibition established in article 35 of this Act does not apply when the
international communication:
a) Is made with the unequivocal consent of the interested party.
b) Is made in accordance with international conventions of which the
Principality Andorra is a party.
c) Is made for the purposes of international legal assistance, or for the
recognition, exercise or defence of a right in the context of legal proceedings.
d) Is made for medical prevention or diagnosis, health care, social prevention or
diagnosis or for the vital interest of the interested party.
e) Is made for the purpose of bank remittances or transfers of money.
f) Is necessary for the establishment, execution, fulfilment or control of legal
relationships or contractual obligations between the interested party and the file
manager.
g) Is necessary to preserve the public interest.
h) Is concerned with data taken from public registries or is made in compliance
with the functions and purposes of the public registries.
Chapter seven. Controlling authority
Article 38
Creation of the Andorran Data Protection Agency
The Andorran Data Protection Agency is formed as a public body with its own
legal personality, independent of the Public Authorities and with full capacity to
operate.
Article 39
Composition and financing of the Andorran Data Protection Agency
The Andorran Data Protection Agency will be composed of:
a) The head of the Data Protection Agency.
b) Two inspectors, who will be under the head of the Agency.
The head of the Data Protection Agency and the inspectors will be appointed by
the General Council, by a special majority of two thirds parts in the first vote; and if in

the first vote the majority required above should not be reached, in a second vote the
candidates will be elected who obtain the favourable vote of the absolute majority.
The appointment is for a term of four years and the appointment may be renewed
at the end of each period.
The Andorran Data Protection Agency will be financed exclusively from the
budget appropriations established each year for its functioning in the general budget of
the General Council.
Article 40
Powers of the Andorran Data Protection Agency
The powers of the Andorran Data Protection Agency are:
a) To oversee compliance with this Act.
Files.

b) Management of the Public Registry for the Registration of Personal Data

c) Annual publication of the list of countries with equivalent protection, pursuant
to article 36 of this Act.
d) Exercise of the power of inspection and sanction for the infringements
typified in chapter five of this Act.
e) Proposing improvements in the personal data protection regulations as it
considers appropriate.
f) Preparation of an annual report on its activity and the results emerging from it.
The annual report will be public.
Article 41
Power of inspection
The Andorran Data Protection Agency has the competence of inspection. File
managers are obliged to supply the inspectors of the Andorran Data Protection Agency
with all the information requested from them, and also to arrange access to their
premises and computer systems and other types of resources used in data processing
when this is requested in the exercise of this power of control.
In every case, the inspecting activity can only be carried out with the
corresponding authorisation from the head of the Andorran Data Protection Agency,
which authorisation must contain the obligatory information established by regulation.
File managers will have the right to require the inspectors to show this authorisation and
can lawfully refuse the inspection if the authorisation is not exhibited to them, or if it
does not contain the obligatory information established by regulation.

The inspection can be initiated by the Andorran Data Protection Agency on its
own initiative or be applied for by any interested party who considers that their rights
have been affected or that a processing manager has failed to comply with his
obligations as established in this Act.
Article 42
Power of sanction
The Andorran Data Protection Agency has the capacity to impose the sanctions
envisaged in chapter five of this Act, in accordance with the proceedings established in
the Administrative Regulations.
In every case, it corresponds to the inspectors of the Andorran Data Protection
Agency to send the proposals for sanctions arising from their inspections to the head of
the Andorran Data Protection Agency, who shall resolve these proposals by deciding
whether or not to open the corresponding sanction proceedings.
Article 43
Public Registry for Registration of Personal Data Files
The Public Registry for Registration of Personal Data Files is set up, relating to
the registrations of files established in articles 27 to 29 of this Act, with the content and
characteristics established by regulation.
The Andorran Data Protection Agency manages the Public Registry for
Registration of Personal Data Files in conformity with the following criteria:
a) The inspectors of the Andorran Data Protection Agency are responsible to:
Review the applications for registration of files and for the updating of the registrations
of files addressed to the Agency, and verify that they meet the requirements established
in articles 28 and 29 of this Act and in the corresponding regulation.
Propose to the head of the Agency the acceptance or not of the applications
received, and in the case of proposing their refusal, to detail the grounds.
b) The head of the Andorran Data Protection Agency is responsible to resolve
the proposals of acceptance or rejection of registration and inform the corresponding
file managers, with a detailed indication of the reasons for his decision.
The Public Registry for Registration of Personal Data Files is of general and free
public access, and the possibility of access to the information contained in this Public
Registry by telematic means must be foreseen.
Article 44
Action in conformity with the Administrative Regulations

The Andorran Data Protection Agency will at all times adapt its action to the
Administrative Regulations, and its resolutions will be challengeable as established in
that body of law.

Additional, transitional, repealing and final provisions
Additional provision.
Development of the regulation
The Government of Andorra is charged to deliver, within one year of its coming
into force, the necessary regulations for the development of this qualified Act, especially
those referring to the Andorran Data Protection Agency.

First transitional provision.
Approval and publication of the rules for the creation of files of a public
nature
The public entities have a period of one year from the coming into force of this
Act to approve and publish in the Official State Gazette of the Principality of Andorra
the decrees envisaged in article 30 affecting files of a public nature existing before the
coming into force of this Act.

Second transitional provision.
Registration of files
The individuals and legal personas of a private nature who are obliged to register
the personal data files under their control have a period of six months in which to
register the files of a private nature existing previous to the coming into force of this
Act. The period of six months will start on the date of publication in the Official State
Gazette of the Principality Andorra of the regulation of development envisaged in the
third transitional provision.

Third transitional provision.
Regulation regulating the Public Registry for Registration of Personal Data
Files
Within a period of six months from the coming into force of this Act, the
ministry in charge of Trade must approve and publish in the Official State Gazette of the
Principality of Andorra the regulation of development which regulates the Public
Registry for Registration of Personal Data Files, including the standard forms for use by
the files managers in proceeding to registration, and the means by which they can access
the information included in this Public Registry.

Fourth transitional provision.

Control of compliance with the Act until the Andorran Data Protection
Agency starts up its activity
The appointment of the head and inspectors of the Data Protection Agency and
approval of its means and financing and other resources necessary for the functioning of
this Agency must take place within six months from the approval of the regulation
relating to the Andorran Data Protection Agency, as established in the additional
provision. Until the Agency comes into operation, the powers established in articles 40
to 43 of this Act will be exercised by the following controlling authorities:
a) Files of a private nature: the ministry in charge of Trade
b) Files of a public nature:
The ministry of the Presidency, for files of a public nature the managers of
which are the General Administration or para­public or public law entities.
The communes, for files of a public nature the managers of which are the
communes themselves.
The Higher Council of Justice, for files of a public nature the managers of which
are public entities integrated into the Administration of Justice.

Repealing provision.
Regulation of the public sector data bank and other rules
All provisions which oppose this qualified Act of personal data are repealed,
especially the 1976 Regulation of the public sector data bank.

Final provision.
Entry into force of this Act
This Act will come into force fifteen days after its publication in the Official
State Gazette of the Principality of Andorra.
Casa de la Vall, 18 December 2003
Francesc Areny Casal
Speaker of the General Council
We the co­princes approve it and promulgate it and order its publication in the Official
State Gazette of the Principality of Andorra.

Jacques Chirac
President of the French Republic
Co­prince of Andorra

Joan Enric Vives Sicília
Bishop of Urgell
Co­prince of Andorra

