REPUBLIC OFARMENIA
LAW
ON BANKING SECRECY
ARTICLE 1. Subject of the Law
This Law shall define information constituting banking secrecy, legal grounds thereof
and procedures for publishing, maintaining and providing such information, legal rights
and obligations of persons participating in relation to banking secrecy as well as liability
for violations of provisions of this Law.
ARTICLE 2. Banking Secrecy Legislation
Relations to banking secrecy shall be governed by the present Law, other laws and, if
prescribed by law, other legal acts.
ARTICLE 3. Scope of the Law
The provisions of this Law shall apply to the Central Bank of the Republic of Armenia
(hereinafter referred to as the Central Bank), banks operating in the territory of the
Republic of Armenia, including branches and representative offices thereof and foreign
banks operating in the territory of the Republic of Armenia (hereinafter referred to as
banks), as well as those natural and legal persons and entities without legal status
(hereinafter referred as to persons) who have been provided with or have been informed
about information constituting, by this Law, banking secrecy. Unless otherwise is
provided for by the clause, the term “bank” in the context of this Law shall include the
Central Bank also with respect to liability prescribed therein.
ARTICLE 4. Banking Secrecy
1. Subject to banking secrecy shall be information that becomes known to the bank in the
course of its official activity with its customer, such as information on customer’s
accounts, transactions made by instruction or in favor of the customer, as well as the
customer’s trade secret, facts relating to any projects or plans of its activity, invention,
sample products and any other information which the customer has intended to keep in
secret and that the bank becomes aware or may have become aware of such intention.
2. Information on banks and their customers with respect to supervision thereof
prescribed by the first paragraph of this Article that has come to the Central Bank’s
attention shall be subject to banking secrecy. Banks shall be deemed as the customers of
the Central Bank.
ARTICLE 5. Third Parties

In the meaning of this Law third parties shall be considered to be all other persons
excepting banks and their customers. The Central Bank, banks and credit organizations
defined by the Law on Credit Organization of the Republic of Armenia shall not be
regarded as third parties.
ARTICLE 6. Making Banking Secrets Public
1. Banking secret shall be deemed disclosed when any information constituting banking
secrecy is made publicly available or otherwise disseminated in its oral or written
expression in mass media or otherwise, when it becomes known to a third party or
parties, or efforts have been directly or indirectly made to enable the parties to gain such
information as it could be the case of permitting, not preventing or, in the result of
respective secrecy duties violations, making possible the disclosure of secrets.
2. Information or provision of banking secrets by the bank to any persons or
organizations who are engaged in providing legal, accounting, other advisory or
representation services or carrying out some specific jobs for the bank, provided that it is
necessary for providing such services or carrying out such jobs and that such persons or
organizations are obliged to refrain themselves from carrying out activities or nonactivities prescribed by Article 8 of this Law, shall not be regarded as disclosure of
banking secrets.
ARTICLE 7. Prohibiting Disclosure of Banking Secrecy
1. Banking secrets shall be prohibitive to make public by a person, organization, public
authority or official who have been entrusted in keeping such information, but have
become informed during their service or office activity or have been provided, by this
Law, with such information.
2. This Article shall apply to the bank customers only to the extent such information
refers to them, as well as the banks to the extent such information is disclosed to the
Central Bank under its supervision authority.
3. With respect to certain customer, facts or any information constituting banking secrecy
may be subject to publication if such customer permits doing that in a written form or
makes it verbally public at the court. Upon such permission, information exclusively
concerning to the customer may be published pursuant to Article 14 of this Law.
ARTICLE 8. Maintaining Banking Secrecy
1. Banks shall guarantee the maintenance of banking secrecy.
2. Bank managers and employees acting or formerly acting for the bank, as well as
persons and organizations providing or formerly providing services (jobs) to the bank
shall be prohibited to make public any information containing banking secrecy that has
been entrusted to them or has come to their attention due to their service or job as well as
prohibited to make use of it in personal or third parties interest, by promoting directly or
indirectly the use of such information by third parties as it could be the case of
permitting, not preventing or, by violating secrecy maintenance duties, making possible
the disclosure of such secrets.

3. Banks shall undertake safety measures and set administrative rulings which will ensure
decent maintenance of banking secrets.
4. A bank may disclose banking secrets related to the customer at the court, provided it is
necessary for protecting rights and lawful interests thereof, if the dispute has been arisen
between the bank and the given customer. In such case, the court proceeding, solicited by
either the bank or the customer, may be held closed-door.
ARTICLE 10. Provision of Information Constituting Banking Secrecy to the Criminal
Prosecution Authorities
1. Banks shall provide, by this Law, the criminal prosecution authorities with confidential
information concerning criminally charged persons only if a court decision on a
sanctioned search is available pursuant to the Code of Criminal Procedures of the
Republic of Armenia.
2. A bank, upon receipt of the court decision, shall be bound to provide, within two
banking days, information and documentation indicated and required by the court
decision in a closed and sealed envelope to the court or an authorized person thereof. In
the meantime, the bank shall take necessary measures to inform their customers about the
bank’s obligations of obtaining the given court decision and providing the confidential
information.
3. Bank managers or employees shall not be interrogated for the purpose of obtaining
banking secrecy constituting information on the customers, except for the cases
prescribed by Articles 11, 12 and 16 of this Law.
ARTICLE 11. Provision of Banking Secrecy Containing Information to the Court
1. Banks shall disclose and provide, by this Law, banking secrecy containing information
on their customers as a party of civil and criminal action exclusively on a court decision
taken under the Code of Civil Procedure or Code of Criminal Procedure of the Republic
of Armenia, as well as on a legal final judgment of court effected for impounding
customer bank accounts.
2. Upon receipt of the court decision or judgment of court a bank shall be bound to
provide, within two banking days, information and documentation indicated and required
by the court decision or judgment of court in a closed and sealed envelope to the court or
an authorized person thereof. In the meantime, the bank shall take necessary measures to
inform their customers about the bank’s obligations of obtaining the given court decision
or judgment of court and providing the confidential information.
ARTICLE 12. Provision of Information Constituting Banking Secrecy to the Customer’s
Heirs (Legal Successors)
1. Banks shall provide, by this Law, banking secrecy containing information referring to
the customers to the heirs (successors) if the latter persons or the representatives thereof
have submitted appropriate necessary documents verifying rights on such heritage
(succession).

2. On receipt of the documents verifying heritage (succession) rights a bank shall, within
five banking days, notify the applicants (persons or organizations), if the documents are
insufficient, about incompleteness of the documents by indicating the lacking list of
documents, and in case of completeness of the documents, it shall, within ten banking
days, provide the applicants with a complete information and handle the appropriate
documents that the bank possesses with respect to the customer.
3. Any refusal by the bank to submit the information and documents in the manner
prescribed by this Article or failure to submit such information and documents in the
fixed time frame may be appealed at the court. Any losses caused to the applicants as a
result of such refusal or failure shall be subject to a complete compensation if the refusal
has been groundless or the fixed dates have been violated through the bank’s fault.
ARTICLE 13. Provision of Information Constituting Banking Secrecy to the Tax
Authorities
Banks, pursuant to this Law, shall submit confidential banking information on their
customers to the Tax Authorities of the RA only on the ground of a court decision taken
under the Code of Civil Procedure or Code of Criminal Procedure of the Republic of
Armenia as well as on a lawful final judgment of court effected for impounding customer
bank accounts.
ARTICLE 14. Banking Secrecy Circulation among Banks
1. With an aim to assure safety of their activities as well as ensure recoverability of loans
and other investments thereof, banks may exchange or provide information on their
customers, even if it represents a banking secrecy, within each other or with credit
organizations identified by the “RA Law on Credit Organizations”.
2. The Central Bank, while executing its supervisory duties, shall be empowered to obtain
and study information referring to the bank customers, even if it represents a banking
secrecy, in case when such information is required for assessment of loans and other
investments and other assets.
ARTICLE 15. Limitations for Provision of Banking Secrecy Constituting Information
1. As prescribed by Articles 10, 11, 12 and 13 of this Law a bank shall provide banking
secrets only on its customer; whereas, if in the bank documents, with respect to
customers, names of other persons or organizations, terms of transactions and other
similar data are indicated, such information, by this Article, shall be considered as
information on the customer.
2. The bank, while providing, by this Law, information on its certain customer, shall have
no right to provide any information about the persons and organizations who represent a
contractual party of the customer’s agreements or other transactions unless otherwise is
required by the provisions of this Law.
ATICLE 16. Rejection of Requests for Providing Banking Secrecy containing
Information

Banks shall reject any request made for obtaining banking secrecy containing information
if such request contradicts to the provisions of this Law.
ARTICLE 17. Obligations for Notifying Crimes
1. Bank managers shall be obliged to notify the Criminal Prosecution Authorities any
imminent crimes or crimes already committed that are definitely known to them.
Moreover, information and documents containing banking secrecy shall be extended to
the Criminal Prosecution Authorities in accordance with Article 10 and 11 of this Law.
Bank employees shall be obliged to notify in a written form the bank managers or at least
one of them any imminent crimes or crimes already committed that are definitely known
to them.
2. No any provision of this Law shall mean that persons who found guilty in concealing
any crime and criminally obtained funds or persons who failed to inform crimes are
relieved from criminal liability under the Criminal Code of the RA.
ARTICLE 18. Liability for Violations of Provisions of this Law
Persons and organizations who found guilty in violations of Article 7, 8, 10, 11 and 15 of
this Law shall be liable to completely recoup the bank customer for losses caused to him
or her as a result of violations. Such violations shall carry a penalty of fine amounting
from two thousand-fold up to ten thousand-fold minimum salary and may carry criminal
liability. Penalty shall undergo legal enforcement.
ARTICLE 19. Transitional Provisions
Before renewal of the Code of Criminal Procedures, banks, by this Article 10, shall
disclose banking secrecy containing information only with respect to criminally charged
persons and upon a legal search sanction pursuant to the present Code of Criminal
Procedures.

President of the Republic of Armenia
Levon Ter-Petrosyan
14 October 1996
City of Yerevan

