Unofficial and not binding translation
--------------------------------------------------- --------------------------------State Ordinance containing new rules for the identification and
verification of clients and the reporting of unusual t ransactions to
prevent and combat money laundering and terrorist financing when
providing certain services (State Ordinance for the Prevention and
Combating of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing)
Lastly amended by AB 2019 No. 26.
------------------------------- -------------------- --------------- ------------------

IN THE NAME OF THE QUEEN!
THE GOVERNOR of Aruba,

Having considered:
that, for the improvement of the Aruban system for the prevention and
combating of money laundering and terrorist financing, i t is desirable to
lay down new rules with regard to the identification and verification of
clients and the reporting of unusual transaction when providing financial
services and certain non -financial services;
Has, having heard the Advisory Council , in consultation with
Parliament, adopted the following State Ordinance:

CHAPTER 1
Application and scope
Article 1
1. In this State Ordinance and the provisions based on it, the
following words are defined as stated below:
service provider:
a financial or designated non-financial
service provider;
financial service provider:
anyone who on a commercial basis
conducts one or more of t he following
activities or operations to or for the
benefit of a client:

1.

to accept deposits and other
repayable funds from the public;
2.
to grant loans;
3.
financial
leasing ,
with
the
exception
of
consumer -related
leasing;
4.
to transfer or to cause the transfer
of money or values;
5.
to issue and manage means of
payment other than money, at any
rate including cr edit cards, debit
cards, checks, tr aveler's checks,
bank and mo ney orders, and
electronic money;
6.
to provide financial guarantees
and commitments;
7.
to
trade
in
money
market
instruments,
foreign
currency,
payment
instruments,
shares,
exchange, interest, and index
instruments,
transfe rable
securities,
and
commodities
futures trading;
8.
to participate in the issue of
securities and to provide financial
services related to this issue ;
9.
to
manage
individual
and
collective investment portfolios;
10. to receive for safekeeping and
manage cash or liquid securities
on behalf of third parties;
11. to otherwise invest, administer, or
manage funds or moneys on behalf
of third parties;
12. to underwrite, redeem and pay, as
well as to act as an intermediary,
in the underwriting , redeeming and
payment of a life insurance
agreement as meant in Article 1 of
the State Ordinance Supervision
Insurance Business (AB 2000 No.
2

82), and other investment -related
insurance products;
13. to exchange coins or bank notes for
other coins or banknotes or to pay
coins or banknotes on presentation
of a credit card or debit card or on
surrender of checks, traveler’s
checks, bills of exchange or
money orders;
designated non-financial service provider:
1.
a natural person,
legal
person,
corporation
or
partnership that acts as a lawyer,
civil notary, tax advisor or in the
exercise
of
a
similar
legal
profession or company ;
2.
a natural person, legal person,
corporation or partners hip that
acts as an external registered
accountant,
an
external
accountant -administration
consultant or a similar profession ;
3.
a natural person, legal person or
corporation
which
on
a
commercial or professional basis
trades
on
or
acts
as
an
intermediary in the purchase and
sale of immobile objec ts, vehicles,
ships, aircraft, objects of arts,
antiquities, and the rights to which
these objects can be subjected ;
4.
a natural person, legal person , or
corporation
which
trades
in
precious metals , precious s tones
and jewels on a commercial or
professional basis;
5.
a casino as meant in Article 1,
first
section,
of
the
State
Ordinance Games of Hazard (AB
1990 No. GT 44), as well as an
internet casino;
3

bank:

life insurer:

client:

customer due diligence:
identification:
verification of the identity:
transaction:

unusual transaction:
business relationship:

report:

6.
a trust and company
service provider as meant in
Article
1
of
the
State
Ordinance Supervision Tr ust
and
Company
Service
Providers (AB 2009 No. 13 );
a financial institution that is authorized
pursuant to a license as meant in the
articles 4 or 24 of the State Ordinance
Supervision Credit System (AB 199 8 No.
16) to conduct one or more financial
activities or operations of a financial
services provider;
a life insurance company as meant in
Article 1 of the State Ordinance
Supervision Insurance Business;
he with whom a business relati onship is
entered into, or who causes a tran saction
to be carried out;
the due diligence, meant in Article 3 ;
to have someone state his identity;
to establish that the identity st ated
corresponds with the real identity;
an act or a combination of acts by or on
behalf of a client in connection with the
procurement or provision of services, or
of which a service provider has taken
notice within the framework of his
provision of service to a client;
a transaction designated as such pursuant
to Article 25;
a business, professional, or commercial
relationship between a service provider,
on the one hand, and, on the other , a
client, which is connected to the
commercial or professional activities of
the service provider, and which at the
moment of making the contact is assumed
to last some time;
a report as meant in Article 26, first
section;
4

correspondent bank
relationship:

shell bank:

politically exposed person:

ultimate beneficiary:

trust:

money laundering:

terrorist financing:

a permanent relationship between an
Aruban bank and a bank established
outside Aruba for the purpose of
processing transactions or implementing
orders;
a financial service provider established
outside of Aruba that has no physical
presence in the country of incorporation
and is not affilia ted with a financial
services group that is subject to an
effective
form
of
consolidated
supervision;
a person who holds or held a prominent
public position, as well as direct family
members and direct associates of such a
person;
a natural person:
1°. who holds an interest of more than
25% of the capital interest or can
exercise more than 25% of the
voting rights in the shareholders
meeting of a customer, or ca n in
another way exercise actual control
over such a customer;
2°.
who is beneficiary to 25% or more
of
the
assets
of
a
legal
arrangement,
including
a
foundation and a trust, or can
exercise actual control over a such
a legal arrangement.
a trust in the sense of the Treaty
regarding the law that is applicable to
trusts and regarding the recognition of
trusts (Trb. 1985 no. 141);
a criminal offense as meant in Articles
2:404, 2:405, and 2:406 of the Criminal
Code of Aruba;
the criminal offense, meant in Article
2:55 of the Criminal Code of Aruba;
5

FIU:

the Financial Intelligence Unit, meant in
Article 20, first section;
Bank:
the Central Bank of Aruba;
Minister:
the minister, in charge of finance.
2. Other activities or operations may be designated by State Decree
containing General Administrative Orders as also falling under the scope
of the regulations laid down by or pursuant to this State Ordinance.
Article 2
1. This State Ordinance shall not apply to the Bank, unless
stipulated otherwise.
2. The regulations of Chapter s 2 and 3 shall not apply to activities
of a lawyer, civil notary or tax advisor relating to the legal position of a
client, his represent ation and defense in cou rt, the giving of advice
before, during, and after legal proceeding s, or the giving of advice on
instituting or avoiding legal proceedings.
CHAPTER 2
Customer due diligence
§1. The scope of customer due diligence
Article 3
1. For the prevention and combating of money laundering and
terrorist financing, service provid ers shall perform a customer due
diligence, which comprises at least the following:
a. the identification of the client and the verification of his identity;
b. the identification of the ultimate beneficiary and the undertaking of
reasonable measures to ve rify the identity of the ultimate beneficial
owner in such manner that the service provider is c onvinced of the
identity of that ultimate beneficial ;
c. the establishment of the purpose and intended nature of the business
relationship;
d. the exercise of ongoing monitoring of the business relationship and
the transactions carried out during the course of this relationship in
order to assure that they co rrespond with the knowledge the servic e
provider has of the client and the ultimate beneficiary, and of their
risk profile, including, where appropriate, an investigation into the
source of funds involved with the transaction or business relation .
6

2. If a service provi der is a designated non -financial service
provider as meant in no. 3º of the definition of the term “designated
non-financial service provider”, the customer due diligence shall also
extend to the other party of the client of the service provider.
Article 4
A service provider shall determine whether the client is acting for
himself or for the benefit of a third party and shall take reasonable
measures in order to establish the identity of that third party and verify
this identity.
Article 5
1. With regard to a client that i s a legal person or a legal
arrangement the service provider shall determine if the natural person
purporting to act on behalf of this client is so authorized, shall establish
the identity of that natural person and verify that iden tity before
providing the service, and shall record information regarding the legal
status and the provisions to representation of that client.
2. With regard to a client as meant in the first section, the service
provider shall take reasonable measures which in any case must l ead to
the service provider acquiring an understanding of the owner ship and the
actual control structure of the client.
3. The second section is equally applicable with regard to a client
who acts as a trustee of a trust or if the business relationship i s entered
into or if the transaction is performed in connection wit h the
management of a trust, with the understanding that the reasonable
measures shall lead to the identity of the settlor and the ultimate
beneficiary to the assets of the trust being esta blished and verified.
Article 6
1. A financial service provider shall perform customer due diligence
in the following cases:
a. the establishment in or from Aruba of a business relationship;
b. the performance in or from Aruba of an incidental transaction for the
benefit of the client of at least Afl. 25,000. -, or of two or more
transactions related to each other with a combined value of at least
Afl. 25,000. -;
7

c.

the performance in or from Aruba of a money transfer as meant in
Article 1 of the State Or dinance Supervision Money Transfer
Companies (AB 2003 No. 60);
d. if there are indications that the client is involved in money
laundering or terrorist financing;
e. if it doubts the soundness or reliability of data obtained from th e
client previously, or
f. if the risk of involvement of an existing client in money launde ring
or terrorist financing gives reason to do so.
2. A designated non-financial service provi der shall perform
customer due diligence in the following cases:
a. the establishment in or from Aruba of a business relationship;
b. if it concerns a designated non-financial services provider as meant
in numbers 1º or 2º of the definition of “designated non -financial
services provider”, the following activities performed i n or from
Aruba:
1º the purchase and sale of register objects, as well as the rights to
which these objects can be subjected;
2º the management of money, securities, or other asset components;
3º the management of bank, savings, or securities accounts;
4º the organization of contributions for the creation, operation, or
management of compan ies;
5º the creation, operation, or management of legal persons or
similar legal entities, and the purchase and sale of business es;
c. if it concerns a designated n on-financial services provider as meant
in number 3º of the definition of “designated non-financial services
provider”, the purchase and s ale in or from Aruba of register objects,
as well as the rights to which these objects can be subjected;
d. if it concerns a trust and company service provider, the performance
in or from Aruba of the following activities:
1º to act as a founder of legal persons;
2º the provision of a domicile, business address or accommodation,
postal or administrative address to a com pany, corporation, or
partnership, or another legal person of arrangement;
3º to act or have someone else act as manager or representative of a
trust;
4º to act or have someone else act in the name of a shareholder;
e. if it concerns a casino, the performance of cash transactio ns with a
value of Afl. 5,000. - or more;
f. if it concerns a natural person, legal person or corporation trading in
precious metals, precious stones , jewels, vehicles, vessels not being
8

register objects, objects of art or antiquitie s on a professional or
commercial capacity, the performance of cash transactions with a
value of Afl. 25,000. - or more;
g. if a circumstance as meant in the second section , letters d, e, or f,
presents itself.
3. A service provider shall tailor the customer due diligence to the
risk-sensitiveness to money laundering or terrorist financing of th e type
of client, business relationship, product, or transaction. To that effect,
he shall establish a risk profile of the client an d the ultimate
beneficiary.
4. By State Decree containin g General Administrative Orders rules
shall be set concerning the a pplication by financial service providers of
customer due diligence when carrying out funds transfers and the
recording in this regard of data of the persons who hav e put money or
value at the disposal of the financial service provi der for the purpose of
the funds transfer, and of the beneficiaries of the transaction.
Article 7
A service provider shall take care that the data collected pursuant to
a customer due di ligence process, in part icular that which relate to
clients, ultimate beneficiaries or bus iness relationships that pose a
higher risk of money laundering or terrorist financing, are kept relevant
and up to date.
§2. The moment of performing the customer d ue diligence
Article 8
1. A service provider shal l perform customer due diligence before
the business relationship is entered into or an incidental t ransaction as
meant in article 6, first section, letters b or c, or a transaction as meant
in article 6, second section , letters b through f, is carried out.
2. In deviation of the first section :
a. a service provider may verify the identity of the client and the
ultimate beneficiary during the establishment of the business
relationship, if this is necessary in order not to disrupt the service
provision, and there is little risk of money launderi ng or terrorist
financing; in this case, the service provider shall verify the identity
as soon as possible after the first contact with the client;
9

b. a service provider who is a life insurer can identify the beneficiary
of a policy and verify the identit y, after the business relationship has
been entered into; in this case, the identification and the verification
of the identity shall take place on or before the dat e of payment, or
on or before the date on which the beneficiary wants to exercise his
rights arising from the policy;
c. a service provider who is a bank can open an account, before the
identity of the client has been verified, provided it guarantees that
this account cannot be u sed before verification has taken place;
d. a designated non-financial service provider who is a civil notary can
establish the identity of the client and verify the ultimate beneficial
when identifi cation is required pursuant to a rticle 20, fi rst section,
of the State Ordinance on Civil Notaries (AB 1990 No. GT 69).
Article 9
1. Without prejudice to article 8 , second section, a service provider
is forbidden to enter into a business relationship or to carry out a
transaction, if it has not performed customer due diligence, if it is not
able to carry out the customer due diligence or if the customer due
diligence did not lead to the result envisaged by articles 3, 4 and 5.
2. If after the establishment of a business relationship th e service
provider is no longer able to comply with Article 3, the service provider
shall end the business relationship promptly .
§3. Special regulations regarding the scope
of customer due diligence
Article 10
1. In deviation of Article 9, first section, service providers ma y
decide to apply the requirements, set in or by the articles 3, 4 and 5, in a
reduced manner:
a. when it concerns the following clients:
1º. a service provider domiciled in Aruba, provided it is supervi sed
by the Bank or another p ublic legal person;
2º. a financial service provider with domicile outside Aruba,
provided it is subject to the internationally accepted standards
for the prevention and combating of money laundering and
terrorist financing, and it is supervised effectively with regard to
the compliance with these standards;
10

3º. public limited companies and comparable entities, which are
subject to statutory disclosure requirements , and the shares of
which are traded on recognized stock exchanges as designated by
regulation of the Minister;
4º. public limited companies of which all shares are he ld by the
State;
5º. the State and other public legal persons established in Aruba;
6º. public legal persons established and active in other parts of the
Kingdom;
b. when they carry out a transaction or enter into a business
relationship related to:
1º. a life insuran ce agreement of which the annual premium does not
exceed Afl. 1,500. -, or of which the amount of the single
premium does not exceed Afl. 4,000. -;
2º. a pension or a similar arrangement intended to provide an
employee with a retirement benefit, in which the contributions
for the benefit of the pension schemes are made through
deductions from the salary of the employee, and the employee is
not allowed to assign, pledge , or transfer as securit y his rights
arising from the pension scheme to third parties;
3º. ultimate beneficiaries to accounts kept with a designated nonfinancial service provider intended solely for the keeping of
money for third parties, provided these service providers are
subject to regulations for the prevention and combating of money
laundering and terrorist financing that comply with the
internationally accepted standards for the prevention and
combating of money laundering and terrorist financing, and that
they are effectively supervised with regard to the compliance
with these standards ;
2. A service provider shall collect sufficient data to be able to
establish whether the first section applies to a client.
3. The first section shall not apply, if the client, business
relationship or a transaction subsequently carries a higher risk fo r
money laundering or terrorist financing of if there are indications that
the client is involved with money laundering or terrorist financing .
Article 11
Service providers shall perform enhanced customer due diligence, if
and when a business relationsh ip or a transaction by its nature entails a
higher risk of money laundering or terrorist financing. The enhanced
11

customer due diligence shall be carried out both pri or to the business
relation or the transaction, as during the business relationship , in any
case in the following situations :
a. when a client is not a resident of Aruba, respectively not established
in Aruba;
b. when a client is not physically present fo r identification;
c. when it concerns private banking;
d. with legal persons , trusts and comparable entities that are intended
as private assets holding vehicles;
e. with limited liability corporations and comparable entities that have
bearer shares or the shares are kept by nomi nee shareholders;
f. with natural persons, legal persons , trusts and comparable entities
that originate f rom countries or jurisdictions which do not or
insufficiently apply the internationally accepted standards for the
prevention and combating of money la undering and terrorist
financing;
g. with politically exposed perso ns;
h. when entering into correspondent bank relations;
i. other situations to be determined by regulation of the Minister.
Article 12
1. A service provider shal l carry out an adequate policy and have
risk-based procedures in order to establ ish whether a client, a potential
client, or an ultimate benefi ciary is a politically exposed person. A
service provider shall also have procedures to determine the source of
wealth of clients and ultimate beneficiaries that are considered
politically exposed persons on the basis of the first sentence.
2. Without prejudice to the third section , a service provider who
enters into a business relationship or carries out a transact ion for a
politically exposed person shall take care that:
a. the decision to enter i nto the business relationship or the
performance of the individual transaction shall be made or approved
only by members of the senior management ;
b. they exercise ongoing monitoring of the busin ess relationship.
3. If a client or an ultimate beneficiary is considered a politically
exposed person after the commencement of the business relationship, th e
business relationship shall be continued only after having obtained the
approval of the senior management .
4. A client, a potential client or an ultimate benefic iary shall be
considered a politically exposed person up to five years after he has
12

ceased to occupy the prominent public prominent position. The first
sentence shall apply equally to the d irect family members and direct
associates of such a person.

Article 13
1. Service providers shall pay special attention to :
a. business relationships and transactions with natural persons, legal
persons and trusts originating from countries or juris dictions that do
not, or insufficiently comply with the internation ally accepted
standards for the prevention and combating of money lau ndering and
terrorist financing;
b. all complex and unusually large transactions and to all unus ual
patterns of transact ions that have no apparent economic or legal
purpose.
2. If a service provider can reasonably suspect that a transaction
with a natural person, legal person or trust originating from a country or
jurisdiction as meant in the first section, does not have a n apparent
economic or legal purpose, or if a transaction meant in the first section,
paragraph b, should arise, it shall investigate the background and the
purpose of this transaction and record its findings in writing.
3. The findings, meant in the sec ond section, shall be kept for at
least ten years.
Article 14
Service providers shall carry out an adequate policy and have
adequate procedures aimed at the prevention of misuse of new
technological developments and instruments f or money laundering and
terrorist financing. The procedures, referred to in the first sente nce,
shall particularly relate to the risks arising from business relationships
and transactions in which the client is not physically present.
§4. The introduction of clients
Article 15
With prejudice to their own responsibility under article 3, first
sections, paragraphs a, b and c, a service providers may, in deviation of
13

article 9, first section, with respect to a client which is being introduced
by a financial service provider estab lished in Aruba or by a designated
non-financial service provider a s meant in numbers 1º or 2º of the
definition of “designated non -financial services provider” , rely on the
customer due diligence performed by that service provider in so far this
due diligence entails the elements described in article 3, first section,
paragraphs a, b and c, provided that:
a. the service provider has ensured that cop ies of all data and
information regarding the customer due diligence performed by the
third party can be made available promptly by the third party upon
request of the service provider;
b. the service provider has ensured that the third party has procedures
and measures in place that enabl e the third party to perform
customer due diligence and keep the data and i nformation collected
as a consequence of the customer due diligence in the manner
described in article 33, first section, beginning, first and section full
sentence.
Article 16
Article 15 shall apply equally to customers who are introduced by
service providers established outside Aruba in country or jurisdiction
mentioned in a list determined by regulation of the Minister.
§5. The maintaining of correspondent bank relationships by banks
Article 17
1. A bank that intends to ent er into a correspondent bank
relationship shall take care that:
a. it collects sufficient i nformation about the bank in question in order
to gain a complete understanding of the nature of its busi ness
activities and to establish the reputation of the corre spondent bank
and the quality of the supervision exercised over this bank, including
information about any investigations regarding money laundering
and terrorist financing or supervisory measures taken ;
b. it assesses the procedures and measures for the p revention of money
laundering and terrorist financing of the correspondent bank and
ascertains that they are adequate and effective ;

14

c.

the responsibilities of both banks in the area of the prevention and
combating of money laundering and terrorist financi ng are recorded
in writing.
2. A bank shall only enter into a new correspondent bank
relationship after a decision made to this effect by members of the
senior management . The bank shall inform the Bank of such decision.
3. If a correspondent bank relati onship entails the use o f payablethrough accounts, the bank shall ascertain that the bank in question has
identified its clients who hav e direct access to these payable -through
accounts, and that it has verified their identity in accordance with the
internationally accepted stan dards for identification and identity
verification. The bank shall also ascertain that the bank in question is
able upon request to provide the bank with all relevant identity data of a
client, if so requested. Fo r the purposes of t he first full sentence, a
payable-through account shall mean an account kept by a bank with a
bank in question, to which third parties have direct access for carrying
out transactions for their own benefit.
Article 18
1. It is forbidden for a bank to enter into or maintain a c orrespondent
bank relationship with a shell bank.
2. Banks must ascertain that the financial service providers
domiciled outside Aruba, with which they enter into or maintain a
correspondent bank relationship, do not cause their accounts to be used
by shell banks. If a situation as meant in the first sentence presents
itself, the bank in question shall promptly end the correspondent bank
relationship.
§6. The documents required for identification and verification
Article 19
1. If a client is a natural person, his identity shall be verified using
documents, data or inf ormation from a reliable and independent source.
2. If a client is an Aruban legal person and has its domicile in Aruba
or is a foreign legal person domiciled in A ruba, its identity shall be
verified based on documents, data or information from a reliabl e and
independent source.
3. If a client is a foreign legal person which is not domiciled in
Aruba, its identity shall be verified based on reliable and internation ally
15

accepted documents, data, or information, or on the basis of documents,
data, or information that have been recognized by law in the state of
origin of the client as a valid means of identification.
4. The third section is equally applicable to a tru stee and the person
who otherwise exercises effective control, the settlor of the trust and the
ultimate beneficiary of the assets of the trust.
5. The service provider shall verify the identity of the ultimate
beneficiary using reliable and internationally accepted documents, data,
or information or on the basis of documents, data, or informat ion that
have been recognized by law in the state of origin of the ultimate
beneficiary as a valid means of identification, in such manner that it is
convinced of th e identity of the ultima te beneficiary .
6. The Minister may set rules with regard to the s ort and content of
the documents, data and information, meant in the first through the fifth
section, as well as with regard to the verification of the identity of t he
clients that do not f all under first through the fifth section.
CHAPTER 3
The reporting of unusual transactions
§1. The FIU
Article 20
1. There shall be a Financial Intelligence Unit that shall b e charged
with the following duties in connection with the combating and
detection of money laundering and terrorist financing:
a. to collect, r egister, process, and analyze the data it obtains, in order
to assess whethe r these data can be important for the prevention and
detection of criminal offenses;
b. to provide data in accordance with the provisions laid down by or
pursuant to this State Ord inance or another state ordinance regarding
the prevention and combating of money laundering and terrorist
financing;
c. to inform the person who filed a repo rt in accordance with article 26
regarding the completion of the report, if data have been p rovided in
accordance with paragraph b;
d. to investigate developments in the area of money laundering and
terrorist financing and the improvement of the methods to prevent
and detect money laundering and terrorist financing;
16

e.

to give information about the typ es and the prevention and combat of
money laundering and terrorist financing;
f. to maintain contact and exchang e data with foreign agencies which
have a task that is similar to that of the FIU;
g. to provide information to the Bank regarding the reporting behavior
of service providers;
i. to issue an annual report to the Minister on its activities a nd its
intentions for the following year.
2. The FIU shall be a separate and independent part of the Ministry
of the Minister.
3. The FIU shall be managed by a head. The appointment, suspension
and dismissal of the head and other staff members shall take place a fter
having heard the advisory committee referred to in a rticle 21 .
4. Articles 25 and 26 of the Government Accounts Ordinance 1989
(AB 1989 No. 72) sh all not apply to the allocati on of work , supplies,
and services for the benefit of the FIU.
Article 21
1. There shall be an advisory committee for the FIU, which shall be
charged with:
a. making available its knowledge and expertise to the FIU;
b. advising the Minister, when requested or on its own initiative, on the
setup and implementati on of the reporting obligation , as well as on
the adoption of the indi cators referred to in article 25.
2. The advisory committee shall consist of no more than 7 perso ns
who shall come from the following agencies:
a. the Ministry of the Minister;
b. the Bank;
c. other supervisory authorities;
d. the Public Prosecutor’s Office ;
e. the Police Force Aruba.
The advisory committee may invite representatives of the business a nd
professions c ategories subject to the reporting obligation to advise the
advisory committee on the execution of the task, meant in the first
section, in so far it concerns topics that are relevant to these the
business and professions categories.
3. The members of the advisory committee shall be appointed and
dismissed by the Minister on the recommendation of the agencies
mentioned in the second section .
17

4. The representative of the Ministry of the Minister shall a ct as
chairman of the advisory committee.
5. The advisory committee shall meet at least twice per year . For the
rest, the advisory committee shall establish its own working method.
6. In the interest of a good execution of its tasks, the advisory
committee may request data and information of statistical nature from
the FIU. The FIU is obliged to suppl y this data and information.
§2. The processing, consultation, and provision of data
by the FIU
Article 22
1. The FIU shall keep a register for processing the data obtained
pursuant to the application of this state ordinance.
2. No data from the register shall be provided to third parties, unless
this has been provided for by rules laid down by or pursuant to this State
Ordinance.
3. By Stat e Decree containing General Administrative Orders , rules
shall be laid down reg arding the provision of data from the register to
agencies in or outside the Kingdom, which have a task similar to that of
the FIU, as well as regarding the cond itions under which the data are
provided.
Article 23
1. For the proper performance of its duties, the FIU shall be
authorized to consult the registers and sources of information , both
closed and open, of the agencies, and civil servants charged with the
implementation of laws and regulations or the detection and pro secution
of punishable offenses.
2. The agencies and officials, referred to in the first paragraph, are
obligated to allow the FIU to consult as referred to in the first
paragraph. As regards all closed and open digital registers and sources,
the agencies and officials mentioned in the first paragraph are obligated
to grant the FIU direct and anonymous access.
3. For the purposes of adequate c onsultation, the head of the FIU
may enter into an agreement with the agenci es or officials referred to in
the first paragraph.

18

Article 24
When requested or on its own initiative, the FIU shall provide the
following data to the agencies and civil servants charged with the
detection and prosecution of criminal o ffenses:
a. data from which a reasonable suspicion ari ses that a certain person is
guilty of money laundering or terrorist financing, or both criminal
offenses;
b. data of which it can be reasonably s uspected that they are of
relevance to the prevention or detection of money laundering or
terrorist financing;
c. data of which it can be reasonably s uspected that they are of
relevance to the prevention or detection of criminal offenses, which,
given their purpose or the relation in which they have been or can be
committed, constitute a serious breach of the legal order.
§3. The obligation to report
Article 25
The Minister shall, after consulting with the FIU and, if necessary,
per groups of service provider or categories of transactions to be
distinguished, adopt indicators based on which it shall be assessed
whether a transaction is considered an unusual transaction.
Article 26
1. A service provid er shall report a carried out or intended unusual
transaction without delay after the unusual n ature of the transaction has
become known to it to the FIU.
2. Together with a report as meant in the first section , the service
provider concerned shall provide as much as possible the following data:
a. the identity of the client;
b. the nature and number of the identity document of the client;
c. the nature, time, an d place of the transaction;
d. the amount and design ated use and origin of the money, securities,
precious metals, or other values involved in a transaction;
e. the circumstances based on which the transaction is considered
unusual;
f. if it concerns a tra nsaction regarding a high value object, a
description of the object in question;
19

g. the indicator or indicators pursuant to which the transaction has been
designated as unusual .
3. By State Decree containing General Administrative Measures,
other data may be stated to be provi ded together with a report as
mentioned in the first sec tion.
Article 27
1. With a view on the execution of the tasks, mentioned in article 20,
first section, the FIU may request the provision of further data or
information from a service provider.
2. The person who has been requested in acc ordance with the first
section to provide further data or information, shall provide these in
writing, and, in urgent cases determined as such by the FIU, orally to
the FIU, within the period se t by the FIU.
3. Without prejudice to article 48, third section, the head of the FIU
may with regard to a serv ice provider:
a. who has made a report which is not in accordance with article 26,
second section,
b. who has not or has insufficiently provid ed the data and informatio n
pursuant to the first section,
issue a direction in order to accomplish that, within a period set by the
head of the FIU, the report does still comply with article 26, second
section, respectively that the data a nd information requested pursuant to
the first section is provided as indicated.
4. With regard to a service prov ider who has not or has insufficiently
given effect to an indication as meant in the third section, paragraph b,
the head of the FIU and the civil servants em ployed at the FIU who are
designated by State Decree, are authorized, on ly to the extent reasonably
required for the collection of data and information, meant in the first
section, to:
a. to demand inspect ion of all business books, documents, and other
data carriers and to make transcripts or copies thereof;
b. to enter all places, except for dwellings without the express
permission of the resident.
The third section, second full sentence, and article 35, f ourth up to and
including the seventh section, are equally applicable.

20

Article 28
1. The head of the FIU shall determine the manner in which reports
shall be filed, and the data and informati on, asked pursuant to article 27 ,
first section, shall be provided.
2. A service provider shall always compl y with a regulation issued
by virtue of the first section.
§4. Indemnity against civil and criminal liability
Article 29
1. Data or information provide d in accordance with articles 26 or 27,
second section, may not be used as a basis for, or for the b enefit of a
criminal investigation or prosecution on suspici on of, or as evidence
regarding a charge of money laundering or terrorist financing by the
service provider that provided these dat a or information.
2. Data or information provided on the reasona ble supposition that
articles 26 or 27, second section, are implement ed, may not be used as a
basis for, or for the benefit of a criminal investigation or prosecution on
suspicion of, or as e vidence regarding a charge of violation of a rticles
2:232 or 2:233 of the Criminal Code of Aruba.
3. The first and second sec tion shall apply equally to the persons
employed by the service provider that provided data or informatio n in
accordance with articles 26 or 27 and cooperated therein.
Article 30
1. A service provider that has filed a report in g ood faith pursuant to
article 26 or that has provided data or information to the FIU pursuant to
article 27, second section, shall not be liable for any damage suffered by
a third party in consequence thereof.
2. The first section shall apply equally to the persons employed by
the service provider that provided data or informatio n in accordance
with articles 26 or 27, second section, and cooperated therein.

21

§5. Confidentiality and administrative information obliga tion
Article 31
1. The person who files a report pursuant to article 26, or who
provides further data or in formation pursuant to a rticle 27, second
section, is obligated to obs erve confidentiality , except if the necessity to
disclose arises from the pur pose of this State Ordinance.
2. The person who obtains data or in formation pursuant to a rticle 20,
first section , paragraph c, is obligated to maintain confidentiality with
regard to these data or information.
3. The first and second section shall apply mutatis mutandis to
anybody who acquires knowle dge of a report, of the fact that a report
may give rise to a further investigation or of the provision of additional
data or information as meant in article 27, second section, and knows or
should reasonably suspect that a confidentiality obligation as me ant in
the first or second section rests on the service provider.
Article 32
If the persons charged with the legal super vision of financial
markets or designated non -service providers discover facts in t he
performance of their duties, which may point to money laundering or
terrorist financing, they shall inform the FIU, if necessary in deviation
of the applicable statutory confidentiality provisions.
CHAPTER 4
The keeping of data by service providers obtained pursuant to this State
Ordinance
Article 33
1. A service provider shall keep the data and information acquired
pursuant to Chapter 2 in an accessible way for a period of at least ten
years after the date of termination of the business relationship , or until
at least ten years after carrying out the transaction in question. The
keeping of records, referred to in the first full sentence, shall take place
in such manner that separate transactions can be reconstructed at all
times and be submitted to t he competent authorities on first d emand.
Part of the data, mea nt in the first full sentence, are in any case:
a. of natural persons:
22

1º the surname, given names, date and place of birth, address, and
domicile and/or place of business of the client and the ultimate
beneficiary and of the p erson acting on behalf of this natural
person, or a copy of the document containing a number
identifying a person, and based on which identification took
place;
2º the nature, number, and date and place of issue of the d ocument
used to verify the identity ;
3º the nature and date of the transaction;
4º the type and quantity of the currency involved in the transaction;
5º the type and number of the account used during the transaction;
6° all account files and business c orrespondence;
b. of legal persons incorporated under Aruban law:
1º the legal form, name under the Articles of Incorporation, the
trade name, address, and, if the legal person is listed with the
Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the registration number o f
the Chamber of Commerce and Indus try, and the manner in which
the identity has been verified;
2º of the persons acti ng on behalf of the legal person and of the
ultimate beneficiary , the surname, given names, and date of
birth;
3º the data referred to i n paragraph a, under 3 through 6 ;
c. of foreign legal persons and comparable entities :
1º the documents used to verify the identity;
2º of the persons acti ng on behalf of the legal person and of the
ultimate beneficiary , the family name, given names, and date of
birth;
3º the data referred to in paragraph a, under 3 through 6 ;
d. of trusts:
1º the documents used to verify the identity of the trustee or the
person exercising effective control of the trust, the settlor and of
the beneficiary of the assets of the trust;
2º the data, meant in paragraph a, under 3 through 6.
2. As regards special cases, the Bank may determine that the record
keeping, meant in the fi rst section, shall take place for a longer period
to be determined by it.

23

Article 34
A service provider shall keep the data, referred to in article 26,
second section, in an accessible manner for a period of at least ten years
after the date o f filing the report. Article 33 , first section, second full
sentence, and second section , shall apply by analogy.
CHAPTER 5
Supervision and administrative enforcement
§1. Supervision
Article 35
1. The persons designated for this purpose by the President of the
Bank, employed by the Bank, shall be responsible for supervising the
compliance with the provisions laid down by or pursuant to this Stat e
Ordinance. Such a designation shall be published i n the Official Paper
of Aruba.
2. The persons designated pursuant to the first section may exercise
the supervision in a risk -oriented manner. They shall r eport on the
exercise of the powers men tioned in the third section to the President of
the Bank, or to the executives within the Bank to be designated in
writing by th e President.
3. Only to the extent reasonably required for the performance of
their duties, the persons desig nated pursuant to the first section shall be
authorized:
a. to request all information;
b. to demand inspection of all business books, documents, and other
data carriers and to make transcripts or copies thereof;
c. to enter all places , except for dwellings without the expr ess
permission of the resident.
4. If necessary, access to a pl ace as referred to in the third section ,
letter d, shall be gained with the aid of the police.
5. The State Decree General Provisions Exercise of Superv ision (AB
1998 No. 70) or the state dec ree replacing it shall apply to the manner in
which the persons designated pursuant to the first section perform their
duties.
6. Each person is obligated to grant the persons designated pursuant
to the first paragra ph all cooperation demanded pursuant to the third
section.
24

7. If a service provider is an attorney, civil notary, tax consultant, or
an accountant, he cannot invoke professional secrecy or a professional
right of non-disclosure laid down by law or otherwi se with regard to the
application of the powers, mentioned in the third paragraph, in so far it
concerns one or more of the circumstances, desc ribed in Article 6,
second section, paragraphs a, b or g. Before applying the powers, meant
in the third section, paragraphs b and c, the persons design ated pursuant
to the first section shall inform the Dean of the Bar Association
respectively a representative of the relevant pr ofessional organization.
Upon request of the attorney, civil notary, tax consultant, or a ccountant
in question the Dean of the B ar Association respectively a representative
of the relevant professional organization may be present in situ at the
application of the powers, meant in the third section, paragraphs b and
c.
Article 36
1. The Bank shall be authorized to exchange data and information
obtained as a result of performing the duty referred t o in article 35, first
section, with agencies designated b y the public authorities in foreign
countries:
a. which are charged with supervising the compliance with laws and
regulations regarding the prevention and combating of money
laundering and terrorist financing;
b. which are charged with supervising persons and entities active on the
financial markets.
2. At the request of an agency as referred to in the first section , the
Bank may request a service provider to provide data and information or
to conduct an investigation or cause same to be conducted at a se rvice
provider, or at everyone as regards whom it can be reasonably suspected
that he disposes of data and information that may reasonabl y be of
importance to the requesting agency.
3. The person who has been requested to provide data or information
as referred to in the second section shall provide these data or
information within a reasonab le period to be set by the Bank.
4. The person who is subject to an investigation as ref erred to in the
second section shall grant all cooperation necessary for the p roper
conduct of this investigation. Article 3 5, third and fourth section, shall
apply mutatis mutandis.
5. The Bank may allow an offici al of an agency as re ferred to in the
first section to participate in the implementation of a request as referred
25

to in that section. The official meant in the first sentence shall observe
the instructions of the Bank's employee charged with imple menting the
request. The requirement , referred to in the fourth section , shall also
apply to the official mentioned in the first sentence.
§2. Administrative enforcement
Article 37
1. For a violation of the regula tions laid down by or pursuant to
articles 3 through 6, first, second or fourth section, 7, 8, first section, 9,
10, second or third section, 11 through 19, 26, 27, 28, second section,
31, 33, 34, 35, sixth section, 36 , fourth section, 45 through 47, 48,
second and third section, second full se ntence, 50, first, second and
fourth section and 54 , the Bank may impose a penalty charge order.
2. For the violations referred to in the first section , the Bank may
also impose an administrative fine not exceeding A fl. 1,000,000.- per
separate violation.
3. Violations can be committed by natural persons and legal entities.
Article 1:127, second and third section , of the Criminal Code of Aruba
shall apply mutatis mutandis .
4. The Bank shall adopt guidelines for the exercise of the powers,
referred to in the first and second section, and shall record them in a
policy document. The policy document shall at any rate contain a
description of the procedures to be followed when exercising the
powers, referred to i n the first and second section . The policy document,
referred to in the first sentence, and all amendments introduced to same
afterwards shall be published in a manner to be de termined by the Bank.
5. By State Decree containing General Administrative Measures
rules shall be set with regard to the base s for the determination of the
amount of the penalty charge order and administrative fine per violation.
The violations shall be arranged in categories in order of the severity of
the violation with the corresponding b ase amounts, minimum amounts
and maximum amounts.
6. Forfeited penalty charge orders and administrative fines shall
accrue to the Bank.

26

Article 38
1. If on the mom ent of the commission of a violation five years have
not yet lapsed since an administ rative fine was imposed on the violator
for the same violation, the amount of the administrative fine, referred to
in article 37, second section, shall be doubled for each separate
violation.
2. Notwithstanding article 37, second section , the Bank may set the
amount of the administrative fine at twice the amount of the gain the
violator obtained as a result of the violation, if this gain exceeds Afl.
1,000,000.-.
Article 38a
1. If the Bank has the intention to impose an administrative fine, he
shall inform the service provider in question of th is under mention of
the grounds upon which this intention rest.
2. The Bank shall allow the service provider in question the
opportunity to present his view orally or in writing within a reasonable
period, before the administrative fine is imposed by writ ten decision.
3. If after that the service provider in question has presented his
view the Bank decides that it will not impos e an administrative fine, the
Bank shall inform the service provider in question in w riting.
Article 39
Anyone in respect of whom the Bank has performed an act from
which he can reasonably infer that an administrative fine will be
imposed on him for a v iolation, is not obligated to make any statement
in respect thereof. He shall be noti fied hereof before being requested to
provide inform ation.
Article 40
1. The administrative fine shall be due within six weeks of the date
of the decision by which it was imposed.
2. The administrative fine shall be augmented by the statutory
interest as of the day on which six weeks ha ve expired since the
communication of the decision .
27

Article 41
1. The authority to impose an administrative fine will lapse:
a. if prosecution has been initiated on account of the violation, and the
examination in court has commenced, or the right to prosecute has
lapsed pursuant to Article 1:149 of the Criminal Code of Aruba;
b. three years after the day on which the non -compliance with the
regulation was established.
2. The period, re ferred to in the first section , paragraph b, will be
interrupted by a communication of the decision by which the
administrative fine was imposed.
3. The right to prosecute shall lapse, if the person conc erned has
already been imposed an administrative fine for the same offense.
4. The Bank and the Public Prosecution Service shal l consult
periodically on the decision between imposing an administrative fine or
criminal-law sanction to avoid unlawful concur rence of those sanctions.
Article 42
1. The Bank may upon request of the violator cancel a penalty
charge order, suspend its effective period for a certain period or reduce
the penalty charge order in case of definitive or temporary whole or
partial inability of the violator to comply with his obligations
2. The Bank may also cancel a penalty charge order upon request of
a violator if the decision has been in force for year without the penalty
charge having been forfeited.
Article 43
The Bank shall record the acts performed within the framework of an
investigation, prior to im posing an administrative fine, stating the
persons who performed these acts.
Article 44
1. If a forfeited penalty charge order or an administrative
not been paid within the period set by the Bank, the violator
demanded in writing to pay the penalty charge order
administrative fine as yet within twee weeks, augmented by the
the demand.

fine has
shall be
or the
costs of

28

2. In the absence of payment, the amount and the costs, ref erred to in
the first paragraph, shall be augmented by the collection costs, collecte d
by the Bank by writ of execution.
3. The writ of execution shall be served trough a writ as meant in the
Code of Civil Procedure of Aruba and shall constitute grounds f or
execution, which may be carried out under application of the provisions
of this Code.
4. The writ of execution shall in any case mention:
a. at the beginning the words “writ of execution”;
b. the amount of the collectible head sum, augmented with the s tatutory
interest;
c. the decision or the legal provision upon which the indebted amo unt
is grounded;
d. the costs of the demand and of t he writ of execution
e. that the writ can be executed at the expense of the violator.
4. For a period of six weeks aft er the date of service, the writ of
execution may be objected to . Objection is made a gainst the Bank at the
court of first instance and in the manner prescribed for the filing of
demands. The objection, if done in time and in the prescribed manner
shall suspend the enforcement of the writ of execution .
CHAPTER 6
Procedures and measures fo r the prevention and combat of money
laundering and terrorist financing
Article 45
1. A service provider who has a branch or subsidiary outside the
Aruba shall take care th at the branch or subsidiary applies as much as
possible the provisions set by or by v irtue of this state ordinance and
the internationally accepted standards for the prevention and combat of
money laundering and terrorist financing.
2. The first section shal l apply in particular with regard to branches
and subsidiaries in countries and juris dictions that do not or
insufficiently appl y the int ernationally accepted standards for the
prevention and combat of money laundering and terrorist financing.
3. If the legal system of the country or jurisdiction in question does
not allow the application of the first section, the service provider sha ll
inform the Bank of this and shall take, if necessary in consultation with
the Bank, measures to counter the risks of money la undering and
terrorist financing.
29

Article 46
1. Service providers shall carry out an adequate policy and have in
writing procedur es and measures, in particular for the application of the
Chapters 2, 3 and 4 of this state ordinance, which are aimed at the
prevention and combat of money laundering and terrorist financing.
2. The procedures and m easures, meant in the first section, shall in
any case regard the internal organization and internal control of the
service provider, the recruitment, background, educatio n, guidance and
ongoing training of the relevant staff, the application of the custom er
due diligence, the recording of data and information, the internal
decision making process for the reporting of unusual transactions, as
well as the periodical evaluati on of the effectiveness of those procedures
and measures.
3. Service providers shall car ry out periodical evaluations in order
to assess if and to what extent they are vulnerable to money laundering
and terrorist financing because of their activities and oper ations.
4. The findings of the periodical evaluations, meant in the second
and the third section, shall be recorded in writing.
5. If the limit ed size of the service provider gives reason to that
effect, the activities, meant in the first and third section, may be
outsourced. Such an outsourcing shall be recorded.
Article 47
1. Service providers shall have for the benefit of their organiz ation
a person in charge with the care for the compliance with the laws and
regulations in the area of the prevention and combat of money
laundering and terrorist financing.
2. Services providers shall have at least one person in their
employment in charge w ith the internal receipt and assessment of
potential unusual transactions reports and the reporting of unusual
transactions to t he FIU.
3. A service provider shall inform the FIU and the Bank of the
appointment of th e persons, meant in the first and second section, within
a month after such an appointment.

30

Article 48
1. If necessary per category o f service providers, the Bank may
issue directives and shall provide information regarding the application
of Chapters 2, 3, 4, and 6 of this stat e ordinance A directive may also
pertain to the application of other legal provisions, in so far this is
necessary for the realization of the objectives of this state ordinance . If
a directive is related to the application of C hapter 3 the Bank sh all have
prior consultation with the FIU.
2. Service providers shall observe a directive or individual
instruction as referred to in the first section.
3. The Bank may issue instructions to an individual service provider
for it to follow a certain behavior with respect to certain topics to be
mentioned explicitly, in order to accomplish that the service p rovider
will comply with the provisions of this state ordinance within the
timeframe to be determined by the Bank. The second full sentence of the
first section and the second section shall equally apply.
4. In deviation of article 3 of the State Ordinanc e Official Languages
(AB 2003 no. 38), the directives and instructions, meant in the first and
third section, may be issued in Englis h only.
CHAPTER 7
Other provisions
Article 49
Anyone who performs or performed any duty arising from the
application of this State Ordinance or from decisions made pursuant to
this State Ordinance shall be prohibited from making further or other
use of, or making known further or otherwise data or information
provided or received pursuant to this State Ordinance, other tha n
required for the performance of his duties or pursuant to a state
ordinance.
Article 50
1. Financial service providers which are not supervised by the Bank,
and designated non-financial services providers, who conduct activities
as described in Articl es 1, first section, and 6, second section,
paragraphs b through f respectively, shall report to the Bank.
31

2. The report, re ferred to in the first section, shall be accompanied
by data and information regarding th e identity, trade name and address
of the persons who manage the service provider, and decide on its
policy.
3. The Bank shall establish the model for the reporting, meant in the
first section. The Bank shall take care that a copy of a report is sent to
the FIU.
4. The service p rovider whom it may concern shall inform the Bank
if a change arises in the information and data, meant in the second
section.
5. The Bank shall keep a register of the serv ice providers who have
reported to it pursuant to the first section. The Bank sha ll determine the
format of the register, meant in the first full sentence, and shall publish
its contents in a digital way.
Article 51
1. By or by virtue of a State Decree Cont aining General
Administrative Orders, rules shall be set regarding the coverage o f
expenses by service providers, not being service provides under legal
supervision of the Bank, as compensation for the coverage of the
expenses incurred by the Bank in the course of its activities based on
this state ordinance regarding these service pro viders.
2. When determining the amount of the coverage consideration shall
also be given to the costs related to the supervision of the provision s set
by or by virtue of this St ate Ordinance with regard to these service
providers.
3. The amount, meant in the f irst section, shall be paid within no
more than three months after the calendar year to which it is related, has
passed.
4. Article 44 shall equally apply.
Article 52
The Bank shall report yearly before July 1 to the Minister on the
activities it has carri ed out within the framework of this state ordinance
in the previous calendar year. The Minister shall send a copy of the
report, meant in the f irst full sentence, promptly to Parliament.

32

Article 53
The amounts mentioned in articles 6, second section, paragraph b,
and second section, paragraphs e and f, and 10 , first section, paragraph
b, number 1, may be changed by State Decree Containing Gene ral
Administrative Orders.
Article 54
By State Decree containing general administrative orders, more
detailed rules can be set for the implementation of this state ordinance.
Article 55
The Minister shall send within a year after the enactment of th is
state ordinance, and then sub sequently each four years, a report to
Parliament on the effects and effectiven ess of this state ordinance.
Article 55a
1. If, in the performance of its duties as a bank of issue as referred
to in Article 7, first paragraph, of the Central Bank Ordinance (AB 1991
No. GT 32), the Bank carries out a transaction, including an intend ed
transaction, in which there is reason to assume that it could be related to
money laundering or terrorist financing, the Bank shall be authorized to
report this transaction , if necessary in deviation from th e applicable
statutory confidentiality provisi ons, to the Financial Intelligence Unit .
2. In case of a report as referred to in the first paragraph, the Bank
shall provide at least the followin g information:
a.
the identity of the client;
b.
the nature and number of the identity document of the
client;
c.
the nature, time and place of the transaction;
d.
the amount and destination and origin of the funds involved
in the transaction;
e.
the circumstances based on which the transaction is
considered unusual.
3. The Bank shall adopt guidelines for the application of the power
referred to in the first paragraph and shall record them in a policy
document. The policy document shall in any case contain a description
of the procedures to be follo wed in case of a report as referred to in the
first paragraph and shall be announced, just as all subsequent
amendments to be made thereto , in a manner to be determined by the
Bank.

33

4. In a manner to be determined by it, the Bank shall retain the data
referred to in the second paragraph in an accessible manner for a period
of at least ten years as of the date of making the report.
5. Whether or not on request, the Bank may provide furth er data
and information to the Financial Intelligence Unit .
Article 55b
1. Data or information provided in acc ordance with Article 55a may
not serve as a basis for , or for the benefit of a criminal investigation or
prosecution for suspicion of, or in evidence of a charge of money
laundering or terrorist financing by the Bank that provided these data or
information.
2. Data or information provided on the reasonable assumption that
Article 55a is implemented may not serve as a basis for , or for the
benefit of a criminal investigation or prosecution for suspicion of, or
evidence of a charge of violation of Articles 2:232 or 2:233 of the
Criminal Code of Aruba (AB 2012 No. 24) by the Bank.
3. The first and second paragraphs shall apply mutatis mutandis to
the persons employed by the Bank , and who provided and cooperated in
the provision of data in accordance with Article 55a.
Article 55c
1. The person who makes a report or provides further data or
information pursuant to Article 55a is obligated to preserve the
confidentiality thereof , except insofar as the need for publication arises
from the objective of this State Ordinance.
2. The first paragraph shall apply mutatis mutandis to any pe rson
who becomes aware of a report, of the fact that a report may gi ve rise to
further investigation or of the provision of further data or information
and knows or should rea sonably suspect that , in this respect, the Bank is
subject to an obligation of co nfidentiality as referred to in the first
paragraph.
CHAPTER 8
Penal provision
Article 56
1. Violation of the regulations laid down by or pursuant to Articles
3 through 6, first, second or fourth section, 7, 8, first section, 9, 10,
second or third section, 11 through 19, 26, 27, 28, second section, 31,
33, 34, 35, sixth section, 36, fourth section, 45 through 47, 48, second
and third section, second full sentence, 5 0, first, second and fourth
section and 54, if committed intentionally, shall be punished with

34

imprisonment not exceeding six years, or wi th a fine of the sixth
category.
2. Violation of the regulations set forth by or pursuant to Articles 3
through 6, first, second or fourth section, 7 , 8, first section, 9, 10,
second or third section, 11 through 19, 26, 27, 31, 33, 34, 35, sixth
section, 37, fourth section , 45 through 47, 48, second and third section,
second full sentence, 50, first, second and fourth se ction and 54, if not
committed i ntentionally, shall be punished with imprisonment not
exceeding one year, or wi th a fine of the fourth category .
3. The offenses referred to in the fi rst section are criminal offenses; the
offenses referred to in the second section are summary offenses.

CHAPTER 9
Entry into effect and official title
Article 57
1. This State Ordinance shall enter into effect on a date to b e
determined by or pursuant to a state ordinance.
2. It may be cited as State Ordinance for the Prev ention and
Combating of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing.

35

