The Central Bank of Bahrain and Financial Institutions Law

Preamble

ARTICLE (1)
DEFINITIONS
In implementing the provisions of this law, the following terms and
expressions shall have the meanings assigned to them below unless the
context requires otherwise:
Kingdom:

The Kingdom of Bahrain.

Minister:

the Minister of Finance.

Central Bank or The Bank:

The Central Bank of Bahrain

Board:

the Board of Directors of the Central Bank

Governor:

the Governor of the Central Bank.

Bank :

(1)

(2)

(3)

Stock Exchange:

any corporate body licensed under the
terms of this law to accept deposits,
advance loans, manage and invest funds
with or without providing any other
related services.
any person licensed under this law to
accept, manage and invest deposits and
savings according to the Islamic Sharia’a
Principles with or without providing other
related services.
any other licencee as approved by the
Central Bank.

A market licensed by the Central Bank through
which securities can be traded according to the
provisions of this law.

-2Bahrain Stock
Exchange:

The Bahrain Stock Exchange established by
Decree No.4 of 1987.

Insurance or
Reinsurance
Company:

Any company licensed under this law to enter
into and implement insurance, reinsurance,
Takaful or re-Takaful contracts.

Actuary:

Any person specializing in insurance
calculations and is duly accredited by an
internationally recognized authority.

Insurance
Consultants:

Any person who provides expert consultancy
services in the insurance sector, particularly in
the area of risk management and assessment,
and who can valuate the assets and liabilities of
insurance and reinsurance companies as well as
the rights and liabilities of both the insurer and
the insured.

Surveyors and
Estimators:

Any person, who inspects and estimates
damages and investigates the causes, determines
the extent of coverage by the insurance policies,
submits proposals to improve the methods of
protection against risks and preserve the assets
subject of insurance.

Insurance Brokers:

Any person acting on behalf of the insured in
insurance contracts with insurance companies
subject to the provisions of this law.

Insurance
Company
Agent

Any person who acts on behalf of an insurance
company in marketing its services and dealing
with the insured.

Long-term
Insurance:

means life insurance and fund accumulation.

Long term Insurance: Life insurance and insurance associated with
deposit taking projects for specific purposes.
Long-term Insurance Insurance companies licensed for long term
insurance services.
Companies:

-3Insurance
Policyholder:

The person who, in a given time, is the legal
holder of an Insurance Policy including any
beneficiary who, under the Insurance Policy, is
entitled to a cash payment, a regular payment or
any other financial compensation due because of
an accident or if the risk specified in the policy
has occurred.

Portfolios and
Investment Funds:

Investment schemes offered and marketed in the
form of negotiable securities mainly originated
for the purpose of raising funds from the public
and investing them in specific schemes on the
basis of risk distribution. Shares in such schemes
shall be directly or indirectly re-purchased,
redeemed or repaid for from the assets of the
scheme and according to the interest of the
investors in any of such scheme.

Financial Sector
Support Institutions:

These include institutions licenced for operating
clearance houses, settlement of payments,
cheques and financial papers, and institutions
which are wholly or partly set up by financial
institutions in cooperation with the Central Bank
in order to provide services of pure financial
nature to the financial services industry.

Financial Institutions: Banks, insurance companies, companies dealing
in securities, portfolios and investment funds,
financing
companies,
money
exchange
companies, money brokers and mediators,
insurance brokers, mediators of the securities
market, consultancy firms dealing in the
financial service industry, credit rating firms,
Bahrain Securities Market, capital markets, and
precious metals and strategic commodities
markets, financial sector support institutions,
including institutions licensed to provide
financial services according to Islamic Sharia’a
principles.
Financial Services
Industry:

All activities carried out by the financial
institutions.

-4Transfer of
Business:

The transfer of all or part of the business
activities, carried out by any licencee, to others
together with any associated rights and
liabilities.

Deposits:

Deposits which are determined by a resolution
to be issued by the Central Bank.

Government Debt
Instruments:

Bonds, warrants, notes and other debt
instruments issued by the Government, its
agencies or by other public bodies, whose
liabilities are guaranteed by the Government.

Securities:

Shares and bonds issued by shareholding
companies, Government debt instruments, and
such other financial instruments as the Central
Bank may approve as securities.-

Listing Rules:

The rules issued by the Central Bank to regulate
the listing and trading of Securities on the Stock
Exchange.

Listed Company:

Any company whose securities are listed in the
Stock Exchange according to Article (86) of
this law.

Loan:

Money advanced by a lender to others, to be
repaid at a later date, with or without interest.

Market Contract:

A contract concluded in accordance with the
regulations of the Central Bank and Paragraph
(a) of Clause (108) of this law.

Market Maker:

Any person licensed by the Central Bank to sell
and buy in the Stock Exchange to encourage
trading in this market.

Regulated Services:

has the meaning set out in Article 39 of this
law.

Netting:

means the conversion of a group of claims and
obligations of any licencee into one net debit or
credit balance..

-5-

Settlement System:

Payment System:

means a system for the settlement of any party’s
payments or obligations arising from
transactions in cheques and securities.
means any system for the settlement of cash
payments or bank transfers between licencees.

Licencee:

means any person licensed by the Central Bank
to provide any of the regulated services.

Foreign Authority:

means:
(a) the authority involved in the regulation of
the financial service markets in another
country.
(b) any foreign central bank or body with the
authority of issuing money or responsible
for supervising payment systems,
clearances, or cheques and financial
papers settlement.

Person:

any natural or corporate person.

-6PART 1
CENTRAL BANK OF BAHRAIN
Chapter 1
Establishment and Administration
of the Central Bank
ARTICLE (2)
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CENTRAL BANK
(a)

A public corporate person called the “Central Bank of Bahrain”
shall be established in accordance with the provisions of this law
and shall be administratively and financially independent.

(b)

The Central Bank’s headquarters shall be situated in the city of
Manama, and it may open branches in Bahrain and abroad,
establish subsidiaries and appoint agents and representatives, both
inside and outside the Kingdom, in order to assist it achieve any of
its objectives stated in this law.

(c)

The Central Bank shall have an independent budget, to be prepared
on a commercial basis, and shall conduct its business according to
commercial banking principles. It shall also perform its duties
without being subject to the government administrative and
financial regulations. The Central Bank shall not be subject to the
provisions of any other law, which imposes prior controls on its
business.
The role of the National Audit Court in auditing the activities and
accounts of the Central Bank shall be limited to the audit of the
accounts and the assets of the Central Bank, without any
interference, in any form, in its activities or policies. The technical
employee assigned by the National Audit court to audit the
accounts of the Central Bank must be adequately qualified and
specialized in the banking business.

(d)

-7-

ARTICLE (3)
OBJECTIVES OF THE CENTRAL BANK
The Central Bank shall pursue the following objectives within the
framework of the general economic policy of the Kingdom in a manner
that enhances and develops the national economy:
(1)

set and implement the monetary, credit and other financial sector
policies for the Kingdom.

(2)

provide effective central banking services to the Government and
the financial sector of the Kingdom.

(3)

develop the financial sector and enhance confidence therein..

(4)

protect the interests of depositors and the customers of the financial
institutions, and enhance the Kingdom’s credibility as an
international financial centre.

ARTICLE (4)
DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE CENTRAL BANK
The Central Bank shall assume the following duties and powers:
(1)

issue currency in accordance with the provisions of this law.

(2)

liaise with the Ministry of Finance and other relevant official
bodies for the purpose of drawing and implementing the
appropriate monetary policies to achieve the Kingdom’s general
economic goals, maintain the stability of the Bahraini currency and
the monetary system.

(3)

take appropriate measures to counter adverse local, regional or
international economic conditions.

(4)

regulate, develop and license the Services stated in Article 39 of
this law, and exercise regulatory control over institutions that
provide such services;

-8-

(5)

act as banker to the Government within the limits set out in this
law.

(6)

advice the Government on issues pertaining to financial and
economic affairs.

(7)

manage the Government’s reserves of gold and foreign currency.

(8)

to act, in coordination with the Ministry of Finance, as the financial
agent for the Government at the International Monetary Fund and
the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development as well
as other Arab and international monetary institutions and funds,
and perform all Government dealings with these organizations.

(9)

facilitate and encourage innovation in the financial services
industry.

(10) safeguard the legitimate interests of licensees’ customers against
the risks associated with the financial services industry.
(11) perform any other duties as stipulated in this law.
ARTICLE (5)
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(a)

(b)

The Central Bank shall have a Board of Directors formed of
seven members, including a representative of the Ministry of
Finance. Members of the Board shall be appointed by a Royal
Decree for a renewable term of four years. The Decree
appointing the members shall name the Chairman and the Vice
chairman of the Board.
The remunerations of the Chairman and the members of the
Board shall be determined by a Decree.
ARTICLE (6)
CONDITIONS OF MEMBERSHIP

A member of the Board shall satisfy the following conditions:

-9(1)

He shall be a Bahraini national.

(2)

He shall be entitled to fully exercise his civil and political rights.

(3)

He shall be experienced in the financial services industry.

(4)

He shall not have any conviction of a crime involving dishonesty.

(5)

He shall not be a holder of more than 5% of the capital of, or
voting rights in, any Licencee.

(6)

He shall not hold a position with any Licencee.

(7)

He shall not have been declared bankrupt.
ARTICLE (7)
MEETINGS AND PROCEEDINGS OF THE BOARD

(a)

The Board shall meet at least four times every year by invitation
from the Chairman. The Board meeting shall have a quorum of at
least four members, including the Chairman or the Vice Chairman.

(b)

Resolutions of the Council shall be adopted by an absolute
majority of votes of the members present. In case of a tie, the
Chairman shall have the casting vote.

(c)

Any member who has a personal interest in any transaction of
which the Central Bank is a party, shall declare such an interest and
shall not attend the meeting in which such transaction is discussed.

(d)

The Board may seek the assistance of experts and shall invite to its
meetings, for consultation without voting rights, any persons
whose opinion it wishes to hear on a particular matter.
ARTICLE (8)
THE POWERS OF THE BOARD

The Board shall supervise the affairs of the Central Bank, lay down its
policies and shall exercise all powers necessary to achieve the objectives
of the Central Bank as set out in the provisions of this law.

- 10 -

The Board shall, in particular, carry out the following:
(1)
(2)

Draw the Central Bank’s monetary, credit and investment policies,
and all other policies relating to the financial sector.
Oversee the business of the Central Bank and ensure that all duties
stipulated in this law are carried out effectively.

(3)

Determine matters relating to the issue and recall of currency.

(4)

Approve government borrowing in exceptional circumstances
according to the provisions of this law.

(5)

Approve the annual budget of the Central Bank and any
amendments thereto.

(6)

Approve the final accounts of the Central Bank.

(7)

Approve the annual report of the Central Bank’s activity.

(8)

Issue resolutions and regulations stipulated in this law.

(9)

Approve the internal regulations of the Central Bank.

(10) Approve the financial and administrative regulations regarding the
Central Bank’s personnel. In doing so it shall not adhere to the
rules of the civil service.
(11) Deal with such other matters that may fall within the powers of the
Board under this law.

ARTICLE (9)
TERMINATION OF BOARD MEMBERSHIP
(a)

Membership of the Board shall terminate automatically upon the
expiry of its specified term or upon the death or resignation of a
member.

- 11 (b)

Membership may, upon recommendation of the Board, be
terminated, prior to the expiry of the term thereof, if a member:
1.
2.
3.
4.

has seriously neglected his duties,
has violated any of the membership conditions,
is no longer capable of performing his duties for any reason.
failed to attend three consecutive Board meetings without a
permission or an acceptable excuse.
ARTICLE (10)
GOVERNOR AND DEPUTY GOVERNOR

(a)

The Central Bank shall have a Governor, of ministerial rank, who
shall be responsible for implementing its policies and assume the
day-to-day management of its affairs. The Governor shall be
directly accountable to the Board, who shall determine his monthly
remunerations.

(b)

The Central Bank shall have one or more Deputy Governors, of
undersecretary rank, to assist the Governor in the management of
the Central Bank’s affairs and assume responsibilities on a
temporary basis if the Governor is absent or if his position becomes
vacant. The Board shall determine the monthly remunerations of
the Deputy Governor.

(c)

The Governor is appointed by a Royal Decree for a renewable 5year term of office on the recommendation of the Board.

(d)

The Deputy Governor shall be appointed by a Royal Decree upon a
recommendation of the Board.

(e)

The Governor shall be the legal representative of the Central Bank
before the law and others, and shall have the power to sign all
documents, contract and papers on its behalf. He shall be
responsible for the implementation of this law, the Central Bank’s
regulations and the Board’s resolutions.
The Governor may delegate, in writing, some of his powers to his
Deputy or other senior staff.

(f)

The Governor shall assume the duties and powers of the Minister
of Commerce stated in the Legislative Decree No. 3 of 1987 with

- 12 respect to Compulsory Insurance for the Civil Liability of Car
Accidents, amended by the Legislative Decree No. 7 of 1996, and
such powers as stipulated in Article (197) of the Commercial
Companies Law issued by Legislative Decree No. (21) of 2001,
regarding the dissolution of the board of directors of licencees.
(g)

The Governor shall appoint the officials of the Central Bank in
accordance with the financial and administrative regulations related
to the staff of the Central Bank and shall observe the Bank’s
requirements of effective operation.

(h)

The Governor and the Deputy Governor shall devote their time to
working at the Central Bank. None of them shall, during his tenure
of office, be a board member of any licencee or take, with or
without payment, any position or employment with others.
As an exception of the above, the Governor and the Deputy
Governor may participate in committees and boards of directors of
institutions and organizations formed or supervised by the
Government or international financial institutions and
organizations.
Chapter 2
Capital and General Reserve
ARTICLE (11)
CAPITAL

(a)

The authorized capital of the Central Bank shall be Bahraini Dinars
Five hundred million (BD 500,000,000).

(b)

The paid up capital of the Central Bank shall be Bahraini Dinars
Two hundred million (BD 200,000,000).

(c)

The authorized capital and the paid up capital may be increased by
a royal decree.

(d)

The Government shall pay the capital of the Central Bank in full
and shall be the sole owner thereof.

- 13 ARTICLE (12)
GENERAL RESERVE
(a)

The Central Bank shall maintain on its books an account
designated as the “General Reserve” which shall be credited with
percentages of its net profits at the end of each financial year in the
following order:
1.

2.
3.

100% of the Bank’s net profit until the amount of the general
reserve reaches 25% of the authorized capital of the Central
Bank.
50% of the net profit until the amount of the general reserve
is equal to the authorized capital of the Central Bank.
25% of the net profit until the amount of the general reserve
is double the amount of the authorized capital of the Central
Bank.

(b)

Any net profit remaining after such allocation in accordance with
the preceding paragraph and Article 21 of this law, shall be
transferred to the Kingdom’s general account within three months
of the date of approval of the Bank’s final accounts.

(c)

The Board may decide at any time to increase the amount of the
general reserve over the amount stipulated in this Article.

(d)

In implementing the rules of this Article and Article (21) of this
law, the term “Net Profits” means the net profits of the Bank in a
specific financial year according to the approved final accounts.
The Board may approve payments from the general reserve at such
times and for such purposes as it determines.

(e)

- 14 Chapter 3
Currency
ARTICLE (13)
UNIT OF CURRENCY
The standard unit of currency in the Kingdom is the Bahraini Dinar.
The Dinar is divided into 1,000 fils.

ARTICLE (14)
CURRENCY ISSUE
(a)

The Central Bank is the exclusive authority to issue currency in the
Kingdom.
No other person shall issue banknotes, coins, bills or warrants,
payable to bearer upon demand, that have the appearance of
currency or may be interpreted as currency.

(b)

Currency issued by the Central Bank shall be in such
denominations, forms, specifications and designs as approved by
the Board and published in the official Gazette.

(c)

Currency notes issued by the Central Bank shall be legal tender for
the full value thereof. Coins shall be legal tender for their nominal
value up to five (5) Bahraini Dinars. However, the Bank shall
accept all currencies tendered without limitation.

(d)

The Central Bank shall reissue and replace currency without
levying any fees or commission.

- 15 ARTICLE (15)
PRODUCTION OF NOTES AND COINS
(a)

The Central Bank shall be solely responsible for the printing of
bank notes and minting coins and all matters incidental to the
production of the Central Bank’s notes and coins.

(b)

The Central Bank shall make the necessary arrangements for the
storage of stocks of unissued and returned currency, for the
safekeeping of the dies and plates of issued currency and for the
destruction of currency and of dies and plates of currency no longer
in circulation.
ARTICLE (16)
WITHDRAWAL OF CURRENCY FROM CIRCULATION

(a)

The Central Bank may withdraw any currency it has issued against
payment of the face value thereof by publishing a notice to that
effect in the Official Gazette and two local daily newspapers, one
published in English and the other in Arabic language.

(b)

A notice for withdrawal of currency shall specify the following:
1.
2.
3.

The currency to be withdrawn.
A period of a minimum of thirty days during which the
relevant currency can be surrendered.
Any additional conditions regarding such withdrawal.

(c)

After the end of the Surrender Period any currency to which the
notice applies shall cease to be legal tender.

(d)

Without prejudice to the preceding paragraph, the Central Bank
may, in a notice published under paragraph (a) of this Article,
allow the payment of the face value of such withdrawn currency at
its discretion.

- 16 ARTICLE (17)
REDEMPTION OF CURRENCY IN CIRCULATION
(a)

The Central Bank shall redeem currency in circulation without
levying any charge or commission.

(b)

The Central Bank may issue regulations specifying the conditions
for redemption of damaged, torn or mutilated currency and the
recovery of the face value thereof in whole or in part.

(c)

No person shall have the right to redeem or recover from the
Central Bank the value of lost or stolen currency.

- 17 -

Chapter 4
Parity-Rate and Foreign Reserve
And Exchange Transactions
ARTICLE (18)
PARITY RATE
(a)

Subject to the obligations of the Kingdom under any international
agreement of which it is a party, the Board may adopt a resolution
to fix or change the parity-rate of the Bahraini Dinar against any
convertible currency or any recognized standard of an international
unit of currency.

(b)

Any change in the parity-rate of the Bahraini Dinar shall be
published by the Central Bank in the Official Gazette and in one
English and one Arabic local daily newspaper published in the
Kingdom.

(c)

The Central Bank may use whatever means deemed appropriate for
the purpose of maintaining the parity-rate including buying and
selling of gold or convertible currencies.

ARTICLE (19)
FOREIGN RESERVE
(a)

The Central Bank shall, upon the terms and conditions set by a
resolution issued by the Board, maintain a foreign reserve
comprised of all or any of the following assets:
1.
2.
3.

Currencies and gold bullion.
Foreign convertible currencies, or balances of convertible
currencies in foreign banks.
Any internationally recognized assets including the gold part
of the Kingdom’s share in the International Monetary Fund
and the Special Drawing Rights allocated to the Kingdom in
the International Monetary Fund;

- 18 4.
5.
6.

7.

8.

Bills of Exchange and Promissory Notes payable outside the
Kingdom in convertible currencies;
Treasury Notes issued by foreign governments and payable
in convertible currencies
Bonds specified by the Board, issued or guaranteed by
foreign governments or international financial institutions,
provided that they are payable in convertible currencies.
Other Bonds as the Board shall determine, issued by a
foreign entity provided that they are negotiable in
international financial markets and payable in convertible
currencies.
Any other assets valuated in foreign currencies approved by
the Board.

(b)

The amount of foreign exchange reserve permanently maintained
by the Central Bank shall not be less than 100% of the value of the
currency in circulation.

(c)

In exceptional circumstances, the minimum amount of the Foreign
Exchange Reserve may be changed by a resolution issued by the
Board, provided that such minimum shall not be less than 75% of
the value of the currency in circulation.
ARTICLE (20)
FOREIGN EXCHANGE TRANSACTIONS

(a)

The Central Bank may buy, sell and deal in gold coins and bullion,
foreign currencies, treasury notes and other bonds and to open and
maintain accounts abroad, and to act as an agent or correspondent
for foreign central banks or similar institutions as well as for
foreign governments and international financial institutions.

(b)

The Central Bank shall carry out any of the transactions referred to
in the preceding paragraph in accordance with such terms and
conditions as the Board may determine.

- 19 -

ARTICLE (21)
CONTINGENCY RESERVE
(a)

A percentage of the net profits of the Central Bank determined by
the Board shall be credited at the end of each financial year to a
special account to be entitled the “Contingency Reserve”.

(b)

The sums standing in the credit of the Contingency Reserve can be
used for such purposes that serve the objectives of the Central
Bank as determined by the Board from time to time.

ARTICLE (22)
REVALUATION RESERVE
(a)

All profits resulting from the revaluation of the Central Bank’s
assets or liabilities in gold or foreign currencies as a result of any
change in the parity-rate of the Bahraini Dinar or the rate of
exchange of the Central Bank’s assets of such currencies, shall be
entered in a special account to be entitled “Revaluation Reserve
Account”.

(b)

Losses resulting from any change in the value of the Central
Bank’s assets or liabilities of gold or foreign currencies shall be
covered from the credit balance of the Revaluation Reserve
Account. If such balance is insufficient to cover such losses, the
Government may issue bonds in favour of the Central Bank for the
value of the deficit and such bonds shall be interest-free and nontransferable.

(c)

The Central Bank shall use any credit balance in the Revaluation
Reserve Account at the end of each financial year to redeem any
bonds it has issued in accordance with the provisions of the
preceding paragraph.

(d)

The revaluation under this Article shall be carried out at least once
every year at such time as the Board may determine.

- 20 (e)

Any entries in the assets or liabilities of the Revaluation Account
shall only be made in accordance with this Article.

Chapter 5
Relations with the Government and
International Monetary Institutions
ARTICLE (23)
FINANCIAL AGENT OF THE GOVERNMENT
(a)

The Central Bank shall be the banker to the Government and shall
act as its financial agent. It is the place where the government
deposits its funds.

(b)

The Central Bank may provide the services referred to in the
previous paragraph to Government organizations and agencies and
other public bodies.

(c)

As an exception from the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Article, the Government may open and maintain accounts with any
commercial bank and utilize the services of such banks under such
terms and conditions as shall be agreed upon between the Minister
and the Central Bank.

(d)

The Central Bank shall receive and disburse government funds and
shall keep the relevant accounts without collecting any charges or
interest for such services. The Central Bank shall not pay any
interest on the Bahraini Dinars credit balances of the Government.
ARTICLE (24)
ADMINISTRATION OF NATIONAL DEBT

(a)

The Central Bank shall, in consultation with the Minister,
administer the National Debt through any of the following means:
1.
2.

Procedures for the issue of Government Debt Instruments.
Redemption of Government Debt Instruments in accordance
with the terms thereof..

- 21 3.

Interest payment
Instruments.

procedure

for

Government

Debt

ARTICLE (25)
LOANS TO GOVERNMENT
(a)

The Central Bank may advance loans to the government in
exceptional circumstances to cover any seasonal or unforeseen
deficit in the National Budget or to provide liquidity in
emergencies on the following conditions:
1.

2.

3.

(b)

Loans advanced to the government shall be repaid within
three months immediately following the end of the fiscal
year during which such loans were granted.
The aggregate of loans shall not exceed 25% of the approved
National Budget of the Kingdom for the fiscal year during
which such loans were granted.
Loans shall be made on such terms and conditions as the
Board may determine.

The Central Bank may, subject to the Minister’s approval, grant
loans and credit facilities to government agencies or public bodies
on the terms and conditions stipulated in the preceding paragraph.
ARTICLE (26)
PUBLIC DEBT INSTRUMENTS TRANSACTIONS

The Central Bank may buy, sell and deal in government debt instruments
offered for public subscription if such instruments are not fully
subscribed.
ARTICLE (27)
RELATIONS WITH INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
The Central Bank shall be the financial agent, custodian and agency
through which all the operations with the international financial
institutions, of which the Kingdom is a member, shall be transacted.

- 22 ARTICLE (28)
TAX AND FEES EXEMPTION
The Central Bank’s capital, property, transactions and profits shall be
exempt from all taxes and fees.

Chapter 6
Central Bank’s Transactions and Investments
ARTICLE (29)
PERMITTED TRANSACTIONS
(a)

The Central Bank may carry out any of the following transactions
with financial institutions:
1.
2.
3.
4.

5.
6.

(b)

Buy, sell, discount and re-discount bills of exchange and
promissory notes.
Buy, sell and otherwise in the government debt instruments.
Buy, sell and otherwise deal in the assets mentioned in
Article 19 (a) of this law.
Grant credit facilities in the ordinary course of business and
also the exceptional circumstances for the purpose of
assisting financial institutions overcome any serious shortage
of liquid money or any risk to their financial situation.
Borrow money or any other assets.
Open and maintain accounts for financial institutions and
accept their deposits upon the terms and conditions to be
determined by the Governor.

The Central Bank may perform the following:
1.

2.

Act as agent or correspondent bank for foreign central banks,
similar monetary institutions, foreign governments or their
bodies or international financial institutions.
Open accounts to any other person, except those mentioned
in the preceding item, upon the approval of the Board in
order to encourage participating in the financial activity of
the Bank.

- 23 -

3.
4.

Extend loans to its employees upon the terms and conditions
stated in the regulations issued by the Board
Do all such other acts that are ancillary, incidental or
consequential to any of the transactions mentioned in this
Article and as determined by the Central Bank.
ARTICLE (30)
INVESTMENTS

The Central Bank shall invest its capital and reserves according to the
asset investment policies set by the Board.
The Central Bank may appoint one or more fund managers to administer
its investments.
ARTICLE (31)
PROHIBITED TRANSACTIONS
Except as otherwise provided for in this law, the Central Bank shall not:
(1)

Engage in trade or participate in any financial, commercial,
agricultural, industrial or other undertaking except for such
activities as the Central Bank may deem necessary to achieve its
objectives.

(2)

Purchase, or retain title to, real estate except for the conduct of the
Central Bank’s business and for the housing of its employees.

(3)

Advance unsecured loans.

(4)

Advance loans upon security other than that provided for under this
law. However, if the ability of a debtor to repay any debt due to the
Central Bank is doubtful, the Central Bank may accept movable
assets, real estate or other property as security for payment. The
Central Bank shall sell such property, possessed as a result of the
debtor’s failure to pay the debt, as soon as market conditions
permit.

(5)

Accept shares or convertible public debt instruments as collateral.

- 24 -

ARTICLE (32)
OTHER FUNCTIONS OF THE CENTRAL BANK
(a)

The Central Bank may establish one or more clearinghouses and
may assign the management thereof to a third party.

(b)

The Central Bank may issue regulations regarding the settlement
and clearing systems of cheques and other securities.

(c)

The Central Bank may:

(3)

(1)

set up a currency museum at such a location as the Board
may determine.

(2)

Organize or participate in conferences, seminars or other
public events in and outside the Kingdom in order to develop
the financial sector and the financial service industry.
Issue and sell memorial coins and medals.

- 25 -

Chapter 7
Accounts of the Central Bank
ARTICLE (33)
FINANCIAL YEAR
The financial year of the Central Bank shall be the same as the
Government’s financial year.
ARTICLE (34)
THE BUDGET
(a)

The Central Bank shall have an independent budget and shall keep
audited accounts for each financial year.

(b)

The Governor shall prepare a budget for each financial year and
submit it to the Board for approval prior to the commencement of
the financial year.

(c)

The Board shall approve the budget before the commencement of
the new financial year. If the approval of the budget is delayed
beyond the commencement of the financial year, the Central Bank
shall operate within the previous year’s budget until the new
budget has been approved.

ARTICLE (35)
AUDITING OF ACCOUNTS
(a)

An external auditor shall audit The Central Bank’s accounts. The
appointment and fees of such auditor shall be decided by the Board
in coordination with the National Audit Court.

(b)

The auditor shall prepare a report on the final accounts.

- 26 (c)

The Central Bank shall provide the external auditor with all
necessary information and facilities to enable him to prepare the
report referred to in paragraph (b) above.

(d)

Save as provided for in this Article, the Central Bank’s accounts
shall not be subject to any other external audit.

ARTICLE (36)
REPORTS AND APPROVAL OF FINAL ACCOUNTS
(a)

The Governor shall, within three months immediately following
the end of the financial year, present to the Board a report on the
operations of the Central Bank during the preceding financial year,
together with a copy of the audited final accounts of the Central
Bank and the external auditor’s report.

(b)

The Central Bank shall submit copies of the annual report of the
Central Bank, the final audited accounts after being approved by
the Board, and the external auditor’s report to the Council of
Ministers

(c)

The Bank shall submit copies of the external auditor’s report and
the approved final accounts, to the National Audit Court.

(d)

The Central Bank’s final accounts, approved by the Board, and the
auditor’s report shall be published in the Official Gazette.

Chapter 8
Regulations, Resolutions, Directives and Notices
ARTICLE (37)
REGULATIONS AND RESOLUTIONS
(a)

The Board shall issue Regulations to organize the Central Bank’s
bids and purchases. Such regulations shall ensure transparency,
safeguard the Central Bank’s money, enhance honesty and
competition based on equal opportunities, and encourage

- 27 -

(b)

participation in bids and purchases of the Central Bank. In this
regard the Central Bank shall not be subject to the law organizing
government bids and purchases.
The Governor shall issue the necessary regulations and resolutions
for the implementation of this law, except such regulations and
resolutions, which the law clearly states that they are the
responsibility of the Board.

(c)

Such regulations and resolutions shall only be valid after they are
published in the Official Gazette and may also be published
through any other media, including electronic means, to ensure
proper circulation.

(d)

Drafts regulations and resolutions shall be publicized through any
suitable means to ensure that the addressees are aware of such
regulations and are able to comment on them. Such circulars shall
include reasonable deadlines for receiving such comments.
Regulations and resolutions issued under necessity conditions, as
determined by the Central Bank, are excluded.
Before issuing any proposed regulations and resolutions, the
Central Bank must review and consider any comments made on
them.

(e)

ARTICLE (38)
DIRECTIVES
(a)

The Governor shall issue the necessary directives to ensure the
implementation of this Law, any regulations issued in accordance
to this Law and the achievement of the objectives of the Central
Bank. Such directives shall be legally supported and the intended
addressees shall be identified.

(b)

The Governor may issue directives that aim to facilitate the
understanding and implementation of this law and any regulations
thereof. He may also issue directives regarding other matters, as he
deems appropriate to serve the objectives of the Central Bank.
The directives shall be circulated through the means approved by
the Governor. Once circulated to the intended addressees, the
directives become binding.

(c)

- 28 PART 2
THE FINANCIAL INDUSTRY
Chapter I
Regulation of the Industry
ARTICLE (39)
REGULATED SERVICES
(a)

For the purposes of this law, Regulated Services shall mean the
financial services provided by the financial institutions, including
those governed by Islamic Sharia principles.

(b)

The Central Bank shall issue regulations specifying the Regulated
Services and organizing the provision of these services. The
Central Bank shall supervise and control any licencees providing
such services.

ARTICLE (40)
CARRYING OUT OF REGULATED SERVICES
(a)

No person shall carry out a Regulated Service in the Kingdom
unless licensed by the Central Bank.

(b)

With due regard to the provisions of the Commercial Companies
Law, no financial institution shall be established in the Kingdom
without the approval of the Central Bank.

ARTICLE (41)
RESTRICTION ON THE USE OF CERTAIN
NAMES AND EXPRESSIONS
(a)

No person other than a financial institution licensed for the
provision of banking services shall use, in any language, the term

- 29 ‘bank’ or any synonym thereof, or an expression, address, invoice,
notices or headed papers, which may be understood to mean that
such person provides banking services.
(b)

No person other than a financial institution licensed for the
provision of insurance or reinsurance services shall use, in any
language, any term or expression, which may be understood to
mean that such a person, is a provider of any such service. Also,
no person other than those registered in the register stated in
Article (74) of this law shall use, in any language, any term or
expression that may be understood to mean that such person is
providing any expert service in the area of insurance business,
brokerage, that he is a representative of an insurance company or
engaging in any other activity related to insurance.

ARTICLE (42)
MARKETING & INVESTMENT
The Central Bank may issue regulations to prohibit or restrict the
marketing of or investing in the Regulated Services by any unlicensed
person.
ARTICLE (43)
INVALID AGREEMENTS

No person may enter into any agreement in breach of the provisions of
Articles (40) and (42) of this law or the Regulations and Directives issued
pursuant to the implementation of these provisions. Any such agreement
or act shall be void and invalid.

- 30 -

Chapter 2
Procedure for licensing, amendment and
termination of Licences
ARTICLE (44)
APPLICATION FOR A LICENCE
(a)

Any person who wishes to provide a Regulated Service must apply
for a license from the Central Bank.

(b)

An application must contain such particulars and information and
accompanied by such documents as specified by the Central Bank.

(c)

Subject to the Commercial Companies Law, the Central Bank shall
issue regulations specifying the requirements for offering a licence
to provide Regulated Services. Such requirements may include the
legal form of the applicant, the location of its head office, the
minimum capital and reserve requirements and the limits of capital
adequacy requirements.

(d)

The Central Bank shall verify the application for a license to ensure
that it satisfies all the conditions required, and it may ask for
amendments or any additional information that it requires to assist
with reaching its decision regarding the application. Such request
shall be made within thirty days from the date of submission.

(e)

The Central Bank shall decide on the application within sixty days
from the date of receiving the application complete with all the
required information and documents.

(f)

The applicant may, at any time before a decision has been made
about the application, withdraw his application or make
amendments to any errors therein or in the supporting documents
in accordance with the Regulations issued by the Central Bank in
this respect.

- 31 -

ARTICLE (45)
THE GRANTING OF A LICENCE
(a)

The Central Bank shall grant a licence to the applicant if he
satisfies all the conditions set out in this law and any Regulations
issued pursuant thereto.

(b)

The Central Bank may specify in the license the place at which the
licensed Regulated Services to be provided and impose such terms
and conditions on the Licencee as it deems necessary for a proper
performance of the Regulated Services.

(c)

The Central Bank shall keep a register entitled the “Register of
Licensed Financial Intuitions” on which all applications and
supporting documents for licenses and any actions taken on them
shall be recorded.
ARTICLE (46)
REJECTION OF APPLICATION

(a)

The Central Bank shall issue a decision with the reason for
rejecting an application for a licence if it does not satisfy the
conditions provided for in this law or its regulations. In such case,
the Central Bank shall notify the applicant in writing of the
following:
1.
2.

(b)

The refusal to grant the licence and the reasons for such
refusal.
The period of time during which the applicant may appeal to
the Central Bank, which shall not be less than thirty days from
the date of the notice.

The Central Bank shall decide on the appeal made by the applicant
and notify him of its decision within thirty days from the date of
submission of the appeal. Where an appeal has been refused, the
applicant may re-appeal to the Board within thirty days from the
date on which he was notified of the refusal, or upon the expiry of
the deadline on which he was supposed to receive a decision on his

- 32 appeal. The decision of the Board shall be final and binding. The
applicant shall be notified by the Board’s decision during a period
not exceeding 90 days from date of his appeal to the Board.
(c)

The applicant whose appeal has been rejected may appeal to a
competent court in the Kingdom within sixty days from the date of
notification of such decision or the expiry of the deadline specified
for the decision and no notification was received.
ARTICLE (47)
PUBLICATION OF THE DECISION TO GRANT A LICENCE

(a)

The Central Bank shall publish its decision to grant a licence in the
Official Gazette and in two local newspapers, one published in
Arabic and the other in English.

(b)

The Licencee must at all times keep an approved copy of the
licence displayed in a visible place on the Licencee’s premises in
the Kingdom.

ARTICLE (48)
AMENDMENT AND REVOCATION OF LICENCE
(a)

The Central Bank may, upon a request by a Licencee, amend the
conditions of a licence in any of the following cases:
1.
2.
3.

(b)

Adding a Regulated Service to other licensed services.
Amending or canceling of one or more of the terms and
conditions of the licence under Article 45 (b) of this law.
Removing a licensed Regulated Service from those for
which a person is licensed

The Central Bank may not amend the licence conditions in
accordance with the provisions of (2) and (3) above unless it is
satisfied that the Licencee is able to meet the obligations imposed
on him under the amended terms of the licence.

- 33 (c)

The Central Bank may amend or revoke a licence under paragraph
(a) above in any of the following cases:
1.

If the Licencee fails to satisfy any of the license conditions.

2.

If the licencee violates the terms of this law or the
regulations or any of the license rules.
If the Licencee fails to start business within six months from
the date of the licence.
If the Licencee ceases to carry out the licensed activity in the
Kingdom.
If the legitimate interests of the customers or creditors of a
licencee required such amendment or cancellation.

3.
4.
5.

(d)

The Central Bank shall, prior to the cancellation or amendment of a
licence according to the provisions of the preceding paragraph,
notify the Licencee in writing stating the reasons for such
cancellation or amendment, date of validity and the deadline for
appealing which shall not be less than thirty days from the date of
notification.

(e)

The Central Bank shall decide on any appeal made in accordance
with the previous paragraph and notify the appellant of the decision
taken in that respect within sixty days from the date on which the
appeal was made.

(f)

The decision to cancel or amend a licence takes immediate effect
from the date stated in the notice.

(g)

The Central Bank may, in exceptional cases that require no delay,
cancel or amend a licence without following the procedures set
forth in paragraph (d) of this Article. This shall not affect the right
of the Licencee to appeal within thirty days of notification of such
decision. The Central Bank shall decide on the appeal and notify
the appellant of its decision within sixty days of submission.

(h)

An appeal against a decision to cancel or amend a licence may be
made to a competent court within sixty days from the date of
notifying the Licencee of such decision, or upon the expiry of the
period specified in the preceding paragraph, for a decision on the
appeal, without receiving a notification.

- 34 -

ARTICLE (49)
PUBLICATION OF THE DECISION TO CANCEL OR AMEND A LICENCE
(a)

The Central Bank shall publish its decision to cancel or amend a
licence in the Official Gazette as well as in two local daily
newspapers, one published in Arabic and the other in English.

(b)

The Central Bank may publish its decision on such cancellation or
amendment using any other means it considers appropriate,
including electronic means.
ARTICLE (50)
CASE OF CARRYING ON BUSINESS

(a)

A Licencee shall not cease to provide any or all of the licenced
regulated services, completely or at any of its branches, without
obtaining a written approval from the Central Bank.

(b)

The Central Bank may restrict its approval referred to in the
preceding paragraph upon such conditions, as it deems necessary.

(c)

The Licencee shall publish a notice of its intention to cease to
provide any regulated service completely or at any of its branches,
in two daily newspapers one in Arabic and the other in English,
published in the Kingdom. Such notice shall be given, after
receiving the approval of the Central Bank, not less than thirty days
before the actual cessation is to take effect, and shall include such
information as the Central Bank may specify.
ARTICLE (51)
PLACE OF BUSINESS

(a)

No Licencee may, without a prior written approval of the Central
Bank:
1.

Open a new place of business in the Kingdom.

- 35 2.
3.

(b)

Close or change an existing place of business in the
Kingdom.
Open a new place of business abroad if the licensee is
incorporated in the Kingdom.

The Central Bank may restrict its approval stipulated in the
preceding paragraph, to any other conditions, as it may deem
necessary.

Chapter 3
Control
ARTICLE (52)
NOTIFICATION OF CONTROL
(a)

The Central Bank shall issue a regulation specifying the nature and
limits of “control” and the regulations applicable in case of
approving a control over a licencee or a listed company.

(b)

The Central Bank must be notified in any of the following cases:
1.
2.
3.

If effective Control over a Licencee takes place indirectly
whether by way of inheritance or otherwise.
Gaining control directly as a result of any action leading to
it.
The intention to take any of the actions that would lead to
control.

The controller or the person intending to take control over the
Licencee, as the case may be and by the Licencee itself if it is
aware of such case, shall in any of the above-mentioned cases,
make notification.
(c)

Notice of Control shall contain a request for the Central Bank’s
approval for taking control over a licencee or taking any action that
may lead to control, and shall also contain such particulars and
information and be accompanied by such documents as the Central
Bank may specify. In the cases referred to in items 1 and 2 of the
preceding paragraph, the notice shall be made within fifteen days

- 36 from the date of control. In the case referred to in item 3 of the
preceding paragraph, the notice shall be made before taking any of
the actions that would lead to control.

ARTICLE (53)
CONTROL PROCEDURES
(a)

The Central Bank must, within three months from the date of
receipt of the notice referred to in Article 52, notify the controller
or the person intending to take control over a Licencee, as the case
may be, of its approval of control, any of the actions which would
lead to a control, or the refusal thereof as the Central Bank may
determine at its own discretion.

(b)

The Central Bank may impose any restrictions that it considers
necessary to be observed in case of its approval of a control or any
of the actions that would lead to a control.

(c)

If the period specified in paragraph (a) of this Article lapses
without a decision being taken on the application seeking approval
of a control or any intended actions that would lead to a control,
the application shall be considered as accepted.

(d)

The controller or the person intending to take control over a
Licencee may, within thirty days of the notification, appeal against
the Central Bank’s decision to refuse the control or any conditions
imposed in respect of such control.
The Central Bank shall decide on the appeal and notify the
Licencee of its decision within thirty days from the date of
submitting the appeal.
An appeal against a decision on control may be submitted within
thirty days from the date when the concerned person was aware of
such decision.

(e)

ARTICLE (54)
PERIOD OF CONTROL

- 37 An approval of a control shall be temporary and shall take effect from
any of the following periods:
(1)

The period specified in the notice sent by the Central Bank to the
controller regarding the approval of control.

(2)

A period of one year, commencing from the date of notice sent to
the controller in approval of control unless the said notice includes
specific a period for the control.

(3)

A period of one year, commencing from the date of the implicit
approval to control, or the intended action which would lead to a
control, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c) of
Article (53) of this law.

ARTICLE (55)
REFUSAL OF CONTROL
The Central Bank may refuse to give approval to a control if it will affect
the legitimate interests of the customers or if it is detrimental to the
relevant sector, or if the Central Bank decides, according to its own
discretion, that it would be inappropriate to control a licencee according
to the criteria set by the Central Bank.

ARTICLE (56)
EFFECT OF ACQUIRING SHARES IN
BREACH OF CONTROL PROVISIONS
(a)

Any person who acquires shares in breach of the provisions of this
chapter shall carry out any instructions issued to him by the Central
Bank to transfer such shares or refrain from exercising voting
rights in respect of such shares according to the procedures
prescribed in such instructions.

(b)

The Central Bank may seek a court order to take appropriate
precautionary measures or sell such shares if the Licencee fails to
carry out the order referred to in the preceding paragraph. The
value of the shares sold shall be paid to the party who has rights
therein after the deduction of expenses.

- 38 -

ARTICLE (57)
RESTRICTIONS ON ACTIVITIES
(a)

A Licencee incorporated in the Kingdom shall not practice any of
the following without a prior written approval of the Central Bank:
1.

2.

3.
4.
5.

Merge, amalgamate or enter into a partnership with any
person outside the Kingdom, except in the ordinary course of
business.
Transfer all or a major part of its assets or liabilities inside or
outside the Kingdom, without prejudice to the provisions of
Chapter 6 of this law.
Make any modification to its issued or paid-up share capital.
Modify its Memorandum or Articles of Association.
Engage in major acquisition or investment operations as
determined by the Central Bank.

(b)

The Central Bank, in granting any approval under the preceding
paragraph, may impose such conditions as it considers appropriate.

(d)

The Council shall set out rules and procedures regulating the
acquisition of licenced national entities by others in accordance
with the provisions of this Law.
ARTICLE (58)

REPORTING OF MATTERS INFLUENCING THE LICENCEE'S FINANCIAL
POSITION
The Licencee shall notify the Central Bank immediately of any matter
that may affect its financial position, currently or in the future, or limit its
ability to meet its obligations.

- 39 -

Chapter 4
Accounts and Financial Statements
ARTICLE (59)
ACCOUNTING RECORDS
(a)

(b)

(c)

A Licencee shall maintain such accounting and other records as
may be specified by the Central Bank and shall have separate
records for each branch abroad providing any of the services that
are subject to this law.
Without prejudice to the provisions of the preceding paragraph,
insurance and reinsurance companies shall maintain such records
as may be specified by the Central Bank for the following:
1.
Insurance contracts signed by the company.
2.
Claims made against the company and actions taken thereon.
3.
Reinsurance contracts entered into by the company.
4.
Funds to be maintained according to this law.
5.
Names of insurance brokers, representatives of insurers, and
insurance transactions concluded by them for the account of
the company.
6.
Any other records required by the Central Bank.
Listed companies shall maintain accounts and other records as
required by the Central Bank.
ARTICLE (60)
RECORD KEEPING

Records referred to in Article 59 of this law shall be kept for at least ten
years at the Licencee’s main office in the Kingdom or at such other
places as the Central Bank may approve. Records shall be kept in such a
format, as the Central Bank may deem suitable.

- 40 ARTICLE (61)
AUDITING OF THE LICENCEE'S ACCOUNTS
(a)

Every Licencee shall appoint one or more qualified and
experienced external auditors for its accounts for every financial
year. A prior written approval by the Central Bank will be required
before appointing an auditor.

(b)

If a Licencee fails to appoint an auditor within four months from
the beginning of the financial year, the Central Bank shall appoint
such auditor.

(c)

The Licencee shall pay the fees of the auditor regardless of the
manner in which such auditor is appointed.

(d)

An auditor shall not be the chairman or a director in the Licencee’s
board or a managing director, agent, representative or taking up
any administrative work therein, or supervising its accounts, or a
next of kin to someone who is responsible for the administration or
accounts of a Licencee, or having an extraordinary interest in a
Licencee as the Central Bank may determine.

(e)

If any of the circumstances referred to in the preceding paragraph
occurs after the appointment of the auditor, the Licencee must
appoint another auditor.

(f)

The Licencee shall provide the external auditor with all
information and assistance necessary for carrying out his duties.

(g)

The duties of the auditor shall include the preparation of a report
on the final accounts. The report shall contain a statement on
whether the Licencee’s accounts are correct and reflect the actual
state of affairs of the Licencee according to the auditing standards
prescribed by the Central Bank and whether the Licencee has
provided the auditor with any required information and
clarifications.

(h)

The final audited accounts shall be presented to the general
meeting of the Licencee together with the auditor’s report. A copy
of these documents shall be sent to the Central Bank at least fifteen
days before the date of the general meeting.

- 41 -

If the Licencee is a foreign company, a copy of its final audited
accounts together with the auditor’s report shall be sent to its main
office abroad.
ARTICLE (62)
FINAL ACCOUNTS
(a)

Every Licencee must, within three months following every
financial year, send to the Central Bank and make public its final
audited accounts, including the profit and loss statement for all the
transactions carried out until year end as well as any other financial
statements required by the Central Bank. The final accounts shall
be published in two local daily newspapers one in Arabic and the
other in English.

(b)

The final accounts shall be prepared in accordance with the
requirements of the Central Bank and shall be certified by the
Licensee’s external auditors.
ARTICLE (63)
ADDITIONAL TASKS FOR THE AUDITORS

(a)

The Central Bank may request additional duties from the external
auditor concerning licencees or listed companies. Such tasks may
include:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Submission of such additional information relating to the
audited accounts as the Central Bank may specify.
Enlarging the scope of the audit.
Notifying the Central Bank of any financial violations
discovered during the course of the audit.
Notifying the Central Bank of any reservations regarding the
accounts and statements of the Licencee.
Notifying the Central Bank of any discrepancy in the
financial systems, controls, and of any material inaccuracies
or inconsistency in the final accounts of the Licencee or
listed company.

- 42 6.

(b)

Preparing such financial reports and statements as required
by the Central Bank. Auditor’s fees for such additional tasks
shall be born by the licensee or the listed company.

By carrying out such assignment requested by the Central Bank
under the preceding paragraph, the auditor shall not be in breach of
any duties towards the licencee, the listed company or the
shareholders.
ARTICLE (64)
RULES GOVERNING AUDITING

Subject to the rules of Law No. 26 of 1996 regarding auditors, the Central
Bank may issue additional requirements that should be satisfied by any
auditor auditing any licencee or listed company as well as any other tasks
concerning the accounts and financial statements of a licencee or a listed
company.

Chapter 5
Licencee’s Staff
ARTICLE (65)
STAFF OF A LICENCEE
(a)

A Licencee must obtain a prior approval from the Central Bank for
any nominees to the membership of the board or for any executive
post. The Governor shall issue the terms and conditions for
obtaining such approval.

(b)

The Central Bank may determine the standard levels of
qualifications, experience and training of licencee’s officers and
employees.

(c)

If it becomes evident to the Central Bank that a licencee is
employing any official, as a board member or in an executive
position, who is not qualified or unsuitable for the assigned job, the

- 43 licencee shall promptly, after due notification, stop such official
from assuming the responsibilities of such a job.

Chapter 6
Control of Business Transfers
ARTICLE (66)
APPLICATION TO TRANSFER BUSINESS
(a)

A Licencee shall not transfer any banking or insurance business to
others before an approval from the Central Bank.

(b)

A Licencee who desires to transfer all or any part of its business
referred to in the preceding paragraph, shall make an application to
the Central Bank in the form prepared by the Central Bank for such
purpose.

(c)

A Transfer of Business application shall be published by the
Central Bank in the Official Gazette and also in two daily
newspapers published in the Kingdom one in Arabic and one in
English. The publication should include a call to the concerned
parties to submit any objections to the Central Bank within three
months from the date of publication.

(d)

The Central Bank shall consider the objections referred to in the
preceding paragraph before taking any action on the application for
transfer.
ARTICLE (67)
DECISION ON APPLICATION FOR BUSINESS TRANSFER

(a)

The Central Bank shall determine the procedure of processing
applications for business transfer.

(b)

The following shall apply in order to approve a business transfer:

- 44 1.
23.
4.

The business, subject of transfer, shall not be prohibited by
the Central Bank.
The Transfer of Business shall not cause damages to the
interests of the licencee’s customers or creditors.
The transferee must be licensed to carry out the business in
the place to which it is to be transferred.
The Central Bank must be satisfied that the Transfer of
Business is appropriate under relevant regulations issued in
this respect.

(c)

The Central Bank shall give its approval to a Transfer of Business
if the application satisfies the requirements set in the preceding
paragraph. Such approval may be given subject to any conditions
deemed appropriate by the Central Bank.

(d)

The decision of the Central Bank on a Transfer of Business shall be
published in the Official Gazette as well as in Arabic and English
language daily newspapers published locally. The decision shall be
effective from the date set therein.

(e)

An applicant whose application has been turned down or who faces
restrictions regarding the transfer of his business may appeal to a
competent court within thirty days from the date of publishing of
such decision in the official gazette.
ARTICLE (68)
TRANSFER OF OTHER BUSINESS

The provisions of this section of the law shall apply to the transfer of any
other regulated services offered by a Licencee, other than banking and
insurance services, as the Central Bank may decide in order to protect the
interests of the licencee’s customers and creditors.

- 45 -

PART 3
INSURANCE AND REINSURANCE
Chapter 1
Long-Term Insurance
ARTICLE (69)
SEPARATE ACCOUNTS FOR LONG-TERM INSURANCE
Long-term insurance companies shall assign a separate technical and
accounting system for each type of long-term insurance, and shall prepare
and publish a separate balance sheet for each such type of insurance
besides their general balance sheets.
ARTICLE (70)
PROFITS OF LONG-TERM INSURANCE
Long-term insurance companies shall not deduct, directly or indirectly,
any part of their funds, set aside to cover liabilities with respect to long
term insurance policies, for distribution as profits to shareholders,
policyholders or for lending to staff and managers or for the payment of
any liabilities other than from issued insurance policies. Distribution of
profits shall be limited to the amount of the realized surplus determined
by the actuary in its report.
ARTICLE (71)
PROHIBITION OF DISCRIMINATION BETWEEN INSURANCE POLICIES

Companies providing long-term insurance shall not discriminate between
one policy and another of the same type with respect to insurance rates,
the schedule structure of the accumulated cash value generated by the
policy annually, or the amount of profits distributed to policyholders or
for any other considerations unless such discrimination is based on
variation in life expectancy.

- 46 As an exception, the above prohibition shall not apply to insurance
policies with large cover amounts, which enjoy specific discounts
according to rate schedules notified to the Central Bank.

ARTICLE (72)
EXAMINATION AND ASSESSMENT OF LONG-TERM INSURANCE BUSINESS
(a)

Every long-term insurance company shall appoint an actuary to
examine and assess the long-term insurance business. A copy of
the actuary’s report shall be sent to the Central Bank within three
months after the end of the financial year. The Report shall be
accompanied by a declaration by the company confirming that all
particulars and information required for reaching an accurate
assessment were made available to the actuary.

(b)

If it appears to the Central Bank that the Actuary’s report does not
really reflect the financial position of the long-term insurer due to
inappropriate assessment procedure, the Governor may appoint
another actuary to re-examine the situation at the cost of the
company.

ARTICLE (73)
THE ACTUARY’S REPORT

The Actuary’s Report shall, in particular, include the following:
(1)

The company’s liabilities regarding long-term insurance business.

(2)

An assessment of any difference between the assets and the
liabilities of the long-term insurance.

(3)

A statement of any rights of long-term insurance policyholders in
the profits.
The Central Bank shall issue a regulation regarding other
information that the above report shall include.

- 47 -

Chapter 2
General Provisions
ARTICLE (74)
REGISTRATION OF INSURANCE EXPERTS, CONSULTANTS, BROKERS AND
REPRESENTATIVES

No actuary, consultant, surveyor, loss adjuster, broker or representative of
an insurance company may engage in business in the Kingdom with
companies regulated by this law unless they have their names registered
on the Register prepared for this purpose by the Central Bank. The terms
and conditions for registration in this register shall be issued by the
Central Bank.
ARTICLE (75)
INVALID PROVISIONS IN INSURANCE POLICIES
Any of the following conditions shall be deemed invalid if incorporated
in an insurance policy:
(1)

Any condition that forfeits any of the policyholder’s rights due to a
violation by the policyholder of any law or regulation. Such
invalidation shall not include deliberate offenses committed by
policyholders.

(2)

Any condition that does not explicitly state whether it pertains to
any of the cases that annul the policyholder’s rights.

ARTICLE (76)
APPROVAL OF INSURANCE POLICY FORMS AND
APPENDICES

(a)

No insurance company subject to the provisions of this law shall
issue forms of insurance policies or any appendices thereto without
the approval of the Central Bank. In order to obtain such approval,
applications shall be submitted to the Central Bank accompanied
by a copy of the policy or the appendix that it intends to issue.

- 48 -

(b)

The Central Bank shall review the contents of insurances policies
and any appendices thereto and shall notify the insurance company,
within sixty days from the date of application, of its approval or
objection to any contents that may contradict the law or the public
order. If the applicant company received no notification during
this period, an implicit approval to the contents of the insurance
policy or its appendices shall be assumed.

(c)

Insurance policies, appendices and endorsements shall be made in
Arabic language and may be accompanied by an English
translation. However, in the event of any contradiction between the
two texts, the Arabic text shall prevail.
The Central Bank may exclude certain types of policies from being
made in the Arabic language.

ARTICLE (77)
AMENDMENT OF INSURANCE POLICY
The Central Bank may require, at any time, such amendments to the
insurance policy, as it deems necessary to safeguard the interests of the
policyholders if there is any matter that may cause damages the interests
of the policyholders.
ARTICLE (78)
MARKETING THE INSURANCE POLICIES ABROAD
No insurance company registered in the Kingdom shall market its
insurance policies abroad without obtaining a prior written approval from
the Central Bank.
ARTICLE (79)
DISPOSAL OF THE ASSETS OF INSURANCE
AND REINSURANCE COMPANIES
Insurance or reinsurance companies shall not sell, mortgage or otherwise
dispose of more than 5% (five per cent) of the company’s assets,

- 49 according to its latest approved final accounts, for thirty consecutive
days, without a written approval from the Central Bank.

- 50 PART 4
SECURITIES
Chapter 1
Companies trading in Securities
ARTICLE (80)
DEFINITION OF COMPANIES TRADING IN SECURITIES
(a)

Companies trading in securities are those whose objectives include
one or more of the following activities:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.

Promoting and underwriting securities or financing
investments therein.
Participating in incorporating of securities companies or
increasing the capitals thereof.
Forming and managing securities portfolios and investment
funds.
Depositing, clearance and settlement of securities.
Brokering in securities transactions.
Providing advisory services related to securities.
Any other activities as approved by the Central Bank.

ARTICLE (81)
OFFERS OF SECURITIES
(a)

Subject to the requirements of the Commercial Companies Law or
any other law, no person may issue any securities in the Kingdom
unless otherwise permitted by the Central Bank. The Central Bank
shall specify the information and documents that are required for
obtaining permission to issue Securities.

(b)

Securities may not be offered for public subscription, except by
virtue of a prospectus approved by the Central Bank. A summary
of the prospectus shall be published in two daily local newspapers,
one in Arabic and the other in English.

- 51 ARTICLE (82)
CONTENTS OF THE PROSPECTUS
The prospectus shall be prepared in such a form and shall contain such
financial and other information as required by the regulations of the
Central Bank.
ARTICLE (83)
TYPES OF SECURITIES
(a)

(b)

The Central Bank shall specify the types of securities that may
be issued, the methods of offering and dealing with them and
the obligations of each issuing party.
As an exception from the provisions of the electronic dealings
law, the Central Bank may issue electronic securities in such
circumstances and with such conditions as it may determine.
ARTICLE (84)
SUPPLEMENTARY PROSPECTUS

The issuer of securities shall publish a supplementary prospectus,
approved by the Central Bank, in two daily local newspapers one
published in Arabic and the other in English, if any of the following
occurs between the time of preparing the original prospectus and the time
of issue of the securities:
(a)

There is a significant change in the information contained in the
prospectus.

(b)

Any information that should have been included in the prospectus
as if they existed at the time of preparing the prospectus.

ARTICLE (85)
RESPONSIBILITY OF THE PERSON WHO PREPARES
THE PROSPECTUS
Any person responsible for the preparation of the prospectus must ensure
that the prospectus incorporates all the necessary information and that
such information is not false or misleading.

- 52 -

Chapter 2
Listing and Dealing in Securities
ARTICLE (86)
LISTING
(a)

No Securities may be listed on the Stock Exchange without the
approval of the Central Bank and by request from the issuers.

(b)

Listing shall be restricted to the following securities:
1.

2.
3.
4.

(c)

Stocks of joint stock companies incorporated in
Kingdom and whose main offices are situated in
Kingdom.
Stocks of non-Bahraini companies that are approved
listing by the Central Bank.
Bonds and debt instruments approved for listing by
Central Bank.
Any other financial papers or instruments approved by
Central Bank.

the
the
for
the
the

The Central Bank shall issue the rules and procedures of listing in
coordination with the Exchange.

ARTICLE (87)
CANCELLATION OF LISTING AND SUSPENSION OF TRADING
(a)

The Central Bank may decide to cancel the listing of any securities
that contravene the requirements of the Listing Rules, or to suspend
the trading of any listed securities facing exceptional circumstances
that the Central Bank considers as sufficient grounds for the
suspension of the securities. The cancellation of listIng or the
suspension of trading shall be decided by the Governor.

(b)

The Exchange must effect the cancellation or suspension decisions
and notify the issuer in writing accordingly. The written notice
shall contain the reasons for such cancellation or suspension, the

- 53 date on which the cancellation or suspension takes effect, and any
other details related to the matter.
(c)

(d)

The issuer of securities may appeal against the Central Bank’s
decision to cancel or suspend dealing, within fifteen days of the
date of notification of such decision. The appeal shall be decided
upon and the appellant informed of the decision within one month
from making the appeal. The issuer of the securities may re-appeal,
against the refusal of the first appeal, to a competent court within
thirty days from notification of such rejection.
The Central Bank shall issue Regulations specifying the cases in
which it will cancel the listing or suspend the trading of securities.

ARTICLE (88)
CANCELLATION OF SUSPENSION ORDERS
By request from the issuer, the Central Bank may issue a resolution to
cancel the suspension of any securities if the exceptional circumstances
that prompted the suspension no longer exist.

ARTICLE (89)
TRADING THROUGH LICENCEES
All trading in securities listed on the Exchange shall be conducted
through a mediator who is licenced by the Central Bank and registered as
a member of the Exchange.

ARTICLE (90)
NEGOTIATION OF SECURITIES
The Central Bank shall issue regulations organizing the negotiation of
Securities Listed on the Exchange.

- 54 -

ARTICLE (91)
FINANCING OF TRADING IN SECURITIES
Financial institutions may finance trading in Securities in accordance
with the regulations issued by the Central Bank.
ARTICLE (92)
SHORT SELLING AND GIVING SECURITIES ON LOAN
The Central Bank shall specify the types of securities, which may be
traded by loan and short sale, the terms and procedures of such
transactions and the rights and obligations of all concerned parties.
ARTICLE (93)
REDEMPTION OF SECURITIES BY THEIR ISSUERS
Subject to the provisions of the Commercial Companies Law, the Central
Bank shall issue regulations specifying the types of Securities, which
issuers may redeem, and the procedures to be adopted when the company
redeems or resells its securities.
ARTICLE (94)
DEPOSIT OF SECURITIES
No person may engage in depositing of securities without an
authorization from the Central Bank.
“Deposit of Securities” means to register the ownership of the securities
of a depositor in the name of a depositary under a securities deposit
agreement and in accordance with the form issued for this purpose by the
depositary.
The Central Bank shall issue the rules governing the Deposit of
Securities.

- 55 -

ARTICLE (95)
PLEDGE OF SECURITIES

With due consideration to the provisions of the Law of Commerce with
respect to pledges, the Central Bank shall by Regulation specify the
procedures to be followed for the registration of pledges and liens on
Securities and the discharge and lifting of such pledges and liens.
No trading of Securities under pledge or liens shall be permitted, except
upon the discharge of the pledge or the lien.
The discharge of pledge shall be made by a court order or a
Written statement signed by the pledger confirming that he has received
or waived all of his rights under the pledge deed.
ARTICLE (96)
EVIDENCE IN DISPUTES RELATED TO SECURITIES
Subject to the rules and laws of evidence and electronic transactions, any
computer data, electronic files, recorded telephone calls, telex and
facsimile correspondence may be used as evidence in disputes relating to
securities.

- 56 PART 5
DEALING IN THE EXCHANGE
Chapter 1
Insider Trading
ARTICLE (97)
DEFINITION OF AN “INSIDER”
For the purposes of this Chapter, an Insider is any person who has
obtained the information stated in Paragraph (a) of Article (98) of this
law;
(1) By virtue of his employment or profession;
(2)

Being an officer or shareholder of the issuer of the securities, or

(3)

Through illegal means.
A person may be an insider if he is already aware that such
information is classified as inside information even though none of
the above applies to him.

ARTICLE (98)
INSIDE INFORMATION AND PROFIT
(a)

For the purposes of this Chapter, “Inside Information” means
information that;
1.
2.
3.
4.

(b)

is precise in nature relating directly or indirectly to one or
more of the securities or the issuer thereof,
has not been made public.
if made public, is likely to have a significant impact on the
price of those securities or their derivatives,
is, directly or indirectly, related to derivatives of commodities
which the traders expect to be disclosed according to the
market regulations.

In this chapter “profit” includes avoiding of any loss.

- 57 -

ARTICLE (99)
“MARKET INFORMATION”
(a) For the purposes of this chapter, “Market Information” shall mean
any published information about trading or non-trading in certain
types of securities, their number, prices, range of price for trading
or the identity of those involved or who may be involved, in any
capacity, in such trading.
(b)

The Central Bank shall issue regulations concerning the necessary
procedures and controls of publishing market information.
ARTICLE (100)
OFFENCES

A person who is in possession of Inside Information, as an Insider shall
not: use such information to:
(1) deal in any securities to which that information relates.
(2)

encourage any person to deal in any securities to which that
information relates.

(3)

disclose inside information to any other person, otherwise than in
the proper performance of the functions of his employment, office
or profession.
violate the rules governing the publishing of market information.

(4)

ARTICLE (101)
CLAIMING THAT GAINS WERE UNEXPECTED

The mere trading by any person with inside information in securities, or
encouraging others to trade therein, shall not be considered as a violation
to this chapter if,
(1)

he did not, at the time, expect that he will make a profit due to the
Inside Information.

- 58 (2)

he reasonably believed at the time of dealing that the information
had been disclosed widely enough that none of those taking part in
the dealing would be prejudiced by not being aware of the said
information.

(3)

he would have acted as he did even if such information was not
available to him.

ARTICLE (102)
CLAIMING NON-AWARENESS OF THE
SIGNIFICANCE OF THE INSIDE INFORMATION

A person with inside information shall not be violating this chapter if he
proves that he did not expect, at the time of disclosure, any person to
trade in such securities based on such information, or that he did expect
such trading but never thought that such person would make profits
because the disclosed information was an inside information
ARTICLE (103)
CLAIMING THAT ACTION WAS TAKEN IN GOOD FAITH

A person shall not be violating this chapter by virtue of dealing in
securities or encouraging another person to deal, if he proves that he had
acted in good faith in the course of his business as a licensed mediator or
his employment with a mediator.
ARTICLE (104)
CLAIMING THAT INSIDE INFORMATION
IS MARKET INFORMATION

An individual is not guilty of inside dealing by virtue of dealing in
securities or encouraging another person to deal if he proves that:
1-

the information, which he had as an Insider, was market
information.

2-

it was reasonable that any person in their position would have acted
similarly despite having such information as an Insider at the time.
In determining the appropriateness of such action, a special

- 59 consideration shall be given to the content of the information, the
circumstances in which it was first acquired and in what capacity
did he act at the time of dealing.

ARTICLE (105)
OTHER DEFENCES
(a)

A person shall not be guilty of inside dealing by virtue of dealing
in securities or encouraging another person to deal if he proves
that:
1the securities were, at the time of dealing, under
consideration or negotiation, or that the dealing took place
during the course of a series of such negotiations.
2the dealing was intended to facilitate the negotiation of
securities or execute a series of negotiations of such
Securities.
3the dealing was completed in accordance with the Central
Bank’s price policies.

Chapter 2
Violation of Market Dealings
ARTICLE (106)
THE OFFENCE OF MARKET MANIPULATION
In the application of this law a person is guilty of market manipulation if
he:
1.

2.

is engaged, or encourages others to engage, in any conduct that
may give a false or misleading impression as to the supply of or
demand for, or the price or value of any securities.
is engaged, or encourages others, to engage in any conduct that
may give an unrealistic picture of the market regarding the volume
and prices of any securities.

- 60 -

ARTICLE (107)
DEFENCES
A person shall not be guilty of market manipulation if he proves that his
reasons for engaging in the alleged conduct were legitimate and that he
had acted in conformity with the accepted market practices in the market
concerned, or that he had acted in conformity with any price stabilization
rules made by the Central Bank, or if he believed on reasonable grounds
that his conduct did not violate Article 106 of this law and that he had
taken all reasonable precautions and exercised all due diligence to avoid
behaving in any way against the said Article.

- 61 PART 6
NETTING AND COLLATERAL
Chapter 1
Netting
ARTICLE (108)
CLOSE-OUT NETTING DUE TO MARKET CONTRACT
(a)

(b)

(c)

The Central Bank shall issue regulations regarding conditions and
controls to be incorporated in a Market Contract as well as the
procedures for carrying out clearance according to such contract.
Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law relating to
clearance, bankruptcy or insolvency, any Close-out Netting shall
be carried out according to the Market Contract in connection with
debts, loans and dealings between the parties thereof that were
originated or completed before any of the parties became insolvent
or bankrupt.. The same shall apply against the parties of the
contract their receivers in bankruptcy and their creditors.
The previous paragraph shall not apply if one party knew or ought
to have known that:
1. an application, for the liquidation and winding up of the other
party by reason of insolvency, is being considered by the
concerned authority.
2. the other party has taken formal steps under any other
applicable law to liquidate or wind up by reason of bankruptcy.
ARTICLE (109)
EXCEPTIONS

(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law, no restriction or
suspensions shall be applied to any provision related to clearance
according to a Market Contract.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of any other law relating to clearance,
bankruptcy or insolvency, the parties in a Market Contract may;
(1)

agree to any system which will enable the parties to convert a
non-financial obligation into a financial one of equivalent value

- 62 and to valuate such an obligation for the purposes of any clearance
or Netting.
(2)

agree on the rate of exchange or the method to be used to establish
the rate of exchange to be applied in effecting any clearance or
Netting when the sums to be cleared or netted are in different
currencies, and to establish the currency in which payment of the
net sum is to be effected.

(3)

agree that any transactions carried out pursuant to any Market
Contract shall be treated as a single transaction for the purposes of
the contract whether such transactions were completed by the
parties, a receiver in bankruptcy, a competent court, an officer
representing the parties or that such transactions have been
categorized or attributed to a certain type of trading.
Chapter 2
Collateral
ARTICLE (110)
PROVISIONS GOVERNING THE COLLATERAL
With consideration to the provisions of the Civil Law and
Commercial Law regarding pledging, the Central Bank shall issue
the terms and conditions for the provision of any pledge, insurance,
collateral or title transfer collateral to beneficiaries according to a
Market Contract.

- 63 -

PART 7
INFORMATION GATHERING, INSPECTION VISITS
AND JUDICIAL INVESTIGATION
Chapter 1
Power of the Central Bank to Obtain Information
ARTICLE (111)
OBTAINING INFORMATION FROM LICENSEES
The Central Bank may demand, by written notice given to a Licencee,
any information, documents, statistics, yearly reports or any other
periodical reports that the Central Bank requires according to this law.
The Licensee shall provide the required information within the specified
period and shall immediately notify the Central Bank of any major
changes in such reports.
ARTICLE (112)
INFORMATION FROM OTHERS
Without prejudice to Article (111) of this law, the Central Bank may
require, by a written notice, any Listed company or any person who has
issued debt instruments in the Kingdom to provide such information in
relation to its financial affairs as the Central Bank deems necessary for
discharging its duties and responsibilities under this law.
ARTICLE (113)
REQUEST OF REPORTS FROM RELATED PARTIES

(a)

The Central Bank may request in writing from any Licensee’s
partner any reports that may be necessary under this law.

(b)

The person who prepares such reports referred to in the previous
paragraph must be:
1.
nominated, appointed or approved by the Central Bank.
2.
duly qualified to prepare such reports.

- 64 -

Chapter 2
Inspection
ARTICLE (114)
INSPECTION
(a)

(b)

(c)

The Governor may assign some of the Central Bank officials or
others (the “Inspectors”), to inspect the Licensees' or the listed
companies businesses pursuant to the principles and procedures
stated in the Regulations issued by the Central Bank. The
Inspectors are authorised to investigate whether the Licensees or
the listed companies are complying with the provisions of this
Decree and the Regulations and resolutions issued in connection
with implementing thereof.
To achieve this objective the
Inspectors are authorised to enter the premises and offices of the
Licensees and the listed companies, to have access to the books,
documents and correspondences and to question any persons as
they deem necessary. They are also authorised to contact banks and
other relative institutions in connection with the subject matter of
the investigation or the institutions in which the Licensee has
investments.
The term documents, to which the Inspectors shall have the right
by virtue of the above paragraph to review, means the data written
or recorded by any means including data recorded in electronic
format
The Licensees and the listed companies must provide, upon
request, the Central Bank or the Inspectors with a legible copy of
any data recorded in an illegible format
No person shall interrupt or prevent any authorised Inspectors from
carrying out the duties and responsibilities required of them under
this Decree.

- 65 -

ARTICLE (115)
JUDICIAL INVESTIGATION
The officers of the Central Bank who are appointed by a resolution issued
by the Minister of Justice in agreement with the Governor, shall have the
capacity of Judicial Investigation Officers with respect to criminal
offences that fall under their jurisdiction and relevant to the duties
assigned to them. The verbal process of such crimes prepared by the said
officials should be referred to the public prosecution pursuant to a
resolution to be issued by the Governor or any person he may authorised.

- 66 PART 8
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION AND DISCLOSURE
THEREOF
ARTICLE (116)
DEFINITION OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
In this Chapter, “Confidential Information” means any information on the
private affairs of any of the Licensee's customers.
ARTICLE (117)
RESTRICTION ON DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION BY LICENSEES
Confidential Information must not be disclosed by a Licensee unless such
disclosure is done:
1. Pursuant to an unequivocal approval of the person to whom
the confidential information relates.
2. In compliance with the provisions of the law or any
international agreements to which the Kingdom is a
signatory.
3. In the process of executing an order issued by a Competent
Court.
4. For the purpose of implementing an instruction given by the
Central Bank.
ARTICLE (118)
DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
BY THE CENTRAL BANK
The Central Bank may disclose under the following circumstances any
Confidential Information received thereby directly or indirectly:
(1)

In any of the cases stated in Article (117) of this law.

(2)

In connection with any measures taken by the Central Bank to
ensure stability and reinforce trustworthiness of banking and

- 67 financial system of the Kingdom, if the said measures require such
disclosure.
(3)

In cooperation with international financial organizations or
competent administrative bodies or authorized committees.
ARTICLE (119)
RESTRICTION ON DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL
INFORMATION BY THIRD PARTIES

No person who receives, directly or indirectly, Confidential Information
may disclose such information otherwise than as specified under Article
118 of this law.
ARTICLE (120)
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION OBTAINED PRIOR TO
ENACTMENT OF THIS LAW
Confidential Information include confidential information received prior
to enactment of this law by the following institutions or persons:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

The Bahrain Monetary Agency or any of its officials or employees.
The Ministry of Commerce or any of its officials or employees.
Any auditor or expert appointed by the Bahrain Monetary Agency
or by the Ministry of Commerce.
The Bahrain Stock Exchange or any of its officials or employees.
Any person who obtains the confidential information directly or
indirectly from any of the persons or bodies referred to in the
preceding items.

- 68 -

PART 9
INVESTIGATIONS AND ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
Chapter 1
Investigation
ARTICLE (121)
APPOINTMENT OF INVESTIGATORS
(a)

When necessary, the Central Bank may appoint one or more
qualified investigators to conduct investigation with respect to the
following:
a.
b.
c.
d.

e.
f.

i.

Nature or position of the business of a Licensee.
A particular aspect of the businesses of a Licensee.
The ownership or control of a Licensee.
Whether the Licensee is practicing the very business licensed
thereto, and assessing to what extent the Licensee is abiding, in
providing the said business, by the provisions of the law and the
terms and conditions of the license.
Whether a Licensee is carrying out unlicensed business.
Whether the listed companies are abiding by the procedures and
principles of listing referred to in paragraph (c) of Art (86) of this
law.
The Investigator may conduct an investigation, where necessary,
on the business of any member of a group or company to which the
Licensee under investigation is a party. The Licensee under
investigation must be notified in writing of the decision to
investigate its business.

- 69 -

ARTICLE (122)
ASSISTANCE IN INVESTIGATIONS BY
OVERSEAS AUTHORITIES
(a)

The Central Bank may provide assistance upon request by an
Overseas authority. To this end the central bank may:
1. Exercise the powers conferred thereto by Article 111 of this law
to require information and documents.
2. Appoint one or more qualified persons to provide a report
pursuant to Article 113 of this law and/or to investigate any
matter pursuant to Article 121 thereof.

(b)

In deciding a request by an overseas authority pursuant to
paragraph (a) of this Article, the Central Bank may consider in
particular:
1.

2.
3.

(c)

Whether the country or territory of the Overseas authority is
adopting the basis of reciprocity in its relation with the
Kingdom;
The seriousness of the case and its importance to persons in
the Kingdom;
Whether it is otherwise appropriate in the public interest to
give the assistance requested.

The Central Bank may decide to reject the request stated in
paragraph (a) of this Article unless the Overseas Authority
undertakes to make contributions towards the cost of exercising
such powers as the Central Bank considers appropriate.
ARTICLE (123)
REQUEST OF INFORMATION AND DOCUMENTS IN POSSESSION OF A
THIRD PARTY

(a)

Any person who is in possession of information or documents
relevant to an investigation conducted by the Central Bank or its
duly appointed investigator, should promptly present such

- 70 -

(b)

information or documents upon request by the central bank or its
duly appointed investigator
If the Central Bank or its duly appointed investigator receives a
document according to the requirement imposed under this
Chapter, it may:
1. Take copies or extracts from such document.
2. Require the person producing the document, or any other
relevant person, to provide an explanation of the contents of the
document.

(c)

If the person fails to produce the document required, but he has
information about the whereabouts of such document, then he
should, upon the request of the Central Bank or its appointed
investigator, indicate where the document is located.

ARTICLE (124)
ENABLING THE CENTRAL BANK TO PRACTICE ITS DUTIES
(a)

If the Central Bank or its authorised person, for any reason, fails to
enter and inspect the premises, offices, or locations of the Licensee
to obtain any information or necessary documents and data, or if
the powers conferred to the Central Bank are not sufficient for it to
practice its supervision tasks over the business of the Licensee,
then the Central Bank may seek a court order upon a petition to
enable the authorised investigators to carry out the following:
1.
2.
3.

Entering and inspecting specific premises and obtaining
relevant information, data or documents.
Copying or taking extracts of any relevant document
information or data.
Compelling any person employed by the Licensee to give
explanation respecting, or to specify the whereabouts of, any
documents, information or data.

Compelling force may be used. where necessary.
(b)

If necessary the Central bank may retain any documents obtained
by virtue of the provisions of the previous paragraph for a period
not exceeding six months. However, if the procedures of a trial of

- 71 any person commenced in connection with committing a crime
within the period of the specified six months and the procedures of
the said trail continued beyond this period, and the mentioned
documents prove to be of relevance to such procedures, then the
Central bank may retain such documents up to the end of the said
trial procedures, or to any other date determined by the Competent
Court.

Chapter 2
PROCEDURES TO BE TAKEN BEFORE PENALTIES OR ADMINISTRATIVE
PROCEEDINGS ARE APPLIED
ARTICLE (125)
WARNING NOTICE
Prior to imposing any penalties or administrative proceedings upon the
Licensee, the Central Bank must deliver to him a written notice
containing the following:
(a) The violations committed by the Licensee with respect to the
provisions of this law, the resolutions and bylaws issued in enforcing
thereof, or of the terms and conditions of the License, accompanied
by the evidence and proves that convinced the Central Bank that
such violation had occurred.
(b)

The penalty or administrative proceedings intended to be imposed
upon the Licensee.
(c) The grace period to be allowed for challenging the intended
penalty or administrative proceedings, which should not be less than
thirty days as from the date of serving the notice.
ARTICLE (126)
RIGHT OF OBJECTION
The Licensee shall have the right to submit a written objection to the
contents of the notice served pursuant to Article 125 of this law, within
the period specified in the same notice, provided that the objection is

- 72 duly justified and accompanied by supporting documents, information
and data.
ARTICLE (127)
DECISION NOTICE
The Central Bank must discuss the objection submitted pursuant to
Article (126) of this law, and issue the appropriate resolution, provided
that such resolution is served to the objector within thirty days of
submitting such objection.
Chapter 3
Penalties and Administrative Proceedings
ARTICLE (128)
IMPOSING RESTRICTIONS
With regards to the provision of paragraph (c) of Article (48) of this law,
the central bank may impose upon the Licensees and the listed companies
restrictions to secure the compliance by the provisions of this law and the
regulations and resolutions issued in implementing thereof, along with
the terms and conditions of the License. This shall take place in case of
violating such provisions and terms and conditions, or it appears, due to
significant evidences and indicators, that such violations have most likely
occurred.

ARTICLE (129)
IMPOSING ADMINISTRATIVE FINES
Without prejudice to any criminal or civil liability of the Licensee, the
Central Bank may levy upon the Licensee an administrative fine not
exceeding twenty thousand (20,000) Bahraini Dinars, if the Licensee
breeches the provisions of this law or the regulations and resolutions
issued in connection with implementing thereof or by reason of breeching
the terms and conditions of the license.

- 73 -

ARTICLE (130)
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
If imposing administrative restrictions upon the Licensee, with respect to
the cases stated in Article (128) of this law, proves to be futile, then the
central Bank may take any of the following measures:
(1)

Appointing an observer member on the board of directors of the
Licensee for a period specified by the Central Bank. Such a
member shall have the authority to participate in the deliberations
of the board of directors and to give opinions on any resolutions
passed by the board.

(2)

Placing the Licensee under administration pursuant to the
provisions of chapter 2 of part 10 of this law.
ARTICLE (131)
SUSPENTION OF THE LICENSEE FROM PROVIDING THE

SERVICE

Without prejudice to any of the provisions of this chapter, the Central
Bank may suspend the Licensee who contravenes any of the provisions
of this law, the regulations and bylaws issued in connection with
implementing thereof, or the terms and conditions of the license, from
carrying out any Regulated Services as may be specified for a period or
periods as may be specified by the Central Bank. Provided that the total
period or periods of such suspensions shall not exceed twelve months.

ARTICLE (132)
PUBLIC CENSURE

The central bank may issue a public statement on such breach that
occurred to the provisions of this decree or the regulations and by laws
issued in implementing thereof, whether this breach is committed by the
Licensee, the listed company or any official of both. The publication
should be carried out in a manner proportionate to the nature and the
magnitude of the violation.

- 74 PART 10
INSOLVENCY OF THE LICENSEE, AND PLACING
IT UNDER ADMINISTRATION AND
COMPULSORY LIQUIDATION
Chapter 1
Insolvency
ARTICLE (133)
INSOLVENCY OF A LICENSEE
A Licensee is deemed to be insolvent if his financial position becomes
unstable and he stops paying his due debts other than administrative fines
and whatever type of tax.
ARTICLE (134)
THE EFFECTS OF INSOLVENCY
The insolvent Licensee shall immediately cease to carry out any
Regulated Service, make any payments or to carry on any business
whatsoever in relation to Regulated Service, unless otherwise agreed in
writing by the Central Bank.
ARTICLE (135)
JUDICIAL COMPENSATION
Upon the request of the Central Bank, the liquidator or the external
administrator, a compensation ruling may be passed against any official
or employee of the Licensee who violated or permitted violation of the
provision of Article (134) of this law, if such official or employee was
fully aware or he should have been aware of the fact that the Licensee is
insolvent and the said Licensee incurred losses by reason of such
violation.

- 75 -

Chapter 2
PLACING A LICENSEE UNDER ADMINISTRATION
ARTICLE (136)
REASONS FOR PLACING A LICENSEE UNDER ADMINISTRATION
(a)

The Central Bank may, pursuant to a justified resolution, assume
the administration of a Licensee or may appoint another person
(the “External Administrator”) to conduct the administration of a
Licensee on behalf of the Central Bank under any of the following
circumstance:
1)
If the Licensee becomes insolvent or appears most likely
to be insolvent.
2)
If the license is amended or cancelled pursuant to the
provisions of items (1) and (3) of paragraph (c) of Article
(48) of this law
3)
If the Licensee continued to provide regulated services
which resulted in inflicting damages to financial services
industry in the Kingdom.

(b)

In this part the term administrator denotes the Central Bank if it
assumes the administration of the Licensee or any external
administrator to be appointed for this purpose.
ARTICLE (137)
APPOINTMENT OF EXTERNAL ADMINISTRATOR
a. The Central Bank shall specify the terms and conditions
pursuant to which the External Administrator shall practice
his duties and obligations.
b. The External Administrator shall act in accordance with any
instructions that the Central Bank may issue from time to
time, and he shall submit the reports relevant to the
administration to the Central Bank.
c. The Licensee shall bear all administration costs and
expenses including the External Administration fees.

- 76 ARTICLE (138)
ANNOUNCEMENT OF PLACING A LICENSEE
UNDER ADMINISTRATION
(a)

The Administrator shall, promptly after assuming the
administration of a Licensee, publish a notice to this effect in the
Official Gazette and in one Arabic and one English language
newspaper published in the Kingdom, and to show such notice in
every place of business of the Licensee in the Kingdom all through
the period in which he assumes the administration.

(b)

The appointment of the Administrator shall only have effect on the
day following the publication of such notice pursuant to the
provision the preceding Article.

(c)

The phrase “In Administration” shall be added after the name of
the Licensee on all relevant correspondences during the period of
administration.
ARTICLE (139)
APPEAL AGAINST PLACING THE LICENSEE
UNDER ADMINISTRATION

(a)

A Licensee may, within the ten days following the date of
publication of the decision of placing it under administration,
appeal to the Central Bank against such decision. The appeal
should be submitted in the form prepared by the Central Bank for
this purpose and accompanied by such supporting documents and
information as the Central Bank may specify.

(b)

A decision should be reached with regard to the said appeal, and
the appellant should be notified with the decision in writing within
fifteen days as of the date of submitting such appeal. However,
reasons must be given in case of rejecting the appeal.

(c)

The Licensee may challenge, before the Competent Court, the
decision of administration or rejection of his appeal, within thirty
days as from the date he receives such decisions.

- 77 -

ARTICLE (140)
POWERS OF THE ADMINISTRATOR
(a)

The Administrator shall have all the powers necessary for the
management and running the business of the Licensee, including
the following:
1.
2.
3.
4.

(b)

The power to continue or to temporary suspend the Licensee
operations.
The power to suspend or limit the discharge of financial
obligations of the Licensee.
The power to conclude agreements and to sign any documents
on behalf of the Licensee.
The power to commence and defend any legal proceedings in
the name of the Licensee, or taking any other legal
proceedings to which the Licensee is a party.

Without prejudice to the provision stated in paragraph (a) of the
preceding article, the Administrator may carry out the following:
1.
2.

3.
4.
5.

6.

Declare a moratorium in respect of any debts of the Licensee.
Discharge obligations of the Licensee to certain creditors in
preference to other creditors, if this is in the advantage of the
Licensee.
Dismiss officers and employees of the Licensee, provided that
reasons should be given for the dismissal decision.
Appoint officers and employees for the Licensee.
After obtaining the approval of the Competent Court, and
without prejudice to market agreements and, where applicable,
the rights of the other party to be compensated, the
administrator may nullify any agreement entered into by the
Licensee before placing the Licensee under administration if
such action is in the interest of the Licensee or taken to protect
the interests of its customers, or to avoid occurrence of an
irrevocable damage.
Undertake any necessary actions in the interest of the Licensee
and for the protection of the interests of its customers and
creditors.

- 78 -

ARTICLE (141)
DUTIES OF THE ADMINISTRATOR
(a)

The Administrator shall, within thirty days of his assuming the
administration of a Licensee, make an inventory of the rights,
assets and liabilities of the Licensee. A report of two copies should
be prepared on such inventory, a copy of which shall be kept at the
principal place of business of the Licensee in the Kingdom and
shall be available for inspection by creditors and other interested
parties. The other copy shall be kept at the Central Bank.

(b)

The inventory report should be updated from time to time taking
into consideration the requirements of the previous paragraph.

(c)

The Administrator shall take all necessary measures, during the
period of administration, to collect all of the entitlements due to the
Licensee.
ARTICLE (142)
SUSPENSION OF PROCEEDINGS

During the period of administration, no action may be taken to enforce
any security over the property of the Licensee and no legal proceedings
or any other measures may be commenced or continued against the
Licensee or its property except with the approval of the Administrator or
in the course of executing a court judgment or order issued before the
date on which the Licensee was placed under administration.

ARTICLE (143)
TERMINATION OF ADMINISTRATION
The Administrator shall submit, with the prior approval of the Central
Bank in case of an External Administrator, within a period of two years
from the commencement of the administration of a Licensee, a petition to
the Competent Court for compulsory liquidation of the Licensee or
otherwise to terminate the administration and restore the management to
the officials of the Licensee.

- 79 -

Chapter 3
COMPULSORY LIQUIDATION
ARTICLE (144)
APPLICATION FOR COMPULSORY LIQUIDATION
(a)

The Administrator, the Licensee or any of its creditors may submit
a petition to the Competent Court for compulsory liquidation of the
Licensee. A copy of this petition shall be served at the principal
place of business of the Licensee in the Kingdom and shall be
made available to the shareholders and creditors of the Licensee.
Any interested party may take an official copy of the same petition.

(b)

The person who submits the petition for compulsory liquidation
shall advertise such petition, at least fifteen days before submitting
the same to the Competent Court, in the Official Gazette and in one
Arabic and one English language newspapers.
ARTICLE (145)

(a)

(b)

DECISION ON THE PETITION OF COMPULSORY LIQUIDATION
The Competent Court may impose, during the hearings of a
petition for compulsory liquidation, upon the relevant Licensee
any measure it considers appropriate including extending the
period of placing the Licensee under administration for more than
two years and determining the terms and conditions in connection
with such extension.
The Central Bank, the officials of the Licensee and its shareholders
and creditors may collectively or individually, have the right of
intervention before the Competent Court during the hearings of the
petition for compulsory liquidation of the Licensee..

(c)

subject to the provisions of the law, the Central Bank may issue
directives in connection with liquidation of the Licensees in
general or liquidation of any specific category thereof, to be used
as a guidance during the hearing of liquidation petition.

(d)

The Court may order the compulsory liquidation of the Licensee
under any of the two following circumstances:

- 80 -

1. If the Licensee proved to be insolvent
2. If compulsory liquidation is decisively proved to be a just and
equitable action.
Where compulsory liquidation of a Licensee is ordered, the court shall
appoint a liquidator and determine his fees under the guidance of the
Central Bank with respect to this issue.
The fees of the liquidator and all other expenses of the liquidation shall
be paid by the relevant Licensee. During liquidation hearings, the phrase
“In Liquidation” shall be added after the name of the Licensee on all
relevant correspondences.
ARTICLE (146)

(a)

(b)

EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION DURING THE PERIOD
OF COMPULSORY LIQUIDATION
The liquidator shall provide, upon request, the Central Bank with
any necessary information relating to the Licensee in liquidation or
its creditors, or reports relating to the progress of liquidation
proceedings.
The Central Bank shall provide, upon request, the liquidator with
necessary information relating to the Licensee in liquidation, or in
relation to any compensation scheme operated pursuant to Article
(177) of this Decree.
ARTICLE (147)
POWERS OF THE LIQUIDATOR

(a)

Without prejudice to the provisions of the following paragraph, the
liquidator shall have all the necessary powers to carry out
compulsory liquidation of the Licensee, and he shall also have the
right to take any necessary measures to complete the process of
such liquidation.

(b)

The liquidator must obtain the prior written approval of the
Competent Court for any of the following actions:
1.

Sale any of the assets or properties of the Licensee in
liquidation the market value of which exceeds one hundred
thousand (100,000) Bahraini Dinars.

- 81 -

2.

Transfer or allocation of any of the assets or properties of the
licensee in liquidation as a security for any debt owed by the
Licensee.

3.

Settlement of any claim or waiver of any right of the Licensee
where its value exceeds fifty thousand (50,000) Bahraini
Dinars.

ARTICLE (148)
TERMINATION OF CONTRACTS ENTERED
INTO PRIOR TO LIQUIDATION
The liquidator may, upon the approval of the Competent Court and
without prejudice to market contracts entered into by the Licensee, and
where applicable, the rights of the other party to the contract in obtaining
compensation, declare any agreement entered into by the Licensee, prior
to placing thereof under liquidation, null and void if such measure is
deemed to be in the advantage of the Licensee or taken to protect the
interests of the Licensee' customers or to avoid occurrence of irrevocable
damage.
ARTICLE (149)

(a)

(b)

GENERAL DUTIES OF THE LIQUIDATOR
The liquidator shall ensure that the assets and properties of the
Licensee under liquidation are properly accounted for, collected,
realised and distributed to the Licensee’s creditors and, the surplus,
if any, shall be distributed to the entitled persons.
The assets of the Licensee in liquidation shall not include any
financial trusts that the Licensee holds as a trustee.
ARTICLE (150)
NOTIFICATION OF CREDITORS

The liquidator shall, within thirty days of his appointment, notify all
creditors of the Licensee under liquidation, who are registered in its

- 82 records, of the decision of such appointment. The notice should be served
by a recorded letter accompanied by prove of receipt.
The liquidator shall, within sixty days following the date wherein the
decision of appointing him was issued, take such necessary measures to
terminate the activities of the Licensee.
ARTICLE (151)
SUBMISSION OF CLAIMS RELATED TO COMPULSORY LIQUIDATION
The creditors of the Licensee in liquidation who seek to recover all or
part of their debts, shall submit a written claim to this effect to the
liquidator, and the liquidator should send application forms to all of the
creditors of the Licensee listed in his records accompanied by the notice
stated in Article (150) of this law, and it should be made clear in the form
that it should be completed and returned to the liquidator within no more
than sixty days as from the date the form is despatched.
ARTICLE (152)
DETERMINATION OF CLAIMS
The liquidator should, within six months immediately following the
expiration of the period specified under Article (151) of this law or such
other period as may be specified by the Competent Court, reach a
decision on the claims submitted by the creditors of the Licensee in
liquidation, whether by accepting thereof totally or partially, or by
rejection. The applicant should be notified of the decision made on his
claim by means of a recorded letter accompanied with prove of receipt.
The applicant shall have the right to challenge the decision of the
liquidator before the Competent Court within fifteen days as from the
date he receives the decision notification.
ARTICLE (153)
CONDUCT OF THE LIQUIDATION
Subject to the provisions of Article (149) of this law, the liquidator shall
carry out the following:
(1)

Submit his proposals for the conduct of liquidation to the
Competent Court. These proposals shall be notified to all creditors
and shareholders of the Licensee, and any other interested parties.

- 83 (2)

Comply by orders of the Competent Court in relation to publication
of such proposals.

Any creditor or shareholder of the Licensee in liquidation or any other
interested parties may, within a period of thirty days as from the date they
were notified of the proposals, challenge such proposals before the
Competent Court.
The Competent Court may upon receiving such challenge in accordance
with this Article, make amendments to the liquidator’s proposals as it
deems fit.
ARTICLE (154)
INTERIM AND FINAL DISTRIBUTIONS
The liquidator may, with the approval of the Competent Court, make
partial distributions to creditors whose claims have been accepted in
accordance with the provisions of Article (152) of this law.
The liquidator shall make the final distribution after all claims are
determined.
ARTICLE (155)
DETERMINATION OF DUE AMOUNTS
The liquidator shall take into consideration in determining the amounts
due to each creditor, the administration costs incurred all through the
period in which the Licensee was placed under administration.
The liquidator may, upon the approval of the Competent Court, distribute
among the creditors of the Licensee in Liquidation any properties which
are, due to their nature or any other reasons, not ready to be disposed of,
if such distribution is in the interest of the creditors.

ARTICLE (156)
PRIORITY OF CLAIMS

.
(a)

The rights pertaining to any of the following shall have preferences
over the property of the Licensees in liquidation.

- 84 1.

2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

7.

The Administrator’s fees and reasonable expenses
incurred by the Administrator during the administration
period of the Licensee, and the wages and salaries of the
officers and employees of the Licensee up to the date on
which the petition for compulsory liquidation was filed at
the competent court or the date of termination of the
relevant contract of employment whichever is earlier.
The liquidator’s fees and reasonable expenses incurred
by the liquidator during the period of liquidation.
Fees and taxes due to the Government, its organisations,
Agencies and the Central Bank.
Deposits and loans taken with the approval of the Central
Bank to protect the Licensee from insolvency.
Deposits of value not exceeding twenty thousand
(20,000) Bahraini Dinars per depositor.
Other deposits that exceed the amount stated in the
previous item and all other unsecured debts due upon the
Licensee.
Amounts due to the shareholders in proportion to their
respective shares.

(b)

Each of the rights stated in the items of the above paragraph shall
all have equal status and shall be paid in full after settling the rights
of higher priority according to the order of priority in the above
paragraph, unless the assets are inadequate to meet all of the said
rights, then such debts should be reduced in equal proportions.

(c)

The secured debts of the creditors of the Licensees and the current
settlements taking place in the clearing house of the stock
exchange shall be paid without reference to the order of priority set
in paragraph (a) of this Article.

(d)

Interest due on the debts of the Licensee shall accrue up to the date
of filling the petition for the compulsory liquidation to the
Competent Court or any date agreed by the Licensee and its
creditors whichever is earlier,

- 85 ARTICLE (157)
FINAL ACCOUNTS OF LIQUIDATION
After completion of distribution of all assets of the Licensee in
liquidation, the liquidator shall submit within a period not exceeding
three months final liquidation accounts to the Competent Court and the
Central Bank.
ARTICLE (158)
VOID TRANSACTIONS
(a)

The Licensee under liquidation is prohibited from undertaking any
of the following actions during the “Prohibition Period” stated in
paragraph (b) of this Article:
1. Concluding any transaction at an undervalue with any person.
2. Entering into a transaction for the purpose of defrauding any of
its creditors.
3. Giving preference to any person,

(b)

The expression “Prohibition Period” referred to in the preceding
paragraph shall denote the following:
i.

ii.

A term of two years prior to the date in which the
Licensee was placed under administration or the date in
which the liquidation ruling was issued, if the date of
the ruling does not precede the date of placing the
Licensee under administration. This term applies to any
transaction concluded, or priority given to any person
who has relation with the Licensee, in violation of the
provision of the above Article.
Six months prior to the date of placing the Licensee
under administration or the date of issuing the
liquidation ruling if the Licensee was not placed under
administration. This term applies to any transaction
concluded, or priority given to any person who has no
relation with the Licensee, in violation of the provision
of paragraph (a) of this Article.

- 86 -

ARTICLE (159)
A PERSON IN RELATION WITH THE LICENSEE

For the purpose of implementing the provisions of the preceding Article,
a person is considered as having relation with the Licensee if he is a
member of the board of directors, an official or a partner of the Licensee.

- 87 PART 11
PENALTIES
ARTICLE (160)
Without prejudice to any greater penalty prescribed in the Penal Code or
under any other law, any person who violates the provisions of paragraph
(a) of Article (14) of this law shall be punishable by temporary
imprisonment or a fine not exceeding ten million (10,000,000) Bahrain
Dinars or by either penalty, and
The Court shall confiscate the proceeds of the crime.
ARTICLE (161)
Without prejudice to any greater penalty prescribed under the Penal Code
or any other law, any person who contravenes the provisions of Articles
40, 41, and the Regulations issued according to Article 42 of this law
shall be liable to a fine not exceeding one million (1,000,000) Bahraini
Dinars, and
The Court shall confiscate the proceeds of the crime.

ARTICLE (162)
Without prejudice to any greater penalty prescribed under the Penal Code
or any other law, any person who breaches any of the provisions of
paragraphs (a) and (b) of Articles 52, Articles 54, 55, 56, paragraph (a) of
Article 57 and Article 58 of this law shall be liable to a fine not exceeding
fifty thousand (50,000) Bahraini Dinars.
ARTICLE (163)
Without prejudice to any greater penalty in the Penal Code or under any
other law, any officer or employee of a Licensee or a listed company shall
be punished by imprisonment and a fine not exceeding twenty thousand
(20,000) Bahraini Dinars, or by either penalty, if he:
(1)

Concealed any records, information or documents relevant to the
activities of the Licensee, requested by the Central Bank or any

- 88 person appointed by the Central Bank to conduct an investigation
or inspection on the business of the Licensee or the Listed
Company, or provides any of them, in a bad faith, with statements
or information which proves to be false or misleading or do not
reflect the actual financial position of the Licensee or the Listed
Company.
(2)

Concealed from the external auditor any records, information or
documents necessary for auditing the accounts of the Licensee or
the listed company, or provides him in a bad faith, with misleading
or inaccurate statements or information which do not reflect the
actual financial position of the Licensee or the listed company.
ARTICLE (164)

Without prejudice to any greater penalty prescribed under the Penal Code
or any other law a punishment of imprisonment and a fine of not less than
Bahraini Dinars ten thousand (10,000) and no more than Bahraini Dinars
fifty thousand (50,000), or either penalty shall be imposed upon:
1.

2.

3.

Any official or employee of an insurance company dealt in the
name of the company with an actuary expert, consultant, inspection
and loss adjuster, insurance broker or insurance representative who
is not registered in the registers stated in Article (74) of this law,
while he was fully a ware of such fact.
Any person who represents an insurance or reinsurance company
without being registered on the Central Bank’s register stated in
Article (74) of this law.
Any Manager, Director, Auditor, actuary expert or any person
entrusted with the management of an insurance company, who fails
to take the necessary measures for the formation of reserve funds
and to maintain the same according to the requirements of this law.
ARTICLE (165)

Without prejudice to any greater penalty prescribed under the Penal Code
or any other law, a punishment of imprisonment and a fine of no less than
Bahraini Dinars five hundred (500) and no more than Bahraini Dinars
three thousand (3,000) or by either penalty, shall be imposed upon any
person who mediated in conclusion of insurance or reinsurance
transactions or pursued the business of insurance actuary, insurance
consultant or inspection and loss adjuster without having his name

- 89 registered on the Central Bank’s Register referred to in Article (74) of
this law.
ARTICLE (166)
Without prejudice to any greater penalty prescribed under the Penal Code
or any other law:
(a)

A punishment of imprisonment and a fine not exceeding (10,000)
ten thousand Bahraini Dinars, or either penalty, may be imposed
upon any person who in violation of Article (81) of this law issued
securities or put thereof privately or publicly into circulation.

(b)

A punishment of imprisonment and a fine not exceeding three
thousand Bahraini Dinars (3,000), or either penalty, may be
imposed upon any person held responsible for preparing the
prospectus pursuant to the provision of Article (85) of this law and
intentionally included therein false or misleading information or
data.

ARTICLE (167)
Without prejudice to any greater penalty prescribed in the Penal Code or
under any law, a person who contravenes Article (100) of this Law, while
he is fully aware, shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
six months and a fine not exceeding Bahraini Dinars (10,000), or either
penalty.
ARTICLE (168)
Without prejudice to any greater penalty prescribed under the Penal Code
or any other law, a person who contravenes Article (106) of this law is
guilty of an offence of market manipulation and shall be liable to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months and a fine not
exceeding Bahraini Dinars ten thousand (10,000), or either penalty.
ARTICLE (169)
Without prejudice to any greater penalty stated under the Penal Code or
any other law, a punishment by imprisonment and a fine not exceeding
twenty thousand (20,000) Bahraini Dinars, or by either penalty, shall be
imposed upon any official or employee of the Licensee who acts or

- 90 permitted an action in violation of Article (134) of this Decree, if he
knows or should have known that the Licensee is insolvent.
ARTICLE (170)
Without prejudice to any greater penalty prescribed under the Penal Code
or any other law:
(1)

A person shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
five years and a fine not exceeding twenty thousand (20,000)
Bahraini Dinars, or by either penalty, if he falsifies, conceals,
destroys or otherwise disposes of a document which he knows or
he should know that such document is relevant or shall be of
relevance to a current investigation or an investigation likely to be
conducted in accordance with chapter (1) of Part 9 of this Law.
Any person participates in such offence shall be liable to the same
penalty of the principal offender.

(2)

A person shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
three months, or a fine not exceeding three thousand (3,000)
Bahraini Dinars, or either penalty, if he intentionally obstructed
any investigation carried out by the Central Bank or an investigator
appointed by the Central Bank.
ARTICLE (171)

Without prejudice to any greater penalty prescribed under the Penal Code
or any other law, a person who discloses in bad faith any Confidential
Information in contravention of the provisions of Part (8), shall be liable
to imprisonment and a fine not exceeding Bahrain Dinars ten thousand
(10,000), or either penalty.
ARTICLE (172)
Any legal person shall be liable and punished under criminal law by a
fine not exceeding two hundred thousand Bahraini Dinars, if any of the
crimes stated in this Decree are committed in his name or for his account
or by means of any of his facilities, and this was a result of any action or
gross negligence, or by the approval or under covering of any member of
the board of directors or any other official of that legal person or any
person who acts in such capacity.

- 91 -

PART 12
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
ARTICLE (173)
a) The Central Bank must present to the Minister regular reports on
the activity, operation and achievements of the Central Bank, as
well as any performance obstacles, that it may be facing and the
steps taken to resolve them. The Minister shall have the right to ask
the Central Bank to provide him with any documents, information,
resolutions, minutes, records or reports necessary for him to be
able to supervise the Central Bank’s operations in accordance with
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this article.
b) Without prejudice to the autonamy of the Central Bank in
performing its duties and authority pursuant to this law, the
Minister shall monitor the Central Bank’s adherence to the
provisions of this law and the general economic policy of the
Kingdom, and the extent of its effectiveness and efficiency in
performing it duties. The Minister may request at any time from
the external auditor to expand the scope of its audit in relation to
any matter relating to the activity of the Central Bank or to
investigate any matter within that scope.
c) Should the Minister find any conflict between the activities of the
Central Bank and the provisions of the law or the general economic
policy of the Kingdom, or if he finds that the Central Bank is not
performing its duties efficiently and effectively, he must object to
that and inform the Board. If the Board insists on its opinion, it
shall present the matter again to the Minister together with its
justifications within a period not exceeding thirty days. The
Minister shall in such a case present the conflict to the Cabinet to
resolve it by an order issued within a maximum period of thirty
days from the date of it being presented to it.
d) The Minister shall be accountable to the parliament in his
performance of the supervision of the Central Bank’s operations.

- 92 -

ARTICLE (174)
THE CENTRAL BANK’S RECORDS
(a)

The Central Bank shall maintain a special record for each:
1. Licensee.
2. Listed person in any of the records required by the
provisions of this law.
3. Competent person pursuant to the decision issued in
compliance with paragraph (b) o f Article (65) of this
law.

(b)

The Central Bank may maintain any other files as deemed
necessary for carrying out the duties assigned thereto by virtue of
this Decree

(c)

Files referred to shall include documents, information and data
necessary for achieving the objectives of the Central bank.

(d)

The said files shall be kept in the head office of the Central Bank in
an appropriate manner including saving thereof in electronic
format, taking into consideration that adequate measures are
followed to secure the safety of such files and its availability for
reviewing at any time.

(e)

Interested persons may, according to rules and measures
determined by the Central Banks, have access to the files referred
to in this article and obtain official copies of any paper documents,
information, or data contained therein.
ARTICLE (175)
LIMIT OF RESPONSIBILITIES TOWARDS OTHERS

(a)

Neither the Central Bank nor any of its employees shall be
responsible for any procedure, action or forbearance that

- 93 resulted in inflicting damages to others if such procedure,
action or forbearance was performed in the course of
execution of the duties and responsibilities of the Central
Bank and within its authorities as specified in this law and
the regulations and bylaws issued in implementing it.
(b) Neither the Administrator nor the liquidator shall be held
responsible for any procedure, action or forbearance that
resulted in inflicting damages to others if such procedure,
action or forbearance was performed in the course of
execution of their duties and responsibilities as specified in
this law and the regulations and bylaws issued in
implementing it.
(c) The provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall not have
effect if such procedure, action or forbearance constitutes
gross negligence or done in a bad faith.

ARTICLE (176)
DISPUTE RESOLUTION
(a) Dispute Resolution Committee shall be established in the Central
Bank and shall have the exclusive authority for settling disputes
between the Licensees. The Committee shall be formed by a
resolution to be made by the Council every three years as follows:
i. Three judges of the High Court of Appeals to be delegated
by the High Judiciary Council. The Committee shall be
chaired by the most senior judge among the three.
ii. Two of the senior officials of the Central Bank or two
qualified personnel with high caliber in finance services to
be nominated by the Governor.
The two members of the Committee, other than the judges, shall
take oath before the chairman of the Committee to the effect that
they will carry out their mission sincerely and with conscience, and
to participate in the discussions of the committee without having
the right of voting with respect to the decisions issued by the
committee.

- 94 The decisions of the Committee shall be explained and reached by
majority vote; however, in case of a tie vote the chairman’s side
shall have the casting vote. Such decisions, after drafting the same
by the clerks of the said court, shall have the force of a resolution
issued by the High Court of Appeals,
The execution judge shall undertake the implementation of the
decisions taken by the committee pursuant to the provisions of the
Civil and Trade Procedure Law.
The Committee may decide to hear the witnesses and to assign
experts to investigate all documents relevant to the dispute and take
all measures necessary to settling thereof.
The Minister of Justice, in agreement with the Council, may issue a
resolution to specify the procedures to be followed in presenting a
dispute before the Committee and the manner of delivering the
Committee’s decisions to the relevant parties, and the remuneration
of the members of the Committee.
(b)

The Council may issue Regulations establishing appropriate
schemes under which disputes between Licensees and others can
be resolved amicably.
ARTICLE (177)
PROTECTION OF DEPOSITS AND
OTHER RIGHTS
a) The Council may issue regulations to protect deposits and
other rights of the customers of the Licensee. Such
regulations shall provide for compensating such customers
in cases where the Licensee is unable, or appears likely to be
unable to meet claims made against him. The regulation may
provide for formation of one or more funds. Such funds shall
constitute a separate corporate body and have independent
balance sheet and special regulations to be approved by a
resolution issued by the Central Bank.
b) The Central Bank shall issue a decision to determine such
deposits and other rights specified in this article.

- 95 ARTICLE (178)
OWNERSHIP OF SECURITIES
The Central Bank may issue Regulations and make provisions for
enabling title to Securities, including bearer Securities, to be evidenced
and transferred without need to produce written instrument
ARTICLE (179)
FORMATION OF SOCIETIES
Licensees may form one or more professional societies which shall have
independent balance sheets and ordinary personalities to co-ordinate and
seek to achieve co-operation between the members.
The Central Bank shall have the exclusive authority, in accordance with
the rules and procedures which the Central Bank may by Regulation
specify, to sanction the establishment of such societies, approve their
registration and constitutions and exercise control over them.
ARTICLE (180)
FEES
a. A fee may be levied in any of the following cases:
1. Granting any licenses pursuant to the provisions of this law.
2. Registering or renewal of registration of persons in the
records, in which registration is required pursuant to the
provisions of this law, for pursuing business at any financial
institution in the Kingdom.
3. Reviewing any of the records referred to in the above item,
the register of financial institutions licenses, or the files
referred to in Article (174) of this law and obtaining official
copies of any documents, papers, data or information from
such records or files.
4. Obtaining an official copy of the petition for compulsory
liquidation pursuant to the provision of Article (144) of this
law.
b. A resolution shall be issued by the Council to
determine the rates of due fees.

- 96 -

ARTICLE (181)
CASH DEPOSITS
The Central Bank may issue Regulations governing deposits of the
Licensees with the Central Bank. Such regulations shall specify the
categories obliged to make the deposit, the amount of the deposit or the
minimum amounts to be deposited in cash.
ARTICLE (182)
PROVISION OF ASSISTANCE
The Central Bank may provide necessary assistance to any Overseas
Court or authority having the competence to decide a petition of
insolvency of any Licensee.

- 97 PART 13
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE (183)
REPLACING BAHRAIN MONETARY AGENCY BY THE CENTRAL BANK
a. The Central Bank shall replace the Bahrain Monetary
Agency in its rights and obligations. The existing Board of
the Bahrain Monetary Agency, at the effective date of this
law, shall continue in practicing its authorities until such
time as a new Council is formed in accordance with the
provisions of this law.
b. Banknotes and coins issued by the Bahrain Monetary
Agency shall retain their discharging force of the full amount
of their face value within the limits stated in Article (14) of
this law.
ARTICLE (184)
APPROVAL OF LICENSEES
Licenses granted by the Bahrain Monetary Agency, Bahrain Stock
Exchange and the Ministry of Commerce to financial institutions prior to
the date wherein this law came into effect, shall be valid. This holds true
to registration of entities registered, pursuant to the provisions of Decree
Law No.17/1987 with respect to Insurance Companies and Corporations,
prior to the date wherein this law came into effect, provided that such
Licenses or registration of such persons are valid at the effective date of
this law.

- 98 -

ARTICLE (185)
CORRECTION OF POSITIONS
Any person who, at the effective date of this law, provides any of the
Regulated Services, other than the persons and organizations referred to
in the preceding Article, shall promptly correct his position in accordance
with the provisions of this law within six moths of the date in which this
law came into effect.
ARTICLE (186)
THE BAHRAIN STOCK EXCHANGE
The Bahrain Stock Exchange established and regulated by Decree Law
No.4/1987 shall be treated as if it is licensed under this law.
ARTICLE (187)
SECURITIES
Securities issued prior to the enforcement of this law shall hold valid;
likewise, shall be considered as valid, the Securities registered on the
Bahrain Stock Exchange at the time when this law came into effect.
ARTICLE (188)
DEPOSIT PROTECTION SCHEME
The Deposits Protection Scheme in place at the effective date of this law
shall continue to be in force until it is amended or repealed pursuant to
the provisions of this Law.

