Money laundering Prevention Act

Money Laundering Prevention Act, 2012
Bangladesh Gazette
Extraordinary
Published by the authority
Monday, 20 February, 2012

Bangladesh Parliament
Dhaka, 20 February, 2012 /08 Falgun, 1418
The following Act of Parliament received the assent of the President on 20 February,
2012 (08 Falgun, 1418) and is hereby published for general information:-

Act No. 5 of 2012
An Act to repeal the existing Act and Ordinance regarding the prevention of money
laundering and to reenact a law relating thereto

Whereas it is expedient and necessary to reenact a law regarding the prevention of money
laundering and other offences connected therewith including punishment thereof and the
matters ancillary thereto by repealing the existing Act and Ordinance relating thereto;
Therefore, it is hereby enacted as follows:1. Short title and commencement.– (1) This Act may be called the Money Laundering
Prevention Act, 2012.
(2) It shall be deemed to have come into force on 3 Magh, 1418 BE/16 January, 2012 AD.
2. Definitions.– Unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context, in this Act –
(a) “smuggling of money or property” means(i) transfer or holding money or property outside the country in breach of the existing
laws in the country; or
(ii) refrain from repatriating money or property from abroad in which Bangladesh has
an interest and was due to be repatriated; or
(iii) not bringing into the country the actual dues from a foreign country, or paying to a
foreign country in excess of the actual dues;
1

Money laundering Prevention Act

(b) “money or value transfer service” means a financial service in which the service provider
receives currency, cheques, other financial instruments (electronic or otherwise) in one
location, and provides the beneficiary with the equal value in currency or financial
instruments or any other means in a different location;
(c) “proceeds of crime” means any property obtained or derived, directly or indirectly, from
a predicate offence or any such property retained or controlled by anybody;
(d) “freeze” means any action taken by the competent authorities pursuant to this Act by
which any property is brought within the control of the relevant authorities or the court
on a temporary basis and the property shall be disposed of by taking a final decision by
the court regarding confiscation of the property;
(e) “non-profit organization/institution” means any institution registered under section 28 of
the Company Act, 1994 (Act XVIII of 1994);
(f) “financial instrument” means all papers or electronic documents which have a financial
value;
(g) “financial institution” means a financial institution defined under section 2(b) of the
Financial Institutions Act, 1993 (Act No. XXVII of 1993);
(h) “court” means the court of a special judge;
(i) “attachment” means any action taken by the court pursuant to this Act by which any
property is restrained or held by the relevant authorities or the court on a temporary
basis and the property shall be disposed of by taking a final decision by the court;
(j) “customer” means any person or persons or entity or entities that may be defined by
Bangladesh Bank from time to time;
(k) “trust and company service providers” means any persons or business institution that is
not defined in any other laws and provides with any of the following services to any
third party:(1) to act as an agent of establishing any legal entity,
(2) to act as or appoint someone to act as a director, secretary of any legal entity
or act as a partner in a partnership business, or perform other responsibilities
in an equivalent position,
(3) to act as a registered agent for any legal entity,
(4) to act as or appoint someone to act as a trustee of an express trust,
(5) to act as or appoint someone to act as a director instead of a nominee
shareholder or any other person;
(l) “investigation agency” means the Anti Corruption Commission established under the
Anti Corruption Commission Act, 2004 (Act No. V of 2004); and any officer of the
Commission authorized in this behalf by it to investigate or notwithstanding anything
contained in any other law, it shall also include any officer of any other investigation
agency;
2

Money laundering Prevention Act

(m) “cash” means any currency recognized by a country as being the authorized currency for
that country, including coins, paper currency, travelers‟ cheques, postal notes, money
orders, cheques, bank drafts, bearer bonds, letters of credit, bills of exchange, credit
card, debit card or promissory notes;
(n) “disposal” means the sale of property which is degradable, perishable or unsuitable for
use after a certain time, or the destruction of property which falls within properties
suitable for destruction under any other law or it shall also include any legal transfer of
property by means of an open auction;
(o) “confiscation” means the permanent transfer of the title of any property in favour of the
State pursuant to a court order made under section 17 ;
(p) “Bangladesh Bank” means Bangladesh Bank established under the Bangladesh Bank
Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 127 of 1972);
(q) “insurer” means an insurer defined under section 2(25) of the Insurance Act, 2010 (Act
No. XIII of 2010);
(r) “non government organization” means the institutions authorized or registered under the
Societies Registration Act, 1860 (Act No. XXI of 1860), the Voluntary Social Welfare
Agencies (Registration and Control) Ordinance, 1961 (Ordinance No. XLVI of 1961),
the Foreign Donations (Voluntary Activities) Regulation Ordinance, 1978 (Ordinance
No. XLVI of 1978), the Foreign Contributions Regulation Ordinance, 1982 (Ordinance
No. XXXI of 1982), and the Microcredit Regulatory Authority Act, 2006 (Act No.
XXXII of 2006) which(i) receive fund (loan, grant, deposit) from local sources or provides with fund
to others; and/or
(ii) receive any kind of foreign donation or loan or grant;
(s) “foreign currency” means any foreign exchange defined under section 2(d) of the Foreign
Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (Act No. VII of 1947);
(t) “bank” means a bank company defined under section 5(o) of the Bank Companies Act,
1991 (Act No. XIV of 1991) and it shall also include any other institution designated as
a bank under any other law;
(u) “money changer” means any person or institution approved by Bangladesh Bank under
section 3 of the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (Act No. VII of 1947) for
dealing in foreign exchange transactions;
(v) “money laundering” means –
(i)

knowingly moving, converting, or transferring proceeds of crime or
property involved in an offence for the following purposes:(1) concealing or disguising the illicit nature, source,
ownership or control of the proceeds of crime; or

location,

3

Money laundering Prevention Act

(2) assisting any person involved in the commission of the predicate
offence to evade the legal consequences of such offence;
(ii) smuggling money or property earned through legal or illegal means to a
foreign country;
(iii) knowingly transferring or remitting the proceeds of crime to a foreign
country or remitting or bringing them into Bangladesh from a foreign
country with the intention of hiding or disguising its illegal source; or
(iv) concluding or attempting to conclude financial transactions in such a
manner so as to reporting requirement under this Act may be avoided;
(v)

converting or moving or transferring property with the intention to
instigate or assist for committing a predicate offence;

(vi) acquiring, possessing or using any property, knowing that such property
is the proceeds of a predicate offence;
(vii) performing such activities so as to the illegal source of the proceeds of
crime may be concealed or disguised;
(viii) participating in, associating with, conspiring, attempting, abetting,
instigate or counsel to commit any offences mentioned above;
(w) “reporting organization” means –
(i) bank;
(ii) financial institution;
(iii)insurer;
(iv) money changer;
(v) any company or institution which remits or transfers money or money value;
(vi) any other institution carrying out its business with the approval of Bangladesh
Bank;
(vii)
(1) stock dealer and stock broker,
(2) portfolio manager and merchant banker,
(3) securities custodian,
(4) asset manager;
(viii)

(1) non-profit organization,
(2) non government organization,
(3) cooperative society;

(ix) real estate developer;
(x) dealer in precious metals or stones;
(xi) trust and company service provider;
(xii) lawyer, notary, other legal professional and accountant;
(xiii) any other institution which Bangladesh Bank may, from time to time, notify
with the approval of the Government;
4

Money laundering Prevention Act

(x) “real estate developer” means any real estate developer or its officers or employees or
agents defined under section 2(15) of Real Estate Development and Management Act, 2010
(Act No. 48 of 2010) who are engaged in constructing and buying and selling of land,
house, commercial building and flat etc.;
(y) “entity” means any kind of legal entity, statutory body, commercial or non commercial
organization, partnership firm, cooperative society or any organization comprising one or
more than one person;
(z) “suspicious transaction” means such transactions –
(i)
(ii)

(iii)

which deviates from usual transactions;
of which there is ground to suspect that,
(1) the property is the proceeds of an offence,
(2) it is financing to any terrorist activity, a terrorist group or an individual
terrorist;
which is, for the purposes of this Act, any other transaction or attempt of
transaction delineated in the instructions issued by Bangladesh bank from time to
time;

(aa) “cooperative society” means an institution established under section 2(20) of the
Cooperative Societies Act, 2001 (Act No. XLVII of 2001) which is involved in receiving
deposits and providing loans;
(bb) “property” means –
(i)

any type of tangible, intangible, moveable, immoveable property; or

(ii)

cash, any deed or legal instrument of any form including electronic or digital form
giving evidence of title or evidence of interest related to title in the property
which is located within or outside the country;

(cc) “predicate offence” means the offences mentioned below, by committing which within or
outside the country, the money or property derived from is laundered or attempt to be
laundered, namely:(1)

corruption and bribery;

(2)

counterfeiting currency;

(3)

counterfeiting deeds and documents;

(4)

extortion;

(5)

fraud;

(6)

forgery;

(7)

illegal trade of firearms;
5

Money laundering Prevention Act

(8)

illegal trade in narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and substances causing
intoxication;

(9)

illegal trade in stolen and other goods;

(10) kidnapping, illegal restrain and hostage taking;
(11) murder, grievous physical injury;
(12) trafficking of women and children;
(13) black marketing;
(14) smuggling of domestic and foreign currency;
(15) theft or robbery or dacoity or piracy or hijacking of aircraft;
(16) human trafficking;
(17) dowry;
(18) smuggling and offences related to customs and excise duties;
(19) tax related offences;
(20) infringement of intellectual property rights;
(21) terrorism or financing in terrorist activities;
(22) adulteration or the manufacture of goods through infringement of title;
(23) offences relating to the environment;
(24) sexual exploitation;
(25) insider trading and market manipulation using price sensitive information relating
to the capital market in share transactions before it is published for general
information to take advantage of the market and attempting to manipulate the
market for personal or institutional gain;
(26) organized crime, and participation in organized criminal groups;
(27) racketeering; and
(28) any other offence declared as predicate offence by Bangladesh Bank, with the
approval of the Government, by notification in the official Gazette, for the
purpose of this Act.
(dd) “special judge” means a special judge appointed under section 3 of the Criminal Law
Amendment Act, 1958 (Act No. XL of 1958);

6

Money laundering Prevention Act

(ee) (1) “stock dealer and stock broker” means an institution defined under rule 2(i) and (j) of
the Securities and Exchange Commission (Stock Dealer, Stock Broker and Authorized
Representative) Rules, 2000;
(2) “portfolio manager and merchant banker” means an institution defined under rule 2(f)
and 2(j) of the Securities and Exchange Commission (Merchant Banker and Portfolio
Manager) Rules, 1996;
(3) “securities custodian” means an institution defined under rule 2(j) of the Securities
and Exchange Commission (Security Custodial Service) Rules, 2003;
(4) “asset managers” means an institution defined under rule 2(s) of the Securities and
Exchange Commission (Mutual Fund) Rules, 2001;
(ff) “High Court Division” means the High Court Division of the Bangladesh Supreme Court.
3. Act to override other laws.- Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the
time being in force, the provisions of this Act shall, subject to the provisions of section 9, have
effect.
4. Offence of money laundering and punishment.– (1) For the purposes of this Act, money
laundering shall be deemed to be an offence.
(2) Any person who commits or abets or conspires to commit the offence of money
laundering, shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of at least 4(four) years but not
exceeding 12(twelve) years and, in addition to that, a fine equivalent to the twice of the value of
the property involved in the offence or taka 10(ten) lacks, whichever is greater.
(3) In addition to any fine or punishment, the court may pass an order to forfeit the property
of the convicted person in favour of the State which directly or indirectly involved in or related
with money laundering or any predicate offence.
(4) Any entity which commits an offence under this section shall be punished with a fine of
not less than twice of the value of the property or taka 20(twenty) lacks, whichever is greater and
in addition to this the registration of the said entity shall be liable to be cancelled.
(5) It shall not be a prerequisite to charge or punish for money laundering to be convicted or
sentenced for any predicate offence.
5. Punishment for violation of an order for freezing or attachment.– Any person who
violates a freezing or attachment order issued under this Act shall be punished with
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 (three) years or with a fine equivalent to the value of
the property subject to freeze or attachment, or with both.
6. Punishment for divulging information.– (1) No person shall, with an ill motive, divulge
any information relating to the investigation or any other related information to any person,
organization or news media.
7

Money laundering Prevention Act

(2) Any person, institution or agent empowered under this Act shall refrain from using or
divulging any information collected, received, retrieved or known by the person, institution or
agent during the course of employment or appointment, or after the expiry of any contract of
service or appointment for any purpose other than the purposes of this Act.
(3) Any person who contravenes the provisions of sub-sections (1) and (2) shall be punished
with imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 (two) years or a fine not exceeding taka 50 (fifty)
thousand or with both.
7. Punishment for obstruction or non-cooperation in investigation, failure to submit
report or obstruction in the supply of information.- (1) Any person who, under this Act –
(a) obstructs or declines to cooperate with any investigation officer for carrying out
the investigation; or
(b) declines to supply information or submit a report being requested without any
reasonable ground;
shall be deemed to have committed an offence under this Act.
(2) Any person who is convicted under sub-section (1) shall be punished with imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 1 (one) year or with a fine not exceeding taka 25 (twenty five)
thousand or with both.
8. Punishment for providing false information.– (1) No person shall knowingly provide
false information in any manner regarding the source of fund or self identity or the identity of an
account holder or the beneficiary or nominee of an account.
(2) Any person who violates the provision of sub-section (1) shall be punished with
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 (three) years or a fine not exceeding taka 50 (fifty)
thousand or with both.
9. Investigation and trial of an offence.- (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any
other law, the offences under this Act shall be considered as the scheduled offences under the
Anti Corruption Commission Act, 2004 (Act No. V of 2004) and shall be investigated by the
Anti Corruption Commission or any officer of the Commission empowered by it in this behalf or
any officer of any other investigating agency authorized by the Anti Corruption Commission.
(2) The offences under this Act shall be tried by a special judge appointed under section 3 of
the Criminal Law Amendment Act, 1958 (Act No. XL of 1958).
(3) For the purpose of the investigation and identification of property of an accused person,
the Anti Corruption Commission may, besides this Act, also exercise the powers vested in it
under the Anti Corruption Commission Act, 2004 (Act N0. V of 2004) and an officer of any
8

Money laundering Prevention Act

other investigating agency authorized by the Anti Corruption Commission may, besides this Act,
also exercise the powers vested in it under any other law.
10. Extraordinary jurisdiction of the special judge.- (1) The special judge may impose
such punishments as are specified for the offences under this Act, and where appropriate, may
pass any other necessary order including orders for further investigation, freezing, attachment
and confiscation of property.
(2) If the special judge passes an order for further investigation of any case filed under this
Act, he shall, in the said order, specify a time-limit which shall not exceed 6 (six) months
directing the investigation officer to submit his investigation report.
11. Cognizancy, non-compoundability and non-bailability of offences.– Offences under
this Act shall be cognizable, non-compoundable and non-bailable.
12. Inevitability of the approval of the Anti Corruption Commission.- (1)
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure or any other law for the
time being in force, no court shall take cognizance of any offence under this Act, except with the
approval of the Anti Corruption Commission.
(2) After concluding the investigation under this Act, the investigation officer shall take prior
approval of the Anti-Corruption Commission before submitting his report and shall submit a
copy of the approval before the court along with the report.
13. Provisions relating to bail.- Any person accused under this Act shall be released on bail,
if –
(a) the complainant is given an opportunity of being heard on the application for bail;
and
(b) the court is not satisfied that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the
accused shall be found guilty of the charges brought against him; or
(c) the accused is a woman, child or physically disabled person and the court is
satisfied that justice may not be hindered by reason of releasing him on bail.
14. Orders to freeze or attach property.– (1) The court may, on the basis of a written
application by the Anti Corruption Commission or any person or organization authorized by it,
issue an order to freeze or attach the property, within or outside the country, involved in money
laundering or any other offence.
(2) At the time of making a written application before the court under sub-section (1) for an
order to freeze or attach any property, the Anti Corruption Commission or any person or
organization authorized by it shall mention the following information in the application,
namely:9

Money laundering Prevention Act

(a) full description of the property for which an order for freezing or attachment
is sought;
(b) grounds and primary evidence in support of the property for being
attachable due to its involvement in money laundering or any other offence;
(c) the apprehension that the property may be transferred or taken beyond
possession before the disposal of the complaint, if an order is not passed by
the court according to the application.
(3) If an order for freezing or attachment is passed under sub-section (1), the court shall, by
notification in the official Gazette, publish the matter with details of the property for general
information and at least in 2 (two) widely circulated national dailies [1(one) Bengali and 1(one)
English] in the form of a notice.
(4) In an order passed under this section to freeze or attach any property, the name of the
accused, the names of his parents, the name of spouse, nationality, designation (if any),
occupation, tax identification number (TIN), present and permanent addresses and any other
identification of the accused shall, in so far as possible, be mentioned, but the enforcement of the
provisions of this Act shall not be impeded by any trifling errors and omissions of these
information.
(5) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (6), if the court passes an order for freezing or
attachment of any property of a person under this section, the property may, unless the court
directs otherwise, not be in any way transferred elsewhere and no transactions may be carried out
with respect to the property nor may any encumbrances be attached to the property while the
order is in force.
(6) While an order for freezing with respect to any person‟s bank account is in force, all
money receivable by that person may be deposited into the frozen bank account, unless
otherwise mentioned in the order.
15. Return of frozen or attached property.– (1) If any court makes an order to freeze or
attach any property under section 14 and any person or entity other than the accused person or
entity has an interest in that property, the person or the entity may make an application before the
court for the return of the property within 30 (thirty) days of the publication of the notice on the
order to freeze or attach the property.
(2) If any person or entity makes an application before the court under sub-section (1), the
following information shall be mentioned in the application:(a) the property is not involved directly or indirectly in money laundering or any
predicate offence;
(b) the applicant is not involved directly or indirectly in the alleged money laundering
or any other predicate offence;
(c) the applicant is not acting as a nominee of, or on behalf of, the accused person;
10

Money laundering Prevention Act

(d) the accused person or entity has no proprietary right, interest or ownership with
regard to the frozen or attached property; and
(e) the applicant has a proprietary right, interest and ownership in the frozen or
attached property.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (5) of section 14, if the court receives
any application for return of any property under this section, it shall give the applicant, the
investigation agency and the accused person or entity an opportunity of being heard and at the
end of the hearing, after reviewing the necessary documents, if the court is satisfied with the
application of the applicant brought under sub-section (1) and finds that the Government has not
presented a reasonable suspicion that the property is involved directly or indirectly in money
laundering or a predicate offence, it shall set aside the order to freeze or attach the property, and
pass an order for transfer of the property in favour of the applicant within the time specified in
the order.
16. Appeal against the order to freeze or attach property.– (1) Any person or entity
aggrieved by an order for freezing or attachment of any property, passed by a court under this
Act, may prefer an appeal against such order before the High Court Division within 30 (thirty)
days.
(2) If an appeal is preferred under sub-section (1) the appellate court shall give the parties
reasonable time for being heard, and at the end of hearing, may pass such order as it deems fit.
(3) If any person or entity aggrieved by an order to freeze or attach any property passed by
any court under section 14 prefers an appeal against such order, the said order shall have effect
pending the appeal to be disposal of, unless the appellate court directs otherwise.
17. Confiscation of property.– (1) If any person or entity is convicted of the offence of
money laundering under this Act, the court may pass an order for confiscation of any property,
within or outside the country, involved directly or indirectly in money laundering or predicate
offence in favour of the State.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), during an inquiry and
investigation or prosecution under this Act relating to an offence of money laundering, the
respective court may, where necessary, pass an order for the confiscation of any property situated
within or outside the country in favour of the State.
(3) If any person convicted of the offence of money laundering under this Act absconds or
dies after submitting the charge sheet, the court may pass an order for confiscation of that
person‟s property which was involved in the money laundering or predicate offence in favour of
the State.
Explanation.– A person shall be deemed to have absconded for the purposes of this section
where the person, despite adequate measures being taken, fails to surrender before
the court within 6 (six) months of issuance of the warrant of arrest, or it is not
possible to arrest the person within the period.
11

Money laundering Prevention Act

(4) If any person or entity purchases any property applied for confiscation in good faith and
for proper value before an order for confiscation of the property is passed by the court under the
provisions of this section or before a case is filed or a complaint is lodged, and the person or the
entity is able to satisfy the court that he or it was not aware of the matter that the said property
was involved in money laundering, and purchased the property in good faith, then the court may,
instead of ordering for confiscation of the property, order the convicted person or entity to
deposit the proceeds of the sale of the property to the treasury of the State within the time
specified by it.
(5) If the court finds that the property involved directly or indirectly in money laundering or
any predicate offence cannot be located or confiscated or has been dissipated for being used
otherwise, the court may(a) pass an order for confiscation of such property of an equivalent value of the
accused as is not related with the offence;
(b) impose a fine on the accused equivalent to the value of the unrecovered
property.
(6) If any property is confiscated under this section, the notice of the order of confiscation
shall be sent by registered post to the last known address of the person or entity having control of
the confiscated property and such notice, along with the schedule and full details of the property,
shall be published in the official Gazette and at least 2 (two) widely circulated national dailies
[1(one) Bengali and 1(one) English].
(7) If any court pass an order for confiscation of any property under this section, the
ownership of the property shall be vested in the State and the person or entity who is the owner
or custodian of the property shall hand over the possession of the property to the State as early as
possible.
(8) If the proceeds of crime have been mingled with property acquired from legitimate
sources, such property shall be liable to confiscation up to the assessed value of the mingled
proceeds by the court or where the value of the proceeds of crime cannot be determined, the
court may pass a confiscation order on the full value of the mingled money or property in favour
of the State.
18. Return of confiscated property. – (1) If a court pass an order of confiscation of any
property under section 17 and any person or entity other than the convicted person has any title,
interest or right in the property, the person or the entity may make an application before the court
for the return of the property within 30 (thirty) days of the publication of the notice of
confiscation of the property in newspaper.
(2) If any application is received under sub-section (1), the court shall give a reasonable time
to the person who filed the case, the convicted person or entity and the applicant to be heard and
after hearing, the court may pass necessary order considering the following matters, namely:-

12

Money laundering Prevention Act

(a) whether the applicant or the confiscated property or any part thereof had any
involvement in the commission of the offence;
(b) whether the applicant has a valid right to acquire the confiscated property;
(c) the duration of the commission of the offence and the duration of alleged ownership
of the confiscated property by the applicant; and
(d) any other information deemed to be relevant by the court.
19. Appeal against any order for confiscation.– (1) If any court pass an order for
confiscation of any property under this Act, the party aggrieved by such an order may prefer an
appeal against the order before the High Court Division within 30 (thirty) days.
(2) If an appeal is preferred under sub-section (1), the appellate court shall give both the
parties reasonable opportunity of being heard and may, on conclusion of such hearing, pass such
orders as it deems fit.
20. Procedure for disposal of confiscated property.– (1) If any property is confiscated
under this Act, the Government may, subject to the permission of the court, sell or, in any other
way, dispose of such property other than the property which is required to be destroyed under
any other law, by means of an open auction or by any other commercially profitable and lawful
means.
(2) The proceeds of the sale or disposal of the property in any other legal manner under subsection (1) shall be deposited into the treasury of the State.
21. Appointment of a manager or caretaker for taking care of the frozen, attached or
confiscated property.– If any property is frozen, attached or confiscated under this Act, the
court may, upon an application of the investigation agency or any person authorized by it in this
behalf, appoint any law enforcement agency as a manager or caretaker of the property to take
control, manage, look after or, in any other manner, deal with the total property or any part
thereof under such terms and conditions as the court may deem fit.
22. Appeal.– Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, any party aggrieved by an order, judgment, decree or sentence passed by a court under this
Act may prefer an appeal before the High Court Division within 30 (thirty) days from the date of
such order, judgment, decree or sentence.
23. Powers and responsibilities of Bangladesh Bank in restraining and preventing the
offence of money laundering.– (1) For the purposes of this Act, Bangladesh Bank shall have the
following powers and responsibilities, namely:(a) to analyze or review information related to cash transactions and suspicious
transactions received from any reporting organization and to collect additional
information relating thereto for the purpose of analyzing or reviewing from the
reporting organizations and maintain data on the same and, as the case may be,
13

Money laundering Prevention Act

provide with the said information to the relevant law enforcement agencies for
taking necessary actions;
(b) ask for any information or obtain a report from reporting organizations with
regard to any transaction in which there are reasonable grounds to believe that the
transaction involves in money laundering or a predicate offence;
(c) issue an order to any reporting organization to suspend or freeze transactions of
any account for a period not exceeding 30 (thirty) days if there are reasonable
grounds to suspect that any money or property has been deposited into the
account by committing any offence:
Provided that such order may be extended for additional period of a maximum
of 6 (six) months by 30 (thirty) days, if it appears necessary to find out correct
information relating to transactions of the account;
(d) issue, from time to time, any directions necessary for the prevention of money
laundering to the reporting organizations;
(e) monitor whether the reporting organizations have properly submitted information
and reports requested by Bangladesh Bank and whether they have duly complied
with the directions issued by it, and where necessary, carry out on-site inspections
of the reporting organizations to ascertain the same;
(f) arrange meetings and seminars including training for the officers and staff of any
organization or institution, including the reporting organizations, considered
necessary for the purpose of ensuring proper implementation of this Act by
Bangladesh Bank;
(g) carry out any other functions necessary for the purposes of this Act.
(2) If any investigation agency makes a request to provide it with any information in any
investigation relating to money laundering or suspicious transaction, then Bangladesh Bank shall
provide with such information where there is no obligation for it under any existing law or for
any other reason.
(3) If any reporting organization fails to provide with the requested information timely under
this section, Bangladesh Bank may impose a fine on such organization which may extend to a
maximum of taka 5 (five) lacs at the rate of taka 10 (ten) thousand per day and if any
organization is fined more than 3(three) times in 1(one) financial year, Bangladesh Bank may
suspend the registration or licence of the organization or any of its branches, service centers,
booths or agents for the purpose of closing its operation within Bangladesh or, as the case may
be, shall inform the registration or licensing authority about the fact so as to the relevant
authority may take appropriate measures against the organization.

14

Money laundering Prevention Act

(4) If any reporting organization provides with false information or statement requested
under this section, Bangladesh Bank may impose a fine on such organization not less than taka
20 (twenty) thousand but not exceeding taka 5 (five) lacs and if any organization is fined more
than 3(three) times in 1(one) financial year, Bangladesh Bank may suspend the registration or
license of the organization or any of its branches, service centers, booths or agents for the
purpose of closing its operation within Bangladesh or, as the case may be, shall inform the
registration or licensing authority about the fact so as to the relevant authority may take
appropriate measures against the said organization.
(5) If any reporting organization fails to comply with any instruction given by Bangladesh
Bank under this Act, Bangladesh Bank may impose a fine on such organization which may
extend to a maximum of taka 5 (five) lacs at the rate of taka 10 (ten) thousand per day for each
of such non compliance and if any organization is fined more than 3(three) times in 1(one)
financial year, Bangladesh Bank may suspend the registration or license of the organization or
any of its branches, service centers, booths or agents for the purpose of closing its operation
within Bangladesh or, as the case may be, shall inform the registration or licensing authority
about the fact so as to the relevant authority may take appropriate measures against the said
organization.
(6) If any reporting organization fails to comply with any order for freezing or suspension of
transaction issued by Bangladesh Bank under clause (c) of sub-section (1), Bangladesh Bank
may impose a fine on such organization not less than the balance held on that account but not
more than twice of the balance held at the time of issuing the order.
(7) If any person or entity or reporting organization fails to pay any fine imposed by
Bangladesh Bank under sections 23 and 25 of this Act, Bangladesh Bank may recover the fine
from accounts maintained in the name of the relevant person, entity or reporting organization in
any bank or financial institution or Bangladesh Bank, and in this regard if any amount of the fine
remains unrealized, Bangladesh Bank may, if necessary, make an application before the court for
recovery and the court may pass such order as it deems fit.
(8) If any reporting organization is imposed fine under sub-sections (3), (4), (5) and (6),
Bangladesh Bank may also impose a fine not less than taka 10 (ten) thousand but not exceeding
taka 5 (five) lacs on the responsible owner, directors, officers and staff or persons employed on
contractual basis of that reporting organization and, where necessary, may direct the relevant
organization to take necessary administrative actions.
24. Establishment of the Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit (BFIU).– (1) In order to
exercise the power and perform the duties vested in Bangladesh Bank under section 23 of this
Act, there shall be a separate unit to be called the Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit (BFIU)
within Bangladesh Bank.
(2) For the purposes of this Act, the governmental, semi-governmental, autonomous
organizations or any other relevant institutions or organizations shall, upon any request or
spontaneously, provide the Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit with the information
preserved or gathered by them.
15

Money laundering Prevention Act

(3) The Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit may, if necessary, spontaneously provide
other law enforcement agencies with the information relating to money laundering and terrorist
financing.
(4) The Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit shall provide with information relating to
money laundering or terrorist financing or any suspicious transactions to the Financial
Intelligence Unit of another country on the basis of any contract or agreement entered into with
that country under the provisions of this Act and may ask for any such information from any
other country.
(5) The Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit may also provide with such information to
the Financial Intelligence Units of other countries spontaneously where there is no such contract
or agreement under sub-section (4).
25. Responsibilities of the reporting organizations in prevention of money laundering.–
(1) The reporting organizations shall have the following responsibilities in the prevention of
money laundering, namely:(a)

to maintain complete and correct information with regard to the identity of its
customers during the operation of their accounts;

(b)

if any account of a customer is closed, to preserve previous records of
transactions of such account for at least 5(five) years from the date of such
closure;

(c)

to provide with the information maintained under clauses (a) and (b) to
Bangladesh Bank from time to time, on its demand;

(d)

if any doubtful transaction or attempt of such transaction as defined under
clause (n) of section 2 is observed, to report the matter as „suspicious
transaction report‟ to the Bangladesh Bank immediately on its own accord.

(2) If any reporting organization violates the provisions of sub-section (1), Bangladesh Bank
may(a) impose a fine of at least taka 50 (fifty) thousand but not exceeding taka 25
(twenty-five) lacs on the reporting organization; and
(b) in addition to the fine mentioned in clause (a), cancel the license or the
authorization for carrying out commercial activities of the said organization or
any of its branches, service centers, booths or agents, or as the case may be, shall
inform the registration or licensing authority about the fact so as to the relevant
authority may take appropriate measures against the organization.

16

Money laundering Prevention Act

(3) Bangladesh Bank shall collect the sum of fine imposed under sub-section (2) in such
manner as it may determine and the sum collected shall be deposited into treasury of the State.
26. Contract with foreign countries.– (1) For the purposes of this Act, the Government may
enter into a contract with any foreign State under bilateral or multilateral agreements,
conventions or any other means recognized by international law.
(2) If the Government enters into any contract with any foreign State under this section, the
Government may, for the purpose of prevention of money laundering:(a) ask for necessary information from the foreign State or organization; and
(b) provide with information asked for by the foreign State or organization if
it is not a threat to national security.
(3) For the purposes of this Act, the Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit (BFIU) may sign
any memorandum of understanding with any foreign financial intelligence unit or other
organization and under the memorandum of understanding BFIU may (a) ask for necessary information from the foreign financial intelligence unit or
organization; and
(b)
provide information sought by the foreign financial intelligence unit or
organization if it is not a threat to national security.
(4) Any court may, upon the application of Attorney General's Office, pass such orders as it
deems fit where, for the purpose of this Act, it is necessary to confiscate or return any property
situated in Bangladesh in order to comply with an order made by a court of a foreign State under
a contract; similarly the Attorney General's Office may make a request to a foreign State for the
purpose of complying with an order passed by a court in Bangladesh for confiscation or return of
property under a contract or memorandum of understanding.
(5) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, any documents received from the
appropriate authorities of any foreign State under the scope of mutual legal assistance, shall, for
the purposes of this Act, be admissible as evidence before the relevant court.
27. Offences committed by an entity.– If any offence under this Act is committed by an
entity, every proprietor, director, manager, secretary or any other officer, staff or representative
of the said entity who is directly involved in the offence shall be deemed to be guilty of the
offence, unless he is able to prove that the offence has been committed without his knowledge or
he tried his best to prevent it.
Explanation.– In this section “director” includes any member of the partnership entity or
any of the Board of Directors of the entity, by whatever name called.
28. Protection of actions taken in good faith.– No suit or prosecution or administrative
measures or any other legal proceedings shall lie against the Government or any officer or staff
17

Money laundering Prevention Act

of the Government or Bangladesh Bank or any officer or staff of Bangladesh Bank or the AntiCorruption Commission or any officer or staff of the Commission or any reporting organization
or its Board of Directors or any of its officers or staff for anything which is done in good faith
under this Act or rules made thereunder for which any person is or likely to be affected.
29. Power to make rules.– For the purposes of this Act, the Government may, by
notification in the official Gazette, make rules.
30. Publication of an English Text of the Act.– (1) After the commencement of this Act,
the Government shall, as soon as possible, by notification in the official Gazette, publish an
Authentic English Text of this Act.
(2) In case of any conflict between the Bangla Text and the English Text, the Bangla Text
shall prevail.
31. Repeal and savings.– (1) The Money Laundering Prevention Act, 2009 (Act No.VIII of
2009) and the Money Laundering Prevention Ordinance, 2012 (Ordinance No. II of 2012),
hereinafter referred to as the Act and Ordinance, are hereby repealed.
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal, any action taken or any case filed or any proceeding taken
under the Act and Ordinance which are pending shall be disposed of in such a manner as if it had
been filed and taken under this Act.
(3) Notwithstanding such repeal, if any offence committed or remains under investigation or
trial under the Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 (Act No. VII of 1947) and the Act and
Ordinance, such offences shall be disposed of in such a manner as if it had been filed and taken
under this Act.

Md. Mahfuzur Rahman
Acting Secretary

18

