THE BANGLADESH TELECOMMUNICATION ACT, 2001
(Act No. XVIII of 2001)

INDEX
Sections
CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY MATTERS
1. Short title and commencement.
2. Definitions.
3. Application.
4. Application of other laws etc. relating to telecommunication.
5. Act to override other laws.

CHAPTER II
ESTABLISHMENT AND
COMPOSITION OF COMMISSION
6. Establishment etc. of Commission.
7. Constitution of Commission.
8. Office of Commission.
9. Appointment and tenure of Commissioners.
10. Qualification and disqualification of Commissioners.
11. Duty of Commissioner regarding certain interest of familymembers.
12. Resignation and removal of Commissioners.
13. Casual vacancy in a Commissioner’s office.
14. Chief executive.
15. Meetings of Commission.

16. Committee.
17. Status, remuneration and privileges of Commissioners.
18. Appointment of secretary, officer-employees etc. of Commission.
19. Appointment of personnel on deputation from other
organization.
20. Employment outside the Commission.

CHAPTER III
FINANCIAL MATTERS OF COMMISSION
21. Bangladesh Telecommunication Regulatory Commission Fund.
22. Annual budget statement.
23. Power to raise loan.
24. Charge etc. for services provided by Commission.
25. Exemption from income tax.
26. Realisation of dues.
27. Accounts and Audit.
28. Report.

CHAPTER IV
BROAD OBIECTVES, POWERS AND FUNCTIONS
29. Broad objectives of Commission.
30. Functions of Commission.
31. Powers of Commission.
32. Delegation of power by Commission.
33. Functions of the Ministry.
34. Powers of Government.

CHAPTER V
Licences for telecommunication etc.
35. Requirement for licence for telecommunication, internet etc.
36. Exclusive authority of Commission to issue licence and its
Page 2 of 87

procedure.
37. Conditions of licence.
38. Renewal of licence.
39. Amendment of conditions of licence.
40. Restrictions on according commercial permission for use of
telecommunication system.
41. Commission’s jurisdiction in case of limiting operator’s liability.
42. Right of way.
43. Refusal of consent of owner etc. to the exercise of right of way.
44. Compensation.
45. Compulsory acquisition of private land for licensee’s necessity.
46. Cancellation and suspension of licence.
47. Interconnection.

CHAPTER VI
Tariff, Charge etc.
48. Approval of tariff.
49. Principles of determination of tariff by Commission.

CHAPTER VII
Standard of telecommunication apparatus and service
50. Discriminatory charges prohibited.
51. Standard of telecommunication apparatus.
52. Technical standard etc. of terminal apparatus.
53. Search etc. of harmful interference.
54. Determination of the standards of telecommunication.

CHAPTRE VIII
Radio communication and Spectrum Management
55. Necessity for licence for radio apparatus, authority, procedure
etc.

Page 3 of 87

56. Spectrum Management Committee.
57. Technical Acceptance Certificate.
58. Monitoring and control of emission of electro-magnetic energy.

CHAPTER IX
Receipt and disposal Consumer-complains
59. Provisions relating to receipt and disposal of consumercomplains.

CHAPTER X
Inspection and Compulsory Enforcement
60. Appointment of Inspector.
61. Powers of Inspector.
62. Prima facie truth of Inspector’s certificate or report.
63. Issue of enforcement order and penalty for its violation.
64. Commission’s power to issue injunction on current or probable
violation.
65. Administrative fines.

CHAPTER XI
Offence, Penalty, Investigation and Trial
66. Penalty for sending false message etc. by using radio or
telecommunication.
67. Penalty for causing interference in radio communication and
telecommunication.
68. Penalty for misuse of radio or telecommunication apparatus by
employee.
69. Penalty for sending obscene, indecent message etc.
70. Penalty for causing annoyance by telephone calls.
71. Penalty for eaves dropping telephone conversation.
72. Penalty for trespass, unlawful stay, causing damage to apparatus
obstruction to operation activity etc.
73. Other offences and penalties.
Page 4 of 87

74. Penalty for abetment of offence.
75. Provision in regulations relating to offence, penalty,
compensation.
76. Offence by company.
77. Jurisdiction of courts relating to cognizance and trial of offences.
78. Lodgement of complaint and procedure of investigation.
79. Application of Criminal Procedure Code.
80. Assistance to Public Prosecutor etc. by Officer of Commission.
81. Confiscation of apparatus etc.
82. Disposal of realized administrative fine and fine for Commission
of offences.
83. Right to civil suits and other remedies for unlawful disclosure of
message.
84. Supply of accounts and information to Commission.
85. Access to information and confidentiality.
86. General inquiry and decision thereon.
87. Public hearing and its procedure.
88. Summoning witnesses and producing evidence in public hearing.

CHAPTER XIII
Transitional provisions,
transfer of rights and liabilities
89. Certain matters under Act XIII of 1885 and XVII of 1933 to be
vested in the Commission.
90. Existing licences and other authorizations to continue for limited
period.
91. Radio frequency allocated before commencement of Act to
continue for limited period.
92. Approval of pre-commencement tariff.
93. Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board deemed to be
licensee.
Page 5 of 87

CHAPTER XIV
Miscellaneous
94. Public Servant.
95. Indemnity.
96. Acquisition of radio apparatus, telecommunication system.
97. Preferential right of Government in emergency.
98. Power to make rules.
99. Power to make regulations.
100. Abolition etc. of Project.
101. Government’s power to remove difficulty.
102. Publication of Translated English text of the Act.

Page 6 of 87

THE BANGLADESH TELECOMMUNICATION ACT,
2001
[ The Act (in Bangla) was assented to by the President on 16
April, 2001 (3 Baishakh, 1408) and published by the
Bangladesh Parliament in the Bangladesh Gazette, Extraordinary issue of 16 April, 2001. ]

Act No. 18 of 2001
CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY MATTERS
An Act to provide for the establishment of an independent
Commission for the purpose of development and efficient regulation of
telecommunication system and telecommunication services in Bangladesh
and matters ancillary thereto ;
Whereas it is expedient to provide for the establishment of an
independent Commission for the purpose of development and efficient
regulation of telecommunication system and telecommunication services in
Bangladesh and for the transfer of the powers and functions of the Ministry of
Post and telecommunication to the Commission and matters ancillary thereto;
Now, therefore, it is hereby enacted as follows:1.

Short title and commencement.- (1) This Act may be cited as the

Bangladesh Telecommunication Act, 2001.
(2)

It shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by

notification in the official Gazette, specify.
**2.

Definitions.- In this Act, except where the subject or context otherwise

requires“broadcasting” means transmission of any message, information, signal,
sound, image or intellectual expression by radio wave, satellite, cable or
optical fibre connection for the purpose of receipt by the public, but
transmission of anything by Internet connection shall not be deemed to be a
broadcasting {ref. clause (30)};
[**N.B.- The definitions are arranged in English alphabetical order and
the reference to the relevant clause of this section is
mentioned at the end of each definition within brackets.]
Page 7 of 87

“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Commission {ref. clause (9)};
“charge” means a charge to be paid for the service provided by the
Commission or an operator {ref. clause (10)};
“Commission” means the Bangladesh Telecommunication Regulatory
Commission established under section 6 {ref. clause (3)};
“Commissioner” means the Chairman or any other Commissioner of the
Commission {ref. clause (4)};
“consumer” means a person who takes telecommunication service from
an operator {ref. clause (8)};
“Criminal Procedure Code” means the Code of Criminal Procedure,
1898 (Act V of 1898) {ref. clause (23)};
“employee” includes an officer {ref. clause (5)};
“harmful interference” means an adverse effect of electro-magnechtic
energy created from an emission, radiation or induction that(a)

endangers the use or workability of radio communication
system; or

(b)

significantly reduces or obstructs the use or workability of
radio apparatus, or interrupts such use or workability {ref.
clause (6)};

“interference causing apparatus” means an apparatus or device, other
than radio apparatus, that interferes or is of capable of causing
interference in radio communication {ref. clause (17)};
“Inspector” means a person appointed as an Inspector under section 60
{ref. clause (18)};
“interconnection” means the visible or invisible or logical linkinking of
more than one telecommunication network in order to enable the users of
one network to communicate among themselves or to communicate with
the users of another network or to avail themselves of the service of the
other network {ref. clause (2)};
“interested party” means a person who is interested in the development
of telecommunication or who has applied for a licence for establishing
Page 8 of 87

or

operating

telecommunication

system

or

for

providing

telecommunication service, or who is interested in the activities that may
be undertaken under a licence {ref. clause (1)};
“licence” means a licence issued or deemed to have been issued by the
Commission under this Act

for establishing or operating a

telecommunication system or for providing telecommunication service
or for operating or maintaining such system or service or for using a
radio apparatus {ref. clause (29)};
“Minister” means the Minister in charge of the Ministry or Division
dealing with post and telecommunication {ref. clause (27)};
“Ministry” means the Ministry or Division dealing with post and
telecommunication {ref. clause (28)};
“operator” means a person licenced for establishing or operating a
telecommunication system or providing telecommunication service or
operating a system which is the combination of more than one of those
facilities {ref. clause (19)};
“permit” means a permit issued or deemed to have been issued under
section 40(2) or CHAPTER-XIII {ref. clause (21)};
“person” includes an individual having natural personality, a
partnership, society, company, corporation, co-operative society and
statutory body {ref. clause (24)};
“radio apparatus” means a device or combination of more than one
device suitable for use in radio communication {ref. clause (25)};
“radio communication or radio” means emission, transmission or
reception of any sign, signal, picture, image, symbol or sound by means
of radio wave of a frequency lower than 3000 Ghz and propagated in the
space without any artificial guide {ref. clause (26)};
“regulation” means regulations made under this Act {ref. clause (20)};
“Spectrum

Management

Committee”

means

the

Spectrum

Management Committee constituted under section 56 of this Act {ref.
clause (31)};

Page 9 of 87

“tariff” means a tariff approved by the Commission under CHAPTERVI of this Act or a tariff mentioned in section 92 {ref. clause (16)};
“technical acceptance certificate” means a technical acceptance
certificate issued by the Commission under section 57 {ref. clause (7)};
“telecommunication” means transmission and reception of any speech,
sound, sign, signal, writing, visual image or any other intellectual
expression by way of using electricity or electro-magnetic or electrochemical or electro-mechanical energy through cable, pipe, radio,
optical fibre or other electro-magnetic or electro-chemical or electromechanical or satellite communication system {ref. clause (11)};
“telecommunication apparatus” means an apparatus used for
transmission or reception of anything that falls within the purview of the
definition of telecommunication {ref. clause (12)};
“telecommunication network” means a combination of a set of nodes
and links that establish telecommunication between two or more points
{ref. clause (14)};
“telecommunication service” means any of the following services:(a)

transmission

or

reception,

with

the

help

of

a

telecommunication system, of anything that falls within
the purview of the definition of telecommunication;
(b)

any value added telecommunication service (e.g. fax,
voice mail, paying service);

(c)

internet service;

(d)

supply of information or directory relating to a
telecommunication system for the convenience of using a
service intentioned in (a), (b) and (c) above;

(e)

a

service

for

installation,

or

maintenance

of

telecommunication apparatus, or a service relating to the
adjustment, alteration, repair, moving or replacement of
such apparatus {ref. clause (15)};
“telecommunication

system”

means

a

combination

of

the

telecommunication apparatus (e.g. switching system, transmission
Page 10 of 87

apparatus, terminal apparatus, satellite etc.) whether or not these
equipments are visibly connected with one an-other, or whether or not
they are combinedly used in the transmission or reception of any
information or message {ref. clause (13)};
“terminal apparatus” means a telecommunication apparatus which is
used by a consumer of telecommunication service for sending or
receiving an information or message through a telecommunication
system {ref. clause (22)};
“universal service” means providing telecommunication service to any
citizen of Bangladesh or to other persons irrespective of their place of
stay or occupation in Bangladesh {ref. clause (32)}.
3.

Application.- (1) This Act shall extend to the whole of Bangladesh and

also to the following :(a)

any vehicle, vessel, aircraft or satellite;

(b)

any platform, rig or other structure that is fixed in the sea
or attached to the submarine land :

Provided that if Bangladesh is a party to an international treaty, or an
arrangement of similar nature in relation to a foreign vehicles, vessels, aircrafts
or satellites, this Act shall apply subject to such treaty or arrangement.
(2)

This Act shall not apply to the following:(a)

any broadcasting;

(b)

a radio broadcasting station or a television broadcasting
station or licensing of such station;

(c)

broadcasting apparatus or an apparatus for receiving any
message or other information or a programme transmitted
by way of broadcast, or the business of such apparatus;
Provided that this Act shall apply to the following :
(i)

allocation of frequency for such radio
station

or

television

station

or

broadcasting apparatus, or control of
the allocated frequency;
Page 11 of 87

(ii)

use of a telecommunication apparatus
in combination with broadcasting
apparatus

or

use

of

telecommunication apparatus for the
purpose of broadcasting.
(3)

The Government may, by an order notified in the official Gazette,

exempt any person or class of persons, or any particular telecommunication
apparatus or radio apparatus or any particular service from the operation of any
or all the provisions of this Act or of the regulations made thereunder.
4.

Application of other laws etc. relating to telecommunication.- (1)

The Telegraph Act, 1885 (XIII of 1885) and The Wireless Telegraphy Act,
1933 (XVII of 1933) shall, subject to the provisions of this Act, apply and
where, in relation to any matter, this Act conflicts with any of those two Acts,
the provisions of this Act shall prevail.
(2)

For the purposes of performing the functions under this Act, the

provisions of the rules or regulations made or other similar instruments, order,
instructions or directions issued, under the aforesaid two Acts shall apply, so
far as they are consistent with the provisions of this Act, until such rules,
regulations, other similar instruments, order, instruction or directions are
repealed by the Commission.
5.

Act to override other laws.- Notwithstanding any contrary provisions

of any other law, the provisions of this Act shall have effect.

Page 12 of 87

CHAPTER II
ESTABLISHMENT AND CONSTITUTION OF COMMISSION
6.

Establishment etc. of Commission.- On the commencement of this

Act, a Commission to be known as the Bangladesh Telecommunication
Regulatory Commission shall be established.
(2)

The Commission shall be a body corporate having perpetual

succession and a common seal, and shall have rights to acquire and hold
movable and immovable property, to transfer such property, to enter into
contract, to undertake any other activity and to take any action under this Act;
and it can sue and be sued in its own name.
(3)

The common seal of the Commission shall be of such size and

shall contain such particulars as the Commission may determine; it shall be
kept in the custody of the Chairman and shall be used in such cases as the
Commission may determine :
Provided that the common seal shall not be used on any document
unless the Chairman and another Commissioner are present; and they shall, to
mark their presence, sign the document on which the seal is so used.
7.

Constitution of Commission.- (1) The Commission shall consist of 5

(five) Commissioners, and the Government shall appoint one of them to be the
Chairman and another to be the Vice-Chairman.
(2)

At least two of the Commissioners shall be engineers as specified

in clause (a) of sub-section 10(1), and at least one shall be a person as specified
in clause (b) of that sub-section, and another shall be a person as specified in
clause (c) of that sub-section.

(3) No act or proceedings of the Commission shall be illegal nor shall it be called
in question in any court only on the ground of a vacancy in the office of a
Commissioner or a defect in the constitution of the Commission.
8.

Office of Commission.- The principal office of the Commission shall be

situated in Dhaka, however the Commission may, with prior approval of the
Government, establish branch office at any place of the country.

Page 13 of 87

9.

Appointment and tenure of Commissioners.- (1) The Commissioners

shall be appointed by the Government and they shall perform their functions on
full-time basis.
(2)

A Commissioner shall, subject to the provisions of this Act,

remain in office for a period of three years from the date of his appointment
and he may be re-appointed for only one more tenure of that duration :
Provided that no person shall be eligible for appointment to, or holding
the office of, Commissioner if he attains the age of 65 (sixty five) years.
10.

Qualifications and disqualifications of Commissioners.- (1) A

Commissioner shall be a person who(a)

is an engineer having at least 15 years’ practical
experience in the field of telecommunication;

(b)

is an advocate or a judge having 15 years’ practical
experience in law including the qualification for
appointment of a judge of the High Court Division;

(c)

has 15 (fifteen) years’ practical experience in business or
industry or finance or economics or protection of
consumer interest or management or administration.

(2)

No person shall be qualified for appointment to, or for holding,

the office of Commissioner, who(a)

is not a citizen of Bangladesh;

(b)

has been elected a member of the Parliament or of any
local government or has been nominated as a candidate for
such election;

(c)

has been declared or identified by the Bangladesh Bank or
by a bank or financial institution or by the court as a
defaulter loanee of that bank or institution;

(d)

has been declared by the court as a bankrupt and has not
been discharged from that liability;

(e)

has been, on conviction for a criminal offence involving
moral turpitude, sentenced to imprisonment for a term of
Page 14 of 87

two years or more, and a period of five years has not
elapsed his since release from such imprisonment;
(f)

is, after being appointed Commissioner, directly engaged
in

any

income

generating

activity

outside

the

responsibilities of his office;
(g)

is, in the capacity of an owner, shareholder, director,
officer, partner or consultant, directly or indirectly
interested in the following :(i)

a firm or company or other organization which
requires a licence or technical acceptance certificate
or permit under this Act for establishing or
operating a telecommunication system or for
providing telecommunication service :
Provided that a member or officer of the
board of directors, by whatever name called, of a
statutory

body

may

be

appointed

as

a

Commissioner if he discontinues his service in that
body; or
(ii)

any farm or company or corporation or other
organization which is a telecommunication operator
in a foreign country, or which manufactures or
distributes telecommunication apparatus or radio
apparatus in a foreign country, or which carries on
business or provides telecommunication services in
Bangladesh;

(h)

is unable to perform the functions of his office due to
physical or mental incapacity; or

(i)

fails to comply with the provisions of sub-section (3) in

time.
(3)

If, by virtue of a will, gift or inheritance or otherwise, the

interests prohibited by sub-section (2)(g) is vested in, or acquired or held by, a
CommissionerPage 15 of 87

(a)

he shall, within 3 (three) months of his appointment as
Commissioner or of his knowledge about such interest,
inform by issuing a written notice to all other
Commissioners of the fact of holding or acquiring such
interest and the nature and value thereof; and

(b)

the Chairman shall, with 15 (fifteen) days, issue a notice
calling a meeting of the Commissioners, but where the
Chairman himself has given such notice, the ViceChairman shall call this meeting; and where both the
Chairman and Vice-Chairman have given such notice, any
other Commissioner may call this meeting; and

(c)

the Commission may, after consideration of the nature and
value of the interest, direct the Commissioner to dispose of
the interest and he shall be bound to dispose it of
accordingly; and

(d)

the Commission shall immediately send a copy of such
direction to the Ministry :

Provided that the Commissioner acquiring or holding such
interest shall not have right to vote on the matter, although he shall be
allowed to remain present in the meeting so that he may explain his
position.
11.

Duty of Commissioner regarding certain interest of family-

members.- (1) If a member of any Commissioner’s family acquires or holds
any interest specified in section 10(2)(g), he shall, within three months of his
appointment as Commissioner or of his knowledge about such interest, inform
the Commission in writhing of the nature and value thereof.
Explanation:- In this sub-section “family” means the father, mother, husband
or wife, son, daughter, step-son and step-daughter of the Commissioner.
(2)

If a member of a Commissioner’s family acquires or holds such

interest in a firm, company, corporation or other organization, the
Commissioner shall not have a right to vote in the meeting where the
Page 16 of 87

Commission takes any decision in respect of that firm, company, corporation or
other organization, although the Commissioner may remain present in the
meeting.
12.

Resignation and removal of Commissioners.- (1) Any Commissioner

may resign from his office by sending to the Government a written notice of
three months, and a copy thereof to the Chairman or, where the Chairman
himself resigns, to the Vice-Chairman :
Provided that despite such resignation the Government may, pending
formal acceptance thereof, request the resigning Commissioner to continue to
perform his functions.
(2)

A Commissioner may be removed from office, if (a)

any situation specified in clauses (a) to (g) of sub-section
10(2) occurs; or

(b) he is found guilty of corruption, misuse of power, gross
misconduct or gross negligence in duty.
(3)

If the Government is of opinion that a Commissioner is unfit to

hold that office on any ground specified in sub-section (2), the Government
shall constitute an Enquiry Committee consisting of one or more judges of the
Supreme Court, and shall also specify in the order by which the committee is
constituted the time limit for submission of the enquiry report.
(4)

The Committee constituted under sub-section (3) shall, on the

basis of specific information and reasons, submit a report as to whether or not
the allegations brought against the Commissioner have been proved and
whether or not he should be removed from his office, and the Government
shall, as far as possible, take action in accordance with the recommendation
contained in the report.
(5)

The Government shall not remove any Commissioner under this

section without giving him an opportunity of showing cause against the
proposed removal.
(6)

Where the Enquiry Committee is constituted under sub-section

(3), the Government may, in consideration of the relevant circumstances, direct
Page 17 of 87

the Commissioner to refrain from performing the functions of his office, and
the Commissioner shall be bound to comply with such direction.
(7)

The Enquiry Committee shall be deemed to be a Commission

appointed under the Commission of Enquiry Act, 1956 (VI of 1956) and the
provisions of that Act shall, subject to this Act, apply to the Committee.
13.

Filling in casual vacancy in Commissioner’s office.- Where the office

of a Commissioner falls vacant due to his death, resignation or removal, the
Government shall, within 30 days of such vacancy, appoint a competent person
to the vacant office.
14.

Chief executive.- The Chairman shall be the chief executive of the

Commission; and where the Chairman is unable to perform the functions of his
office due to resignation, removal, absence, illness or any other cause, the
Vice-Chairman shall be competent to exercise all the powers and perform all
the functions and duties of the Chairman till a new Chairman is appointed or,
as the case may be, the existing Chairman is able to resume his office; and
where both the Chairman and Vice-Chairman are unable to perform their
functions and duties, the Government may direct a Commissioner to
temporarily act as the Chairman.
15.

Meetings of Commission.- (1) The Commission may, subject to the

provisions of this Act, adopt general or specific resolutions in respect of the
place, time and procedure of its meetings and all the meetings of the
Commission shall be held in accordance with such resolutions :
Provided that until such resolutions are adopted or if no resolution has
been adopted on a specific matter, the meetings of the Commission shall be
held in accordance with the decision of the Chairman.
(2)

The presence of three Commissioners including the Chairman or,

as the case may be, the Vice-Chairman, shall constitute quorum for a meeting
of the Commission.
(4)

The Chairman and in his absence the Vice-Chairman shall

preside over all meetings of the Commission.
Page 18 of 87

(5)

A decision of the Commission shall be taken in accordance with

the majority votes of the Commissioners present in the meeting, and in case of
equality of votes, the person presiding shall have a second or casting vote.
(6)

Any two Commissioners may, in writing, request the Chairman to

call a meeting of the Commissioners for the purpose of holding discussion or
taking decision on a specific issue, and within 7 (seven) days of receipt of such
request the Chairman shall call a meeting.
(7)

The Chairman may, for the purpose of presenting opinion,

deliberation, information or explanation on any issue, invite any relevant
person and, subject to the decision of the meeting, the opinion, deliberation,
information or explanation of the person so invited may be recorded in the
proceedings of the meeting.
16.

Committee.- The Commission may, for the purpose of assisting it in the

performance of its functions, appoint necessary committees consisting of one
or more Commissioners, or any officer or employee of the Commission or any
other person.
17.

Status, remuneration and privileges of Commissioners.- (1) The

Government shall fix the status, remunerations, allowances, privileges and
other conditions of service of the Chairman, Vice-Chairman and other
Commissioners.
(2)

After appointment of a person as Commissioner, his status,

remuneration, privileges and other conditions of service shall not be so changed
that the change is unfavourable to him.
18.

Appointment of Secretary, officer-employees etc. of Commission.-

(1) The Government shall appoint the Secretary to the Commission.
(2)

The duties of the Secretary shall be to fix the agenda in

accordance with the direction of the Chairman and to fix, subject to any
resolution taken by the Commission in this regard, the date and time of the
meetings of the Commission, to prepare the minutes of such meetings, to
preserve the records and other particulars of the actions taken by the
Page 19 of 87

Commission and to perform such other functions and duties as the Commission
may assign to him.
(3)

The Commission may, for efficient performance of its functions,

appoint necessary officers and other employees and consultants, and to that
end, it may take all necessary actions including the following:(a)

with the prior approval of the Government, fixation of the
number of employees to be appointed by the Commission
and their salaries, allowances and other facilities;

(b)

on the basis of the approved manpower, determination of
the organizational structure of the Commission and
division thereof into necessary working units, specifying
the functions of such units, and appointment of employees
to posts for which they are competent and effecting their
transfer;

(c)

fixation of the fees of consultants with prior approval of
the Government and in accordance with applicable
Government-rules, and payment of such fees;

(d)

taking disciplinary actions against employees including
their dismissal from service, and fixation of other
conditions of their service;

(e)

establishing provident fund and undertaking other schemes
for the welfare of the employees and exercising control
over, and making contribution to, such fund or scheme.

(4)

The appointment and conditions of service of the employees shall

be determined by regulations and until such regulations are made the
Commission may, by administrative order, determine those matters.
19.

Appointment of personnel on deputation from other organizations.-

(1) The Commission may, with the consent of the respective controlling
authority, appoint on deputation any employee of the Government or a
statutory body, and such appointment shall be made in accordance with
applicable laws and as agreed between the Commission and the said authority.
Page 20 of 87

(2)

A person appointed under sub-section (1) shall, while serving in

the Commission, be subject to the same discipline and control as the other
employees of the Commission are subjected to.
20.

Employment outside Commission.- (1) A Commissioner shall not,

without written approval of the Government, and a full-time officer or
employee of the Commission shall not, without written approval of the
Commission, engage himself in any work for any kind of remuneration or in
any work outside the Commission, nor shall he continue to be engaged in such
work.
(2)

Any Commissioner, or any officer or other employee of the

Commission, shall not engage himself, nor shall he continue to be engaged, in
any work which, in the opinion of the Government or the Commission
respectively, may adversely affect the proper discharge of his functions and
duties.

CHAPTER III
FINANCIAL MATTERS OF COMMISSION
21.

Bangladesh Telecommunication Regulatory Commission Fund.- (1)

The Commission shall have a fund to be known as the Bangladesh
Telecommunication Regulatory Commission Fund, and grants from the
Government, a statutory body or other local or foreign organization, loans
raised by the Commission, fees and charges paid under this Act and moneys
received from other sources shall be credited to the Fund.
(2)

All moneys of the Fund shall be deposited with a scheduled bank

as specified by the Commission and the procedure for withdrawal of money
from that bank shall be determined by the Commission.
Explanation:- “Scheduled bank” means a scheduled bank as defined in section
2(j) of the Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (P. O. No 127 of 1972).
(3)

The Fund shall be utilized to meet the expenses relating to the

salaries and allowances of the Commissioners and employees and other
necessary expenses of the Commission.

Page 21 of 87

(4)

If any money remains surplus after meeting all the expenses of

the Commission, it shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund of the Republic.
22.

Annual budget statement.- Every year, the Commission shall, for the

next financial year, submit to the Government a budget statement within the
time specified by the Government, and in such statement the estimated amount
required from the Government for that financial year shall be specified; and
before commencement of that financial year, the Government shall, on the
basis of that statement, approve the budget of the Commission with or without
modification of the statement.
23.

Power to raise loan.- The Commission shall have authority to raise loan

for the purpose of performing its functions under this Act and also to repay
such loan; however approval of the Government shall be necessary in case of
taking a foreign loan.
24.

Charge etc. for services provided by Commission.- (1) The

Commission may impose and realize charges or fees or both for the services
provided or to be provided by it in connection with the exercise of its powers
and performing its functions under this Act.
(2)

The generality of the authority under sub-section (1) includes the

following:(a)

framing of one or more schemes for the purpose of
specifying charges or fees for any particular service or all
the services provided or to be provided by the
Commission;

(b)

fixation of the rates of, or determination of the accounts
procedure for, such charges and fees by making
regulations or, in the absence of regulations by issuing
executive orders.

(3)

Any charge, fee, administrative fine and dues receivable by the

Commission may be realized as public demand.

Page 22 of 87

25.

Exemption from tax.- Notwithstanding any contrary provision of any

other law, the Commission shall not be liable to pay any income tax on any
property held or received or any income earned by it and the Commission is
hereby exempted from the payment of such tax.
26.

Realisation of dues.- (1) All charges, fees, administrative fines and

other dues receivable by the Commission may be realized by it as a public
demand under the Public Demands Recovery Act, 1913 (Ben. Act III of 1913).
(2)

For the purposes of sub-section (1), the Commission may appoint

any of its officers as a Certificate Officer as defined in sub-section 3(3) of that
Act and that officer shall be competent to exercise the powers and perform the
functions of a Certificate Officer under that Act.
27.

Accounts and Audit.- (1) The Commission shall maintain accounts of

all moneys received and spent by it; and subject to any general direction given
by the Government, the Commission may determine the procedure for
maintaining such accounts; however such account must accurately and properly
reflect the financial position of the Commission.
(2)

Within 60 (sixty) days of the expiry of every financial year, the

Commission shall prepare the Accounts Statement and Financial Statement and
shall, after getting them audited by a chartered accountant firm registered under
the Bangladesh Chartered Accountants Order, 1973 (P.O. No 2 of 1973), make
arrangements for sending such statements to the Ministry for the purpose of
their presentation before the Parliament, and the Ministry shall, as soon as
possible, cause the Statements along with the report specified in section 28 to
be presented before the Parliament.
(3)

Apart from the audit specified in sub-section (2), the

Commission, as a statutory public authority within the meaning of the
Comptroller and Auditor General (Additional Functions) Act, 1974 (XXIV of
1974), shall be under the jurisdiction of the Comptroller and Auditor General.
28.

Report.- The Commission shall, within 90 (ninety) days of the expiry of

every financial year, send to the Minister a report on the functions of the
Page 23 of 87

Commission during that year, and the Minister shall, as soon as possible, make
arrangements for presentation of the report before the Parliament.

CHAPTER IV
BROAD OBIECTVES, POWERS AND FUNCTIONS
29.

Broad objectives of Commission.- The broad objectives of the

Commission are as follows:(a)

to

encourage

the

orderly

development

of

a

telecommunication system that enhances and strengthens
the social and economic welfare of Bangladesh;
(b)

to ensure, in keeping with the prevalent social and
economic realities of Bangladesh, access to reliable,
reasonably priced and modern telecommunication services
and internet-services for the greatest number of people, as
far as practicable;

(c)

to ensure the efficiency of the national telecommunication
system and its capability to compete in both the national
and international spheres;

(d)

to prevent and abolish discrimination in providing
telecommunication

services,

to

progressively

effect

reliance on competitive and market oriented system, and in
keeping with these objectives, to ensure effective control
of the Commission;
(e)

to encourage the introduction of new services and to create
a favourable atmosphere for the local and foreign investors
who intend to invest in the telecommunication sector in
Bangladesh.

30.

Functions and duties of Commission.- (1) The functions and duties of

the Commission shall be as follows:(a)

to regulate the establishment, operation and maintenance
of telecommunication services in Bangladesh;

Page 24 of 87

(b)

to protect the interests of the local consumers in respect of
the charges imposed on them, and their access to
telecommunication services, and the quality and variety of
such services;

(c)

to encourage research and development activities in
telecommunication,

and

innovative

activities

and

investment in providing telecommunication services;
(d)

to protect the social and economic interests of the
consumers, to respond to their needs, and to control and
abolish

the

existing

discriminatory

and

conduct

probable
or

oppressive

activities

of

or
the

telecommunication service providers;
(e)

to maintain and promote competition among the service
providers

in

order

to

ensure

high-quality

telecommunication services;
(f)

to ensure protection of the privacy of telecommunication;

(g)

to

collect,

from

within

and

outside

Bangladesh,

information on telecommunication and internet and to
analyse and assess their impact on Bangladesh and to take
necessary action or, as the case may be, to make necessary
recommendations to the Government;
(h)

to frame a national scheme of numbering plan to be
followed in telecommunication and to modify it whenever
necessary.

(2)

The generality of the functions and duties under sub-section (1)

includes the following specific functions and duties :(a)

to frame a code of practice to be followed by the local
operators and another code of practice to be followed by
them in their relationship with foreign operators;

(b)

to inform the Minister of the licences, permits and
technical acceptance certificates issued under this Act ;

Page 25 of 87

(c)

to adopt policies with regard to subsidy given by the same
operator from the earning of one service to another service
provided by him, and to take legal actions ;

(d)

to carry out the responsibilities assigned and the directions
issued by the Government under suction 34;

(e)

to discharge the international responsibilities of the
Government in the field of telecommunication in
accordance with the direction of the Government or to
ensure the discharge of such responsibilities through
operators ;

(f)

to assist the concerned Ministries in matters of the
International

Telecommunication

Union

and

other

international and regional organizations relating to the
standards

and

procedure

to

be

followed

in

telecommunication ; to collect the notices of the
International Telecommunication Union and information
on all relevant matters and to inform the relevant
organizations of Bangladesh of those matters ;
(g)

unless the Government otherwise directs, to represent the
Government

in

international

conferences

on

telecommunication matters and in meetings with foreign
organizations ;
(h)

to collect information relating to international and regional
conferences on telecommunication and to deliver such
information to the concerned Ministries or organizations;
and to advise those Ministries and organizations including
broadcasting organizations in sending competent delegates
for participating in those conferences; and to play proper
role with regard to selection of delegates and their duties ;

(i)

to advise the Government or regional organizations in
arranging conferences on international, regional and subregional basis as considered necessary;
Page 26 of 87

(j)

to

set

the

technical

standards

and

criteria

of

telecommunication services, to monitor the standards of
telecommunication services provided by operators and to
ensure that such services conform to the standards set by
the commission;
(k)

to make arrangements for monitoring the standards set by
the Commission and their compliance;

(l)

to ensure the compliance of the provisions of this Act
keeping in view of public interest in general, and to protect
the interest of the consumers from the unfair practices of
the operators and other persons engaged in providing
telecommunication services in particular;

(m)

to improve the competition scenario including the
discharge of the following responsibilities:(i)

to protect an operator of a telecommunication
system or a service provider from such activities of
another operator or provider as are damaging to
competition;

(ii)

to facilitate the access of a person intending to
participate as an operator in the market of
telecommunication system or service;

(n)

to ensure that necessary decisions on all matters are taken
quickly, openly, fairly and transparently;

(o)

to perform such other functions as the Government may
from time to time assign, provided they are consistent with
the functions and duties of the Commission and necessary
finance and other resources are available;

(p)

to introduce a mechanism for the purpose of receiving the
objection and suggestion of consumers at regular intervals
and to ensure proper action on these objections and
suggestions;

Page 27 of 87

(q)

to arrange publicity of, and public hearings on, matters of
public interest.

31

Powers of Commission.- (1) The Commission may, subject to the

provisions of this Act and regulations, exercise all powers that are necessary to
perform its functions and duties under section 30.
(2)

The generality of the powers under sub-section (1) includes the

following specific powers:(a)

subject to payment of fees specified by the Commission in
proper cases(i)

to issue licence for establishing or operating
telecommunication

system,

or

providing

telecommunication services or using of radio
apparatus, and in proper cases to issue permits and
technical acceptance certificates;
(ii)

to allocate radio frequency and to authorize the use
thereof, to monitor the use of radio frequency and
spectrum management;

(iii)

to renew, suspend and cancel the licences, permits
and certificates issued; to control their transfer;

(b)

to hold enquiry and to take decision and necessary action
on accusations and other demands raised against holders
of licence, permit and technical acceptance certificate for
violation of the conditions contained therein and the
provisions of this Act and regulations;

(c)

to specify the procedure to be followed and other steps to
be taken by operators in respect of maintaining their
accounts ;

(d)

to approve, keeping in view of the general policy of the
Government, the various telecommunication services for
which licences are necessary ;

Page 28 of 87

(e)

to determine, in respect of telecommunication services, the
tariff, call charges and other charges and to specify the
procedure for fixation thereof by the operators;

(f)

to wholly or partly suspend or disallow the tariff, contract
or arrangement, submitted to the Commission under this
Act, if the Commission considers it to be inconsistent with
this Act; and to give necessary directions;

(g)

to issue guidelines on matters not sufficiently provided in
this Act or regulations and, in appropriate cases, to give
decisions as the Commission may deem proper and to
issue orders accordingly;

(h)

to issue guidelines on matters of interconnection among
operators, to determine, in appropriate cases, the
conditions applicable thereto, and to resolve disputes
among them ;

(i)

to direct the operators to submit report along with
necessary information on any of their activities;

(j)

to get the operator’s procedure and systems audited so as
to be satisfied about the compliance of the directions
issued by the Commission, and to examine the propriety of
the reporting system of the operators, and to give
directions on these matters;

(k)

to give necessary directions to the operators to ensure that
the Commission gets sufficient opportunity to inspect the
books and records of the operators and to monitor their
activities;

(l)

to direct an operator to submit to the Commission his
annual plan of capital expenditure so that the Commission
can analyse and assess and thus gets sufficient idea about
the monopoly business, if any, of that operator in
providing telecommunication services in a particular area;

Page 29 of 87

(m)

to appoint consultants to assist the Commission in
exercising its powers, in performing its functions and
duties under this Act and matters relating thereto;

(n)

to issue enforcement orders to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this Act and, in appropriate cases, to impose
and realize administrative fines;

(o)

to approve each site on which radio apparatus including
antenna system may be installed and to approve erection
of each mast, tower, support-structure and construction of
other related structure;

(p)

to direct an applicant for or a holder of a licence to furnish
any information which the Commission considers
necessary with regard to the proposed or existing use of a
radio apparatus, its installation and maintenance, and also
any major change in the apparatus;

(q)

to take any other action that is necessary for the
development of telecommunication and its orderly and
efficient operation;

(r)

to issue and publish instructions to be followed in relation
to activities of the Commission under this Act, instructions
to be followed by licensees and service providers and also
instructions on matters relating to terminal apparatus,
telecommunication

apparatus,

interference

causing

apparatus, radio frequency and radio apparatus;
(s)

to specify, by making regulations, the modes of exercising
powers and related matters on which powers are given by
this sub-section but no specific provision is made in this
Act.

32.

Delegation of power by Commission.- The Commission may, by

regulation or by general or special order, whether absolutely or conditionally,
delegate any of its powers, but not the powers under this section and section 99,
Page 30 of 87

to the Chairman or any other Commissioner, or to any of its officers or
employees or other person.
33.

Functions of the Ministry.- (1) The functions of the Ministry shall be

to determine the general policy of the Government in the telecommunication
sector and to encourage the development of that sector in Bangladesh.
(2)

The generality of the functions under sub-section (1) includes the

following specific functions and duties :(a)

to take appropriate actions to facilitate exchange of
information on telecommunication within and outside
Bangladesh;

(b)

to identify the area where telecommunication technology
can be applied for the purpose of developing and
flourishing the local culture and social bondage; and to
encourage the use of such technology in those areas;

(c)

to identify the fields of public and private sector
investment for the purpose of developing an effective and
modern

telecommunication

infrastructure

and

to

encourage such investment on the basis of co-operation
between the public and private sectors;
(d)

to undertake, on its own, research and development
initiatives in telecommunication in Bangladesh and also to
undertake such initiatives jointly with regional and other
organizations interested in this regard;

(e)

to undertake educational and training programs for human
resources development of enterprises which establish
telecommunication system, provide telecommunication
services and manufacture related products;

(f)

to assist, where possible, the Commission and other
organizations for the purpose of enhancing the local
telecommunication

manufacturing

capability

and

developing the innovative telecommunication services;
Page 31 of 87

(g)

to assist the Commission, on its request, to control or
abolish discrimination or discriminatory conduct in
providing telecommunication services or in extension of
such services;

(h)

to arrange a forum where the Ministry, Government,
Commission, operators, consumers and other interested
persons may meet to discuss matters of common interest;

(i)

to co-ordinate participation of Bangladesh in the activities
of the International Telecommunication Union and other
international organizations regarding policies, standards
and procedure to be followed in telecommunication and
training on such matters;

(j)

to dispose of all applications and other correspondence
made to it under this Act, and to expeditiously execute its
decisions.

34.

Powers of Government.- The Government may, under this Act(a)

take all necessary actions in order to establish its rights and
discharge its obligations under international laws and regulations
or any international agreement relating to telecommunication;

(b)

from time to time, refer to the Commission any matter relating to
telecommunication for its consideration and recommendations
thereon;

(c)

consult the Commission on any matter that the Government
considers proper;

(d)

undertake research on telecommunication, radio communication
and such technical matters of broadcasting as are related to the
said communications, or may finance or otherwise assist those
research activities;

(e)

direct the Commission to represent Bangladesh in meetings of
international and regional telecommunication organizations.

CHAPTER V
Page 32 of 87

Licences for telecommunication etc.
35.

Requirement for licence for telecommunication, internet etc.- (1)

Subject to sub-section (3), no person shall, without a licence(a)

establish or operate a telecommunication system in
Bangladesh or undertake any construction work of such
system;

(b)

provide in Bangladesh or to any place outside Bangladesh
any telecommunication service;

(c)

undertake any construction work for providing internet
service or install or operate any apparatus for such service.

(2)

A person commits an offence if he contravenes sub-section (1),

and for such offence he shall be liable to be sentenced to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 10 (ten) years, or to a fine not exceeding 10 (ten) lac taka or
to both.
(3)

No licence shall be required for the following:(a)

to operate a telecommunication system which is not
connected to another telecommunication system and all its
apparatus are(i)

situated in the same premises and meant only for
the use of the owner, tenant or occupant of that
premises; or

(ii)

installed in only one vehicle, vessel or aircraft, or
installed in more than one vehicle, vessel or aircraft
which are mechanically connected with one
another;

(b)

a telecommunication system which is operated by a single
person or by a single organization , and which is not
connected in any way to another telecommunication
system, and

Page 33 of 87

(i)

that person or organization alone controls all the
apparatus of that system;

(ii)

all the message and information transmitted by that
system are used only by the that person or
organization; and

(iii)
(c)

no radio apparatus is used in that system;

installation

of

a

terminal

apparatus

in

the

telecommunication network of an operator;
(d)

establishment of a telecommunication system or providing
telecommunication service by the Police, Bangladesh
Rifles, Coast Guard, any of the defences forces or any
other security force specified by the Government for its
own requirement ;

(e)

telecommunication

system

established,

used,

or

telecommunication services provided, by the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs or any intelligence agency of the
Government for its own requirement ;
(f)

telecommunication system established in, or used by, a
battle-ship or defence-aircraft engaged in state affairs.

36.

Exclusive authority of Commission to issue licence and its

procedure.- (1) The Commission shall have exclusive authority to issue
licence for activities specified in clauses (a) to c) of section 35(1), and to obtain
such a licence, an application is to be submitted to the Commission.
(2)

The Commission may, in accordance with the provisions of this

Act, allow or disallow an application submitted to it under sub-section (1);
while considering such application, the Commission shall, among others,
consider the following aspects:(a)

whether the applicant is disqualified under sub-section (3);

(b)

whether he has sufficient financial capacity to operate the
activities for which the application has been submitted,
and whether he is likely to acquire the space for necessary
Page 34 of 87

installations and whether efficient manpower will be
available;
(c)

how far the issuance of the licensee applied for will be
consistent with the broad objectives of the Commission
specified in section 29;

(d)

whether issuance of the licence applied for, the activities
authorized by the licence and the terms and conditions of
the licence, will be discriminatory compared to those of
the existing licence holders, and whether the competition
scenario will be affected;

(e)

how far the issuance of the licence applied for will serve
the public interest.

(3)

A person shall be disqualified for obtaining a licence, if(a)

in the case of an individual(i)

he is an insane person;

(ii)

he has been sentenced by a court under any law,
other than this Act, to imprisonment for a term of 2
(two) years or more, and a period of 5 (five) years
has not elapsed since his release from such
imprisonment;

(iii)

he has been sentenced by a court for commission of
any offence under this Act and a period of 5 (five)
years has not elapsed since his release from such
imprisonment;

(iv)

he has been declared bankrupt by the court and has
not

been

discharged

from

the

liability

of

bankruptcy;
(v)

he has been identified or declared by the
Bangladesh Bank or by the court or by a bank or
financial institution as a defaulter loanee of that
bank or institution; or

Page 35 of 87

(vi)

his licence has been cancelled by the Commission
at any time during the last 5 (five) years;

(b)

the applicant being a company or corporation or
partnership or society or other organization,(i)

any provision of sub-clauses (i) to (v) of clause (a)
is applicable to its owner or to any of its directors
or partners; or

(ii)
(4)

sub-clause (vi) of that clause is applicable to it.

Where under this section(a)

a person applies for issuance or renewal of a licence, he
shall pay the fees determined by the Commission;

(b)

a licence is issued, the validity period thereof, the
requirement for its renewal and the conditions applicable
thereto, shall be mentioned in the licence;

(c)

a licence is issued for providing service, the service to be
provided by the operator shall be specifically mentioned in
the licence ;

(d)

a

licence

is

issued

for

the

establishment

of a

telecommunication system and for providing a service, the
service shall be provided through that system as
mentioned in the licence;
(e)

a licence is issued and the use of radio apparatus,
interference causing apparatus and radio frequency are
necessary to carry on the activities thereunder, a condition
shall be mentioned in the licence that, under CHAPTERVIII, another licence and allotment of radio frequency and
technical acceptance certificate shall be obtained.

(5)

Every application for licence shall be submitted to the

Commission in such form and in such manner as may be specified by it.
(6)

The Commission may consider the issuance of a new licence for

which an application is submitted pursuant to a tender notice :

Page 36 of 87

Provided that the Commission may identify certain services for which
licence may be issued by it without a tender notice.
(7)

The Commission may, for the purpose of considering an

application for licence, require the applicant to furnish necessary information
and documents, and if necessary, may also inspect the location, installations
and apparatus proposed by the applicant.
(8)

If (a)

such application is submitted to the Commission, it shall,
within 180 (one hundred and eighty) days from
submission thereof, take a decision to allow or reject it;
and where it so allows, it shall inform the applicant of its
decision within 7 (seven) days thereafter;

(b)

The Commission decides within that period to reject the
application, it shall, within 7 (seven) days of the decision,
inform the applicant of such decision along with the
reasons therefor ;

(c)

The Commission finds that it is not possible to take any
decision within the said 180 (one hundred and eighty)
days, it shall, within that period or within 7 (seven) days
thereafter, inform the applicant of the reasons for the delay
and the probable time-limit within which decision may be
taken and shall take a decision within the said probable
time-limit.

(9)

The Commission shall preserve a printed copy of each licence

issued by it and any person may, on payment of the fees specified by the
Commission, inspect such copy or collect a copy thereof.
37.

Conditions of licence.- (1) A licence or any right acquired thereunder,

whether wholly or partly, shall not be transferable, and such transfer, if any,
shall be void.

Page 37 of 87

(2)

The Commission may specify in the licence any condition

consistent with this Act and regulations and, to suit the requirements of a
particular situation, it may also specify additional conditions.
(3)

Within the purview of the generality of sub-section (2), proper

conditions with regard to all or any of the following specific matters may be
included in a licence:(a)

compliance with this Act and regulations by the licensee ;

(b)

for the purpose of ensuring access to the service specified
in the licence to people of the rural and sparsely populated
areas, compulsory obligation of the licensee to provide the
service but not exceeding 10% of his capacity ;

(c) payment of the fees or other dues specified by the Commission to meet the
expenses that the Commission may incur in connection with issuance or renewal
of the licence or with both ;
(d)

delivery, at such time and in such manner as may be
specified by the Commission, of all such documents,
accounts, estimates, return or other information as the
Commission may require in connection with the
performance of its functions and duties under this Act and
regulations;

(e)

taking of the following steps by the licensee:(i)

to design and to maintain his telecommunication
network in accordance with the directions of the
Commission in relation to the establishment of the
telecommunication system under the licence or in
relation to the transmission plan, signaling plan,
switching plan and numbering plan for providing
service under the licence; and in case of deviation
from such plan, to obtain approval and directions of
the Commission, and implementation of such
direction;

(ii)

inform the Commission of the routes used and the
system followed in transmitting and receiving
Page 38 of 87

message, signal or any other information in the
national and international spheres;
(f)

specifying the matters relating to the telecommunication
system to be used by the licensee, the services provided or
to be provided by him, the coverage area of such system
and services, and the period thereof;

(g)

prohibition on showing any preference to, or making any
discrimination against, a particular person or class of
persons, in case of providing service, giving connection or
permission by the licensee;

(h)

ensuring an information system so that all information
relating to bills, prices, directories, inquiries and
complains are easily available to the consumers;

(i)

where the licensee is a company, society or partnership,
the compulsory obligation of such licensee to take prior
approval of the Commission in the following cases:(i)

any change in the ownership or share capital of the
company, society or partnership, which has the
effect of transferring the control over the activities
under the licence; or

(ii)

merger of the company, society or partnership with
any other company or enterprise :
Provided that, while giving such prior
approval, the Commission shall consider whether or
not the person, company or enterprise, who or
which will acquire control over the licensed
activities due to the proposed merger or change, is
eligible for obtaining a licence, and whether or not
the change will affect the continuity of those
activities;

(j)

publication of notification by the licensee, at such intervals
and in such manner, as the Commission may specify,
Page 39 of 87

relating to the charges for, and the conditions applicable to
the availing of, the services provided;
(k)

ensuring the payment of compensation to persons affected
by the under ground cable, overhead cable and
accessories;

(l)

making of plans showing how the licensee intends to
ensure the continuity or, as the case may be, restoration of
telecommunication system established or the services
provided, and submission of such plan;

(m)

keeping, transferring or disposing of telecommunication
apparatus and other property;

(n)

real performance of the standardised service, maintenance
of technical standards and compliance with other technical
conditions;

(o)

obligations of the licensee with regard to conservation of
environment in accordance with prevalent laws;

(p)

other matters as the Commission may consider appropriate
and expedient.

38.

Renewal of licence.- A licence issued under this Chapter may be

renewed in such manner and subject to payment of such fees or other payment
as may be prescribed by regulations, and in the absence of regulations as may
be specified in the administrative orders issued by the Commission.
39.

Amendment of conditions of licence.- (1) The Commission may, for

the purposes of this Act, amend any condition of any licence issued under this
Act by way of alteration substitution, addition, omission or other modification.
(2)

Where the Commission, on its own initiative, directs any

amendment in the conditions of a licence, it shall serve a notice on the licensee
informing him of the reasons for the proposed change and also directing him to
submit his reply, within 15 (fifteen) days; and if any reply is submitted, the
Commission shall, consider it and take its decision within a period not
exceeding 30 (thirty) days thereafter.
Page 40 of 87

(3)

The Commission may also, upon application, amend any

condition of a licence which it considers proper.
40.

Restrictions on according commercial permission for use of

telecommunication system.- (1) An operator shall not, without a permit issued
by the Commission, accord permission to any other person or allow him, on
commercial basis or in lieu of fees, price or other consideration, to use his
telecommunication system or any installation or apparatus or facility by which
telecommunication services can be provided.
(2)

Where an operator applies for a permit mentioned in sub-section

(1), the Commission may allow the application and issue a permit if, after
necessary inquiry, it is satisfied that the permit applied for will not adversely
affect the telecommunication system or the providing of its services, and may
also impose such conditions as it considers appropriate in any particular
circumstances; the permit so issued shall remain valid for a period specified
therein.
(3)

Where a condition mentioned in the permit issued under sub-

section (2) is violated, the Commission may at any time cancel the permit.
(4)

An operator commits an offence if he contravenes the provision

of sub-section (1), and for such offence he shall be liable to be sentenced(a)

in the case of a first offence, to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 3 (three) years, or to a fine not exceeding 3
(three) lac taka, or to both;

(b)

in the case of each subsequent offence, to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 5 (five) years or to a fine not
exceeding 5 (five) lac taka or to both.

41.

Commission’s jurisdiction in case of limiting operator’s liability.- If

a licensee, for the purpose of limiting his own liability, imposes any condition
in relation to a service provided by him and if the Commission considers such
condition to be unreasonable, it may direct the licensee to cancel the condition
and accordingly he shall be bound to comply with the direction.

Page 41 of 87

42.

Right of way.- (1) Subject to the other provisions of this section, an

operator shall have right to install any apparatus, thing or facility on, above or
over any land for the purpose of establishing a telecommunication system or
for providing telecommunication service; such right is referred to in this
Chapter as the right of way.
(2)

Within the purview of the right of way, an employee or

representative of the operator authorized in writing in this behalf may(a)

by giving reasonable notice, enter any land at any time,
and put up any post or pillar for the purpose of holding or
supporting any telecommunication apparatus;

(b)

fasten or attach a bracket or other device to a tree standing
on the land ;

(c)

cut down any tree or branch of a tree which is causing or is
likely to cause injury to, or which impedes or is likely to
impede the workability of, such apparatus, thing, facility
or device; and

(d)

take any other necessary step or action under this Act for
the purpose of installing, constructing, examining,
repairing,

changing,

removing

or

increasing

the

workability of such apparatus, thing, facility or device.
(3)

An operator shall ordinarily exercise his right of way on the land

owned or possessed by the Government or a local authority or statutory body,
but may, if necessary, exercise this right on any other land also; the
Government agency or the local authority or the statutory body shall not
ordinarily obstruct the exercise of the right of way.
(4)

In exercising the right under sub-section (1), the operator(a)

shall not enter, or do anything under that sub-section in a
graveyard or crematorium or a place which contains
something that is regarded by the local people as sacred,
unless such entry is necessary for the purpose of removal
or repair of a thing which is dangerous to life or property
or which impedes its security ;
Page 42 of 87

(b)

may, in case of necessity for such removal or repair, enter
the graveyard, crematorium or sacred place with the
consent of the person in charge thereof, or if there is no
such person at all or if he is not readily available or if he
refuses to give consent, the operator may so enter or may
take steps or other actions under sub-section (1) after
obtaining written permission of the Commission.

(5)

The said operator(a)

shall not, without the consent of the owner or occupier of
the land, exercise his right under sub-section (1);

(b)

shall not acquire any other right only because of his right of
way;

(c)

shall not exercise any right under this section on the land
owned or controlled by any Government or local authority
or a statutory body without its consent;

(d)

shall exercise the rights under this section in such a
manner that the damage caused to the land and
environment remains at the minimum level, and shall be
bound to pay compensation to the affected person,
authority or body for the damage caused as a result of such
exercise.

(6)

The notice under sub-section (2)(a) shall contain a full and proper

description of the intended work and shall be served on its receiver personally
or his representative or his relevant employee, or it shall be sent to his
residence or place of work.
(7)

Where a telecommunication apparatus or radio apparatus

becomes a cause of threat to anyone’s life or property, the operator may enter a
land without permission of the its owner or occupier of the land, and take
necessary steps for the purpose of protecting such life and property.
(8)

In exercising the powers under this section, the operator shall

take all reasonable care and shall in all cases-

Page 43 of 87

(a)

restore, as far as practicable, the damaged structure,
service or facility, by way of repair or otherwise, to its predamaged condition;

(b)

remove all dirt or debris from the work-site;

(c)

pay compensation to the owner or occupier or person-incharge of the damaged property.

(9)

The owner or occupier or person-in-charge may, within 5 (five)

days of receipt of the notice under sub-section (6), submit to the Commission a
written objection, and where such objection is submitted, the Commission
shall, within 15 (fifteen) days, enquire into the objection and give its decision
thereon; such decision shall be binding on both the operator and the objector;
and the decision shall not be called in question before any court or other
authority.
43.

Refusal of consent of owner etc. to the exercise of right of way.- (1)

If an owner, occupier or person-in-charge does not give or refuses to give the
consent or permission specified in section 42(5), or obstructs the exercise of the
right of way, the operator may submit to the Commission a report on the
matter.
(2)

Where a report under sub-section (1) is submitted and the

Commission, after such inquiry as it considers appropriate, is satisfied about
the operator’s necessity to enter the land, the Commission may(a)

take such steps as it considers appropriate for obtaining the
consent or permission or for the exercise of the right of
way;

(b)

where necessary, authorize the operator to enter the land
and also request the law enforcing agencies to assist the
operator so that the authorization is executed; and the law
enforcing agencies shall, in order to ensure the exercise of
the right of way in relation to the concerned land, take
necessary steps including application of force.

Page 44 of 87

(3)

Where the Commission, under sub-section (2), requests a

Government or local authority or a statutory body for ensuring an operator’s
right of entry, such authority or body shall, unless there is a special reason,
comply with the request; in case of disagreement, the Commission shall
immediately inform the Minister of the matter, and he shall, within a period not
exceeding 15 days, consult the relevant Minister-in-charge and give his
decision on the matter; such decision shall be final and all parties concerned
shall be bound to comply with the decision, and the legality or propriety of the
decision can not be called in question before any court or other authority.
44.

Compensation.- (1) The operator shall pay compensation to the affected

person or authority for any damage resulting from the exercise of the right of
way under section 42 or anything done under section 43; such compensation
shall be paid within 90 (ninety) days after completion of the work.
(2)

Where a dispute arises as to the amount of compensation

mentioned in sub-section (1), the affected person, authority or body shall refer
the dispute to the Commission and the decision of the Commission on the
matter shall be final, and the decision shall not be called in question before any
court or other authority.
(3)

Any claim for, or dispute over, the compensation may be

submitted to the Commission within three years after completion of the work of
the operator which has resulted in damage, and the Commission shall reject any
claim for compensation that is raised after the expiry of that period; the legality
or propriety of the decision of the Commission on the matter shall not called in
question before any court or other authority.
45.

Compulsory acquisition of private land for licensee’s necessity.- (1)

Where, in carrying out the activities under a licence, the licensee faces
obstruction to use a land, or the consent of the owner or occupier of the land is
not available, the Government may, on the recommendation of the
Commission, decide under the Acquisition and Requisition of Immovable
property Ordinance, 1982 (II of 1982) that the land is necessary for carrying

Page 45 of 87

out such activities of the licensee, and thereafter necessary proceedings for
acquisition of the land may be initiated.
Explanation.- For the purposes of this sub-section, “land” does not include a
land owned or occupied by a Government authority or a local authority or a
statutory body.
(2)

Where a decision in relation to a land is given under sub-section

(1), the land shall be deemed to be necessary in public interest within the
meaning of the Acquisition and Requisition of Immovable Property Ordinance,
1982 (II of 1982).
(3)

The compensation and other costs incidental to the acquisition

under this section shall be paid by the operator.
46.

Cancellation and suspension of licence.- (1) The Commission may, at

any time, suspend or cancel a licence, if the Commission has reasons to believe
that the licensee(a)

is at present such a person that if he were an applicant for
a licence, his application would have been disallowed on
any of the grounds specified in sub-section 36(3);

(b)

had

obtained

the

licence

by

suppressing

his

disqualification specified in that sub-section ;
(c)

has failed to start providing the service within the timelimit specified in the licence; or

(d)

has contravened any provision of this Act or regulations
made thereunder or any condition of the licence.

(2)

The Commission shall serve on the licensee a notice specifying

the reasons for the proposed suspension or cancellation, alongwith a direction
to present, within 30 (thirty) days, his reply to the proposed action.
(3)

Where a reply is furnished by the licensee pursuant to the notice

under sub-section (2), the Commission, upon consideration of such reply, may,
with or without condition(a)

direct necessary corrective measures;

(b)

cancel the licence;
Page 46 of 87

(c)

suspend the licence for a specified period and direct
necessary corrective measures;

(d)

direct the payment of an administrative fine not exceeding
3 (three) lac taka and, in an appropriate case, also direct
necessary corrective measures; or

(e)
(4)

take both the actions specified in clauses (c) and (d).

The licensee shall not be entitled to any compensation for

damage caused by any action under sub-section (3), nor shall he be entitled to
raise such claim before any court or other authority, and even if such claim is
raised, the court or other authority shall summarily reject it.
47.

Interconnection.- (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and

regulations, an operator

may

establish interconnection between

his

telecommunication network with that of another operator.
(2)

If, in an area specified by the Commission, 25% of the consumers

take service from more than one operator, such operators shall have the
following obligation in respect of interconnection and providing access to the
interconnection :
(a)

interconnection agreements shall be executed within 3
(three) months from the first day on which the new
operator starts providing telecommunication service;

(b)

the operators shall execute such agreements among
themselves; however, on the application of any operator,
the Commission may, in consideration of the existing
circumstances, extend the time-limit but not exceeding 3
(three) years; and the Commission shall notify, in at least
two widely circulated national dailies published from
Dhaka, the fact of such decision alongwith a full
explanation of the circumstances;

(c)

the real cost in relation to universal service provided by
operators of ordinary or cellular mobile telephone service,
shall be fixed and paid at a rate as mutually agreed among
Page 47 of 87

the operators; and the Commission may, keeping in view
of the particular circumstances, also specify that the
operators providing other services shall comply with the
cost so fixed in relation to the universal service; and if
they fail to agree on such rate, the Commission may fix
the rate which shall be followed in making payment of the
cost, provided such cost is part of the total cost of
interconnection;
(d)

in

determining

the

terms

and

conditions

of

interconnection, the operators shall act in a nondiscriminatory and transparent manner;
(e)

copies of interconnection agreements shall be delivered to
the Commission and interested parties;

(f)

charges realizable for the use of interconnection shall be
fixed by way of adjusting the actual cost and a reasonable
rate of profit from the investment in interconnection; and
the manner of fixation of such charge shall be transparent;

(g)

the operators shall keep a separate account for each
interconnection so that all the heads of expenditure for the
interconnection and the income therefrom may be
specifically identified.

(3)

The Commission(a)

may direct any operator to present his cost of
interconnection and the justification for charges for the
interconnection services;

(b)

shall ensure adequate number of interconnections for the
purpose of protecting the interests of consumers;

(c)

shall publish a directory containing model interconnection
agreements and guidelines.

(4)

Where the interested parties, or the persons, who under sub-

section (2) are bound to execute interconnection agreement, cannot agree on
the terms of such agreement, any of them may present the matter to the
Page 48 of 87

Commission, or on its own motion, the Commission may take up the matter,
and determine the terms of the agreement as it considers appropriate.
(5)

In appropriate cases, the Commission may, on its own motion(a)

interfere with any matter relating to interconnection of any
operator, for the purpose of ensuring public interest;

(b)

direct the concerned parties to an existing interconnection
agreement to amend the terms thereof;

(c)

specify the time-limit for holding discussion and finalising
a proposed interconnection agreement;

(d)

take action against establishing or maintaining a monopoly
created by way of interconnection.

CHAPTER VI
Tariff, Charges etc.
48.

Approval of tariff.- (1) An operator shall, before providing service,

submit to the Commission a tariff containing the maximum and minimum
charges that may be realized for such service, and until the tariff is approved by
the Commission, the operator shall not start providing the service or realizing
charges for the service.
(2)

While submitting a tariff under sub-section (1), the operator shall

also furnish the justification therefor .
(3)

Where the Commission approves the tariff, it shall publish the

approved tariff in such form and in such manner as it may specify in this
behalf, and may also include additional information if considered necessary.
(4)

Within 60 (sixty) days after a tariff is submitted, the Commission

shall(a)

approve the tariff with or without modification, or
substitute an alternative tariff, or direct the operator to
submit an alternative tariff;

(b)

reject the tariff within the said 60 (sixty) days and shall,
within 15 (fifteen) days of the rejection, inform the
operator of such decision and the reasons therefor ; or
Page 49 of 87

(c)

if it does not take a decision under clause (a) or (b),
publish, within the said 60 (sixty) days or within the next
15 (fifteen) days, the fact of no-decision for public
information, and shall also specify the time-limit within
which it intends to take decision; and such delay shall not
exceed 60 (sixty) days.

49.

Principles of determination of tariff by Commission.- (1) The

Commission shall, in determining or approving a tariff, follow the general
principles as specified below:(a)

the tariff shall be fair and reasonable;

(b)

the charges shall be equally applicable to the various
persons providing a particular service or to the persons
taking that service;

(c)

if an operator provides more than one service, but there
exists competition in the market in providing one of such
services and no competition in case of another service
provided by him, then(i)

subsidy from the earnings of the service which is
subject to competition shall not be allowed for the
other service which is not subject to competition;

(ii)

the

arrangement,

if

any,

existing

at

the

commencement of this Act, for providing subsidy
from the earning of the service which is not subject
to competition shall be progressively abolished
within the time-limit specified by the Commission;
(d)

no person or group or class shall, in respect of tariff or
charges for a service, be given undue preference or be
subjected to discrimination or disadvantage.

(2)

The Commission may, in determining whether a tariff is fair and

reasonable, adopt any clear and reasonable method, and such method may be
based on the return of an operator or other information.
Page 50 of 87

(3)

Where, in relation to a service provided by an operator, the

Commission is of opinion that(a)

an activity of an affiliate under the operator is integral part
of that service ; and

(b)

the provisions of this Act or regulations are not sufficient
for ensuring that the rate of charges fixed by the operator
for the services are fair and reasonable,

the Commission may consider the income or part thereof earned by the affiliate
from the said activity is the income of the operator.
50.

Discriminatory charges prohibited.- (1) An operator shall not, in

relation to a service provided by him or the charges for such service, make any
discrimination or create any inconvenience to any person or group or class, nor
shall he give any unfair or unreasonable preference to himself or any other
person.
(2)

Where

allegations

of

making

discrimination,

creating

inconvenience or giving preference are brought against an operator(a)

the Commission shall, within 15 (fifteen) days of the
receipt of the allegations, serve a 15 days’ notice on the
operator directing him to submit his reply to the
allegations, if the Commission considers that the said
allegations are prima facie justified;

(b)

the burden of proof that

his conduct

was not

discriminatory against, or preferential or did not create any
inconvenience to, any person shall lie on the operator;
(c)

the Commission shall, in accordance with sub-section (3),
take necessary action after consideration of the allegations
brought against, and the reply submitted by, the operator.

(3)

Where an operator contravenes sub-section (1), the Commission

may impose on him an administrative fine not exceeding 50 (fifty) thousand
taka or, in an appropriate case, direct the operator to pay to the affected person
a compensation not exceeding 50 (fifty) thousand taka, or direct the operator to
Page 51 of 87

refrain from the discriminatory conduct, or the Commission may take all or
more than one of such actions.

CHAPTER VII
Standard of telecommunication apparatus and service
51.

Standards of telecommunication apparatus.- (1) Subject to sub-

section (4), the Commission may specify the national standards and technical
aspects of the apparatus that are used in a telecommunication system and in
providing telecommunication services.
(2)

For the purposes of sub-section (1), the Commission(a)

may, for different class of apparatus, determine different
standards, criteria and method for verifying their
compliance;

(b)

shall publish a notice in the official Gazette and two
national dailies that it intends to determine such standard,
criteria and method and, invite comment or suggestion on
the standards, criteria and method proposed in such notice
and shall also specify the date since when such standards,
criteria and method shall be effective;

(c)

shall, upon consideration of the comment or suggestion, if
any, received under clause (b), finalise the standards,
criteria and method, and also publish them in the same
manner;

(d)

may determine the standards of radio method and
interference causing apparatus and technical conditions
applicable thereto.

(3)

In determining the standards, criteria and the method for

verifying their compliance, the Commission shall be guided by the needs for a
safe, modern and efficient telecommunication service and interconnection.
(4)

The Commission shall not, before determining under this section

the standards, criteria and related conditions of licence, impose any restriction

Page 52 of 87

as to whether or not any apparatus manufactured by a company or other
enterprise may be used in providing a service for which licence is necessary.
52.

Technical standards etc. of terminal apparatus.- (1) The Commission

shall, form time to time, make and publish, a directory wherein the names and
specifications, technical standards and related matters of terminal apparatus
shall be specified.
(2)

Every person shall follow the directory in manufacturing,

importing and marketing terminal apparatus and installing them in a
telecommunication system.
53.

Search etc. for harmful interference.- (1) It shall be lawful for the

Commission to search out harmful interference, and where the Commission
finds that a person has in his possession or control interference causing radio
apparatus or other apparatus, it may order the person to stop the operation of
that apparatus or to repair or substitute the apparatus within a time specified in
the order, so that the interference may not be caused any more.
(2)

A person commits an offence if he contravenes an order under

sub-section (1) or fails to comply with such order, and for such offence he shall
be liable to be sentenced to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 (three)
years or to a fine not exceeding 3 (three) lac taka or to both.
(3)

Where an information is obtained with the help of electronic or

other device used in the monitoring or surveillance activities for finding out
harmful interference and such information is printed on a document under the
signature of an authorized officer of the Commission or is attested by that
officer, the information shall be admissible as evidence in any proceedings of
the Commission or a Court.
54.

Determination of the standards of telecommunication.- (1) The

Commission may, by making regulations or by publishing notice at least in two
widely circulated national dailies, determine the standards of various
telecommunication services, and in providing those services, the operators shall
be bound to follow those standards.
Page 53 of 87

(2)

Where a standard is determined under sub-section (1), the

Commission shall, from time to time, take steps for publicity of the standard so
that the people get opportunity to know about it.

CHAPTRE VIII
Radio communication and spectrum management
55.

Necessity for licence for radio apparatus, authority, procedure etc.-

(1) No person shall, without a licence, establish, operate or use a radio
apparatus for the purpose of radio communication in the land or territorial
waters of Bangladesh or in the space above them, nor shall he use any radio
frequency other than the frequency allocated by the Commission.
(2)

The Commission shall have the exclusive authority to issue

licence and to allocate the radio frequency under sub-section (1).
(3)
their

The manner of issuance of licence, allocation of frequency, and

renewal,

suspension

and

cancellation,

the

qualifications

and

disqualifications of a licensee, the licence-fees and other related matters shall
be determined by regulations, and until regulations are made, general or special
resolutions of the Commissions shall be applicable to those matters.
(4)

A licence issued or a frequency allocated under this section or the

right to use such licence or frequency shall not be transferable, and if any such
transfer takes place it shall be void.
(5)

Clause (i) of section 37(3) shall be applicable to such licence.

(6)

No licence under sub-section (1) shall be required in the

following cases:(a)

installation, operation or use of a radio apparatus by the
Police, Bangladesh Rifles, Coast Guard, any of the
defence forces or any other security force to meet its own
requirement;

(b)

installation, operation or use of a radio apparatus by the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs or an intelligence agency of
the Government to meet its own requirement;

Page 54 of 87

(c)

installation, operation or use of a radio apparatus in a
battle-ship or defence air-craft or in other vehicles used for
the affairs of the State :

Provided that no radio frequency other than the frequency
allocated by the Commission shall be used in such radio apparatus.
(7)

A person commits an offence if he, in violation of sub-section

(1), installs, operates or uses any radio apparatus without a licence issued by
the Commission or if he uses a radio frequency without getting allocation from
the Commission; and for such offence he shall be liable to be sentenced to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 10 (ten) years or to a fine not exceeding
10 (ten) lac taka or to both, and if the offence continues, he shall be liable to an
additional fine not exceeding 20 (twenty) thousand taka for each day of the
continuous period after the first day.
56.

Spectrum Management Committee.- (1) For the purpose of

management of radio frequency, the Commission shall, as soon as may be after
commencement of this Act, form a committee to be known as the Spectrum
Management Committee, hereinafter referred to in this Chapter as the
Committee.
(2)

The Committee shall consist of one Commissioner and such

number of other members as the Commission may specify, and the
Commissioner shall be the President of the Committee.
(3)

As soon as the Committee is formed, the Commission shall

inform the Ministry of such formation; and the Ministry shall take all necessary
steps for transferring to the Committee the overall functions and
responsibilities of the Frequency and Wireless Board including the documents
related to allocation of radio frequencies made prior to the commencement of
this Act, the pending applications for allocation of radio frequency and all
related matters; after such transfer the said Board shall stand dissolved.
(4)

Subject to any general or special instruction of the Commission,

the Committee may determine the manner and other matters of holding of

Page 55 of 87

meetings, carrying on its activities and making of recommendations and
decisions.
(5)

Subject to the other provisions of this Chapter, the functions of

the Committee shall be as follows :
(a)

to make recommendation to the Commission on the
principles of allocation of radio frequency and fixation of
fees for such frequency;

(b)

to make recommendation to the Commission for
specifying the radio frequencies to be used for operating
radio apparatus or for providing services by various
licensees, broadcasting enterprises and other organizations
;

(c)

to make recommendation to the Commission on the
methods and time-limits of allocation of radio frequencies
and the revocation or modification thereof;

(d)

to co-ordinate the international and multipurpose use of
radio frequency and to frame policies thereon, to present
such policy for approval of the Commission and to revise
from time to time the policies approved by the
Commission;

(e)

to revise matters relating to radio frequency band in order
to ensure their proper use and receipt of better information
by using such band;

(f)

to determine the technical standards applicable to radio
apparatus or interference causing apparatus; and to make
recommendation on the issuance of technical acceptance
certificates;

(g)

to make recommendation on the issuance of licence for
radio apparatus;

(h)

to monitor the compliance of the provisions of this Act
and regulations in respect of the use of the allocated radio

Page 56 of 87

frequency spectrum, and to make suggestions on the
actions to be taken, if any.
(6)

The Commission may direct the Committee to perform functions

other than those mentioned in sub-section (5).
(7)

In exercising powers, performing functions and duties under sub-

section (5), the Committee shall follow the applicable criteria specified or
recommended by the International Telecommunication Union or by its
concerned Standing Committee or by other organization.
(8)

For getting a radio apparatus licence, allocation of a radio

frequency or technical acceptance certificate, an application shall be submitted
to the Commission; and within 7 (seven) days of the receipt of such
application, the Commission shall send it, with comments, if any, to the
Committee which shall, within the next 30 days, make such inquiry on the
matter as it considers necessary and present the application with its comments
and recommendations to the Commission.
(9)

The Commission shall, after consideration of the comments and

recommendations of the Committee on the concerned application, take decision
on the issuance of a licence for radio apparatus or, as the case may be, a
technical acceptance certificate or allocation of radio frequency; and shall in all
cases determine the conditions applicable thereto after consideration of the
Committee’s recommendation.
57.

Technical Acceptance Certificate.- (1) The Commission may, by

issuing notice in at least two widely circulated national dailies published from
Dhaka, or by making regulations, specify the radio apparatus or interference
causing apparatus for which technical acceptance certificate is necessary.
(2)

When a technical acceptance certificate in relation to an

apparatus is required by a notice published, or by regulations made, under subsection (1), no person shall, except in accordance with such certificate, use,
distribute, sell or offer for sale, lease out or demonstrate that apparatus.

Page 57 of 87

(3)

A person commits an offence if he violates sub-section (2), and

for such offence he shall be liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5
(five) years or to a fine not exceeding 5 (five) lac taka or to both.
(4)

The Commission shall, in relation to an apparatus mentioned in

sub-section (1),(a)

make regulations on the standards determined by the
Spectrum Management Committee under section 56(5)(f)
or publish such standards in at least two widely circulated
national dailies; or

(b)

make regulations specifying the procedure and other
matters relating to the issuance of a technical acceptance
certificate, and renewal, suspension and cancellation
thereof, and until such regulations are made, those matters
shall be determined by administrative orders.

(5)

A technical acceptance certificate issued under this section shall

remain valid for the period specified therein and may be renewed after the
expiry of that period.
(6)

The procedure for issuance of a technical acceptance certificate

and the renewal, cancellation and suspension thereof and the fees therefor shall
be determined by regulations, or until regulations are made, by administrative
orders of the Commission.
58.

Monitoring and control of emission of electro-magnetic energy.- The

operator shall monitor the emission of all kinds of electro-magnetic energy in
the lands and territorial waters of Bangladesh and the space above them, and
shall control the harmful effect of such emission, and for that purpose it may
issue necessary direction to any person or body.

Page 58 of 87

CHAPTER IX
Receipt and disposal of consumer-complains
59.

Provisions relating to receipt and disposal of consumer-complains.-

(1) Every operator providing telecommunication service shall establish
sufficient number of complain-centres so that he can collect information on the
inconvenience or complain of the consumers in respect of that service or
related matters, and shall, form time to time, publish notice about the location
of, and communication with, such centres.
(2)

Any consumer may, by telephone message or written complaint,

present his inconvenience or complain.
(3)

All information relating to the complains received from

consumers and disposal of such complains shall be recorded in a register.
(4)

On receipt of an information or complain about the

inconvenience of a consumer, the service provider shall immediately take
necessary action and shall follow the code of practice framed in this behalf by
the Commission.
(5)

Where the service provider, after being informed of an

inconvenience or complain of a consumer, fails to timely and properly resolve
the inconvenience or the complain, that consumer may in writing apply to the
Commission for taking necessary action on the matter.
(6)

Within 7 (seven) days of receipt of such application, the

Commission may, after necessary inquiry, give proper directions to the service
provider to take necessary steps for resolving the said inconvenience or
complain.
(7)

If the direction under sub-section (6) is not complied with, the

Commission may, under section 63, issue a compulsory enforcement order.

CHAPTER X
Inspection and Compulsory Enforcement
60.

Appointment of Inspector.- The Commission may, for the purposes of

this Act, appoint any of its officers as an Inspector.

Page 59 of 87

61.

Powers of Inspector.- (1) For implementing the provisions of this Act,

an Inspector may, subject to sub-section (3)(a)

enter any place at any reasonable time, if he has reason to
believe that(i)

a radio apparatus or an interference causing
apparatus not permitted under this Act has been
kept or is being used in that place; or

(ii)

a

telecommunication

system

or

a

telecommunication apparatus not permitted under
this Act has been kept in that place; or
(iii)

a telecommunication service is being provided or a
radio apparatus has been installed or is being
operated in that place without necessary licence or
permit or in violation of a condition thereof;

(b)

examine such apparatus, if found;

(c)

examine any log book, report, data, record, bill or any
other document found in that place, if he, on reasonable
grounds, believes that such examination is necessary for
implementation of any provision of this Act or regulations
or any direction or directive of the Commission, and he
may take copies or photocopies of the whole or part of the
document, or may also take necessary extract from it;

(d)

inquire the occupier or user of, or the person having
control over, the said system or apparatus, and may arrest
him and also seize the apparatus if the inspector believes
that the said occupier, user or person having control may
abscond or, as the case may be, the apparatus may be
removed or destroyed;

(e)

recommend to the Commission for seizure of an apparatus
which is not permitted for use in a particular
telecommunication system or for providing a particular
service.
Page 60 of 87

(2)

The

Commission

may,

upon

consideration

of

the

recommendation made under sub-section (1)(e) seize the said apparatus, and if
the apparatus so seized is not apparently owned by any person, it shall vest in
the Commission, and if, within 60 (sixty) days of such seizure, any person
claims ownership of the apparatus, the Commission may, after necessary
inquiry, return it to the claimant or take such other action as it considers
appropriate.
(3)

If the place mentioned in sub-section (1) is a dwelling house of

any person, the Inspector shall not enter that place without the consent of the
person in charge thereof; however such consent shall not be necessary in the
following cases:(a)

if an warrant has been issued by a Magistrate under subsection (4); or

(b)

if special circumstances exist wherein procurement of
warrant is not practicable.

Explanation : For the purposes of this sub-section, any circumstances shall be
deemed to be special circumstances, if the act of procuring the warrant is likely
to endanger the security of life, property or evidence of an offence or to allow
the destruction or removal of any evidence of an offence.
(4)

If, from the report of an Inspector, or from an information

furnished by any other person alongwith a verified statement asto the truth
thereof, it appears to the Magistrate that(a)

for the purpose of performing the functions and
responsibilities of the Inspector under this Act, entry to a
dwelling house is necessary; and

(b)

consent to the said entry has been refused or that there are
reasonable grounds to believe that such consent will be
refused ,

then a Magistrate of the first class or a Metropolitan Magistrate for a
metropolitan area may, on the application of the concerned Inspector, issue a
warrant authorising the Inspector to enter into that house and, in a proper case,
Page 61 of 87

to apply force, and the Magistrate shall mention the name of the Inspector in
such warrant and may, if he considers appropriate, specify any condition
therein.
(5)

In executing an entry to a dwelling house authorised under sub-

section (4), the Inspector shall not apply force, unless he is accompanied by
police force.
(6)

Where an Inspector enters any place, the occupier or the person

in charge thereof shall render all reasonable assistance to, and furnish all
information required by, the Inspector so that he can perform his duties under
this Act.
(7)

No person shall, during the time an Inspector carries on his duties

under this Act(a)

resist the Inspector or wilfully create any obstruction; or

(b)

knowingly present to the Inspector a false or misleading
information, whether verbal or written;

(8)

A person commits an offence if he violates the provisions of sub-

section (7), and for such offence he shall be liable to be sentenced to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 (three) years or to a fine not
exceeding 3 (three) lac taka or to both.
62.

Prima facie truth of Inspector’s certificate or report.- (1) Where a

certificate or report containing the results of an examination or inspection
under this Act purports to be signed by an Inspector, that certificate or report
shall be admissible as evidence in a proceedings under this Act, and, unless the
contrary is proved, the contents of the certificate or report shall be considered
as proof of such examination or report.
(2)

The Commission shall, before initiating a proceedings in the

court under this Act on the basis of the said certificate or report, send a copy
thereof to the accused person personally or to his last known place of work or
residence.

Page 62 of 87

(3)

In such proceedings, the accused person may apply to the court

for a direction to the Inspector to appear before the court so that the accused
person gets an opportunity to cross-examine him.
63.

Issue of enforcement order and penalty for its violation.- (1) If a

licensee or the holder of a certificate or permit(a)

violates any provision of this Act or regulations or any
condition of the licence or permit in operating a system or
in providing a service; or

(b)

has procured the licence or permit or technical acceptance
certificate by furnishing a false information,

the Commission may direct the licensee or the holder of the permit or
certificate to show cause within 30 (thirty) days asto why an enforcement order
shall not be issued or why the licence or permit or certificate shall not be
cancelled.
(2)

A notice under sub-section (1) shall contain specific description

of the nature of the violation and the corrective or remedial measures, if any.
(3)

Where, in response to the notice under sub-section (1), any reply

or any satisfactory explanation in respect of the allegations made in the notice,
is not submitted to the Commission, or the corrective or remedial measures
directed by the Commission are not taken within the time specified in such
notice, the Commission may, after recording reasons, by an order(a)

impose upon the violator an administrative fine not
exceeding 3 (three) lac taka and, if the violation continues
after the issuance of the order, an additional administrative
fine not exceeding 30 (thirty) thousand taka for each day;
and

(b)

in a proper case, suspend or cancel the licence, permit or
certificate or impose additional conditions.

64.

Commission’s power to issue injunction on current or probable

violation.- (1) Where the Commission is of opinion that a person is acting or
about to act in a manner that has or will have the effect of violating the
Page 63 of 87

provisions of this Act or regulations or any condition of a licence or permit or a
direction or directive of the Commission, it may, by a written notice, direct that
person to show cause within 7 (seven) days asto why he shall not be restrained
from such act, and if any cause is shown by him, the Commission may, after
considering it, direct him to refrain from such act or may give such other
direction as it considers appropriate in the circumstances :
Provided that, if the Commission is satisfied that the violation or
probable violation is of such a nature that the person should be immediately
restrained from such act, the Commission may, at the time of issuing the notice,
pass an interim order directing that person to refrain from the violation or the
concerned act till the matter is decided by the Commission.
(2)

The person to whom a direction is issued under sub-section (1)

shall properly comply with the direction or, the as case may be, refrain from the
concerned act.
(3)

If a person violates sub-section (2), the Commission may impose

upon him an administrative fine not exceeding 1 (one) lac taka, and the person
commits offence if he fails to pay the fine, and for such offence he is liable to
be sentenced to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 (three) years or to a
fine not exceeding 3 (three) lac taka or to both.
65.

Administrative fines.- (1) The Commission may, in addition to the

administrative fines specified in this Act, make regulations for imposition of
such fine for violation of the other provisions of this Act or regulations :
Provided that administrative fines shall not be so provided for violation
of sections 35(1), 55(1) and 57(2).
(2)

Where an administrative fine may be imposed for violation of

any of the provisions of this Act or regulations, the Commission shall serve on
the violator a notice to the effect that he may admit the violation, deposit the
administrative fine specified in the notice and thus get himself discharged from
the liability, and that he may also explain his position in this regard.
(3)

In relation to the violation mentioned in sub-section (2)-

Page 64 of 87

(a)

an Inspector shall fill in the prescribed notice specifying
therein the relevant facts and put his signature thereon and
shall(i)

serve the notice personally to the accused person, or

(ii)

send the notice to the last known address of his
residence or place of work ;

(b)

the inspector shall specify in the notice the various aspects
to be considered in respect of the alleged violation and the
procedure to be followed, and also the amount of
administrative fine that may be imposed;

(c)

the accused person may(i)

admit the violation and pay the administrative fine
specified in the notice;

(ii)

admit the violation and request for reducing the
said fine by explaining the circumstances in which
the violation took place; or

(iii)

deny the violation and in support of such denial
furnish the explanation and necessary information
and request for discharge from the liability of the
proposed fine.

(4)

Where an application is submitted under sub-clause (ii) or (iii)

sub-section (3)(c), the concerned officer of the Commission authorized in
behalf shall consider the matter as a whole and record his decision along with
reasons and shall, within 3 (three) days of the decision, deliver to the applicant
a copy thereof.
(5)

The accused person may, within 15 (fifteen) days of the decision

under sub-section (4), apply in writing to the Commission for review of the
decision and the Commission shall, within 30 (thirty) days of lodging the
application, dispose of the matter after giving the applicant a reasonable
opportunity of being heard.
(6)

Where the violator admits the violation alleged in the notice

issued under sub-section (3) and deposits the administrative fine, or a decision
Page 65 of 87

is given discharging him under sub-section (4) or (5), he shall be free from
liability accordingly, and the violation, or the administrative fine, so deposited
shall not be considered as an offence or a fine for an offence respectively.
(7)

A violator commits an offence if he fails to pay the administrative

fine imposed or to appear pursuant to a notice issued under this section and
accordingly he shall be liable to be put on trial.

CHAPTER XI
Offence, Penalty, Investigation and Trial
66.

Penalty for sending false message etc. by using radio or

telecommunication.- (1) No person shall, by using telecommunication
apparatus or radio apparatus, intentionally send or cause to be sent any dangersignal, message or call which is false or fraudulent.
(2)

A person commits an offence, if he(a)

violates sub-section (1); or

(b)

without lawful excuse, uses installs, modifies, operates or
possesses an apparatus, device or a component thereof
under circumstances that give rise to a reasonable
inference that the apparatus, device or component has
been, or is being, or was intended to be, used in violation
of that sub-section, and

for such offence he shall be liable to be sentenced to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 3 (three) years or to a fine not exceeding 3 (three) lac taka or to
both.
67.

Penalty for causing interference in radio communication and

telecommunication.- (1) No person shall(a)

without lawful excuse, create obstruction to or cause
interference

in

radio

communication

or

telecommunication; or
(b)

intercept any radio communication or telecommunication
nor shall utilize or divulge the intercepted communication,
unless the originator of the communication or the person
Page 66 of 87

to whom the originator intends to send it has consented to
or approved the interception or divulgence.
(2)

A person commits an offence if he contravenes sub-section (1)

and for such offence he shall be liable to be sentenced to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 3 (three) years or to a fine not exceeding 3 (three) lac taka
or to both.
68.

Penalty for misuse of radio or telecommunication apparatus by

employee.- (1) An employee of an operator shall not(a)

intentionally transmit, by using a telecommunication
apparatus or radio apparatus, a message which to his
knowledge is false, or misleading, or is likely to affect the
efficiency of a telecommunication service or the security
of life or property of a person;

(b)

in course of his duty (i)

use any telecommunication apparatus or radio
apparatus with intent to obtain any information
relating to the sender or addressee, or the content of,
a message sent by telecommunication or radio
communication,

unless

the

Commission

has

authorized that employee or the operator to receive
the message;
(ii)

except for the requirement of a legal proceedings of
the Commission or a court or of a consequential
proceeding, disclose any information about the
sender or addressee or contents of a message which
has come to his knowledge only by using or in
connection with the use of a telecommunication
apparatus or radio apparatus;

(c)

create obstruction in any part of a telecommunication
network which is being used for sending or receiving an
information or message or anything else, nor shall he
Page 67 of 87

obtain any information relating to the sender or addressee
or content of the message, unless he is authorized in this
behalf by the Commission or by the sender or addressee of
such message.
(2)

A person commits an offence if he contravenes sub-section (1)

and for such offence he shall be liable to be sentenced to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 5 (five) years or to a fine not exceeding 5 (five) lac taka or
to both.
69.

Penalty for sending obscene, indecent message etc.- If(a)

a person offers to another person engaged in the operation of a
telecommunication apparatus or radio apparatus to send an
obscene, threatening or grossly insulting message , or

(b)

the person secondly mentioned, pursuant to such offer,
knowingly or intentionally sends that message,

then, in case of clause (a), the person offering to send, and in case of clause (b),
both the person offering to send and the person sending, the message commits
an offence, and for such offence the person so offering to send or, as the case
may be, the person sending the message shall be liable to be sentenced to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 (six) months or to a fine not
exceeding 50 (fifty) thousand taka or to both.
70.

Penalty for causing annoyance by telephone calls.- (1) A person

commits an offence if he, without a reasonable excuse, repeatedly makes
telephone calls to another person in such a manner that the calls cause
annoyance or inconvenience to that other person, and for such offence the
firstly mentioned person shall be liable to be sentenced to a fine not exceeding
25 (twenty five) thousand taka and, in default of payment of fine, to an
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 3 (three) months.
(2)

It shall be lawful for the operator, upon a complaint and

authorization in this behalf from the person to whom such calls are made or
from another person on behalf of the firstly mentioned person, to trace the

Page 68 of 87

source of, to intercept, monitor or record the calls or to take steps to prevent the
calls.
71.

Penalty for eavesdropping telephone conversation.- A person

commits an offence, if he intentionally listens to a telephone conversation
between two other persons, and for such offence, he shall be liable to be
sentenced to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 6 (six) months or to a fine
not exceeding 50 (fifty) thousand taka or to both.
72.

Penalty for trespass, unlawful stay, causing damage to apparatus,

obstruction to operation activity etc.- A person commits an offence, if he(a)

without permission of the person-in-charge, enters an office
where telecommunication or radio communication is operated
with the help of licensed telecommunication apparatus or radio
apparatus;

(b)

after entry to that office in any way, fails to leave it even after the
request of the person in-charge or of a person subordinate to the
person in-charge;

(c)

ignoring a prohibitory notice, enters a place where such apparatus
has been kept;

(d)

after entry to such office or place in any way, obstructs any
person to perform his duty; or

(e)

internationally causes damage to such apparatus, or removes it, or
unlawfully impairs the efficiency of it or renders it unworkable ,

and for such offence he shall be liable to be sentenced to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding 7 (seven) years or to a fine not exceeding 7 (seven) lac taka
or to both.
73.

Other offences and penalties.- (1) Any of the following acts of a

person shall be an offence, namely:(a)

the act of operating a telecommunication system or
providing service in violation of any condition of a licence
or permit, or any abetment of such violation;
Page 69 of 87

(b)

the act of sending or receiving any information or
providing any service by using a telecommunication
system or radio apparatus which that person knows or has
reason to believe that such system or apparatus has been,
in violation of this Act, established or being operated
under his direct or indirect control, or the act of using such
system or apparatus for any purpose incidental to the
aforesaid sending or receiving of information or providing
service;

(c)

the act of using any mechanical, electrical or other device
in order to avoid charges payable for a service taken or to
be taken;

(d)

while performing duties in a licensed telecommunication
network, the act of intentionally causing any change in, or
distortion of, or unlawful interference to, the contents of a
message sent through that network;

(e)

failure or refusal to supply to the Commission an
information or document which the Commission is entitled
to obtain under this Act or regulations and for the supply
of which the Commission has given 10 days’ notice.

(2)

Where a person is found guilty of an offence under sub-section

(1), he shall be liable to be sentenced to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
5 (five) years or to a fine not exceeding 5 (five) lac taka or to both; and if such
offence is a continuous one, he shall be liable to an additional fine not
exceeding 25 (twenty five) thousand taka for each day of the continuous period
after the first day.
(3)

Where a person contravenes a provision of this Act or the

regulations made thereunder for which no penalty is prescribed in this Act or
the regulations he shall, on being found guilty of that violation, be liable to be
sentenced to the following penalties :-

Page 70 of 87

(a)

for the first-time violation, imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 2 (two) years or to a fine not exceeding 2 (two)
lac taka or to both;

(b)

for each subsequent violation to a fine not exceeding 3
(three) lac taka or an imprisonment for a term not
exceeding 3 (three) years or to both.

(4)

The imposition of a penalty under sub-section (2) shall not affect

any other right or remedy of a person aggrieved by the concerned offence.
74.

Penalty for abetment of offence etc.- If a person aids the Commission

of any offence under this Act, or if he instigates or conspires to commit such
offence and the offence is committed as a result of that instigation or
conspiracy, he shall be liable to be sentenced to the same penalty prescribed for
the commission of that offence.
75.

Provision in regulations relating to offence, penalty, compensation.-

The Commission may make regulations on the following:(a)

identifying the conditions of a licence or permit issued by the
Commission or certain provisions of regulations the violations of
which will constitute offence and imposition of a penalty of
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 (two) years or fine not
exceeding 2 (two) lac taka or both for such offence ;

(b)

specifying the compensation, which may extend to 2 (two) lac
taka, to be paid to a person affected by the violation of
regulations or the conditions of a licence or permit issued by the
Commission, and the procedure for realization of such
compensation.

76.

Offence by company.- (1) If the person contravening a provision

contained in or made under this Act is a company, every owner, director,
manager, secretary or other officer or employee or representative of the
company shall be deemed to have violated that provision, unless he proves that

Page 71 of 87

the violation took place beyond his knowledge or that he took all possible steps
within his capacity to prevent the violation.
Explanation.- In this section (a)

“company”

means

any

company,

statutory

body,

partnership, society or association of persons;
(b)

“director” includes a partner, or a member of a board of
director, by whatever name called.

(2)

Notwithstanding the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code,

where an offence under this Act or regulations is committed by a company, the
Court of Sessions, having jurisdiction over the place at which the registered
office, or the head office of the company is situated or, if the company does not
have such an office, the place from which its activities are generally regulated,
or the place at which the offence has been committed or the concerned offender
of the company is available shall be the court of competent jurisdiction.
77.

Jurisdiction of courts relating to cognizance and trial of offences.-

(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Code, no court
inferior to a Court of Sessions shall be competent to hold the trial of an offence
under this Act or regulations.
(2)

Only a Magistrate of the first class or a Metropolitan Magistrate

or a court superior to such Magistrate shall be competent to take cognizance of
an offence under this Act on the basis of a report of an Inspector or a person
authorized by the Commission.
Explanation.- Despite the fact that a person has not been sent by such
Magistrate, the Court of Sessions may on the basis of that report or related
information, take cognizance of an offence which appears to have been
committed by that person.
(3)

Where the said court takes cognizance of an offence, it may take

all actions in accordance with the Criminal Procedure Code for making the case
ready for trial including issuance of summons or warrant arrest for appearance
of the accused person in the court.

Page 72 of 87

78.

Lodgement of complaint and procedure of investigation.- (1) The

Commission may authorize an Inspector or any other officer to investigate an
offence specified in this Act or regulations.
(2)

The Inspector or the other officer, hereinafter referred to as the

investigating officer, may, in view of a complaint of any person or other
information, initiate proceedings under this section.
(3)

Before starting formal investigation of an offence, the

investigating officer shall submit to the officer specified in this behalf by the
Commission a preliminary report and the secondly mentioned officer shall,
upon consideration of the relevant facts and circumstances, decide, within 7
days of the submission of the report, as to whether or not formal investigation
or other action under this Act or regulations or no such action in relation to the
matter will be expedient, and accordingly subsequent actions shall be taken.
(4)

Where a decision to initiate formal investigation is taken under

sub-section (3), the investigating officer shall present to the concerned police
station a copy of the said preliminary report which shall be recorded in the
police station as an information relating to the offence.
(5)

The investigating officer shall, in relation to the investigation of

an offence, be competent to exercise the same powers as the officer-in-charge
of a police station can exercise.
(6)

After completion of the investigation, the investigating officer

shall submit to a Magistrate of the first class or to a Metropolitan Magistrate
having jurisdiction the original copy of the investigation report and also the
supporting documents or copies thereof; and shall keep a copy of the report at
his office and send another copy to the police station.
(7)

Despite the provision of sub-section (3), the investigating officer

may, if the relevant offence and the circumstances thereof so require, seize any
relevant document, thing or apparatus before receipt of a decision infavour of
holding formal investigation under that sub-section, if he is satisfied that any
delay may result in the destruction or removal of the document, thing or
apparatus, and he may also arrest any person involved in the offence, if he is
satisfied that such person is likely to abscond.
Page 73 of 87

79.

Application of Criminal Procedure Code.- (1) Subject to the

provisions of this Act, and the rules and regulations made thereunder, the
Criminal Procedure Code shall apply to the investigation of an offence under
this Act, trial, appeal and all incidental matters.
(2)

A case initiated in a court on the basis of a report of an Inspector

under this Act shall be deemed to be a case so initiated on the basis of a police
report.
80.

Assistance to Public Prosecutor etc. by officer of Commission.- An

officer of the Commission specified in this behalf may assist the Public
Prosecutor or the concerned Additional or Assistant Public Prosecutor in
conducting a case under this Act in the Court of Sessions, and that officer may
himself make submission before the Court.
81.

Confiscation of apparatus etc.- (1) Where an offence under this Act is

committed, the Court may, in consideration of the nature and the circumstances
of the offence, pass in favour of the Commission an order of confiscation of the
telecommunication apparatus or radio apparatus or the vehicle or other thing or
document, in this section referred to as the materials, in relation to or with the
help of which the offence has been committed :
Provided that the materials of a Government organization or a statutory
body shall not be so confiscated in connection with commission of any such
offence.
(2)

Where any material is confiscated under sub-section (1), the

Commission shall publish in two widely circulated national dailies published
from Dhaka a notice about such confiscation; and after 30 (thirty) days of
publication of the notice, the Commission may dispose of the confiscated
material.
(3)

If any person, not being the person found guilty of the offence,

claims any interest in the confiscated materials as an owner, mortgagee, lien
holder or in any other capacity, he may, within 30 days after publication of the
notice of confiscation, submit to the trial court an application, hereinafter

Page 74 of 87

referred to as the said application, for obtaining an order under sub-section (5);
and the court shall fix a date for hearing on the said application.
(4)

The applicant shall, at the time of or before submission of the

said application, send a notice alongwith a copy of the said application to the
Commission and other persons who, to the knowledge of the applicant, claim
any interest in the confiscated material under sub-section (3).
(5)

If, after giving to the Commission, the applicant and other

claimants a reasonable opportunity of being heard, the court is satisfied that(a)

the offence, in connection with which the materials have
been confiscated, was committed beyond the knowledge
or permission or consent of the applicant or the other
claimant; and

(b)

the applicant or the other claimant took such precautionary
measures that he had reason to remain satisfied that the
offence would not be committed by the permitted
possessors or users of the materials,

then the court may, declare that the interest of the applicant or other claimant in
respect of whom the court is so satisfied will have preference to those of other
interested persons; and in addition, the court may direct that the materials be
returned to such interested person or persons or, where the materials have been
sold or otherwise disposed of, direct the payment of such money out of the sale
proceeds to each of such interested persons in proportion to their interest, as the
court may consider appropriate.
(6)

The said owner or interested person shall not be entitled be to

claim any compensation in a proceeding of confiscation or disposal of the
material under this section or in any other related proceedings, nor shall he
raise any claim for compensation or other claim in any other court.
82.

Disposal of realized administrative fine and the fine for commission

of offences.- All administrative fines and the fines for commission of offences
realized under this Act and regulations shall be credited to the public accounts
of the Republic.
Page 75 of 87

83.

Right to civil suits and other remedies for unlawful disclosure of

message.- (1) If a person, on reasonable grounds, believes that a message sent
or received by him has been or will be unlawfully disclosed, or that it has been
or will be used in violation of the provisions of section 67(1) or 68(1), he may,
for prohibiting such disclosure or use or for realizing compensation from the
person liable for such disclosure or use, file a civil suit in the court of SubJudge against the person so disclosing or using; and in such a suit the court
may pass on order of injunction or award compensation or other relief as it
considers appropriate.
(2)

If a person has been found guilty of an offence under section

67(1) or 68(1) and if, on the basis of the same occurrence, a civil suit is filed
under sub-section (1), of this section, the certified copies of the evidence
admitted in the criminal proceedings may be presented for admission in the
civil suit to prove the alleged unlawful disclosure or use of a message; and the
decision by which that person was found guilty shall, in relation to the relief
prayed for, be deemed to be sufficient proof.
(3)

A civil suit under sub-section (1) shall be filed within 3 (three)

years from the date on which the cause of action for the suit arose.
(4)

Filing of a civil suit by a person under this section shall not affect

the exercise of his other rights including his right to seek other remedies.

CHAPTER XII
Flow of information
84.

Supply of accounts and information to Commission.- (1) The

Commission may issue directions to any operator or class of operators on any
of the following subjects:(a)

for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the provisions
of this Act or proper exercise of Commission’s power,
adoption of any method of identifying the cost of
providing telecommunication services and adoption of any
internationally recognised accounting method :

Page 76 of 87

Provided that such accounting method shall be consistent
with the methods prescribed in the Companies Act, 1994; and
(b)

for the purpose of implementation of the provisions of this
Act, furnishing to the Commission information on such
matter, and in such periodic reports or other form or
manner as the Commission may specify.

(2)

Where the Commission has reasons to believe that, for the

purposes of implementation of this Act, it is necessary to collect an information
or a document from an operator or other licensee, or from the holder of a
permit or certificate or any other person, the Commission may direct him to
deliver the information to the Commission and he shall be bound to comply
with such direction :
Provided that such person shall not be compelled to deliver a document
or contents thereof which the person is not bound to deliver to a court in
connection with a civil suit; and the burden of proof that he is not so bound
shall lie on him.
85.

Access to information and confidentiality.- (1) Subject to sub-section

(2), the Commission shall ensure that people get opportunity to inspect and to
collect copies of all information that the Commission receives in course of
performance of its functions under this Act :
Provided that the Commission may make exception in case of an
information that if considers confidential.
(2)

No Commissioner, or consultant, officer or employee or any

other person employed by the Commission shall knowingly disclose or allow to
be disclosed any confidential information to any other person in a manner so
that the information may be used to the benefit of that other person or to the
detriment of a related person; disclosure of a confidential information shall be
deemed to be a misconduct.
Explanation.- This sub-section shall apply to any person who was a
Commissioner, consultant, officer or employee of the Commission.

Page 77 of 87

(3)

If the Commission, in the course of a proceedings, receives a

confidential information and it is of the opinion that the information should be
published in the public interest, the Commission may, after giving reasonable
opportunity of being heard to a person who purports to be interested in the
information, decide to publish or not to publish the information; and in an
appropriate case the Commission may itself publish the information or direct
the concerned person to publish it.
86.

General inquiry and decision thereon.- The Commission may, on its

own initiative or on the application of any person, inquire into and take a
decision on a matter or activity which is prohibited or permitted or required to
be done by this Act.
87.

Public hearing and its procedure.- (1) If the Commission, on the basis

of an application or other information, is of the opinion that in the public
interest a public hearing on a matter relating to the exercise or proposed
exercise of its power or on any other matter is necessary, it may hold public
hearing.
(2)

For the purpose of holding public hearing under sub-section (1),

the Commission may form a public hearing committee consisting of three
members, hereinafter referred to in this Chapter as the Committee; the
Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the of the Commission shall be the president of
the Committee, and the two other members shall be appointed by the
Commission from amongst the other Commissioners or officers of the
Commission.
(3)

If the regulations do not specify the procedure to be followed in

public hearing, such hearing shall be conducted in the procedure as the
Committee may, subject to this Act, consider appropriate.
(4)

The Committee shall take decision on any matter on the basis of

majority of votes of its members.
(5)

The Committee may, for the purpose of obtaining proper

evidence or information, require written evidence or arguments on a matter

Page 78 of 87

under inquiry and it may also decide on what matter evidence or arguments
may be presented.
(6)

Where the Committee considers appropriate, it may allow the

concerned person to take the assistance of his engaged advocate or expert of
the concerned matter or representative in presenting the evidence or
information.
(7)

The proceedings of a public hearing shall be open to the public,

and the president of the Committee shall make arrangements for recording the
evidence and other information and the matters considered by the Committee
and the minutes of the hearing.
(8)

Any person who has been summoned or, although not

summoned, any person whose interest is likely to be affected or prejudiced, or
any person who has knowledge about the matter under inquiry, may in person
or through his authorized representative appear and make submission before
the Committee.
(9)

The Committee may, during or after completion of the inquiry(a)

take decision, after recording reasons therefor, on matters
under inquiry or any part thereof;

(b)

exclude any matter or part thereof from hearing or stop the
hearing on it, if it appears to the Committee that such
matter or part thereof is trivial or vexatious or unfounded
or that further hearing is not necessary or desirable;

(c)

generally give all such directions and do all such things as
are necessary for ensuring an expeditious and fair hearing
on the matter under its consideration and for taking
decisions thereon.

(10)

The substantial decisions taken under sub-section (9)(a) or

summery of such decisions shall be published in at least two widely circulated
national dailies, and the copy of each direction issued and decision taken
during the public hearing shall, subject to payment of the fees specified in this
behalf by the Commission, be supplied to parties who participated in the
hearing.
Page 79 of 87

88.

Summoning witnesses and producing evidence in public hearing.-

(1) The Committee shall have the same powers to summon a witness or any
other person presenting evidence in a public hearing as a civil court may
exercise under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908) in relation to
the summoning of a witness or production of evidence in that court; and the
Committee shall follow that Code in those matters.
(2)

Where the Committee is of opinion that a person is able to give

evidence on any matter under inquiry under section 87, the Committee may, by
issuing a notice, summon that person to appear before it and take his evidence;
any person so summoned may be given reasonable expense for appearing in the
public hearing.
(3)

If a person summoned to appear in the public hearing(a)

fails, without reasonable excuse, to appear at the time and
place mentioned in the notice;

(b)

refuses, without a reasonable excuse, to reply any question
put to him by the Committee, or intentionally gives a false
or distorted information or statement in reply to such
question, or intentionally suppress an information relating
to the matter under inquiry; or

(c)

refuses or, without reasonable excuse, fails to produce the
document or information which is in his possession and
has been required by the Committee,

he shall be liable for the offence of contempt of court for
disregarding the decision of the Committee.
(4)

Where the Committee is of the opinion that a person has

committed an offence mentioned in sub-section (3), the president of the
Committee shall send a report to the High Court Division accordingly.
(5)

In a proceeding for trial of the offence of contempt of court

initiated on the basis of a report under sub-section (4), the report purported to
have been signed by the president of the Committee shall(a)

be admissible as evidence and, unless the contrary is
proved, it shall not be required to be formally proved; and
Page 80 of 87

(b)

be a prime facie evidence of the facts stated therein and
the decision of the Committee on such facts and the truth
of such decision.

(6)

The contempt of court specified in sub-section (3) shall be tried

by the High Court Division in the same procedure as is followed in the case of
a contempt of court under the Contempt of Courts Act, 1926 (XII of 1926), and
the penalty specified in that Act may be imposed on the accused person
mentioned in that report.

CHAPTER XIII
Transitional provisions, transfer of rights and liabilities
89.

Certain matters under Act XIII of 1885 and XVII of 1933 to be

vested in the Commission.- If, before the commencement of this Act, the
Government had executed a licence-agreement, or had issued a licence,
certificate or permit under the Telegraph Act, 1885 (XIII of 1885) or the
Wireless Telegraphy Act, 1933 (XVII of 1933), and the Commission is
authorized by this Act to issue such licence, certificate or permit(a)

the licence, certificate or permit so issued shall, subject to
the provisions of section 90, remain valid as if it were
issued by the Commission;

(b)

the licence-agreement so executed shall, subject to the
provisions of section 90, remain valid as if it were
executed by the Commission;

(c)

an order, direction or directive, issued or a permission or
consent given in relation to such licence, certificate or
permit shall remain valid as if the order, direction,
directive, were issued or the permission or consent were
given by the Commission under this Act;

(d)

the name of the Commission shall be substituted for the
Government in any civil suit instituted by or against the
Government in relation to such licence or licenceagreement or certificate or permit.
Page 81 of 87

90.

Existing licences and other authorizations to continue for limited

period.- (1) Any person who, on the commencement of this Act, has a right to
establish a telecommunication system or to operate or maintain it or to provide
telecommunication service by virtue of a licence, licence-agreement, technical
acceptance certificate or permit, hereinafter referred to as the said document,
may continue the activity specified in the said document for a period not
exceeding 12 months from the date of commencement of this Act, and he shall
be deemed to be a holder of the said document under this Act.
(2)

If the holder of the said document intends to continue the

activities allowed by it, he shall, within three moths after the commencement of
this Act or before the expiry of the validity period of the said document,
whichever is earlier, apply to the Commission alongwith the original of that
document and relevant information for the purpose of obtaining an order under
sub-section (3).
(3)

If the Commission, after examining the said document and the

relevant information, is satisfied that the said document was properly executed
or issued in accordance with the laws, rules or regulations in force at that time,
and the content or any condition thereof is not inconsistent with this Act, the
Commission(a)

shall issue an order to the effect that the holder of the said
document is a holder of a licence or, as the may be, the
holder of a certificate or permit that may be issued under
this Act; and for this purpose a licence-agreement shall be
deemed to be a licence;

(b)

may amend the said document, if it considers that any
condition or content thereof is inconsistent with this Act or
any new condition or content is be inserted therein; and
the said document shall, subject to such amendment,
remain valid; and in such a case the Commission shall
specify the amendment in that order or any subsequent
order.

Page 82 of 87

(4)

Until the disposal of an application submitted under sub-section

(3), the activities under the said document may be continued.
(5)

Where an application under this section is not submitted in

relation to the said document or where the Commission is not satisfied about its
legality, the Commission shall issue an order to the effect that the said
document shall not remain valid since the date specified in the order.
(6)

The legality or propriety of an order issued, or any amendment

with regard to a condition or content of the said document made, under this
section cannot be called in question in any court.
91.

Radio frequency allocated before commencement of Act to continue

for limited period.- (1) If a person has acquired, before the commencement of
this Act, a right to use a radio frequency, he shall within 6 (six) months of such
commencement, apply to the Commission for allocation of that frequency; and
the Commission shall send to the Spectrum Management Committee for
examination of the application and recommendation thereon.
(2)

After consideration of all the applications received under sub-

section (1) and the relevant information, that Committee shall make such
recommendations as it considers appropriate as to whether the same radiofrequency earlier allocated or any other proper radio-frequency or a radiofrequency of a lower or higher range should be allocated to him or any other
action should be taken, and the Commission shall take action accordingly.
(3)

The Commission shall, within 12 (twelve) months of the

commencement of this Act, dispose of all the applications received under this
section; and until his application is disposed of, the applicant shall be entitled
to use the radio-frequency earlier allocated to him, unless the Commission
otherwise cancels or alters the allocation.
92.

Approval of pre-commencement tariff.- All tariff, call-charges and

other charges that were existing immediately before the commencement of this
Act shall, until changed under this Act, remain valid after such commencement
as if they were fixed under this Act.

Page 83 of 87

93.

Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board deemed to be licensee.-

Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Act or any contrary provision of
the Telegraph and Telephone Board Ordinance, 1979 (XII of 1979), the
Bangladesh Telegraph and Telephone Board (BTTB) established under the said
Ordinance shall, on the commencement of this Act, acquire the status of a
licensee, and the same conditions, so far as may be, shall apply to that Board as
are applicable to an operator under this Act :
Provided that within 1 (one) year from the commencement of this Act,
BTTB shall apply to the Commission for a licence :
Provided further that until reorganization of the affairs of BTTB is
completed, but not later than 3 (three) years, BTTB may continue to apply the
tariff, call-charges and other charger for the services provided by it.

CHAPTER XIV
Miscellaneous
94.

Public Servant.- The Chairman and other Commissioners, officers and

employees, consultants and any other person authorized by the Commission in
writing to exercise its power or to perform its functions shall be deemed to be a
public servant within the meaning of section 21 of the Penal Code (Act XLV of
1860).
95.

Indemnity.- A person, who is affected by any order or direction issued

under the provisions of this Act or regulations, or by anything done or
purported to have been done in good faith under those provisions or order or
direction, shall not be entitled to bring a suit for compensation against the
Minster or an employee of the Government or the Chairman or other
Commissioner or any officer or employee or consultant of the Commission.
96.

Acquisition of radio apparatus, telecommunication system etc.- (1)

The Government may in public interest take over possession of a radio
apparatus or the place where it is used, any telecommunication system, and all
arrangements that are necessary for operating them, continue such possession
for any period and keep the operator and his employees engaged on full-time
Page 84 of 87

basis or for a particular time for the purpose of operating such apparatus or
system.
(2)

The owner or the person having control of the radio-apparatus or

telecommunication system taken over by the Government shall vacate
possession, and the operator or the employees mentioned in that sub-section
shall, with faithfulness and due diligence, comply perform their duties
according to the direction of the officer authorized by the Government, and
shall transmit and receive the signals, calls, and message as directed by that
officer.
(3)

The Government shall pay proper compensation to the owner or

the person having control of the radio apparatus or the telecommunication
system taken over by the Government, and if both sides fail to agree on the
amount of such compensation, the Government shall refer the matter to the
court for disposal, and the District Judge himself or an Addition District Judge
subordinate to him may dispose of the matter in the manner prescribed by rules
or in the absence of rules, as he considers appropriate, and his decision on the
matter shall be final.
97.

Preferential right of Government in emergency.- (1) During war

declared, or a situation of war created, by a foreign power against Bangladesh,
or during internal rebellion or disorder, or in a situation where the defence or
other security of Bangladesh or any other urgent state-affair needs to be
ensured, the Government shall have preference compared to the operator or any
other user in using a radio apparatus or telecommunication system.
(2)

If the President declares an emergency, the Government may

suspend or amend any licence or certificate or permit issued under this Act, or
suspend any particular activity of, or a particular service provided by, an
operator, but the Government shall pay compensation for the suspended service
or installation.
98.

Power to make rules.- For carrying out the purposes of this Act, the

Government may, by notification in the official Gazette, make rules consistent
with the provisions of this Act.
Page 85 of 87

99.

Power to make regulations.- (1) For carrying out the purposes of this

Act, the Commission may, by notification in the Gazette, make regulations
consistent with this Act and the rules made by the Government.
(2)

Within 7 (seven) days of publication of the regulations in the

official Gazette, the Commission shall send to the Ministry, a copy of such
regulations and the Ministry may, upon examination of the consistency of the
regulations with this Act and the rules, direct necessary amendments to the
regulation, and the Commission shall take necessary steps accordingly.
100.

Abolition etc. of Project.- Notwithstanding anything contained in any

other law for the time being in force or any contract or other document, the
technical

assistance

project

named

Establishment

of

Bangladesh

Telecommunication Regulatory Commission project or any other project
undertaken by the Government before the commencement of this Act for the
purpose of establishing the Commission, hereinafter referred to as the Project,(a)

shall stand abolished on the date specified by the Government;
and

(b)

upon such abolition all assets, rights, powers and privileges of the
Project shall vest in the Commission; and

(c)

all officers and employees of the Project shall be deemed to be
the officers and employees of the Commission, and they shall
remain in the service of the Commission and their salaries,
allowances and other conditions of service shall be determined by
the Commission :

Provided that any such officer or employee may, within 3 (three) months
of the abolition of the Project, express his intention not to remain in the service
of the Commission and thereupon he shall cease to be in the service of the
Commission.
101.

Government’s power to remove difficulty.- If there is any difficulty

arising from any vagueness in any provision of this Act relating to the power
and functions of the Commission, the Government may, by notification in the
official Gazette and in keeping with the other provision of this Act, clarify or
Page 86 of 87

explain that vague provision and give directives on the course of action of the
Commission.
102.

Publication of Translated English text of the Act.- As soon as may be

after the commencement of this Act, the Government shall, by notification in
the official Gazette, publish a translation of this Act in English and such
translation shall be known as the Authentic English Text of this Act; however
in case of conflict between this Act and the said text, this Act shall prevail.

Page 87 of 87

