1

The Penal Code, 1860
( ACT NO. XLV OF 1860 )



Print
[ 6th October, 1860 ]

CHAPTER I
INTRODUCTION
Preamble

WHEREAS it is expedient to provide a general Penal Code for Bangladesh; It is enacted as follows:-

Title and extent of
operation of the Code

1. This Act shall be called the 2[Penal Code], and shall take effect throughout Bangladesh.

Punishment of offences
committed within
Bangladesh

2. Every person shall be liable to punishment under this Code and not otherwise for every act or omission contrary to the provisions
thereof, of which he shall be guilty within Bangladesh.

Punishment of offences
committed beyond, but
which by law may be
tried within Bangladesh

3. Any person liable, by any Bangladesh Law, to be tried for an offence committed beyond Bangladesh shall be dealt with according to
the provisions of this Code for any act committed beyond Bangladesh in the same manner as if such act had been committed within
Bangladesh.

Extension of Code to
extra-territorial offences

4. The provisions of this Code apply also to any offence committed by(1) any citizen of Bangladesh in any place without and beyond Bangladesh;
(2) [Omitted by Article 2 and Schedule of the Central Laws (Adaptation) Order, 1961.]
(3) [Omitted by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973).]
(4) any person on any ship or aircraft registered in Bangladesh wherever it may be.
Explanation.-In this section the word "offence" includes every act committed outside Bangladesh which, if committed in Bangladesh,
would be punishable under this Code.
Illustrations
(a) A, a Bangladesh subject, commits a murder in Uganda. He can be tried and convicted of murder in any place in Bangladesh in which
he may be found.
(b) B, a European British subject, commits a murder in 3[Rangpur]. He can be tried and convicted of murder in any place in Bangladesh
in which he may be found.
(c) C, a foreigner who is in the service of the Bangladesh Government, commits a murder in 4[Khulna]. He can be tried and convicted of
murder at any place in Bangladesh in which he may be found.
(d) D, a British subject living in 5[Khulna], instigates E to commit a murder in 6[Chittagong]. D is guilty of abetting murder.

Certain laws not to be
affected by this Act

5. Nothing in this Act is intended to repeal, vary, suspend, or affect 7[* * *] any of the provisions of any Act for punishing mutiny and
desertion of officers, soldiers, sailors or airmen in the service of the 8[Republic], or of any special or local law.

CHAPTER II
GENERAL EXPLANATIONS
Definitions in the Code
to be understood
subject to exceptions

6. Throughout this Code every definition of an offence, every penal provision and every illustration of every such definition or penal
provision, shall be understood subject to the exceptions contained in the chapter entitled "General Exceptions," though those exceptions
are not repeated in such definition, penal provision or illustration.
Illustrations
(a) The sections in this Code, which contain definitions of offences, do not express that a child under seven years of age cannot commit
such offences; but the definitions are to be understood subject to the general exception which provides that nothing shall be an offence
which is done by a child under seven years of age.
(b) A, a police officer, without warrant, apprehends Z who has committed murder. Here A is not guilty of the offence of wrongful
confinement; for he was bound by law to apprehend Z, and therefore the case falls within the general exception which provides that
"nothing is an offence which is done by a person who is bound by law to do it".

Sense of expression
once explained

7. Every expression which is explained in any part of this Code is used in every part of this Code in conformity with the explanation.

Gender

8. The pronoun "he" and its derivatives are used of any person, whether male or female.

Number

9. Unless the contrary appears from the context, words importing the singular number include the plural number, and words importing
the plural number include the singular number.

“Man” “Woman”

10. The word “man” denotes a male human being of any age: the word “woman” denotes a female human being of any age.

“Person”

11. The word “person” includes any Company or Association, or body of persons, whether incorporated or not.

“Public”

12. The word “public” includes any class of the public or any community.

[Omitted]

13. [Omitted by Article 2 and Schedule of the Central Laws (Adaptation) Order, 1961.]

“Servant of the State”

14. The words 9[Servant of the Republic] denote all officers or servant, continued, appointed or employed in Bangladesh by or under the
authority of the Government.

[Repealed]

15. [Repealed by the Government of India (Adaptation of Indian Laws) Order, 1937.]

[Repealed]

16. [Repealed by the Government of India (Adaptation of Indian Laws) Order, 1937.]

“Government”

17. The word “Government” denotes the person or persons authorized by law to administer executive Government in Bangladesh, or in
any part thereof.

[Repealed]

18. [Repealed by the Government of India (Adaptation of Indian Laws) Order, 1937.]

“Judge”

19. The word “Judge” denotes not only every person who is officially designed as a Judge, but also every person,who is empowered by law to give, in any legal proceeding, civil or criminal, a definitive judgment, or a judgment which, if not appealed
against, would be definitive, or a judgment which, if confirmed by some other authority, would be definitive, or
who is one of a body of persons, which body of persons is empowered by law to give such a judgment.
Illustrations
(a) A Collector exercising jurisdiction in a suit under Act X of 1859, is a Judge.
(b) A Magistrate exercising jurisdiction in respect of a charge on which he has power to sentence to fine or imprisonment with or without
appeal, is a Judge.
(c) [Repealed by the Federal Laws (Revision and Declaration) Act 1951 (Act XXXVI of 1951)].
(d) A Magistrate exercising jurisdiction in respect of a charge on which he has power only to commit for trial to another Court, is not a
Judge.

“Court of justice”

20. The words "Court of Justice" denote a Judge who is empowered by law to act judicially alone, or a body of Judges which is
empowered by law to act judicially as a body, when such Judge or body of Judges is acting judicially.

“Public servant”

21. The words "public servant" denote a person falling under any of the descriptions hereinafter following, namely:First.-[Omitted by section 2 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1982 (Ordinance No. X of 1982)];
Second. Every Commissioned Officer in the Military, Naval or Air Forces of Bangladesh 10[* * *];
[Third.- Every Judge including any person empowered by any law to perform, whether by himself or as a member of any body of
persons, any adjudicatory function;]
11

Fourth.- very officer of a Court of Justice whose duty it is, as such officer, to investigate or report on any matter of law or fact, or to make,
authenticate, or keep any document, or to take charge or dispose of any property, or to execute any judicial process, or to administer
any oath, or to interpret, or to preserve order in the Court; and every person specially authorized by a Court of Justice to perform any of
such duties;
Fifth.-Every juryman, assessor, or member of a panchayat assisting a Court of Justice or public servant;
Sixth.-Every arbitrator or other person to whom any cause or matter has been referred for decision or report by any Court of Justice, or
by any other competent public authority;
Seventh.-Every person who holds any office by virtue of which he is empowered to place or keep any person in confinement;
Eighth.-Every officer of the Government whose duty it is, as such officer, to prevent offences, to give information of offences, to bring
offenders to justice, or to protect the public health, safety or convenience;
Ninth.-Every officer whose duty it is, such officer, to take, receive, keep or expend any property on behalf of the Government, or to make
any survey, assessment or contract on behalf of the Government, or to execute any revenue-process, or to investigate, or to report, on
any matter affecting the pecuniary interests of the Government, or to make, authenticate or keep any document relating to the pecuniary
interest of the Government, or to prevent the infraction of any law for the protection of the pecuniary interests of the Government 12[* * *];
Tenth.-Every officer whose duty it is, as such officer, to take, receive, keep or expend any property, to make any survey or assessment or
to levy any rate or tax for any secular common purpose of any village, town or district, or to make, authenticate or keep any document
for the ascertaining of the rights of the people of any village, town or district;
Eleventh.-Every person who holds any office in virtue of which he is empowered to prepare, publish, maintain or revise an electoral roll
or to conduct an election or part of an election.
Illustration
A Municipal Commissioner is a public servant.
13

[Twelfth.-Every person-

(a) in the service or pay of the Government or remunerated by the Government by fees or commissions for the performance of any
public duty;
(b) in the service or pay of a local authority or of a corporation, body or authority established by or under any law or of a firm or company
in which any part of the interest or share capital is held by, or vested in, the Government.]
Explanation 1.-Persons falling under any of the above descriptions are public servants, whether appointed by the Government or not.
Explanation 2.-Wherever the words "public servant" occur, they shall be understood of every person who is in actual possession of the
situation of a public servant, whatever legal defect there may be in his right to hold that situation.
Explanation 3.-The word "election" denotes an election for the purpose of selecting members of any legislative, municipal or other public
authority, of whatever character, the method of selection to which is by, or under, any law prescribed as by election.
“Moveable property”

22. The words "moveable property" are intended to include corporeal property of every description, except land and thing attached to the
earth or permanently fastened to any thing which is attached to the earth.

“Wrongful gain”

23. "Wrongful gain" is gain by unlawful means of property to which the person gaining is not legally entitled.

“Wrongful loss”

"Wrongful loss" is the loss by unlawful means of property to which the person losing it is legally entitled.

Losing wrongfully.

A person is said to gain wrongfully when such person retains wrongfully, as well as when such person acquires wrongfully. A person is
said to loss wrongfully when such person is wrongfully kept out of any property, as well as when such person is wrongfully deprived of
property.

“Dishonestly”

24. Whoever does anything with the intention of causing wrongful gain to one person or wrongful loss to another person, is said to do
that thing "dishonestly".

“Fraudulently"

25. A person is said to do a thing fraudulently if he does that thing with intent to defraud but not otherwise.

“Reason to believe”

26. A person is said to have "reason to believe" a thing if he has sufficient cause to believe that thing but not otherwise.

Property in possession
of wife, clerk or servant.

27. When property is in the possession of a person's wife, clerk or servant, on account of that person, it is in that person's possession
within the meaning of this Code.
Explanation.-A person employed temporarily or on a particular occasion in the capacity of a clerk, or servant, is a clerk or servant within
the meaning of this section.

“Counterfeit”

28. A person is said to "counterfeit" who causes one thing to resemble another thing, intending by means of that resemblance to practice
deception, or knowing it to be likely that deception will thereby be practiced.
Explanation 1.-It is not essential to counterfeiting that the imitation should be exact.
Explanation 2.-When a person causes one thing to resemble another thing, and resemblance is such that a person might be deceived
thereby, it shall be presumed, until the contrary is proved, that the person so causing the one thing to resemble the other thing intended
by means of that resemblance to practice deception or knew it to be likely that deception would thereby be practiced.

“Document”

29. The word "document" denotes any matter expressed or described upon any substance by means of letters, figures, marks, or by
more than one of those means, intended to be used, or which may be used, as evidence of that matter.
Explanation 1.-It is immaterial by what means or upon what substance the letters, figures or marks are formed, or whether the evidence
is intended for, or may be used in a Court of Justice, or not.
Illustrations
A writing expressing the terms of a contract, which may be used as evidence of the contract, is a document.
A cheque upon a banker is a document.
A Power-of-Attorney is a document.
A map or plan which is intended to be used or which may be used as evidence, is a document.
A writing containing directions or instructions is a document.
Explanation 2.-Whatever is expressed by means of letters, figures or marks as explained by mercantile or other usage, shall be deemed
to be expressed by such letters, figures or marks within the meaning of this section, although the same may not be actually expressed.
Illustration
A writes his name on the back of a bill of exchange payable to his order. The meaning of the endorsement, as explained by mercantile
usage, is that the bill is to be paid to the holder. The endorsement is a document, and must be construed in the same manner as if the
words "pay to the holder" or words to that effect had been written over the signature.

“Valuable security”

30. The words "valuable security" denote a document which is, or purports to be, a document whereby any legal right is created,
extended, transferred, restricted, extinguished or released, or whereby any person acknowledges that he lies under legal liability, or has
not a certain legal right.
Illustration
A writes his name on the back of a bill of exchange. As the effect of this endorsement is to transfer the right to the bill to any person who
may become the lawful holder of it, the endorsement is a "valuable security".

“A will”

31. The words "a will" denote any testamentary document.

Words referring to acts
include illegal
omissions

32. In every part of this Code, except where a contrary intention appears from the context, words which refer to acts done extend also to
illegal omissions.

“Act” “Omission”

33. The word "act" denotes as well a series of acts as a single act: the word "omission” denotes as well a series of omissions as a single
omission.

Acts done by several
persons in furtherance
of common intention

34. When a criminal act is done by several persons, in furtherance of the common intention of all, each of such persons is liable for that
act in the same manner as if it were done by him alone.

When such an act is
criminal by reason of its
being done with a
criminal knowledge or
intention

35. Whenever an act, which is criminal only by reason of its being done with a criminal knowledge or intention, is done by several
persons, each of such persons who joins in the act with such knowledge or intention is liable for the act in the same manner as if the act
were done by him alone with that knowledge or intention.

Effect caused partly by
act and partly by
omission

36. Wherever the causing of a certain effect, or an attempt to cause that effect, by an act or by an omission, is an offence, it is to be
understood that the causing of that effect partly by an act and partly by an omission is the same offence.
Illustration
A intentionally causes Z's death, partly by illegally omitting to give Z food, and partly by beating Z. A has committed murder.

Co-operation by doing
one of several Acts
constituting an offence

37. When an offence is committed by means of several acts, whoever intentionally co-operates in the commission of that offence by
doing any one of those acts, either singly or jointly with any other person, commits that offence.
Illustrations
(a) A and B agree to murder Z by severally and at different times giving him small doses of poison. A and B administer the poison
according to the agreement with intent to murder Z. Z dies from the effects of the several doses of poison so administered to him. Here A
and B intentionally co-operate in the commission of murder and as each of them does an act by which the death is caused, they are both
guilty of the offence though their acts are separate.
(b) A and B are joint jailors, and as such, have the charge of Z, a prisoner, alternately for six hours at a time. A and B, intending to cause
Z's death, knowingly co-operate in causing that effect by illegally omitting, each during the time of his attendance, to furnish Z with food
supplied to them for that purpose. Z dies of hunger. Both A and B are guilty of the murder of Z.
(c) A, a jailor, has the charge of Z, a prisoner. A intending to cause Z's death, illegally omits to supply Z with food; in consequence of
which Z is much reduced in strength, but the starvation is not sufficient to cause his death. A is dismissed from his office, and B
succeeds him. B, without collusion or co-operation with A, illegally omits to supply Z with food, knowing that he is likely thereby to cause
Z's death. Z dies of hunger. B is guilty of murder, but, as A did not co-operate with B, A is guilty only of an attempt to commit murder.

Persons concerned in
criminal act may be
guilty of different
offences

38. Where several persons are engaged or concerned in the commission of a criminal act, they may be guilty of different offences by
means of that act.

“Voluntarily”

39. A person is said to cause an effect "voluntarily" when he causes it by means whereby he intended to cause it, or by means which, at
the time of employing those means, he knew or had reason to believe to be likely to cause it.

Illustration
A attacks Z under such circumstances of grave provocation that his killing of Z would be only culpable homicide not amounting to
murder. B having ill-will towards Z and intending to kill him, and not having been subject to the provocation, assists A in killing Z. Here,
though A and B are both engaged in causing Z's death, B is guilty of murder, and A is guilty only of culpable homicide.

Illustration
A sets fire, by night, to an inhabited house in a large town, for the purpose of facilitating robbery and thus causes the death of a person.
Here, A may not have intended to cause death, and may even be sorry that death has been caused by his act: yet, if he knew that he
was likely to cause death, he has caused death voluntarily.
“Offence”

40. Except in the chapters and sections mentioned in clauses 2 and 3 of this section, the word "offence" denotes a thing made
punishable by this Code.
In Chapter IV, Chapter VA and in the following sections, namely, sections 64, 65, 66, 67, 71, 109, 110, 112, 114, 115, 116, 117, 187, 194,
195, 203, 211, 213, 214, 221, 222, 223, 224, 225, 327, 328, 329, 330, 331, 347, 348, 388, 389 and 445, the word "offence" denotes a
thing punishable under this Code, or under any special or local law as hereinafter defined.
And in sections 141, 176, 177, 201, 202, 212, 216 and 441 the word "offence" has the same meaning when the thing punishable under
the special or local law is punishable under such law with imprisonment for a term of six months or upwards, whether with or without
fine.

“Special law”

41. A "special law" is a law applicable to a particular subject.

“Local law”

42. A "local law" is a law applicable only to a particular part of the territories comprised in Bangladesh.

“Illegal” “Legally bound
to do”

43. The word “illegal” is applicable to everything which is an offence or which is prohibited by law, or which furnishes ground for a civil
action: and a person is said to be "legally bound to do" whatever it is illegal in him to omit.

“Injury”

44. The word "injury" denotes any harm whatever illegally caused to any person, in body, mind, reputation or property.

“Life”

45. The word "life" denotes the life of a human being, unless the contrary appears from the context.

“Death”

46. The word "death" denotes the death of a human being, unless the contrary appears from the context.

“Animal”

47. The word "animal" denotes any living creature, other than a human being.

“Vessel”

48. The word “vessel” denotes anything made for the conveyance by water of human beings or of property.

“Year” “Month”

49. Wherever the word "year" or the word "month" is used, it is to be understood that the year or the month is to be reckoned according
to the British calendar.

“Section”

50. The word "section" denotes one of those portions of a chapter of this Code which are distinguished by prefixed numeral figures.

“Oath”

51. The word "oath" includes a solemn affirmation substituted by law for an oath, and any declaration required or authorized by law to be
made before a public servant or to be used for the purpose of proof, whether in a Court of Justice or not.

“Good faith”

52. Nothing is said to be done or believed in "good faith" which is done or believed without due care and attention.

“Harbour”

14

[52A. Except in section 157, and in section 130 in the case in which the harbour is given by the wife or husband of the person
harboured, the word "harbour" includes the supplying a person with shelter, food, drink, money, clothes, arms, ammunition or means of
conveyance, or the assisting a person by any means, whether of the same kind as those enumerated in this section or not, to evade
apprehension.]

CHAPTER III
OF PUNISHMENTS
Punishments

53. The punishments to which offenders are liable under the provisions of this Code are,Firstly,- Death;
Secondly,- 15[Imprisonment for life];
Thirdly,-[Omitted by the Criminal Law (Extinction of Discriminatory Privileges) Act 1949 (Act No. II of 1950].
Fourthly,-Imprisonment, which is of two descriptions, namely:(1) Rigorous, that is, with hard labour;
(2) Simple;
Fifthly,- Forfeiture of property;
Sixthly,- Fine.
16

Construction of
reference to
transportation

[Explanation.-In the punishment of imprisonment for life, the imprisonment shall be rigorous.]

[53A.(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), any reference to “transportation for life” in any other law for the time being in force
shall be construed as a reference to “imprisonment for life”.
17

(2) Any reference to transportation for a term or to transportation for a shorter term (by whatever named called) in any other law for the
time being in force shall be deemed to have been omitted.
(3) Any reference to “transportation” in any other law for the time being in force shall
(a) if the expression means transportation for life, be construed as a reference to imprisonment for life;
(b) if the expression means transportation for any shorter term, be deemed to have been omitted.]

Commutation of
sentence of death

54. In every case in which sentence of death shall have been passed, 18[the Government] may, without the consent of the offender,
commute the punishment for any other punishment provided by this Code.

Commutation of
sentence of 19[
imprisonment ] for life

55. In every case in which sentence of 20[imprisonment] for life shall have been passed, 21[the Government] may, without the consent of
the offender, commute the punishment for imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding 22[twenty] years.

Saving for President’s
prerogative

23

[Repealed]

56. [Repealed by Schedule of the Criminal Law (Extinction of Discriminatory Privileges Act, 1949 (Act No. II of 1950).]

Fractions of terms of
punishment

57. In calculating fractions of terms of punishment, 24[imprisonment] for life shall be reckoned as equivalent to 25[rigorous imprisonment
for thirty years].

[Omitted]

58. [Omitted by section 6 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985).]

[Omitted]

59. [Omitted by section 6 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985).]

Sentence may be (in
certain cases of
imprisonment, wholly or
partly rigorous or simple

60. In every case in which an offender is punishable with imprisonment which may be of either description, it shall be competent to the
Court which sentences such offender to direct in the sentence that such imprisonment shall be wholly rigorous, or that such
imprisonment shall be wholly simple, or that any part of such imprisonment shall be rigorous and the rest simple.

[Repealed]

61. [Repealed by section 4 of the Indian Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 1921 (Act No. XVI of 1921).]

[Repealed]

62. [Repealed by section 4 of the Indian Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 1921 (Act No. XVI of 1921).]

Amount of fine

63. Where no sum is expressed to which a fine may extend, the amount of fine to which the offender is liable is unlimited, but shall not
be excessive.

Sentence of
imprisonment for nonpayment of fine

64. In every case of an offence punishable with imprisonment as well as fine, in which the offender is sentenced to a fine, whether with
or without imprisonment,

[55A. Nothing in section fifty-four or section fifty-five shall derogate from the right of the President to grant pardons, reprieves, respites
or remissions of punishment.]

and in every case of an offence punishable with imprisonment or fine, or with fine only, in which the offender is sentenced to a fine,
it shall be competent to the Court which sentences such offender to direct by the sentence that, in default of payment of the fine, the
offender shall suffer imprisonment for a certain term, which imprisonment shall be in excess of any other imprisonment to which he may
have been sentenced or to which he may be liable under a commutation of a sentence.

Limit to imprisonment
for non-payment of fine,
when imprisonment and
fine awardable

65. The term for which the Court directs the offender to be imprisoned in default of payment of a fine shall not exceed one-fourth of the
term of imprisonment which is the maximum fixed for the offence, if the offence be punishable with imprisonment as well as fine.

Description of
imprisonment for nonpayment of fine

66. The imprisonment which the Court imposes in default of payment of a fine may be of any description to which the offender might
have been sentenced for the offence.

Imprisonment for nonpayment of fine, when
offence punishable with
fine only

67. If the offence be punishable with fine only, the imprisonment which the Court imposes in default of payment of the fine shall be
simple, and the term for which the Court directs the offender to be imprisoned, in default of payment of fine, shall not exceed the
following scale, that is to say, for any term not exceeding two months when the amount of the fine shall not exceed fifty taka, and for any
term not exceeding four months when the amount shall not exceed one hundred taka, and for any term not exceeding six months in any
other case.

Imprisonment to
terminate on payment of
fine

68. The imprisonment which is imposed in default of payment of a fine shall terminate whenever that fine is either paid or levied by
process of law.

Termination of
imprisonment on
payment of proportional part of fine

69. If, before the expiration of the term of imprisonment fixed in default of payment, such a proportion of the fine be paid or levied that
the term of imprisonment suffered in default of payment is not less than proportional to the part of the fine still unpaid, the imprisonment
shall terminate.
Illustration
A is sentenced to a fine of one hundred taka and four months imprisonment in default of payment. Here, if seventy-five taka of the fine
be paid or levied before the expiration of one month of the imprisonment, A will be discharged as soon as the first month has expired. If
seventy-five taka be paid or levied at the time of the expiration of the first month, or at any later time while A continues in imprisonment,
A will be immediately discharged. If fifty taka of the fine be paid or levied before the expiration of the two months of the imprisonments, A
will be discharged as soon as the two months are completed. If fifty taka be paid or levied at the time the expiration of those two months,
or at any later time while A continues in imprisonment, A will be immediately discharged.

Fine leviable within six
years, or during
imprisonment Death not
to discharge property
from liability

70. The fine, or any part thereof which remains unpaid, may be levied at any time within six years after the passing of the sentence, and
if, under the sentence, the offender be liable to imprisonment for a longer period than six years, then at any time previous to the
expiration of that period; and the death of the offender does not discharge from the liability of any property which would, after his death,
be legally liable for his debts.

Limit of punishment of
offence made up of
several offences

71. Where anything which is an offence is made up of parts, any of which parts is itself an offence, the offender shall not be punished
with the punishment of more than one of such his offences, unless it be so expressly provided.
Where anything is an offence falling within two or more separate definitions of any law in force for the time being by which offences are
defined or punished, or
Where several acts, of which one or more than one would by itself or themselves constitute an offence, constitute, when combined, a
different offence,
the offender shall not be punished with a more severe punishment than the Court which tries him could award for any one of such
offences.
Illustrations
(a) A gives Z fifty strokes with a stick. Here A may have committed the offence of voluntarily causing hurt to Z by the whole beating, and
also by each of the blows which make up the whole beating. If A were liable to punishment for every blow, he might be imprisoned for
fifty years, one for each blow. But he is liable only to one punishment for the whole beating.
(b) But if, while A is beating Z, Y interferes, and A intentionally strikes Y, here, as the blow given to Y is no part of the act whereby A
voluntarily causes hurt to Z, A is liable to one punishment for voluntarily causing hurt to Z, and to another for the blow given to Y.

Punishment of person
guilty of one of several
offences, the judgment
stating that it is doubtful
of which

72. In all cases in which judgment is given that a person is guilty of one of several offences specified in the judgment, but that it is
doubtful of which these offences he is guilty, the offender shall be punished for the offence for which the lowest punishment is provided if
the same punishment is not provided for all.

Solitary confinement

73. Whenever any person is convicted of an offence for which under this Code the Court has power to sentence him to rigorous
imprisonment, the Court may, by its sentence, order that the offender shall be kept in solitary confinement for any portion or portions of
the imprisonment to which he is sentenced, not exceeding three months in the whole, according to the following scale, that is to say
a time not exceeding one month if the term of imprison-ment shall not exceed six months:
a time not exceeding two months if the term of imprisonment shall exceed six months and shall not exceed one year:
a time not exceeding three months if the term of imprisonment shall exceed one year.

Limit of solitary
confinement

74. In executing a sentence of solitary confinement, such confinement shall in no case exceed fourteen days at a time, with intervals
between the periods of solitary confinement of not less duration than such periods, and when the imprisonment awarded shall exceed
three months, the solitary confinement shall not exceed seven days in any one month of the whole imprisonment awarded, with intervals
between the periods of solitary confinement of not less duration than such periods.

Enhanced punishment
for certain offences
under Chapter XII or
Chapter XVII after
previous conviction

75. Whoever, having been convicted,
(a) by a Court in Bangladesh of an offence punishable under Chapter XII or Chapter XVII of this Code with imprisonment of either
description for a term of three years or upwards; 26[* * *]
(b) [Omitted by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973).]
shall be guilty of any offence punishable under either of those Chapters with like imprisonment for the like term, shall be
subject for every such subsequent offence to 27[imprisonment] for life, or to imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to ten years.

CHAPTER IV
GENERAL EXCEPTIONS
Act done by a person
bound, or by mistake of
fact believing himself
bound, by law

76. Nothing is an offence which is done by a person who is, or who by reason of a mistake of fact and not by reason of a mistake of law
in good faith believes himself to be, bound by law to do it.
Illustrations
(a) A, a soldier, fires on a mob by the order of his superior officer, in conformity with the commands of the law. A has committed no
offence.
(b) A, an officer of a Court of Justice, being ordered by that Court to arrest Y, and, after due enquiry, believing Z to be Y, arrests Z. A has
committed no offence.

Act of judge when
acting judicially

77. Nothing is an offence which is done by a Judge when acting judicially in the exercise of any power which is, or which in good faith he
believes to be, given to him by law.

Act done pursuant to
the judgment or order of
Court

78. Nothing which is done in pursuance of, or which is warranted by the judgment or order of, a Court of Justice, if done whilst such
judgment or order remains in force, is an offence, notwithstanding the Court may have had no jurisdiction to pass such judgment or
order, provided the person doing the act in good faith believes that the Court had such jurisdiction.

Act done by a person
justified, or by mistake
of fact believing himself
justified, by law

79. Nothing is an offence which is done by any person who is justified by law, or who by reason of a mistake of fact and not by reason of
a mistake of law in good faith, believes himself to be justified by law, in doing it.

Accident in doing a
lawful act

80. Nothing is an offence which is done by accident or misfortune, and without any criminal intention or knowledge in the doing of a
lawful act in a lawful manner by lawful means and with proper care and caution.

Illustration
A sees Z commit what appears to A to be a murder. A, in the exercise, to the best of his judgment, exerted in good faith of the power
which the law gives to all persons of apprehending murderers in the act, seizes Z, in order to bring Z before the proper authorities. A has
committed no offence, though it may turn out that Z was acting in self-defence.

Illustration
A is at work with a hatchet; the head flies off and kills a man who is standing by. Here if there was no want of proper caution on the part
of A, his act is excusable and not an offence.
Act likely to cause harm,
but done without
criminal intent and to
prevent other harm

81. Nothing is an offence merely by reason of its being done with the knowledge that it is likely to cause harm, if it be done without any
criminal intention to cause harm, and in good faith for the purpose of preventing or avoiding other harm to person or property.
Explanation.-It is a question of fact in such a case whether the harm to be prevented or avoided was of such a nature and so imminent
as to justify or excuse the risk of doing the act with the knowledge that it was likely to cause harm.
Illustrations
(a) A, the captain of a steam vessel, suddenly and without any fault or negligence on his part, finds himself in such a position that, before
he can stop his vessel, he must inevitably run down a boat B, with twenty or thirty passengers on board, unless he changes the course
of his vessel, and that, by changing his course, he must incur risk of running down a boat C with only two passengers on board, which
he may possibly clear. Here, if A alters his course without any intention to run down the boat C and in good faith for the purpose of
avoiding the danger to the passengers in the boat B, he is not guilty of an offence, though he may run down the boat C by doing an act
which he knew was likely to cause that effect, if it be found as a matter of fact that the danger which he intended to avoid was such as to
excuse him in incurring the risk of running down C.
(b) A, is in a great fire, pulls down houses in order to prevent the conflagration from spreading. He does this with intention in good faith
of saving human life or property. Here if it be found that the harm to be prevented was of such a nature and so imminent as to excuse
A's act, A is not guilty of the offence.

Act of a child under nine
years of age

82. Nothing is an offence which is done by a child under 28[nine] years of age.

Act of a child above nine
and under twelve of
immature understanding

83. Nothing is an offence which is done by a child above 29[nine] years of age and under twelve, who has not attained sufficient maturity
of understanding to judge of the nature and consequences of his conduct on that occasion.

Act of a person of
unsound mind

84. Nothing is an offence which is done by a person who, at the time of doing it, by reason of unsoundness of mind, is incapable of
knowing the nature of the act, or that he is doing what is either wrong or contrary to law.

Act of a person
incapable of judgment
by reason of
intoxication caused
against his will

85. Nothing is an offence which is done by a person who, at the time of doing it, is, by reason of intoxication, incapable of knowing the
nature of the act, or that he is doing what is either wrong, or contrary to law: provided that the thing which intoxicated him was
administered to him without his knowledge or against his will.

Offence requiring a
particular intent or
knowledge committed
by one who is
intoxicated

86. In cases where an act done is not an offence unless done with a particular knowledge or intent, a person who does the act in a state
of intoxication shall be liable to be dealt with as if he had the same knowledge as he would have had if he had not been intoxicated,
unless the thing which intoxicated him was administered to him without his knowledge or against his will.

87. Act not intended and
not known to be likely to
cause death or grievous
hurt, done by consent

87. Nothing which is not intended to cause death, or grievous hurt, and which is not known by the doer to be likely to cause death, or
grievous hurt, is an offence by reason of any harm which it may cause, or be intended by the doer to cause, to any person, above
eighteen years of age, who has given consent, whether express or implied, to suffer that harm; or by reason of any harm which it may be
known by the doer to be likely to cause to any such person who has consented to take the risk of that harm.
Illustration
A and Z agree to fence with each other for amusement. This agreement implies the consent of each to suffer any harm which in the
course of such fencing, may be caused without foul play; and if A, while playing fairly, hurts Z, A commits no offence.

88. Act not intended to
cause death, done by
consent in good faith for
person’s benefit

88. Nothing, which is not intended to cause death, is an offence by reason of any harm which it may cause, or be intended by the doer to
cause, or be known by the doer to be likely to cause, to any person for whose benefit it is done in good faith, and who has given a
consent, whether express or implied, to suffer that harm, or to take the risk of that harm.
Illustration
A, a surgeon, knowing that a particular operation is likely to cause the death of Z, who suffers under the painful complaint, but not
intending to cause Z's death, and intending, in good faith Z's benefit, performs that operation on Z, with Z's consent. A has committed no
offence.

Act done in good faith
for benefit of child or
insane person, by or by
consent of guardian

89. Nothing which is done in good faith for the benefit of a person under twelve years of age, or of unsound mind, by or by consent,
either express or implied, of the guardian or other person having lawful charge of that person, is an offence by reason of any harm which
it may cause, or be intended by the doer to cause or be known by the doer to be likely to cause to that person:
ProvidedFirstly.-That this exception shall not extend to the intentional causing of death, or to the attempting to cause death;
Secondly.-That this exception shall not extend to the doing of anything which the person doing it knows to be likely to cause death, for
any purpose other than the preventing of death or grievous hurt; or the curing of any grievous disease or infirmity;
Thirdly.-That this exception shall not extent to the voluntary causing of grievous hurt, or to the attempting to cause grievous hurt, unless
it be for the purpose of preventing death or grievous hurt, or the curing of any grievous disease or infirmity;
Fourthly.-That this exception shall not extend to the abetment of any offence, to the committing of which offence it would not extend.
Illustration
A, in good faith, for his child's benefit without his child's consent, has his child cut for the stone by a surgeon, knowing it to be likely that
the operation will cause the child's death, but not intending to cause the child's death. A is within the exception, inasmuch as his object
was the cure of the child.

Consent known to be
given under fear or
misconception

90. A consent is not such a consent as is intended by any section of this Code, if the consent is given by a person under fear of injury, or
under a misconception of fact, and if the person doing the act knows, or has reason to believe, that the consent was given in
consequence of such fear or misconception; or

Consent of insane
person

If the consent is given by a person who, from unsoundness of mind, or intoxication, is unable to understand the nature and consequence
of that to which he gives his consent; or

Consent of child

Unless the contrary appears from the context, if the consent is given by a person who is under twelve years of age.

Exclusion of acts which
are offences
independently of harm
caused

91. The exceptions in sections 87, 88 and 89 do not extend to acts which are offences independently of any harm which they may
cause, or be intended to cause, or be known to be likely to cause, to the person giving the consent, or on whose behalf the consent is
given.
Illustration
Causing miscarriage (unless caused in good faith for the purpose of saving the life of woman) is an offence independently of any harm
which it may cause or be intended to cause to the woman. Therefore, it is not an offence “by reason of such harm”; and the consent of
the woman or of her guardian to the causing of such miscarriage does not justify the act.

Act done in good faith
for benefit of a person
without consent

92. Nothing is an offence by reason of any harm which it may cause to a person for whose benefit it is done in good faith, even without
that person's consent, if the circumstances are such that it is impossible for that person to signify consent, or if that person is incapable
of giving consent, and has no guardian or other person in lawful charge of him from whom it is possible to obtain consent in time for the
thing to be done with benefit:
ProvidedFirstly.-That this exception shall not extend to the intentional causing of death, or the attempting to cause death;
Secondly.-That this exception shall not extend to the doing of anything which the person doing it knows to be likely to cause death, for
any purpose other than the preventing of death or grievous hurt, or the curing of any grievous disease or infirmity;
Thirdly.-That this exception shall not extend to the voluntary causing of hurt, or to the attempting to cause hurt, for any purpose other
than the preventing of death or hurt;
Fourthly.-That this exception shall not extend to the abetment of any offence, to the committing of which offence it would not extend.
Illustrations
(a) Z is thrown from his horse, and is insensible. A, a surgeon, finds that Z requires to be trepanned. A not intending Z's death but in
good faith for Z's benefit, performs the trepan before Z recovers his power of judging for himself. A has committed no offence.
(b) Z is carried off by a tiger. A fires at the tiger knowing it to be likely that the shot may kill Z, but not intending to kill Z, and in good faith
intending Z's benefit. A's ball gives Z a mortal wound. A has committed no offence.
(c) A, a surgeon, sees a child suffer an accident which is likely to prove fatal unless an operation be immediately performed. There is no
time to apply to the child's guardian. A performs the operation inspite of the entreaties of the child, intending, in good faith, the child's
benefit. A has committed no offence.
(d) A is in a house which is on fire, with Z, a child. People below hold out a blanket. A drops the child from the housetop, knowing it to be
likely that the fall may kill the child, but not intending to kill the child, and intending, in good faith, the child's benefit. Here even if the child
is killed by the fall, A has committed no offence.
Explanation.-Mere pecuniary benefit is not benefit within the meaning of sections 88, 89 and 92.

Communication made in
good faith

93. No communication made in good faith is an offence by reason of any harm to the person to whom it is made, if it is made for the
benefit of that person.
Illustration
A, a surgeon, in good faith, communicates to a patient his opinion that he cannot live. The patient dies in consequence of the shock. A
has committed no offence, though he knew it to be likely that the communication might cause the patient's death.

Act to which a person is
compelled by threats

94. Except murder, and offences against the State punishable with death, nothing is an offence which is done by a person who is
compelled to do it by threats, which, at the time of doing it, reasonably cause the apprehension that instant death to that person will
otherwise be the consequence: Provided the person doing the act did not of his own accord, or from a reasonable apprehension of harm
to himself short of instant death, place himself in the situation by which he became subject to such constraint.
Explanation 1.-A person who, of his own accord, or by reason of a threat of being beaten, joins a gang of dacoits, knowing their
character, is not entitled to the benefit of this exception on the ground of his having been compelled by his associates to do anything that
is an offence by law.
Explanation 2.-A person seized by a gang of dacoits, and forced by threat of instant death, to do a thing which is an offence by law; for
example, a smith compelled to take his tools and to force the door of a house for the dacoits to enter and plunder it, is entitled to the
benefit of this exception.

Act causing slight harm

95. Nothing is an offence by reason that it causes, or that it is intended to cause, or that it is known to be likely to cause, any harm, if that
harm, is so slight that no person of ordinary sense and temper would complain of such harm.
Of the Right of the Private Defence

Things done in private
defence

96. Nothing is an offence which is done in the exercise of the right of private defence.

Right of private defence
of the body and of
property

97. Every person has a right, subject to the restrictions contained in section 99, to defend

Right of private defence
against the act of a
person of unsound
mind, etc.

98. When an act, which would otherwise be a certain offence is not that offence, by reason of the youth, the want of maturity of
understanding, the unsoundness of mind or the intoxication of the person doing that act, or by reason of any misconception on the part
of that person, every person has the same right of private defence against that act which he would have if the act were that offence.

Firstly.-His own body, and the body of any other person against any offence affecting the human body;
Secondly.-The property, whether moveable or immovable, of himself or of any other person, against any act which is an offence falling
under the definition of theft, robbery, mischief or criminal trespass, or which is an attempt to commit theft, robbery, mischief or criminal
trespass.

Illustrations
(a) Z, under the influence of madness, attempts to kill A; Z is guilty of no offence. But A has the same right of private defence which he
would have if Z were sane.
(b) A enters by night a house which he is legally entitled to enter. Z, in good faith, taking A for a house-breaker, attacks A. Here Z, by
attacking A under this misconception, commits no offence. But A has the same right of private defence against Z, which he would have if
Z were not acting under that misconception.

Acts against which there
is no right private
defence

99. There is no right of private defence against an act which does not reasonably cause the apprehension of death or of grievous hurt, if
done, or attempted to be done by a public servant acting in good faith under colour of his office, though that act may not be strictly
justifiable by law.
There is no right of private defence against an act which does not reasonably cause the apprehension of death or of grievous hurt, if
done, or attempted to be done, by the direction of a public servant acting in good faith under colour of his office, though that act may not
be strictly justifiable by law.
There is no right of private defence in cases in which there is time to have recourse to the protection of the public authorities.

Extent to which the right
may be exercised

The right of private defence in no case extends to the inflicting of more harm than it is necessary to inflict for the purpose of defence.
Explanation 1.-A person is not deprived of the right of private defence against an act done, or attempted to be done, by a public servant,
as such unless he knows, or has reason to believe, that the person doing the act is such public servant.
Explanation 2.-A person is not deprived of the right of private defence against an act done, or attempted to be done, by the direction of a
public servant, unless he knows, or has reason to believe, that the person doing the act is acting by such direction, or unless such
person states the authority under which he acts, or if he has authority in writing, unless he produces such authority, if demanded.

When the right of private
defence of the body
extends to causing
death

100. The right of private defence of the body extends, under the restrictions mentioned in the last preceding section, to the voluntary
causing of death or of any other harm to the assailant, if the offence which occasions the exercise of the right be of any of the
descriptions hereinafter enumerated, namely:Firstly.-Such an assault as may reasonably cause the apprehension that death will otherwise be the consequence of such assault;
Secondly.-Such an assault as may reasonably cause the apprehension that grievous hurt will otherwise be the consequence of such
assault;
Thirdly.-An assault with the intention of committing rape;
Fourthly.-An assault with the intention of gratifying unnatural lust;
Fifthly.-An assault with the intention of kidnapping or abducting;
Sixthly.-An assault with the intention of wrongfully confining a person, under circumstances which may reasonably cause him to
apprehend that he will be unable to have recourse to the public authorities for his release.

When such right
extends to causing any

101. If the offence be not of any of the descriptions enumerated in the last preceding section, the right of private defence of the body
does not extend to the voluntary causing of death to the assailant, but does extend, under the restrictions mentioned in section 99 to the

harm other than death

voluntary causing to the assailant of any harm other than death.

Commencement and
continuance of the right
of private defence of the
body

102. The right of private defence of the body commences as soon as a reasonable apprehension of danger to the body arises from an
attempt or threat to commit the offence though the offence may not have been committed; and it continues as long as such,
apprehension of danger to the body continues.

When the right of private
defence of property
extends to causing
death

103. The right of private defence of property extends, under the restrictions mentioned in section 99, to the voluntary causing of death or
of any other harm to the wrong-doer, if the offence, the committing of which, or the attempting to commit which, occasions the exercise
of the right, be an offence of any of the descriptions hereinafter enumerated, namely:Firstly.-Robbery;
Secondly.-House-breaking by night;
Thirdly.-Mischief by fire committed on any building, tent or vessel, which building, tent or vessel is used as a human dwelling or as a
place for the custody of property;
Fourthly.-Theft, mischief or house-trespass, under such circumstances as may reasonably cause apprehension that death or grievous
hurt will be the consequence, if such right of private defence is not exercised;

When such right
extends to causing any
harm other than death

104. If the offence, the committing of which, or the attempting to commit which, occasions the exercise of the right of private defence, be
theft, mischief, or criminal trespass, not of any of the descriptions enumerated in the last preceding section, that right does not extend to
the voluntary causing of death, but does extend, subject to the restrictions mentioned in section 99, to the voluntary causing to the
wrong-doer of any harm other than death.

Commencement and
continuance of the right
of private defence of
property

105. The right of private defence of property commences when a reasonable apprehension of danger to the property commences.
The right of private defence of property against theft continues till the offender has effected his retreat with the property or either the
assistance of the public authorities is obtained, or the property has been recovered.
The right of private defence of property against robbery continues as long as the offender causes or attempts to cause to any person
death or hurt or wrongful restraint or as long as the fear of instant death or of instant hurt or of instant personal restraint continues.
The right of private defence of property against criminal trespass or mischief continues as long as the offender continues in the
commission of criminal trespass or mischief.
The right of private defence of property against house-breaking by night continues as long as the house-trespass which has been begun
by such house-breaking continues.

Right of private defence
against deadly assault
when there is risk of
harm to innocent person

106. If in the exercise of the right of private defence against an assault which reasonably causes the apprehension of death, the
defender be so situated that he cannot effectually exercise that right without risk of harm to an innocent person, his right of private
defence extends to the running of that risk.
Illustration
A is attacked by a mob who attempt to murder him. He cannot effectually exercise his right of private defence without firing on the mob,
and he cannot fire without risk of harming young children who are mingled with the mob. A commits no offence if by so firing he harms
any of the children.

CHAPTER V
OF ABETMENT
Abetment of a thing

107. A person abets the doing of a thing, who
Firstly.-Instigates any person to do that thing; or
Secondly.-Engages with one or more other person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or illegal omission
takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy, and in order to the doing of that thing; or
Thirdly.-Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, the doing of that thing.
Explanation 1.-A person who, by wilful misrepresenta-tion, or by wilful concealment of a material fact which he is bound to disclose,
voluntarily causes or procures, or attempts to cause or procure, a thing to be done, is said to instigate the doing of that thing.
Illustration
A, a public officer, is authorized by a warrant from a Court of Justice to apprehend Z. B, knowing that fact and also that C is not Z, wilfully
represents to A that C is Z, and thereby intentionally causes A to apprehend C. Here B abets by instigation the apprehension of C.
Explanation 2.-Whoever, either prior to or at the time of the commission of an act, does anything in order to facilitate the commission of
that act, and thereby facilitates the commission thereof, is said to aid the doing of that act.

Abettor

108. A person abets an offence, who abets either the commission of an offence, or the commission of an act which would be an offence,
if committed by a person capable by law of committing an offence with the same intention or knowledge as that of the abettor.
Explanation 1.-The abetment of the illegal omission of an act may amount to an offence although the abettor may not himself be bound
to do that act.
Explanation 2.-To constitute the offence of abetment it is not necessary that the act abetted should be committed, or that the effect
requisite to constitute the offence should be caused.
Illustrations
(a) A instigates B to murder C. B refuses to do so. A is guilty of abetting B to commit murder.
(b) A instigates B to murder D. B in pursuance of the instigation stabs D. D recovers from the wound. A is guilty of instigating B to commit
murder.
Explanation 3.-It is not necessary that the person abetted should be capable by law of committing an offence, or that he should have the
same guilty intention or knowledge as that of the abettor, or any guilty intention or knowledge.
Illustrations
(a) A, with a guilty intention, abets a child or a lunatic to commit an act which would be an offence, if committed by a person capable by
law of committing an offence, and having the same intention as A. Here A, whether the act be committed or not, is guilty of abetting an
offence.
(b) A, with the intention of murdering Z, instigates B, a child under seven years of age, to do an act which causes Z's death. B, in
consequence of the abetment, does the act in the absence of A and thereby, causes Z's death. Here, though B was not capable by law
of committing an offence, A is liable to be punished in the same manner as if B had been capable by law of committing an offence, and
had committed murder, and he is therefore subject to the punishment of death.
(c) A instigates B to set fire to a dwelling-house. B, in consequence of the unsoundness of his mind, being incapable of knowing the
nature of the act, or that he is doing what is wrong or contrary to law, sets fire to the house in consequence of A's instigation. B has
committed no offence, but A is guilty of abetting the offence of setting fire to a dwelling-house, and is liable to the punishment provided
for that offence.
(d) A intending to cause a theft to be committed, instigates B to take property belonging to Z out of Z's possession. A induces B to
believe that the property belongs to A. B takes the property out of Z's possession, in good faith, believing it to be A's property. B, acting
under this misconception, does not take dishonestly, and therefore does not commit theft. But A is guilty of abetting theft, and is liable to
the same punishment as if B had committed theft.
Explanation 4.-The abetment of an offence being an offence, the abetment of such an abetment is also an offence.
Illustration
A instigates B to instigate C to murder Z. B accordingly instigates C to murder Z, and C commits that offence in consequence of B's
instigation. B is liable to be punished for his offence with the punishment for murder; and, as A instigated B to commit the offence, A is
also liable to the same punishment.
Explanation 5.-It is not necessary to the commission of the offence of abetment by conspiracy that the abettor should concert the offence
with the person who commits it. It is sufficient if he engages in the conspiracy in pursuance of which the offence is committed.
Illustration
A concerts with B a plan for poisoning Z. It is agreed that A shall administer the poison. B then explains the plan to C mentioning that a
third person is to administer the poison, but without mentioning A's name. C agrees to procure the poison, and procures and delivers it to
B for the purpose of its being used in the manner explained. A administers the poison; Z dies in consequence. Here, though A and C
have not conspired together, yet C has been engaged in the conspiracy in pursuance of which Z has been murdered. C has therefore
committed the offence defined in this section and is liable to the punishment for murder.

Abetment in
Bangladesh, of offences
outside it

[108A. A person abets an offence within the meaning of this Code who, in Bangladesh, abets the commission of any act without and
beyond Bangladesh which would constitute an offence committed in Bangladesh.] Abetment in Bangladesh of offences outside it
30

Illustration
A, in Bangladesh, instigates B, a foreigner in Goa, to commit a murder in Goa. A is guilty of abetting murder.

Punishment of abetment
if the act abetted is
committed in
consequence and where
no express provision is
made for its
punishment.

109. Whoever abets any offence shall, if the act abetted is committed in consequence of the abetment, and no express provision is
made by this Code for the punishment of such abetment, be punished with the punishment provided for the offence. Punishment of
abetment if the act abetted is committed in consequence and where no express provision is made for its punishment
Explanation.-An act or offence is said to be committed in consequence of abetment, when it is committed in consequence of the
instigation, or in pursuance of the conspiracy, or with the aid which constitutes the abetment.
Illustrations
(a) A offers a bribe to B, a public servant, as a reward for showing A some favour in the exercise of B's official functions. B accepts the
bribe. A has abetted the offence defined in section 161.
(b) A instigates B to give false evidence. B, in consequence of the instigation commits that offence. A is guilty of abetting that offence,
and is liable to the same punishment as B.
(c) A and B conspire to poison Z. A, in pursuance of the conspiracy, procures the poison and delivers it to B in order that he may
administer it to Z. B, in pursuance of the conspiracy, administers the poison to Z in A's absence and thereby causes Z's death. Here B is
guilty of murder. A is guilty of abetting that offence by conspiracy, and is liable to the punishment for murder.

Punishment of abetment
if person abetted does
act with different
intention from that of
abettor

110. Punishment of abetment if person abetted does act with different intention from that of abettor 110. Whoever abets the
commission of an offence shall, if the person abetted does the act with a different intention or knowledge from that of the abettor, be
punished with the punishment provided for the offence which would have been committed if the act had been done with the intention
or knowledge of the abettor and with no other.

Liability of abettor when
one act abetted and
different act done

111. Liability of abettor when one act abetted and different act done 111. When an act is abetted and a different act is done, the
abettor is liable for the act done, in the same manner and to the same extent as if he had directly abetted it:
Provided the act done was a probable consequence of the abetment, and was committed under the influence of the instigation, or
with the aid or in pursuance of the conspiracy which constituted the abetment.
Illustrations
(a) A instigates a child to put poison into the food of Z, and gives him poison for that purpose. The child, in consequence of the
instigation, by mistake puts the poison into the food of Y, which is by the side of that of Z. Here if the child was acting under the
influence of A's instigation, and the act done was under the circumstances a probable consequence of the abetment, A is liable in
the same manner and to the same extent as if he had instigated the child to put the poison into the food of Y.
(b) A instigates B to burn Z's house. B sets fire to the house and at the same time commits theft of property there. A, though guilty of
abetting the burning of the house, is not guilty of abetting the theft; for the theft was a distinct act, and not a probable consequence
of the burning.
(c) A instigates B and C to break into an inhabited house at midnight for the purpose of robbery, and provides them with arms for
that purpose. B and C break into the house, and being resisted by Z, one of the inmates, murder Z. Here, if that murder was the
probable consequence of the abetment, A is liable to the punishment provided for murder.

Abettor when liable to
cumulative punishment
for act abetted and for
act done

112. If the act for which the abettor is liable under the last preceding section is committed in addition to the act abetted, and constitutes a
distinct offence, the abettor is liable to punishment for each of the offences.

Liability of abettor for an
effect caused by the act
abetted different from
that intended by the
abettor

113. When an act is abetted with the intention on the part of the abettor of causing a particular effect, and an act for which the abettor is
liable in consequence of the abetment, causes a different effect from that intended by the abettor, the abettor is liable for the effect
caused, in the same manner and to the same extent as if he had abetted the act with the intention of causing that effect, provided he
knew that the act abetted was likely to cause that effect.

Illustration
A instigates B to resist by force a distress made by a public servant. B, in consequence, resists that distress. In offering the resistance, B
voluntarily causes grievous hurt to the officer executing the distress. As B has committed both the offence of resisting the distress, and
the offence of voluntarily causing grievous hurt, B is liable to punishment for both these offences; and, if A knew that B was likely
voluntarily to cause grievous hurt in resisting the distress, A will also be liable to punishment for each of the offences.

Illustration
A instigates B to cause grievous hurt to Z. B, in consequence of the instigation, causes grievous hurt to Z. Z dies in consequence. Here,
if A knew that the grievous hurt abetted was likely to cause death, A is liable to be punished with the punishment provided for murder.

Abettor present when
offence is committed

114. Whenever any person, who if absent would be liable to be punished as an abettor, is present when the act or offence for which he
would be punishable in consequence of the abetment is committed, he shall be deemed to have committed such act or offence.

Abetment of offence
punishable with death or
imprisonment for life- if
offence be not
committed; if act
causing harm be done in
consequence

115. Whoever abets the commission of an offence punishable with death or 31[imprisonment] for life, shall, if that offence be not
committed in consequence of the abetment, and no express provision is made by this Code for the punishment of such abetment, be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine;

Abetment of offence
punishable with
imprisonment- if offence
be not committed; if
abettor or person
abetted be a public
servant whose duty it is
to prevent offence

116. Whoever abets an offence punishable with imprisonment shall, if that offence be not committed in consequence of the abetment,
and no express provision is made by this Code for the punishment of such abetment, be punished with imprisonment of any description
provided for that offence for a term which may extend to one-fourth part of the longest term provided for that offence; or with such fine as
is provided for that offence, or with both;

and if any act for which the abettor is liable in consequence of the abetment, and which causes hurt to any person, is done, the abettor
shall be liable to imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to fourteen years, and shall also be liable to fine.
Illustration
A instigates B to murder Z. The offence is not committed. If B had murdered Z, he would have been subject to the punishment of death
or 32[imprisonment] for life. Therefore A is liable to imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years and also to a fine; and, if
any hurt be done to Z in consequence of the abetment, he will be liable to imprisonment for a term which may extend to fourteen years,
and to fine.

and if the abettor or the person abetted is a public servant, whose duty it is to prevent the commission of such offence, the abettor shall
be punished with imprisonment of any description provided for that offence, for a term which may extend to one-half of the longest term
provided for that offence, or with such fine as is provided for the offence, or with both.
Illustrations
(a) A offers a bribe to B, a public servant, as a reward for showing A some favour in the exercise of B's official functions. B refuses to
accept the bribe. A is punishable under this section.
(b) A instigates B to give false evidence. Here, if B does not give false evidence, A has nevertheless committed the offence defined in
this section, and is punishable accordingly.
(c) A, a police-officer, whose duty it is to prevent robbery, abets the commission of robbery. Here, though the robbery be not committed,
A is liable to one-half of the longest term of imprisonment provided for that offence, and also to fine.
(d) B abets the commission of a robbery by A, a police-officer, whose duty it is to prevent that offence. Here though the robbery be not
committed, B is liable to one-half of the longest term of imprisonment provided for the offence of robbery, and also to fine.

Abetting commission of
offence by the public, or
by more than ten
persons

117. Whoever abets the commission of an offence by the public generally or by any number or class of persons exceeding ten, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.

Concealing design to
commit offence
punishable with death or
imprisonment for life- if
offence be committed; if
offence be not
committed

118. Whoever intending to facilitate or knowing it to be likely that he will thereby facilitate the commission of an offence punishable with
death or 33[imprisonment] for life,

Illustration
A affixes in a public place a placard instigating a sect consisting of more than ten members to meet at a certain time and place, for the
purpose of attacking the members of an adverse sect, while engaged in a procession. A has committed the offence defined in this
section.

voluntarily conceals, by any act or illegal omission, the existence of a design to commit such offence or makes any representation which
he knows to be false respecting such design,
shall, if that offence be committed, be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, or, if
the offence be not committed, with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years; and in either case
shall also be liable to fine.
Illustration
A, knowing that dacoity is about to be committed at B, falsely informs the Magistrate that a dacoity is about to be committed at C, a place
in an opposite direction, and thereby misleads the Magistrate with intent to facilitate the commission of the offence. The dacoity is
committed at B in pursuance of the design. A is punishable under this section.

Public servant
concealing design to
commit offence which it
is his duty to prevent-

119. Whoever, being a public servant intending to facilitate or knowing it to be likely that he will thereby facilitate the commission of an
offence which it is his duty as such public servant to prevent,

if offence be committed;

shall, if the offence be committed, be punished with imprisonment of any description provided for the offence, for a term which may
extend to one-half of the longest term of such imprisonment, or with such fine as is provided for that offence, or with both;

if offence be punishable
with death, etc;

or, if the offence be punishable with death or 34[imprisonment] for life, with imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to ten years;

if offence be not
committed

or, if the offence be not committed, shall be punished with imprisonment of any description provided for the offence for a term which may
extend to one-fourth part of the longest term of such imprisonment or with such fine as is provided for the offence, or with both.

voluntarily conceals, by any act or illegal omission, the existence of a design to commit such offence, or makes any representation which
he knows to be false respecting such design,

Illustration
A, an officer of police, being legally bound to give information of all designs to commit robbery which may come to his knowledge, and
knowing that B designs to commit robbery, omits to give such information, with intent to facilitate the commission of that offence. Here A
has by an illegal omission concealed the existence of B's design, and is liable to punishment according to the provision of this section.
Concealing design to
commit offence
punishable with
imprisonment

120. Whoever, intending to facilitate or knowing it to be likely that he will thereby facilitate the commission of an offence punishable with
imprisonment,

if offence be committed;
if offence be not
committed

shall, if the offence be committed, be punished with imprisonment of the description provided for the offence, for a term which may
extend to one-fourth, and, if the offence be not committed, to one-eighth, of the longest term of such imprisonment, or with such fine as
is provided for the offence, or with both.

voluntarily conceals, by any act or illegal omission, the existence of a design to commit such offence, or makes any representation which
he knows to be false respecting such design,

35

CHAPTER VA

CRIMINAL CONSPIRACY
Definition of criminal
conspiracy.

120A. When two or more persons agree to do, or cause to be done,(1) an illegal act, or
(2) an act which is not illegal by illegal means, such an agreement is designated a criminal conspiracy:
Provided that no agreement except an agreement to commit an offence shall amount to a criminal conspiracy unless some act besides
the agreement is done by one or more parties to such agreement in pursuance thereof.
Explanation.-It is immaterial whether the illegal act is the ultimate object of such agreement, or is merely incidental to that object.

Punishment of criminal
conspiracy

120B. (1) Whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable with death, 36[imprisonment for life] or rigorous
imprisonment for a term of two years or upwards, shall, where no express provision is made in this Code for the punishment of such a
conspiracy, be punished in the same manner as if he had abetted such offence.
(2) Whoever is a party to a criminal conspiracy other than a criminal conspiracy to commit an offence punishable as aforesaid shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding six months, or with fine or with both.]

CHAPTER VI
OF OFFENCES AGAINST THE STATE
Waging or attempting to
wage war, or abeting
waging of war, against
Bangladesh

121. Whoever wages war against Bangladesh, or attempts to wage such war, or abets the waging of such war, shall be punished with
death, or 37[imprisonment] for life, and shall also be liable to fine.Illustration

Conspiracy to commit
offences punishable by
section 121.

38

A joins an insurrection against Bangladesh. A has committed the offence defined in this section.

[121A. Whoever within or without Bangladesh conspires to commit any of the offences punishable by section 121, or to deprive
Bangladesh of the sovereignty of her territories or of any part thereof, or conspires to overawe, by means of criminal force or the show of
criminal force, the Government, shall be punished with 39[imprisonment for life] or with imprisonment of either description which may
extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.]
Explanation.-To constitute a conspiracy under this section, it is not necessary that any act or illegal omission shall take place in
pursuance.

Collecting arms, etc.,
with intention of waging
war against Bangladesh

122. Whoever collects men, arms or ammunition or otherwise prepares to wage war with the intention of either waging or being prepared
to wage war against Bangladesh, shall be punished with 40[imprisonment] for life or imprisonment of either description for a term not
exceeding ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Concealing with intent
to facilitate design to
wage war

123. Whoever, by any act, or by any illegal omission, conceals the existence of a design to wage war against Bangladesh, intending by
such concealment to facilitate, or knowing it to be likely that such concealment will facilitate the waging of such war, shall be punished
with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Condemnation of the
creation of the State,
and advocacy of
abolition of its
sovereignty

41

[123A. (I) Whoever, with or without Bangladesh, with intent to influence, or knowing it to be likely that he will influence, any person or
the whole or any section of the public, in a manner likely to be prejudicial to the safety of Bangladesh, or to endanger the sovereignty of
Bangladesh in respect of all or any of the territories lying within its borders, shall by words, spoken or written, or by signs or visible
representation, condemn the creation of Bangladesh 42[in pursuance of the Proclamation of Independence on the twenty-sixth day of
March, 1971], or advocate the curtailment or abolition of the sovereignty of Bangladesh in respect of all or any of the territories lying
within its borders, whether by amalgamation with the territories of neighboring States or otherwise, shall be punished with rigorous
imprisonment which may extend to ten years and shall also be liable to fine.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, when any person is proceeded against under this
section, it shall be lawful for any Court before which he may be produced in the course of the investigation or trial, to make such order as
it may think fit in respect of his movements, of his association or communication with other persons, and of his activities in regard to
dissemination of news, propagation of opinions, until such time as the case is finally decided.]
(3) Any Court which is a Court of appeal or of revision in relation to the Court mentioned in sub-section (2) may also make an order
under that sub-section.]

Assaulting President,
The Government, etc.,
with intent to compel or
restrain the exercise of
any lawful power

124. Whoever, with the intention of inducing or compelling the President of Bangladesh, or 43[the Government], to exercise or refrain
from exercising in any manner any of the lawful powers of the President, or 44[the Government],

Sedition

46

assaults, or wrongfully restrains, or attempts wrongfully to restrain, or overawes, by means of criminal force or the show of criminal force,
or attempts so to overawe, the President, 45[* * *],
shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.
[124A. Whoever by words, either spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representation, or otherwise, brings or attempts to bring
into hatred or contempt, or excites or attempts to excite disaffection towards, the Government established by law shall be punished with
47[imprisonment for life] or any shorter term, to which fine may be added, or with imprisonment which may extend to three years, to which
fine may be added, or with fine.]
Explanation 1.-The expression "disaffection" includes disloyalty and all feelings of enmity.
Explanation 2.-Comments expressing disapprobation of the measures of the Government with a view to obtain their alteration by lawful
means, without exciting or attempting to excite hatred, contempt or disaffection, do not constitute an offence under this section.
Explanation 3.-Comments expressing disapprobation of the administrative or other action of the Government without exciting or
attempting to excite hatred, contempt or disaffection, do not constitute an offence under this section.

Waging war against any
Asiatic Power in alliance
with Bangladesh

125. Whoever wages war against the Government of any Asiatic power in alliance or at peace with Bangladesh or attempts to wage
such war, or abets the waging of such war, shall be punished with 48[imprisonment] for life, to which fine may be added, or with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, to which fine may be added, or with fine.

Committing depredation
on territories of Power
at peace with
Bangladesh

126. Whoever commits depredation, or makes preparations to commit depredation, on the territories of any Power in alliance or at peace
with Bangladesh, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also
be liable to fine and to forfeiture of any property used or intended to be used in committing such depredation, or acquired by such
depredation.

Receiving property
taken by war or
depredation mentioned
in sections 125 and 126

127. Whoever receives any property knowing the same to have been taken in the commission of any of the offences mentioned in
sections 125 and 126, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall
also be liable to fine and to forfeiture of the property so received.

Public servant
voluntarily allowing
prisoner of State or war
to escape

128. Whoever, being a public servant and having the custody of any State prisoner or prisoner of war, voluntarily allows such prisoner to
escape from any place in which such prisoner is confined, shall be punished with 49[imprisonment] for life, or imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Public servant
negligently suffering
such prisoner to escape

129. Whoever, being a public servant and having the custody of any State prisoner or prisoner of war, negligently suffers such prisoner
to escape from any place of confinement in

Aiding escape of,
rescuing or harbouring
such prisoner

130. Whoever knowingly aids or assists any State prisoner or prisoner of war in escaping from lawful custody, or rescues or attempts to
rescue any such prisoner, or harbours or conceals any such prisoner who has escaped from lawful custody, or offers or attempts to offer
any resistance to the recapture of such prisoner shall be punished with 50[imprisonment] for life, or with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to ten years and shall also be liable to fine.

which such prisoner is confined, shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also
be liable to fine.

Explanation.-A State prisoner or prisoner of war, who is permitted to be at large on his parole within certain limits in Bangladesh, is said
to escape from lawful custody if he goes beyond the limits within which he is allowed to be at large.

CHAPTER VII
OF OFFENCES RELATING TO THE ARMY, NAVY AND AIR FORCE
Abetting mutiny, or
attempting to seduce a
soldier, sailor or airman
from his duty

131. Whoever abets the committing of mutiny by an officer, soldier, sailor or airman, in the Army, Navy or Air Force of Bangladesh, or
attempts to seduce any such officer, soldier, sailor or airman from his allegiance or his duty, shall be punished with 51[imprisonment] for
life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Abetment of mutiny, if
mutiny is committed in
consequence thereof

132. Whoever abets the committing of mutiny by an officer, soldier, sailor or airman, in the Army, Navy or Air Force of Bangladesh, shall,
if mutiny be committed in consequence of that abetment, be punished with death or with 53[imprisonment] for life, or imprisonment of
either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Abetment of assault by
soldier, sailor or airman
on his superior officer,
when in execution of his
office

133. Whoever, abets an assault by an officer, soldier, sailor or airman, in the Army, Navy or Air Force of Bangladesh, on any superior
officer being in the execution of his office, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three
years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Abetment of such
assault, if the assault is
committed

134. Whoever, abets an assault by an officer, soldier sailor or airman, in the Army, Navy or Air Force of Bangladesh, on any superior
officer being in the execution of his office, shall, if such assault be committed in consequence of that abetment be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall be liable to fine.

Abetment of desertion
of soldier, sailor or
airman

135. Whoever abets the desertion of any officer, soldier, sailor or airman, in the Army, Navy or Air Force of Bangladesh, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Harbouring deserter

136. Whoever, except as hereinafter excepted, knowing or having reason to believe that an officer, soldier, sailor or airman, in the Army,
Navy or Air Force of Bangladesh, has deserted, harbours such officer, soldier, sailor or airman, shall be punished with imprisonment of
either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Explanation.-In this section the words "officer", “soldier", "sailor" and "airman" include any person subject to the 52[Army Act, 1952 or the
Navy Ordinance, 1961 or the Air Force Act, 1953], as the case may be.

Exception.-This provision does not extend to the case in which the harbour is given by a wife to her husband.
Deserter concealed on
board merchant vessel
through negligence of
master

137. The master or person in charge of a merchant vessel, on board of which any deserter from the Army, Navy or Air Force of
Bangladesh is concealed, shall, though ignorant of such concealment, be liable to a penalty not exceeding five hundred taka if he might
have known of such concealment but for some neglect of his duty as such master or person in charge, or but for some want of discipline
on board of the vessel.

Abetment of act of
insubordination by
soldier, sailor or airman

138. Whoever abets what he knows to be an act of insubordination by an officer, soldier, sailor or airman, in the Army, Navy or Air Force
of Bangladesh, shall, if such act of insubordination be committed in consequence of that abetment, be punished with imprisonment of
either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine, or with both.

[Repealed]

138A. [Repealed by section 2 and Schedule of the Amending Act, 1934 (Act No. XXXV of 1934).]

Persons subject to
certain acts

139. No person subject to the 54[* * *] Army Act, 1952, the 55[Navy Ordinance, 1961], the 56[* * *] Air Force Act, 1953, is subject to
punishment under this Code for any of the offences defined in this Chapter.

Wearing garb or
carrying token used by
soldier, sailor or airman

140. Whoever, not being a soldier, sailor or airman in the Military, Naval or Air service of Bangladesh, wears any garb or carries any
token resembling any garb or token used by such a soldier, sailor or airman with the intention that it may be believed that he is such a
soldier, sailor or airman, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three months, or with
fine which may extend to five hundred taka or with both.

CHAPTER VIII
OF OFFENCES AGAINST THE PUBLIC TRANQUILITY
Unlawful assembly

141. An assembly of five or more persons is designated an "unlawful assembly," if the common object of the persons composing that
assembly is
First.-To overawe by criminal force, or show of criminal force, Government or Legislature, or any public servant in the exercise of the
lawful power of such public servant; or
Second.-To resist the execution of any law, or of any legal process; or
Third. To commit any mischief or criminal trespass, or other offence; or
Fourth.-By means of criminal force, or show of criminal force, to any person to take or obtain possession of any property, or to deprive
any person of the enjoyment of a right of way, or of the use of water or other incorporeal right of which he is in possession or enjoyment,
or to enforce any right or supposed right; or
Fifth.-By means of criminal force, or show of criminal force, to compel any person to do what he is not legally bound to do, or to omit to
do what he is legally entitled to do.
Explanation.-An assembly which was not unlawful when it assembled, may subsequently become an unlawful assembly.

Being member of
unlawful assembly

142. Whoever, being aware of facts which render any assembly an unlawful assembly, intentionally joins that assembly, or continues in
it, is said to be a member of an unlawful assembly.

Punishment

143. Whoever is a member of an unlawful assembly, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to six months, or with fine, or with both.

Joining unlawful
assembly, armed with
deadly weapon

144. Whoever, being armed with any deadly weapon, or with anything which, used as a weapon of offence, is likely to cause death, is a
member of an unlawful assembly, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or
with fine, or with both.

Joining or continuing in
unlawful assembly,
knowing it has been
commanding to
disperse

145. Whoever joins or continues in an unlawful assembly, knowing that such unlawful assembly has been commanded in the manner
prescribed by law to disperse, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or
with fine, or with both.

Rioting

146. Whenever force or violence is used by an unlawful assembly, or by any member thereof, in prosecution of the common object of
such assembly, every member of such assembly is guilty of the offence of rioting.

Punishment for rioting

147. Whoever is guilty of rioting, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or
with fine, or with both.

Rioting, armed with
deadly weapon

148. Whoever is guilty of rioting, being armed with a deadly weapon or with anything which, used as a weapon of offence, is likely to
cause death, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with
both.

Every member of
unlawful assembly
guilty of offence
committed in
prosecution of common
object

149. If an offence is committed by any member of an unlawful assembly in prosecution of the common object of that assembly, or such
as the members of that assembly knew to be likely to be committed in prosecution of that object, every person who, at the time of the
committing of that offence, is a member of the same assembly, is guilty of that offence.

Hiring, or conniving at
hiring, of persons to join
unlawful assembly

150. Whoever hires or engages, or employs, or promotes, or connives at the hiring, engagement or employment of any person to join or
become a member of any unlawful assembly, shall be punishable as a member of such unlawful assembly, and for any offence which
may be committed by any such person as a member of such unlawful assembly in pursuance of such hiring, engagement or
employment, in the same manner as if he had been a member of such unlawful assembly, or himself had committed such offence.

Knowingly joining or
continuing in assembly
of five or more persons
after it has been
commanded to disperse

151. Whoever knowingly joins or continues in any assembly of five or more persons likely to cause a disturbance of the public peace,
after such assembly has been lawfully commanded to disperse, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to six months, or with fine, or with both.

Assaulting or
obstructing public
servant when
suppressing riot, etc.

152. Whoever assaults or threatens to assault, or obstructs or attempts to obstruct, any public servant in the discharge of his duty as
such public servant, in endeavouring to disperse an unlawful assembly, or to suppress a riot or affray, or uses, or threatens, or attempts
to use criminal force to such public servant, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to
three years or with fine, or with both.

Wantonly giving
provocation with intent
to cause riot- if rioting
be committed; if not
committed

153. Whoever malignantly, or wantonly, by doing anything which is illegal, gives provocation to any person intending or knowing it to be
likely that such provocation will cause the offence of rioting to be committed, shall, if the offence of rioting be committed in consequence
of such provocation, be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with
both; and if the offence of rioting be not committed, with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or
with fine, or with both.

Promoting enmity
between classes

57

Explanation.-If the assembly is an unlawful assembly within the meaning of section 141, the offender will be punishable under section
145.

[153A. Whoever by words, either spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representations, or otherwise, promotes or attempts to
promote feelings of enmity or hatred between different classes of the citizens of Bangladesh, shall be punished with imprisonment which
may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.]
Explanation.-It does not amount to an offence within the meaning of this section to point out, without malicious intention and with an
honest view to their removal, matters which are producing or have a tendency to produce, feelings of enmity or hatred between different
classes of the citizens of Bangladesh.

Inducing students, etc.
to take part in political
activity

58

[153B. Whoever by words, either spoken or written, or by signs, or by visible representations, or otherwise, induce or attempts to
induce any student, or any class of students, or any institution interested in or connected with students, to take part in any political
activity which disturbs or undermines, or is likely to disturb or undermine, the public order shall be punished with imprisonment which
may extend to two years or with fine, or with both.]

Owner or occupier of
land on which an
unlawful assembly is
held

154. Whenever any unlawful assembly or riot takes place, the owner or occupier of the land upon which such unlawful assembly is held,
or such riot is committed, and any person having or claiming an interest in such land, shall be punishable with fine not exceeding one
thousand taka, if he or his agent or manager, knowing that such offence is being or has been committed, or having reason to believe it is
likely to be committed, do not give the earliest notice thereof in his or their power to the principal officer at the nearest police-station, and
do not, in the case of his or their having reason to believe that it was about to be committed, use all lawful means in his or their power to
prevent it and, in the event of its taking place, do not use all lawful means in his or their power to disperse or suppress the riot or
unlawful assembly.

Liability of person for
whose benefit riot is
committed

155. Whenever a riot is committed for the benefit or on behalf of any person who is the owner or occupier of any land respecting which
such riot takes place or who claims any interest in such land, or in the subject of any dispute which gave rise to the riot, or who has
accepted or derived any benefit therefrom, such person shall be punishable with fine, if he or his agent or manager, having reason to
believe that such riot was likely to be committed or that the unlawful assembly by which such riot was committed was likely to be held,
shall not respectively use all lawful means in his or their power to prevent such assembly or riot from taking place, and for suppressing
and dispersing the same.

Liability of agent of
owner or occupier for
whose benefit riot is
committed

156. Whenever a riot is committed for the benefit or on behalf of any person who is the owner or occupier of any land respecting which
such riot takes place, or who claims any interest in such land, or in the subject of any dispute which gave rise to the riot, or who has
accepted or derived any benefit therefrom,

Harbouring persons
hired for an unlawful
assembly

157. Whoever harbours, receives or assembles, in any house or premises in his occupation or charge, or under his control any persons,
knowing that such persons have been hired, engaged or employed, or are about to be hired, engaged or employed, to join or become
members of an unlawful assembly, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months,
or with fine, or with both.

Being hired to take part
in an unlawful assembly
or riot; or to go armed

158. Whoever is engaged or hired, or offers or attempts to be hired or engaged, to do or assist in doing any of the acts specified in
section 141, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine, or with
both.

the agent or manager of such person shall be punishable with fine, if such agent or manager, having reason to believe that such riot was
likely to be committed, or that the unlawful assembly by which such riot was committed was likely to be held, shall not use all lawful
means in his power to prevent such riot or assembly from taking place and for suppressing and dispersing the same.

and whoever, being so engaged or hired as aforesaid, goes armed, or engages or offers to go armed, with any deadly weapon or with
anything which used as a weapon of offence is likely to cause death, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.
Affray

159. When two or more persons, by fighting in a public place, disturb the public peace, they are said to "commit an affray".

Punishment for
committing affray

160. Whoever commits an affray, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one month, or
with fine which may extend to one hundred taka, or with both.

CHAPTER IX
OF OFFENCES BY OR RELATING TO PUBLIC SERVANTS
Public servant taking
gratification other than
legal remuneration in
respect of an official ac

161. Whoever, being or expecting to be a public servant, accepts or obtains, or agrees to accept, or attempts to obtain from any person,
for himself or for any other person any gratification whatever, other than legal remuneration, as a motive or reward for doing or
forbearing to do any official act or for showing or for bearing to show, in the exercise of his official functions, favour or disfavour to any
person, or for rendering or attempting to render any service or disservice to any person, with the Government or Legislature, or with any
public servant, as such, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with
fine, or with both.
Explanations-“Expecting to be a public servant.” If a person not expecting to be in office obtains a gratification by deceiving others into a
belief that he is about to be in office, and that he will then serve them, he may be guilty of cheating but he is not guilty of the offence
defined in this section.
“Gratification.” The word “gratification” is not restricted to pecuniary gratifications, or to gratifications estimable in money.
“Legal remuneration.” The words “legal remuneration” are not restricted to remuneration which a public servant can lawfully demand, but
include all remuneration which is permitted by the authority by which he is employed, to accept.
“A motive or reward for doing.” A person who receives a gratification as a motive for doing what he does not intend to do, or as a reward
for doing what he has not done, comes within these words.
Illustrations
(a) A, a munsif, obtains from Z, a banker, a situation in Z's bank for A's brother, as a reward to A for deciding a cause in favour of Z. A
has committed the offence defined in this section.
(b) A, holding the office of Consul at the Court of a foreign Power, accepts a lakh of taka from the Minister of that Power. It does not
appear that A accepted this sum as a motive or reward for doing or forbearing to do any particular official act, or for rendering or
attempting to render any particular service to that Power with the Government of Bangladesh. But it does appear that A accepted the
sum as a motive or reward for generally showing favour in the exercise of his official functions to that Power. A has committed the
offence defined in this section.
(c) A, a public servant, induces Z erroneously to believe that A's influence with Government has obtained a title for Z and thus induces Z
to give A money as a reward for this service. A has committed the offence defined in this section.

Taking gratification, in
order, by corrupt or
illegal means, to
influence public servant

162. Whoever accepts or obtains, or agrees to accept, or attempts to obtain, from any person, for himself or for any other person, any
gratification whatever as a motive or reward for inducing, by corrupt or illegal means, any public servant to do or to forbear to do any
official act, or in the exercise of the official functions of such public servant to show favour or disfavour to any person, or to render or
attempt to render any service or disservice to any person with the Government or Legislature, or with any public servant, as such, shall
be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.

Taking gratification, for
exercise of personal
influence with public
servant

163. Whoever accepts or obtains, or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain, from any person, for himself or for any other person, any
gratification whatever, as a motive or reward for inducing, by the exercise of personal influence, any public servant to do or to forbear to
do any official act, or in the exercise of the official functions of such public servant to show favour or disfavour to any person, or to render
or attempt to render any service or disservice to any person with the Government or Legislature, or with any public servant, as such,
shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.
Illustration
An advocate who receives a fee for arguing a case before a Judge; a person who receives pay for arranging and correcting a memorial
addressed to Government, setting forth the services and claims of the memorialist; a paid agent for a condemned criminal, who lays
before the Government statements tending to show that the condemnation was unjust, - are not within this section, inasmuch as they do
not exercise or profess to exercise personal influence.

Punishment for
abetment by public
servant of offences
defined in section 162 or
163

164. Whoever, being a public servant, in respect of whom either of the offences defined in the last two preceding sections is committed,
abets the offence, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or
with both.

Public servant obtaining
valuable thing, without
consideration, from
person concerned in
proceeding or business
transacted by such
public servant

165. Whoever, being a public servant, accepts or obtains, or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain, for himself, or for any other person,
any valuable thing without consideration, or for a consideration which he knows to be inadequate,

Illustration
A is a public servant. B, A's wife, receives a present as a motive for soliciting A to give an office to a particular person. A abets her doing
so. B is punishable with imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year, or with fine, or with both. A is punishable with imprisonment for
a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.

from any person whom he knows to have been, or to be, or to be likely to be concerned in any proceeding or business transacted or
about to be transacted by such public servant, or having any connection with the official functions of himself or of any public servant to
whom he is subordinate,
or from any person whom he knows to be interested in or related to the person so concerned,
shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.
Illustrations
(a) A, a Collector, hires a house of Z, who has a settlement case pending before him. It is agreed that A shall pay fifty taka a month, the
house being such that, if the bargain were made in good faith, A would be required to pay two hundred taka a month. A has obtained a
valuable thing from Z without adequate consideration.
(b) A, a Judge, buys of Z, who has a case pending in A's Court, Government promissory notes at a discount, when they are selling in the
market at a premium. A has obtained a valuable thing from Z without adequate consideration.
(c) Z's brother is apprehended and taken before A, a Magistrate, on a charge of perjury. A sells to Z shares in a bank at a premium,
when they are selling in the market at a discount. Z pays A for the shares accordingly. The money so obtained by A is a valuable thing
obtained by him without adequate consideration.

Punishment for
abetment of offences
defined in sections 161
and 165

59

[165A. Whoever abets any offence punishable under section 161 or section 165 shall, whether the offence abetted is or is not
committed in consequence of the abetment, be punished with the punishment provided for the offence.]

Certain abettors
excepted

60

Public servant
disobeying law, with
intent to cause injury to
any person

166. Whoever, being a public servant, knowingly disobeys any direction of the law as to the way in which he is to conduct himself as
such public servant, intending to cause, or knowing it to be likely that he will, by such disobedience, cause injury to any person, shall be
punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.

[165B. A person shall be deemed not to abet an offence punishable under section 161 or section 165 if he is induced, compelled,
coerced, or intimidated to offer or give any such gratification as is referred to in section 161 for any of the purposes mentioned therein, or
any valuable thing without consideration, or for an inadequate consideration, to any such public servant as is referred to in section 165.]

Illustration
A, being an officer directed by law to take property in execution, in order to satisfy a decree pronounced in Z's favour by a Court of
Justice, knowingly disobeys that direction of law, with the knowledge that he is likely thereby to cause injury to Z. A has committed the
offence defined in this section.

Public servant framing
an incorrect document
with intent to cause
injury

167. Whoever, being a public servant, and being, as such public servant, charged with the preparation or translation of any document,
frames or translates that document in a manner which he knows or believes to be incorrect, intending thereby to cause or knowing it to
be likely that he may thereby cause injury to any person, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.

Public servant
unlawfully engaging in
trade

168. Whoever, being a public servant, and being legally bound as such public servant not to engage in trade, engages in trade, shall be
punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.

Public servant
unlawfully buying or
bidding for property

169. Whoever, being a public servant, and being legally bound as such public servant, not to purchase or bid for certain property,
purchases or bids for that property, either in his own name or in the name of another, or jointly, or in shares with others, shall be
punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both; and the property, if purchased,
shall be confiscated.

Personating a public
servant

170. Whoever pretends to hold any particular office as a public servant, knowing that he does not hold such office or falsely personates
any other person holding such office, and in such assumed character does or attempts to do any act under colour of such office, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description, for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Wearing garb or
carrying token used by
public servant with
fraudulent intent

171. Whoever, not belonging to a certain class of public servants, wears any garb or carries any token resembling any garb or token
used by that class of public servants, with the intention that it may be believed, or with the knowledge that it is likely to be believed, that
he belongs to that class of public servants, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description, for a term which may extend to
three months, or with fine which may extend to two hundred taka, or with both.
61

CHAPTER IXA

OF OFFENCES RELATING TO ELECTIONS
“Candidate”, “Electoral
right” defined

171A. For the purposes of this Chapter (a) "candidate" means a person who has been nominated as a candidate at any election and includes a person who, when an election is
in contemplation, holds himself out as a prospective candidate thereat; provided that he is subsequently nominated as a candidate at
such election;
(b) "electoral right" means the right of a person to stand, or not to stand as, or to withdraw from being, a candidate or to vote or refrain
from voting at an election.

Bribery

171B. (1) Whoever(i) gives a gratification to any person with the object of inducing him or any other person to exercise any electoral right or of rewarding
any person for having exercised any such right; or
(ii) accepts either for himself or for any other person any gratification as a reward for exercising any such right or for inducing or
attempting to induce any other person to exercise any such right,
commits the offence of bribery:
Provided that a declaration of public policy or a promise of public action shall not be an offence under this section.
(2) A person who offers, or agrees to give, or offers or attempts to procure, a gratification shall be deemed to give a gratification.
(3) A person who obtains or agrees to accept or attempts to obtain a gratification shall be deemed to accept a gratification, and a person
who accepts a gratification as a motive for doing what he does not intend to do, or as a reward for doing what he has not done, shall be
deemed to have accepted the gratification as a reward.

Undue influence at
elections

171C.(1) Whoever voluntarily interferes or attempts to interfere with the free exercise of any electoral right commits the offence of undue
influence at an election.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of the provisions of sub-section (1), whoever
(a) threatens any candidate or voter, or any person in whom a candidate or voter is interested, with injury of any kind, or
(b) induces or attempts to induce a candidate or voter to believe that he or any person in whom he is interested will become or will be
rendered an object of Divine displeasure or of spiritual censure,
shall be deemed to interfere with the free exercise of the electoral right of such candidate or voter, within the meaning of sub-section (1).
(3) A declaration of public policy or a promise of public action, or the mere exercise of a legal right without intent to interfere with an
electoral right, shall not be deemed to be interference within the meaning of this section.

Personation at elections

171D. Whoever at an election applies for a voting paper or votes in the name of any other person, whether living or dead, or in a
fictitious name, or who having voted once at such election applies at the same election for a voting paper in his own name, and whoever
abets, procures or attempts to procure the voting by any person in any such way, commits the offence of personation at an election.

Punishment of bribery

171E. Whoever commits the offence of bribery shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to
one year, or with fine, or with both:
Provided that bribery by treating shall be punished with fine only.
Explanation.-Treating means that form of bribery where the gratification consists in food, drink, entertainment, or provision.

Punishment for undue
influence or personation
at an election

171F. Whoever commits the offence of undue influence of personation at an election shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.

False statement in
connection with an
election

171G. Whoever with intent to affect the result of an election makes or publishes any statement purporting to be a statement of fact which
is false and which he either knows or believes to be or does not believe to be true, in relation to the personal character or conduct of any
candidate shall be punished with fine.

Illegal payments in
connection with an
election

171H. Whoever without the general or special authority in writing of a candidate incurs or authorises expenses on account of the holding
of any public meeting, or upon any advertisement, circular or publication, or in any other way whatsoever for the purpose of promoting or
procuring the election of such candidate, shall be punished with fine which may extend to five hundred taka:
Provided that if any person having incurred any such expenses not exceeding the amount of ten taka without authority obtains within ten
days from the date on which such expenses were incurred the approval in writing of the candidate, he shall be deemed to have incurred
such expenses with the authority of the candidate.

Failure to keep election
accounts

171-I. Whoever being required by any law for the time being in force on any rule having the force of law to keep accounts of expenses
incurred at or in connection with an election fails to keep such accounts shall be punished with fine which may extend to five hundred
taka.]

CHAPTER X
OF CONTEMPTS OF THE LAWFUL AUTHORITY OF PUBLIC SERVANTS
Absconding to avoid
service of summons or
other proceeding

172. Whoever absconds in order to avoid being served with a summons, notice or order proceeding from any public servant legally
competent, as such public servant, to issue such summons, notice or order, shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which
may extend to one month, or with fine which may extend to five hundred taka, or with both;
or, if the summons or notice or order is to attend in person or by agent, or to produce a document in a Court of Justice, with simple
imprisonment for a term which may extend to six month, or with fine which may extend to one thousand taka, or with both.

Preventing service of
summons or other
proceeding or
preventing publication
thereof

173. Whoever in any manner intentionally prevents the serving on himself, or on any other person, of any summons, notice or order
proceeding from any public servant legally competent, as such public servant, to issue such summons, notice or order,
or intentionally prevents the lawful affixing to any place of any such summons, notice or order,
or intentionally removes any such summons, notice or order, from any place to which it is lawfully affixed,
or intentionally prevents the lawful making of any proclamation, under the authority of any public servant legally competent, as such
public servant, to direct such proclamation to be made,
shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to one month, or with fine which may extend to five hundred
taka, or with both;
or, if the summons, notice, order or proclamation is to attend in person or by agent, or to produce a document in a Court of Justice, with
simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand taka, or with both.

Non-attendance in
obedience to an order
from public servant

174. Whoever, being legally bound to attend in person or by an agent at a certain place and time in obedience to a summons, notice,
order or proclamation proceeding from any public servant legally competent, as such public servant, to issue the same,
intentionally omits to attend at that place or time, or departs from the place where he is bound to attend before the time at which it is
lawful for him to depart,
shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to one month, or with fine which may extend to five hundred
taka or with both;
or, if the summons, notice, order or proclamation is to attend in person or by agent in a Court of Justice, with simple imprisonment for a
term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand taka, or with both.
Illustrations
(a) A, being legally bound to appear before the 62[Supreme Court of Bangladesh] in obedience to a subpoena issuing from that Court,
intentionally omits to appear. A has committed the offence defined in this section.
(b) A, being legally bound to appear before a Zila Judge, as a witness, in obedience to a summons issued by that Zila Judge,
intentionally omits to appear. A has committed the offence defined in this section.

Omission to produce
document to public
servant by person
legally bound to
produce it

175. Whoever, being legally bound to produce or deliver up any document to any public servant, as such, intentionally omits so to
produce or deliver up the same, shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to one month, or with fine
which may extend to five hundred taka, or with both;
or, if the document is to be produced or delivered up to a Court of Justice, with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to six
months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand taka, or with both.
Illustration
A, being legally bound to produce a document before a Zila Court, intentionally omits to produce the same. A has committed the offence
defined in this section.

Omission to give notice
or information to public
servant by person
legally bound to give it

176. Whoever, being legally bound to give any notice or to furnish information on any subject to any public servant, as such, intentionally
omits to give such notice or to furnish such information in the manner and at the time required by law, shall be punished with simple
imprisonment for a term which may extend to one month, or with fine which may extend to five hundred taka, or with both;
or, if the notice or information required to be given respects the commission of an offence, or is required for the purpose of preventing
the commission of an offence, or in order to the apprehension of an offender, with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to
six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand taka, or with both;
or, if the notice or information required to be given is required by an order passed under sub-section (1) of section 565 of the Code of
Criminal Procedure, 1898, with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may
extend to one thousand taka, or with both.

Furnishing false
information

177. Whoever, being legally bound to furnish information on any subject to any public servant, as such, furnishes, as true, information on
the subject which he knows or has reason to believe to be false, shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may
extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand taka, or with both;
or, if the information which he is legally bound to give respects the commission of an offence, or is required for the purpose of preventing
the commission of an offence, or in order to the apprehension of an offender, with imprisonment of either description for a term which
may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.
Illustrations
(b) A, a landholder, knowing of the commission of a murder within the limits of his estate, wilfully misinforms the Magistrate of the district
that the death has occurred by accident in consequence of the bite of a snake. A is guilty of the offence defined in this section.
(b) A, a village watchman, knowing that a considerable body of strangers has passed through his village in order to commit a dacoity in
the house of Z, a wealthy merchant residing in a neighbouring place, and being bound, under 63[any law for the time being in force], to
give early and punctual information of the above fact to the officer of the nearest police station, wilfully misinforms the police-officer that
a body of suspicious characters passed through the village with a view to commit dacoity in a certain distant place in different direction.
Here A is guilty of the offence defined in the latter part of this section.
Explanation.-In section 176 and in this section the word "offence" includes any act committed at any place out of Bangladesh, which, if
committed in Bangladesh, would be punishable under any of the following sections, namely, 302, 304, 382, 392, 393, 394, 395, 396,
397, 398, 399, 402, 435, 436, 449, 450, 457, 458, 459 and 460; and the word "offender' includes any person who is alleged to have
been guilty of any such act.

Refusing oath or
affirmation when duly
required by public
servant to make it

178. Whoever refuses to bind himself by an oath or affirmation to state the truth, when required so to bind himself by a public servant
legally competent to require that he shall so bind himself, shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to six
months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand taka, or with both.

Refusing to answer
public servant
authorized to question

179. Whoever, being legally bound to state the truth on any subject to any public servant, refuses to answer any question demanded of
him touching that subject by such public servant in the exercise of the legal powers of such public servant, shall be punished with simple
imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand taka, or with both.

Refusing to sign
statement

180. Whoever refuses to sign any statement made by him, when required to sign that statement by a public servant legally competent to
require that he shall sign that statement, shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or
with fine which may extend to five hundred taka, or with both.

False statement on oath
or affirmation to public
servant or person
authorized to administer
an oath or affirmation

181. Whoever, being legally bound by an oath or affirmation to state the truth on any subject to any public servant or other person
authorized by law to administer such oath or affirmation, makes, to such public servant or other person or as aforesaid, touching that
subject, any statement which is false, and which he either knows or believes to be false or does not believe to be true, shall be punished
with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fine.

False information with
intent to cause public
servant to use his lawful
power to the injury of
another person

182. Whoever gives to any public servant any information which he knows or believes to be false, intending thereby to cause, or
knowing it to be likely that he will thereby cause, such public servant
(a) to do or omit anything which such public servant ought not to do or omit if the true state of facts respecting which such information is
given were known by him, or
(b) to use the lawful power of such public servant to the injury or annoyance of any person,
shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine may extend to one
thousand taka, or with both.
Illustrations
(a) A informs a Magistrate that Z, a police officer, subordinate to such Magistrate, has been guilty of neglect of duty or misconduct
knowing such information to be false, and knowing it to be likely that the information will cause the Magistrate to dismiss Z. A has
committed the offence defined in this section.
(b) A falsely informs a public servant that Z has contraband salt in a secret place, knowing such information to be false, and knowing that
it is likely that the consequence of the information will be a search of Z's premises, attended with annoyance to Z. A has committed the
offence defined in this section.
(c) A falsely informs a policeman that he has been assaulted and robbed in the neighborhood of a particular village. He does not mention
the name of any person as one of his assailants, but knows it to be likely that in consequence of this information the police will make
enquiries and institute searches in the village to the annoyance of the villagers or some of them. A has committed an offence under this
section.

Resistance to the taking
of property by the lawful
authority of a public
servant

183. Whoever offers any resistance to the taking of any property by the lawful authority of any public servant, knowing or having reason
to believe that he is such public servant, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six
months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand taka, or with both.

Obstructing sale of
property offered for sale
by authority of public
servant

184. Whoever intentionally obstructs any sale of property offered for sale by the lawful authority of any public servant, as such, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one month, or with fine which may extend to five
hundred taka, or with both.

Illegal purchase or bid
for property offered for
sale by authority of
public servant

185. Whoever, at any sale of property held by the lawful authority of a public servant, as such, purchases or bids for any property on
account of any person, whether himself or any other, whom he knows to be under a legal incapacity to purchase that property at that
sale, or bids for such property not intending to perform the obligations under which he lays himself by such bidding, shall be punished
with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one month, or with fine which may extend to two hundred taka, or
with both.

Obstructing public
servant in discharge of
public functions

186. Whoever voluntarily obstructs any public servant in the discharge of his public functions, shall be punished with imprisonment of
either description for a term which may extend to three months, or with fine which may extend to five hundred taka, or with both.

Omission to assist
public servant when
bound by law to give
assistance

187. Whoever, being bound by law to render or furnish assistance to any public servant in the execution of his public duty, intentionally
omits to give such assistance, shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to one month, or with fine which
may extend to two hundred taka, or with both;

Disobedience to order
duly promulgated by
public servant

188. Whoever, knowing that, by an order promulgated by a public servant lawfully empowered to promulgate such order, he is directed
to abstain from a certain act, or to take certain order with certain property in his possession or under his management, disobeys such
direction,

and if such assistance be demanded of him by a public servant legally competent to make such demand for the purposes of executing
any process lawfully issued by a Court of Justice, or of preventing the commission of an offence, or of suppressing a riot, or affray, or of
apprehending a person charged with or guilty of an offence, or of having escaped from lawful custody, shall be punished with simple
imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to five hundred taka, or with both.

shall, if such disobedience causes or tends to cause obstruction, annoyance or injury, or risk of obstruction, annoyance or injury, to any
persons lawfully employed, be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to one month or with fine which may
extend to two hundred taka, or with both;
and if such disobedience causes or tends to cause danger to human life, health or safety, or causes or tends to cause a riot or affray,
shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to
one thousand taka, or with both.
Explanation.-It is not necessary that the offender should intend to produce harm, or contemplate his disobedience as likely to produce
harm. It is sufficient that he knows of the order which he disobeys, and that his disobedience produces, or is likely to produce, harm.
Illustration
An order is promulgated by a public servant lawfully empowered to promulgate such order, directing that a religious procession shall not
pass down a certain street. A knowingly disobeys the order, and thereby causes danger of riot. A has committed the offence defined in
this section.
Threat of injury to public
servant

189. Whoever holds out any threat of injury to any public servant, or to any person in whom he believes that public servant to be
interested, for the purpose of inducing that public servant to do any act, or to forbear or delay to do any act, connected with the exercise
of the public functions of such public servant, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to
two years, or with fine, or with both.

Threat of injury to
induce person to refrain
from applying for
protection to public
servant

190. Whoever holds out any threat of injury to any person for the purpose of inducing that person to refrain or desist from making a legal
application for protection against any injury to any public servant legally empowered as such to give such protection, or to cause such
protection to be given, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or
with both.

CHAPTER XI
OF FALSE EVIDENCE AND OFFENCES AGAINST PUBLIC JUSTICE
Giving false evidence

191. Whoever being legally bound by an oath or by an express provision of law to state the truth, or being bound by law to make a
declaration upon any subject, makes any statement which is false, and which he either knows or believes to be false or does not believe
to be true, is said to give false evidence.Explanation 1.-A statement is within the meaning of this section, whether it is made verbally or
otherwise.
Explanation 2.-A false statement as to the belief of the person attesting is within the meaning of this section, and a person may be guilty
of giving false evidence by stating that he believes a thing which he does not believe, as well as by stating that he knows a thing which
he does not know.
Illustrations
(a) A, in support of a just claim which B has against Z for one thousand taka falsely swears on a trial that he heard Z admit the justice of
B's claim, A has given false evidence.
(b) A, being bound by an oath to state the truth, states that he believes a certain signature to be the handwriting of Z, when he does not
believe it to be the handwriting of Z. Here A states that which he knows to be false, and therefore gives false evidence.
(c) A, Knowing the general character of Z's handwriting, states that he believes a certain signature to be the handwriting of Z; A in good
faith believing it to be so. Here A's statement is merely as to his belief, and is true as to his belief, and therefore, although the signature
may not be the handwriting of Z, A has not given false evidence.
(d) A, being bound by an oath to state the truth, states that he knows that Z was at a particular place on a particular day, not knowing
anything upon the subject. A gives false evidence whether Z was at that place on the day named or not.
(e) A, an interpreter or translator, gives or certifies as a true interpretation or translation of a statement of document, which he is bound
by oath to interpret or translate truly, that which is not and which he does not believe to be a true interpretation or translation. A has
given false evidence.

Fabricating false
evidence

192. Whoever causes any circumstance to exist or makes any false entry in any book or record, or makes any document containing a
false statement, intending that such circumstance, false entry or false statement may appear in evidence in a judicial proceeding, or in a
proceeding taken by law before
a public servant as such, or before an arbitrator, and that such
circumstance, false entry or false statement, so appearing in evidence, may cause any person who in such proceeding is to form an
opinion upon the evidence, to entertain an erroneous opinion touching any point material to the result of such proceeding, is said "to
fabricate the evidence.”
Illustrations
(a) A puts jewels into a box belonging to Z, with the intention that they may be found in that box, and that this circumstance may cause Z
to be convicted of theft. A has fabricated false evidence.
(b) A makes a false entry in his Shop-book for the purpose of using it as corroborative evidence in a Court of Justice. A has fabricated
false evidence.
(c) A, with the intention of causing Z to be convicted of a criminal conspiracy, writes a letter in imitation of Z's handwriting purporting to
be addressed to an accomplice in such criminal conspiracy, and puts the letter in a place which he knows that the officers of the Police
are likely to search. A has fabricated false evidence.

Punishment for false
evidence

193. Whoever intentionally gives false evidence in any stage of judicial proceeding, or fabricates false evidence for the purpose of being
used in any stage of a judicial proceeding, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to
seven years, and shall also be liable to fine;
and whoever intentionally gives or fabricates false evidence in any other case, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description
for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fine.
Explanation 1.-A trial before a Court-martial is a judicial proceeding.
Explanation 2.-An investigation directed by law preliminary to a proceeding before a Court of Justice, is a stage of a judicial proceeding,
though that investigation may not take place before a Court of Justice.
Illustration
A, in an enquiry before a Magistrate for the purpose of ascertaining whether Z ought to be committed for trial, makes on oath a
statement which he knows to be false. As this enquiry is a stage of a judicial proceeding. A has given false evidence.
Explanation 3.-An investigation directed by a Court of Justice according to law, and conducted under the authority of a Court of Justice,
is a stage of a judicial proceeding, though that investigation may not take place before a Court of Justice.
Illustration
A, in an enquiry before an officer deputed by a Court of Justice to ascertain on the spot the boundaries of land, makes on oath a
statement which he knows to be false. As this enquiry is a stage of a judicial proceeding, A has given false evidence.

Giving or fabricating
false evidence with
intent to procure
conviction of capital
offence; if innocent
person be thereby
convicted and executed

194. Whoever gives or fabricates false evidence, intending thereby to cause, or knowing it to be likely that he will thereby cause, any
person to be convicted of an offence which is capital by any law for the time being in force, shall be punished with 64[imprisonment] for
life, or with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine;

Giving or fabricating
false evidence with
intent to procure
conviction of offence
punishable with
imprisonment for life or
imprisonment

195. Whoever gives or fabricates false evidence intending thereby to cause, or knowing it to be likely that he will thereby cause, any
person to be convicted of an offence which by any law for the time being in force is not capital, but punishable with 65[imprisonment for
life], or imprisonment for a term of seven

Using evidence known
to be false

196. Whoever corruptly uses or attempts to use as true or genuine evidence, any evidence which he knows to be false or fabricated,
shall be punished in the same manner as if he gave or fabricated false evidence.

Issuing or signing false
certificate

197. Whoever issues or signs any certificate required by law to be given or signed, or relating to any fact of which such certificate is by
law admissible in evidence, knowing or believing that such certificate is false in any material point, shall be punished in the same
manner as if he gave false evidence.

Using as true a
certificate known to be
false

198. Whoever corruptly uses or attempts to use any such certificate as a true certificate, knowing the same to be false in any material
point, shall be punished in the same manner as if he gave false evidence.

False statement made in
declaration which is by
law receivable as
evidence

199. Whoever, in any declaration made or subscribed by him, which declaration any Court of Justice, or any public servant or other
persons, is bound or authorized by law to receive as evidence of any fact, makes any statement which is false, and which he either
knows or believes to be false or does not believe to be true, touching any point material to the object for which the declaration is made or
used, shall be punished in the same manner as if he gave false evidence.

Using as true such
declaration knowing it to
be false

200. Whoever corruptly uses or attempts to use as true any such declaration, knowing the same to be false in any material point, shall
be punished in the same manner as if he gave false evidence.

Causing disappearance
of evidence of offence,
or giving false
information to screen
offender- if a capital
offence; if punishable
with imprisonment for
life; if punishable with
less than ten years’
imprisonment

201. Whoever, knowing or having reason to believe that an offence has been committed, causes any evidence of the commission of that
offence to disappear, with the intention of screening the offender from legal punishment, or with that intention gives any information
respecting the offence which he knows or believes to be false,

and if an innocent person be convicted and executed in consequence of such false evidence, the person who gives such false evidence
shall be punished either with death or the punishment herein before described.

years or upwards, shall be punished as a person convicted of that offence would be liable to be punished.
Illustration
A gives false evidence before a Court of Justice, intending thereby to cause Z to be convicted of a dacoity. The punishment of dacoity is
66[imprisonment for life], or rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten years, with or without fine. A, therefore, is liable to
67[such imprisonment for life] or imprisonment, with or without fine.

Explanation.-A declaration which is inadmissible merely upon the ground of some informality, is a declaration within the meaning of
sections 199 and 200.

shall, if the offence which he knows or believes to have been committed is punishable with death, be punished with imprisonment of
either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine;
and if the offence is punishable with 68[imprisonment for life], or with imprisonment which may extend to ten years, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fine;
and if the offence is punishable with imprisonment for any term not extending to ten years, shall be punished with imprisonment of the
description provided for the offence, for a term which may extend to one-fourth part of the longest term of the imprisonment provided for
the offence, or with fine, or with both.
Illustration
A, knowing that B has murdered Z, assists B to hide the body with the intention of screening B from punishment. A is liable to
imprisonment of either description for seven years, and also to fine.

Intentional omission to
give information of
offence by person
bound to inform

202. Whoever, knowing or having reason to believe that an offence has been committed, intentionally omits to give any information
respecting that offence which he is legally bound to give, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to six months, or with fine, or with both.

Giving false information
respecting an offence
committed

203. Whoever, knowing or having reason to believe that an offence has been committed, gives any information respecting that offence
which he knows or believes to be false, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two
years, or with fine, or with both.
Explanation.-In sections 201 and 202 and in this section the word "offence" includes any act committed at any place out of Bangladesh,
which, if committed in Bangladesh, would be punishable under any of the following sections, namely, 302, 304, 382, 392, 393, 394, 395,
396, 397, 398, 399, 402, 435, 436, 449, 450, 457, 458, 459 and 460.

Destruction of
document to prevent its
production as evidence

204. Whoever secrets or destroys any document which he may be lawfully compelled to produce as evidence in a Court of Justice, or in
any proceeding lawfully held before a public servant, as such, or obliterates or renders illegible the whole or any part of such document
with the intention of preventing the same from being produced or used as evidence before such Court or public servant as aforesaid, or
after he shall have been lawfully summoned or required to produce the same for that purpose, shall be punished with imprisonment of
either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

False personation for
purpose of act or
proceeding in suit or
prosecution

205. Whoever falsely personates another, and in such assumed character makes any admission or statement, or confesses judgment,
or causes any process to be issued or becomes bail or security, or does any other act in any suit or criminal prosecution, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.

Fraudulent removal or
concealment of property
to prevent its seizure as
forfeited or in execution

206. Whoever fraudulently removes, conceals, transfers or delivers to any person any property or any interest therein, intending thereby
to prevent that property or interest therein from being taken as a forfeiture or in satisfaction of a fine, under a sentence which has been
pronounced, or which he knows to be likely to be pronounced, by a Court of Justice or other competent authority, or from being taken in
execution of a decree or order which has been made, or which he knows to be likely to be made by a Court of Justice in a civil suit, shall
be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Fraudulent claim to
property to prevent its
seizure as forfeited or in
execution

207. Whoever fraudulently accepts, receives or claims any property or any interest therein, knowing that he has no right or rightful claim
to such property or interest, or practices any deception touching any right to any property or any interest therein, intending thereby to
prevent that property or interest therein from being taken as a forfeiture or in satisfaction of a fine, under a sentence which has been
pronounced, or which he knows to be likely to be pronounced by a Court of Justice or other competent authority, or from being taken in
execution of a decree or order which has been made, or which he knows to be likely to be made by a Court of Justice in a civil suit, shall
be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Fraudulently suffering
decree for sum not due

208. Whoever fraudulently causes or suffers a decree or order to be passed against him at the suit of any person for a sum not due, or
for a larger sum than is due to such person or for any property or interest in property to which such person is not entitled, or fraudulently
causes or suffers a decree or order to be executed against him after it has been satisfied, or for anything in respect of which it has been
satisfied, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.
Illustration
A institutes a suit against Z. Z, knowing that A is likely to obtain a decree against him fraudulently suffers a judgment to pass against him
for a larger amount at the suit of B, who has no just claim against him, in order that B, either on his own account or for the benefit of Z,
may share in the proceeds of any sale of Z's property which may be made under A's decree. Z has committed an offence under this
section.

Dishonestly making
false claim in Court

209. Whoever fraudulently or dishonestly, or with intent to injure or annoy any person, makes in a Court of Justice any claim which he
knows to be false, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, and shall also be
liable to fine.

Fraudulently obtaining
decree for sum not due

210. Whoever fraudulently obtains a decree or order against any person for a sum not due, or for a larger sum than is due, or for any
property or interest in property to which he is not entitled, or fraudulently causes a decree or order to be executed against any person
after it has been satisfied or for anything in respect of which it has been satisfied, or fraudulently suffers or permits any such act to be
done in his name, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or
with both.

False charge of offence
made with intent to
injure

211. Whoever, with intent to cause injury to any person, institutes or causes to be instituted any criminal proceeding against that person,
or falsely charges any person with having committed an offence, knowing that there is no just or lawful ground for such proceeding or
charge against that person, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with
fine, or with both;
and if such criminal proceeding be instituted on a false charge of an offence punishable with death, 69[imprisonment] for life, or
imprisonment for seven years or upwards, shall be punishable with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to
seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Harbouring offender if a
capital offence; if
punishable with
imprisonment for life, or
with imprisonment

212. Whenever an offence has been committed, whoever harbours or conceals a person whom he knows or has reason to believe to be
the offender, with the intention of screening him from legal punishment,
shall, if the offence is punishable with death, be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to five
years, and shall also be liable to fine;
and if the offence is punishable with 70[imprisonment] for life or with imprisonment which may extend to ten years, shall be, punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fine;
and if the offence is punishable with imprisonment which may extend to one year, and not to ten years, shall be punished with
imprisonment of the description provided for the offence for a term which may extend to one-fourth part of the longest term of
imprisonment provided for the offence, or with fine, or with both.
"Offence" in this section includes any act committed at any place out of Bangladesh, which, if committed in Bangladesh, would be
punishable under any of the following sections, namely, 302, 304, 382, 392, 393, 394, 395 396, 397, 398, 399, 402, 435, 436, 449, 450,
457, 458, 459 and 460; and every such act shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to be punishable as if the accused person
had been guilty of it in Bangladesh.
Exception. This provision shall not extend to any case in which the harbour or concealment is by the husband or wife of the offender.
Illustration
A, knowing that B has committed dacoity, knowingly conceals B in order to screen him from legal punishment. Here, as B is liable to
71[imprisonment] for life, A is liable to imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding three years, and is also liable to fine.

Taking gift, etc., to
screen an offender from
punishment- if a capital
offence; if punishable
with imprisonment for
life, or with
imprisonment

213. Whoever accepts or attempts to obtain, or agrees to accept, any gratification for himself or any other person, or any restitution of
property to himself or any other person, in consideration of his concealing an offence or of his screening any person from legal
punishment for any offence, or of his not proceeding against any person for the purpose of bringing him to legal punishment,
shall, if the offence is punishable with death, be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven
years, and shall also be liable to fine;
and if the offence is punishable with 72[imprisonment] for life, or with imprisonment which may extend to ten yeas, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fine;
and if the offence is punishable with imprisonment not extending to ten years, shall be punished with imprisonment of the description
provided for the offence for a term which may extend to one-fourth part of the longest term of imprisonment provided for the offence, or
with fine, or with both.

Offering gift or
restoration of property
in consideration of
screening offender- if a
capital offence; if
punishable with
imprisonment for life, or
with imprisonment

214. Whoever gives or causes, or offers or agrees to give or cause, any gratification to any person, or to restore or cause the restoration
of any property to any person, in consideration of that person's concealing an offence, or of his screening any person from legal
punishment for any offence, or of his not proceeding against any person for the purpose of bringing him to legal punishment,
shall, if the offence is punishable with death, be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven
years, and shall also be liable to fine;
and if the offence is punishable with 73[imprisonment] for life, or with imprisonment which may extend to ten years, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fine;
and if the offence is punishable with imprisonment not extending to ten years, shall be punished with imprisonment of the description
provided for the offence for a term which may extent to one-fourth part of the longest term of imprisonment provided for the offence, or
with fine, or with both.
Exception.-The provisions of sections 213 and 214 do not extend to any case in which the offence may lawfully be compounded.

Taking gift to help to
recover stolen property,
etc.

215. Whoever takes or agrees or consents to take any gratification under pretence or on account of helping any person to recover any
moveable property of which he shall have been deprived by any offence punishable under this Code, shall, unless he uses all means in
his power to cause the offender to be apprehended and convicted of the offence, be punished with imprisonment of either description for
a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Harbouring offender
who has escaped from
custody or whose
apprehension has been
ordered- if a capital
offence; if punishable
with imprisonment for
life, or with
imprisonment

216. Whenever any person convicted of or charged with an offence, being in lawful custody for that offence, escapes from such custody,
or whenever a public servant, in the exercise of the lawful power of such public servant, orders a certain person to be apprehended for
an offence, whoever, knowing of such escape or order for apprehension, harbours or conceals that person with the intention of
preventing him from being apprehended, shall be punished in the manner following, that is to say,
if the offence for which the person was in custody or is ordered to be apprehended is punishable with death, he shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine;
if the offence is punishable with 74[imprisonment] for life, or imprisonment for ten years, he shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to three years, with or without fine;
and if the offence is punishable with imprisonment which may extend to one year and not to ten years, he shall be punished with
imprisonment of the description provided for the offence for a term which may extend to one-fourth part of the longest term of the
imprisonment provided for such offence or with fine, or with both.
“Offence” in this section includes also any act or omission of which a person is alleged to have been guilty out of Bangladesh which, if he
had been guilty of it in Bangladesh, would have been punishable as an offence, and for which he is, under any law relating to extradition,
or under the Fugitive Offenders Act, 1881, or otherwise, liable to be apprehended or detained in custody in Bangladesh, and every such
act or omission shall, for the purpose of this section, be deemed to be punishable as if the accused person had been guilty of it in
Bangladesh.
Exception.–This provision does not extend to the case in which the harbour or concealment is by the husband or wife of the person to be
apprehended.

Penalty for harbouring
robbers or dacoits

216A. Whoever, knowing or having reason to believe that any persons are about to commit or have recently committed robbery or
dacoity, harbours them or any of them, with the intention of facilitating the commission of such robbery or dacoity, or of screening them
or any of them from punishment, shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall
also be liable to fine.
Explanation.-For the purposes of this section it is immaterial whether the robbery or dacoity is intended to be committed, or has been
committed, within or without Bangladesh.
Exception.–This provision does not extend to the case in which the harbour is by the husband or wife of the offender.

[Omitted]

216B. [Omitted by section 3 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 1942 (Act No. VIII of 1942).]

Public servant
disobeying direction of
law with intent to save
person from punishment
or property from
forfeiture

217. Whoever, being a public servant, knowingly disobeys any direction of the law as to the way in which he is to conduct himself as
such public servant, intending thereby to save, or knowing it to be likely that he will thereby save, any person from legal punishment, or
subject him to a less punishment than that to which he is liable or with intent to save, or knowing that he is likely thereby to save, any
property from forfeiture or any charge to which it is liable by law, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Public servant framing
incorrect record or
writing with intent to
save person from
punishment or property
from forfeiture

218. Whoever, being a public servant, and being as such public servant, charged with the preparation of any record or other writing,
frames that record or writing in a manner which he knows to be incorrect, with intent to cause, or knowing it to be likely that he will
thereby cause, loss or injury to the public or to any person, or with intent thereby to save, or knowing it to be likely that he will thereby
save, any person from legal punishment, or with intent to save, or knowing that he is likely thereby to save, any property from forfeiture
or other charge to which it is liable by law, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three
years, or with fine, or with both.

Public servant in judicial
proceeding corruptly
making report, etc.,
contrary to law

219. Whoever, being a public servant, corruptly or maliciously makes or pronounces in any stage of a Judicial proceeding, any report,
order, verdict, or decision which he knows to be contrary to law, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to seven years, or with fine, or with both.

Commitment for trial or
confinement by person
having authority who
knows that he is acting
contrary to law

220. Whoever, being in any office which gives him legal authority to commit persons for trial or to confinement, or to keep persons in
confinement, corruptly or maliciously commits any person for trial or confinement, or keeps any person in confinement, in the exercise of
that authority, knowing that in so doing he is acting contrary to law, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to seven years, or with fine, or with both.

Intentional omission to
apprehend on the part of
public servant bound to
apprehend

221. Whoever, being a public servant, legally bound as such public servant to apprehend or to keep in confinement any person charged
with or liable to be apprehended for an offence, intentionally omits to apprehend such person, or intentionally suffers such person to
escape, or intentionally aids such person in escaping or attempting to escape from such confinement, shall be punished as follows, that
is to say:
with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, with or without fine, if the person in confinement, or
who ought to have been apprehended, was charged with, or liable to be apprehended for, an offence punishable with death; or
with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, with or without fine, if the person in confinement, or
who ought to have been apprehended, was charged with, or liable to be apprehended for, an offence punishable with 75[imprisonment]
for life or imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten years; or
with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, with or without fine, if the person in confinement, or
who ought to have been apprehended, was charged with, or liable to be apprehended for, an offence punishable with imprisonment for a
term less than ten years.

Intentional omission to
apprehend on the part of
public servant bound to
apprehend person under
sentence or lawfully
committed

222. Whoever, being a public servant, legally bound as such public servant to apprehend or to keep in confinement any person under
sentence of a Court of Justice for any offence or lawfully committed to custody, intentionally omits to apprehend such person, or
intentionally suffers such person to escape or intentionally aids such person in escaping or attempting to escape from such confinement,
shall be punished as follows that is to say:with 76[imprisonment for life] or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to fourteen years, with
or without fine, if the person in confinement, or who ought to have been apprehended, is under sentence of death; or
with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, with or without fine, if the person in confinement, or
who ought to have been apprehended, is subject, by a sentence of a Court of Justice, or by virtue of a commutation of such sentence, to
77[imprisonment for life]
78

[* * *] or imprisonment for a term of ten years or upwards; or

with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both, if the person in
confinement, or who ought to have been apprehended is subject, by a sentence of a Court of Justice, to imprisonment for a term not
extending to ten years or if the person was lawfully committed to custody.
Escape from
confinement or custody
negligently suffered by
public servant

223. Whoever, being a public servant legally bound as such public servant to keep in confinement any person charged with or convicted
of any offence or lawfully committed to custody, negligently suffers such persons to escape from confinement, shall be punished with
simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Resistance or
obstruction by a person
to his lawful
apprehension

224. Whoever intentionally offers any resistance or illegal obstruction to the lawful apprehension of himself for any offence with which he
is charged or of which he has been convicted, or escapes or attempts to escape from any custody in which he is lawfully detained for
any such offence, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or
with both.
Explanation.-The punishment in this section is in addition to the punishment for which the person to be apprehended or detained in
custody was liable for the offence with which he was charged, or of which he was convicted.

Resistance or
obstruction to lawful
apprehension of another
person

225. Whoever intentionally offers any resistance or illegal obstruction to the lawful apprehension of any other person for an offence, or
rescues or attempts to rescue any other person from any custody in which that person is lawfully detained for an offence, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both;
or, if the person to be apprehended, or the person rescued or attempted to be rescued, is charged with or liable to be apprehended for
an offence punishable with 79[imprisonment for life] or imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten years, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fine;
or, if the person to be apprehended or rescued, or attempted to be rescued, is charged with or liable to be apprehended for an offence
punishable with death, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall
also be liable to fine;
or, if the person to be apprehended or rescued, or attempted to be rescued, is liable under the sentence of a Court of Justice, or by
virtue of a commutation of such a sentence, to 80[imprisonment for life], 81[* * *] or imprisonment, for a term of ten years or upwards, shall
be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine;
or, if the person to be apprehended or rescued, or attempted to be rescued, is under sentence of death, shall be punished with
82[imprisonment for life] or imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding ten years, and shall also liable to fine.

Omission to apprehend,
or sufferance of escape,
on part of public
servant, in cases not
otherwise provided for

[225A. Whoever, being a public servant legally bound as such public servant to apprehend, or to keep in confinement, any person in
any case not provided for in section 221, section 222 or section 223, or in any other law for the time being in force, omits to apprehend
that person or suffers him to escape from confinement, shall be punished
83

(a) if he does so intentionally, with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine or with
both; and
(b) if he does so negligently, with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Resistance or
obstruction to lawful
apprehension, or escape
or rescue, in cases not
otherwise provided for

225B. Whoever, in any case not provided for in section 224 or section 225 or in any other law for the time being in force, intentionally
offers any resistance or illegal obstruction to the lawful apprehension of himself or of any other person, or escapes or attempts to escape
from any custody in which he is lawfully detained, or rescues or attempts to rescue any other person from any custody in which that
person is lawfully detained, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with
fine, or with both.]

[Omitted]

226. [Omitted by section 18 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985).]

Violation of condition of
remission of
punishment

227. Whoever, having accepted any conditional remission of punishment, knowingly violates any condition on which such remission was
granted, shall be punished with the punishment to which he was originally sentenced, if he has already suffered no part of that
punishment, and if he has suffered any part of that punishment, then with so much of that punishment as he has not already suffered.

Intentional insult or
interruption to public
servant sitting in judicial
proceeding

228. Whoever intentionally offers any insult, or causes any interruption to any public servant, while such public servant is sitting in any
stage of a judicial proceeding, shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which
may extend to one thousand taka, or with both.

Personation of a juror or
assessor

229. Whoever by personation or otherwise, shall intentionally cause, or knowingly suffer himself to be returned, empanelled or sworn as
a juryman or assessor in any case in which he knows that he is not entitled by law to be so returned, empanelled or sworn, or knowing
himself to have been so returned, empanelled or sworn contrary to law, shall voluntarily serve on such jury or as such assessor, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

CHAPTER XII
OF OFFENCES RELATING TO COIN AND GOVERNMENT STAMPS
“Coin” defined
Bangladesh coin

230. Coin is metal used for the time being as money, and stamped and issued by the authority of some State or Sovereign Power in
order to be so used.
Bangladesh coin is metal stamped and issued by the authority of the Government 84[* * *] in order to be used as money; and metal which
has been so stamped and issued shall continue to be Bangladesh coin for the purposes of this Chapter, notwithstanding that it may have
ceased to be used as money.
Illustrations
(a) Cowries are not coin.
(b) Lumps of unstamped copper, though used as money, are not coin.
(c) Medals are not coin, inasmuch as they are not intended to be used as money.
(d) The coin denominated as the Company's taka is the Queen's coin.
(e) The "Farukhabad" taka, which was formerly used as money under the authority of the Government of India, is Bangladesh coin
although it is no longer so used.

Counterfeiting coin

231. Whoever counterfeits or knowingly performs any part of the process of counterfeiting coin, shall be punished with imprisonment of
either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.
Explanation.-A person commits this offence who intending to practice deception, or knowing it to be likely that deception will thereby be
practiced, causes a genuine coin to appear like a different coin.

Counterfeiting
Bangladesh coin

232. Whoever counterfeits, or knowingly performs any part of the process of counterfeiting Bangladesh coin, shall be punished with
imprisonment for life, or with 85[imprisonment] of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to
fine.

Making or selling
instrument for
counterfeiting coin

233. Whoever makes or mends, or performs any part of the process of making or mending, or buys, sells or disposes of, any die or
instrument, for the purpose of being used, or knowing or having reason to believe that it is intended to be used, for the purpose of
counterfeiting coin, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also
be liable to fine.

Making or selling
instrument for
counterfeiting
Bangladesh coin

234. Whoever makes or mends, or performs any part of the process of making or mending or buys, sells or disposes of, any die or
instrument, for the purpose of being used, or knowing or having reason to believe that it is intended to be used, for the purpose of
counterfeiting Bangladesh coin, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years,
and shall also be liable to fine.

Possession of
instrument or material
for the purpose of using
the same for
counterfeiting coin; if
Bangladesh coin

235. Whoever is in possession of any instrument or material, for the purpose of using the same for counterfeiting coin, or knowing or
having reason to believe that the same is intended to be used for that purpose, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description
for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fine;

Abetting in Bangladesh
the counterfeiting out of
Bangladesh of coin

236. Whoever, being within Bangladesh, abets the counterfeiting of coin out of Bangladesh shall be punished in the same manner as if
he abetted the counterfeiting of such coin within Bangladesh.

Import or export of
counterfeit coin

237. Whoever imports into Bangladesh, or exports therefrom, any counterfeit coin, knowingly or having reason to believe that the same
is counterfeit, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be
liable to fine.

Import or export of
counterfeits of
Bangladesh coin

238. Whoever imports into Bangladesh, or exports therefrom, any counterfeit coin which he knows or has reason to believe to be a
counterfeit of Bangladesh coin, shall be punished with 86[imprisonment] for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Delivery of coin,
possessed with
knowledge that it is
counterfeit

239. Whoever, having any counterfeit coin which, at the time when he became possessed of it, he knew to be counterfeit, fraudulently or
with intent that fraud may be committed, delivers the same to any person, or attempts to induce any person to receive it, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to five years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Delivery of Bangladesh
coin, possessed with
knowledge that it is
counterfeit

240. Whoever, having any counterfeit coin, which is a counterfeit of Bangladesh coin, and which, at the time when he became
possessed of it, he knew to be a counterfeit of Bangladesh coin, fraudulently or with intent that fraud may be committed, delivers the
same to any person, or attempts to induce any person to receive it, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Delivery of coin as
genuine, which, when
first possessed, the
deliverer did not know
to be counterfeit

241. Whoever delivers to any other person as genuine, or attempts to induce any other person to receive as genuine, any counterfeit
coin which he knows to be counterfeit, but which he did not know to be counterfeit at the time when he took it into his possession, shall
be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine to an amount which may
extend is ten times the value of the coin counterfeited, or with both.

and if the coin to be counterfeited is Bangladesh coin, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Illustration
A, a coiner, delivers counterfeit Company's taka to his accomplice B, for the purpose of uttering them. B sells the taka to C, another,
utterer, who buys them knowing them to be counterfeit. C pays away the taka for goods to D, who receives them, not knowing them to
be counterfeit. D after receiving the taka, discovers that they are counterfeit and pays them away as if they were good. Here D is
punishable only under this section, but B and C are punishable under section 239 or 240, as the case may be.

Possession of
counterfeit coin by
person who knew it to
be counterfeit when he
became possessed

242. Whoever, fraudulently or with intent that fraud may be committed, is in possession of counterfeit coin, having known at the time
when he became possessed thereof that such coin was counterfeit, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fine.

thereof
Possession of
Bangladesh coin by
person who knew it to
be counterfeit when he
became possessed
thereof

243. Whoever, fraudulently or with intent that fraud may be committed, is in possession of counterfeit coin, which is a counterfeit of
Bangladesh coin, having known at the time when he became possessed of it that it was counterfeit, shall be punished with imprisonment
of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Person employed in
mint causing coin to be
of different weight or
composition from that
fixed by law

244. Whoever, being employed in any mint lawfully established in Bangladesh, does any act, or omits what he is legally bound to do,
with the intention of causing any coin issued from that mint to be of a different weight or composition from the weight or composition
fixed by law, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall be liable to
fine.

Unlawfully taking
coining instrument from
mint

245. Whoever, without lawful authority, takes out of any mint, lawfully established in Bangladesh, any coining tool or instrument, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Fraudulently or
dishonesty diminishing
weight or altering
composition of coin

246. Whoever fraudulently or dishonestly performs on any coin any operation which diminishes the weight or alters the composition of
that coin, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable
to fine.

Fraudulently or
dishonestly diminishing
weight or altering
composition of
Bangladesh coin

247. Whoever fraudulently or dishonestly performs on any Bangladesh coin, any operation which diminishes the weight or alters the
composition of that coin, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall
also be liable to fine.

Altering appearance of
coin with intent that it
shall pass as coin of
different description

248. Whoever performs on any coin any operation which alters the appearance of that coin, with the intention that the said coin shall
pass as a coin of a different description, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three
years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Altering appearance of
Bangladesh coin, with
intent that it shall pass
as coin of different
description

249. Whoever performs on any Bangladesh coin any operation which alters the appearance of that coin, with the intention that the said
coin shall pass as a coin of a different description, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend
to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Delivery of coin,
possessed with
knowledge that it is
altered

250. Whoever, having coin in his possession with respect to which the offence defined in section 246 or 248 has been committed, and
having known at the time when he became possessed of such coin that such offence had been committed with respect to it, fraudulently
or with intent that fraud may be committed, delivers such coin to any other person, or attempts to induce any other person to receive the
same, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to five years, and shall also be liable to
fine.

Delivery of Bangladesh
coin, possessed with
knowledge that it is
altered

251. Whoever, having coin in his possession with respect to which the offence defined in section 247 or 249 has been committed, and
having known at the time when he became possessed of such coin that such offence had been committed with respect to it, fraudulently
or with intent that fraud may be committed, delivers such coin to any other person, or attempts to induce any other person to receive the
same, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to
fine.

Possession of coin by
person who knew it to
be altered when he
became possessed
thereof

252. Whoever fraudulently or with intent that fraud may be committed, is in possession of coin with respect to which the offence defined
in either of the section 246 or 248 has been committed, having known at the time of becoming possessed thereof that such offence had
been committed with respect to such coin, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to
three years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Possession of
Bangladesh coin by
person who knew it to
be altered when he
became possessed
thereof

253. Whoever fraudulently or with intent that fraud may be committed, is in possession of coin with respect to which the offence defined
in either of the section 247 or 249 has been committed having known at the time of becoming possessed thereof, that such offence had
been committed with respect to such coin, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to five
years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Delivery of coin as
genuine which, when
first possessed, the
deliverer did not know
to be altered

254. Whoever delivers to any other person as genuine or as a coin of a different description from what it is, or attempts to induce any
person to receive as genuine, or as a different coin from what it is, any coin in respect of which he knows that any such operation as that
mentioned in sections 246, 247, 248, or 249 has been performed, but in respect of which he did not, at the time when he took it into his
possession, know that such operation had been performed, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which
may extend to two years, or with fine to an amount which may extend to ten times the value of the coin for which the altered coin is
passed, or attempted to be passed.

Counterfeiting
Government stamp

255. Whoever counterfeits or knowingly performs any part of the process of counterfeiting, any stamp issued by Government for the
purpose of revenue, shall be punished with 87[imprisonment] for life or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Explanation.-A person who scoops out part of the coin and puts anything else into the cavity alters the composition of that coin.

Explanation.-A person commits this offence who counterfeits by causing a genuine stamp of one denomination to appear like a genuine
stamp of a different denomination.
Having possession of
instrument or material
for counterfeiting
Government stamp

256. Whoever has in his possession any instrument or material for the purpose of being used, or knowing or having reason to believe
that it is intended to be used, for the purpose of counterfeiting any stamp issued by Government for the purpose of revenue, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Making or selling
instrument for
counterfeiting
Government stamp

257. Whoever makes or performs any part of the process of making, or buys, or sells, or disposes of, any instrument for the purpose of
being used, or knowing or having reason to believe that it is intended to be used, for the purpose of counterfeiting any stamp issued by
Government for the purpose of revenue, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven
years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Sale of counterfeit
Government stamp

258. Whoever sells, or offers for sale, any stamp which he knows or has reason to believe to be a counterfeit of any stamp issued by
Government for the purpose of revenue, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven
years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Having possession of
counterfeit Government
stamp

259. Whoever has in his possession any stamp which he knows to be a counterfeit of any stamp issued by Government for the purpose
of revenue, intending to use, or dispose of the same as a genuine stamp, or in order that it may be used as a genuine stamp, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Using as genuine a
Government stamp
known to be counterfeit

260. Whoever uses as genuine any stamp, knowing it to be a counterfeit of any stamp issued by Government for the purpose of
revenue, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, or with fine, or with both.

Effacing writing from
substance bearing
Government stamp, or
removing from
document a stamp used
for it, with intent to
cause loss to
Government

261. Whoever fraudulently or with intent to cause loss to the Government, removes or effaces from any substance, bearing any stamp
issued by Government for the purpose of revenue, any writing or document for which such stamp has been used, or removes from any
writing or document a stamp which has been used for such writing or document, in order that such stamp may be used for a different
writing or document, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine,
or with both.

Using Government
stamp known to have
been before used

262. Whoever fraudulently or with intent to cause loss to the Government, uses for any purpose a stamp issued by Government for the
purpose of revenue, which he knows to have been before used, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Erasure of mark
denoting that stamp has
been used

263. Whoever fraudulently or with intent to cause loss to Government, erases or removes from a stamp issued by Government for the
purpose of revenue, any mark, put or impressed upon such stamp for the purpose of denoting that the same has been used, or
knowingly has in his possession or sells or disposes of any such stamp from which such mark has been erased or removed, or sells or
disposes of any such stamp which he knows to have been used, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.

Prohibition of fictitious
stamps

88

[263A. (1) Whoever

(a) makes, knowingly utters, deals in or sells any fictitious stamp, or knowingly uses for any postal purpose any fictitious stamp, or
(b) has in his possession, without lawful excuse, any fictitious stamp, or
(c) makes or, without lawful excuse, has in his possession any die, plate, instrument or materials for making any fictitious stamp,
shall be punished with fine which may extend to two hundred taka.
(2) Any such stamp, die, plate, instrument or materials in the possession of any person for making any fictitious stamp may be seized
and shall be forfeited.
(3) In this section “fictitious stamp" means any stamp falsely purporting to be issued by Government for the purpose of denoting a rate of
postage or any facsimile or imitation or representation, whether on paper or otherwise, of any stamp issued by Government for that
purpose.
(4) In this section and also in sections 255 to 263, both inclusive, the word “Government" when used in connection with, or in reference
to, any stamp issued for the purpose of denoting a rate of postage, shall, notwithstanding anything in section 17, be deemed to include
the person or persons authorized by law to administer executive government in any part of Bangladesh, and also in any part of Her
Majesty's dominions or in any foreign country.]

CHAPTER XIII
OF OFFENCES RELATING TO WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Fraudulent use of false
instrument for weighing

264. Whoever fraudulently uses any instrument for weighing which he knows to be false, shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.

Fraudulent use of false
weight or measure

265. Whoever fraudulently uses any false weight or false measure of length or capacity, or fraudulently uses any weight or any measure
of length or capacity as a different weight or measure from what it is, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.

Being in possession of
false weight or measure

266. Whoever is in possession of any instrument for weighing, or of any weight, or of any measure of length or capacity, which he knows
to be false, and intending that the same may be fraudulently used, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.

Making or selling false
weight or measure

267. Whoever makes, sells or disposes of any instrument for weighing, or any weight, or any measure of length or capacity which he
knows to be false, in order that the same may be used as true, or knowing that the same is likely to be used as true, shall be punished
with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine or with both.

CHAPTER XIV
OF OFFENCES AFFECTING THE PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY, CONVENIENCE, DECENCY AND MORALS
Public nuisance

268. A person is guilty of a public nuisance who does any act or is guilty of an illegal omission which causes any common injury, danger
or annoyance to the public or to the people in general who dwell or occupy property in the vicinity, or which must necessarily cause
injury, obstruction, dangers or annoyance to persons who may have occasion to use any public right.A common nuisance is not excused
on the ground that it causes some convenience or advantage.

Negligent act likely to
spread infection of
disease dangerous to
life

269. Whoever unlawfully or negligently does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the
infection of any disease dangerous to life, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six
months, or with fine, or with both.

Malignant act likely to
spread infection of
disease dangerous to
life

270. Whoever malignantly does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any
disease dangerous to life, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with
fine, or with both.

Disobedience to
quarantine rule

271. Whoever knowingly disobeys any rule made and promulgated by the Government for putting any vessel into a state of quarantine,
or for regulating the intercourse of vessels in a state of quarantine with the shore or with other vessels, or for regulating the intercourse
between places where an infectious disease prevails and other places, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a
term which may extend to six months, or with fine, or with both.

Adulteration of food or
drink intended for sale

272. Whoever adulterates any article of food or drink, so as to make such article noxious as food or drink, intending to sell such article
as food or drink, or knowing it to be likely that the same will be sold as food or drink, shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand taka, or with both.

Sale of noxious food or
drink

273. Whoever sells, or offers or exposes for sale, as food or drink, any article which has been rendered or has become noxious, or is in
a state unfit for food or drink, knowing or having reason to believe that the same is noxious as food or drink, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand taka, or
with both.

Adulteration of drugs

274. Whoever adulterates any drug or medical preparation in such a manner as to lessen the efficacy or change the operation of such
drug or medical preparation, or to make it noxious, intending that it shall be sold or used for, or knowing it to be likely that it will be sold
or used for, any medicinal purpose, as if it had not undergone such adulteration, shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand taka, or with both.

Sale of adulterated
drugs

275. Whoever, knowing any drug or medical preparation to have been adulterated in such a manner as to lessen its efficacy, to change
its operation, or to render it noxious, sells the same, or offers or exposes it for sale, or issues it from any dispensary for medicinal
purposes as unadulterated, or causes it to be used for medicinal purposes by any person not knowing of the adulteration, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one
thousand taka, or with both.

Sale of drug as a
different drug or
preparation

276. Whoever knowingly sells, or offers or exposes for sale, or issues from a dispensary for medicinal purposes, any drug or medicinal
preparation, as a different drug or medical preparation, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand taka, or with both.

Fouling water or public
spring or reservoir

277. Whoever voluntarily corrupts or fouls the water of any public spring or reservoir, so as to render it less fit for the purpose for which it
is ordinarily used, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three months, or with fine
which may extend to five hundred taka or with both.

Making atmosphere
noxious to health

278. Whoever voluntarily vitiates the atmosphere in any place so as to make it noxious to the health of persons in general dwelling or
carrying on business in the neighborhood or passing along a public way, shall be punished with fine which may extend to five hundred
taka.

Rash driving or riding
on a public way

279. Whoever drives any vehicle, or rides, on any public way in a manner so rash or negligent as to endanger human life, or to be likely
to cause hurt or injury to any other person, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to
89[three years, or with fine which may, subject to the minimum of one thousand taka, extend to five thousand taka] or with both.
[Explanation. Any person driving any vehicle, or riding, on any public way, in a speed which exceeds the limit prescribed in this behalf
by or under any law for the time being in force shall, for the purpose of this section, be deemed to have driven so rashly or negligently as
to endanger human life, or cause hurt or injury to any other person.]
90

Rash navigation of
vessel

280. Whoever navigates any vessel in a manner so rash or negligent as to endanger human life, or to be likely to cause hurt or injury to
any other person, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine
which may extend to one thousand taka, or with both.

Exhibition of false light,
mark or buoy

281. Whoever exhibits any false light, mark or buoy, intending or knowing it to be likely that such exhibition will mislead any navigator,
shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, or with fine, or with both.

Conveying person by
water for hire in unsafe
or over-loaded vessel

282. Whoever knowingly or negligently conveys, or causes to be conveyed for, hire, any person by water in any vessel, when that vessel
is in such a state or so loaded as to endanger the life of that person, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand taka, or with both.

Danger or obstruction in
public way or line of
navigation

283. Whoever, by doing any act, or by omitting to take order with any property in his possession or under his charge, causes danger,
obstruction or injury to any person in any public way or public line of navigation, shall be punished with fine which may extend to two
hundred taka.

Negligent conduct with
respect to poisonous
substance

284. Whoever does, with any poisonous substance, any act in a manner so rash or negligent as to endanger human life, or to be likely to
cause hurt or injury to any person,
or knowingly or negligently omits to take such order with any poisonous substance in his possession as is sufficient to guard against
probable danger to human life from such poisonous substance,
shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine, which may extend to
one thousand taka, or with both.

Negligent conduct with
respect to fire or
combustible matter

285. Whoever does, with fire or any combustible matter, any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life, or to be likely to
cause hurt or injury to any other person,
or knowingly or negligently omits to take such order with any fire or any combustible matter in his possession as is sufficient to guard
against any probable danger to human life from such fire or combustible matter,
shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to
one thousand taka, or with both.

Negligent conduct with
respect to explosive
substance

286. Whoever does, with any explosive substance, any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life, or to be likely to cause
hurt or injury to any other person,
or knowingly or negligently omits to take such order with any explosive substance in his possession as is sufficient to guard against any
probable danger to human life from that substance,
shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to
one thousand taka, or with both.

Negligent conduct with
respect to machinery

287. Whoever does, with any machinery, any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or to be likely to cause hurt or injury
to any other person,
or knowingly or negligently omits to take such order with any machinery in his possession or under his care as is sufficient to guard
against any probable danger to human life from such machinery,
shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to
one thousand taka, or with both.

Negligent conduct with
respect to pulling down
or repairing buildings

288. Whoever, in pulling down or repairing any building, knowingly or negligently omits to take such order with that building as is
sufficient to guard against any probable danger to human life from the fall of that building, or of any part thereof, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand taka, or
with both.

Negligent conduct with
respect to animal

289. Whoever knowingly or negligently omits to take such order with any animal in his possession as is sufficient to guard against any
probable danger to human life, or any probable danger of grievous hurt from such animal, shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may extend to one thousand taka, or with both.

Punishment for public
nuisance in cases not
otherwise provided for

290. Whoever commits a public nuisance in any case not otherwise punishable by this Code, shall be punished with fine which may
extend to two hundred taka.

Continuance of
nuisance after
injunction to
discontinue

291. Whoever repeats or continues a public nuisance, having been enjoined by any public servant who has lawful authority to issue such
injunction not to repeat or continue such nuisance, shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to six
months, or with fine, or with both.

Sale, etc., of obscene
books, etc.

292. Whoever
(a) sells, lets to hire, distributes, publicly exhibits or in any manner puts into circulation, or for purposes of sale, hire, distribution, public
exhibition or circulation, makes, produces or has in his possession any obscene book, pamphlet, paper, drawing, painting,
representation or figure or any other obscene object whatsoever, or
(b) imports, exports or conveys any obscene object for any of the purposes aforesaid, or knowing or having reason to believe that such
object will be sold, let to hire, distributed or publicly exhibited or in any manner put into circulation, or
(c) takes part in or receives profits from any business in the course of which he knows or has reason to believe that any such obscene
objects are, for any of the purposes aforesaid, made, produced, purchased, kept, imported, exported, conveyed, publicly exhibited or in
any manner put into circulation, or
(d) advertises or makes known by any means whatsoever that any person is engaged or is ready to engage in any act which is an
offence under this section, or that any such obscene object can be procured from or through any person, or
(e) offers or attempts to do any act which is an offence under this section,
shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three months, or with fine, or with both.
Exception.- This section does not extend to any book, pamphlet, writing, drawing or painting kept or used bona fide for religious
purposes or any representation sculptured, engraved, painted or otherwise represented on or in any temple, or on any car used for the
conveyance of idols, or kept or used for any religious purpose.

Sale, etc., of obscene
objects to young person

293. Whoever sells, lets to hire, distributes, exhibits or circulates to any person under the age of twenty years any such obscene object
as is referred to in the last preceding section, or offers or attempts so to do, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for
a term which may extend to six months, or with fine, or with both.

Obscene acts and songs

294. Whoever, to the annoyance of others,
(a) does any obscene act in any public place, or
(b) sings, recites or utters any obscene songs, ballad or words, in or near any public place,
shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three months, or with fine, or with both.

Keeping lottery-office

[294A. Whoever keeps any office or place for the purpose of drawing any lottery not being a State lottery or a lottery authorized by the
Government shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine, or with
both.
91

And whoever publishes any proposal to pay any sum, or to deliver any goods, or to do or forbear doing anything for the benefit of any
person, on any event or contingency relative or applicable to the drawing of any ticket, lot, number or figure in any such lottery shall be
punished with fine which may extend to one thousand taka.]
Offering of prize in
connection with trade,
etc.

[294B. Whoever offers, or undertakes to offer, in connection with any trade or business or sale of any commodity, any prize, reward or
other similar consideration, by whatever name called, whether in money or kind, against any coupon, ticket, number or figure, or by any
other device, as an inducement or encouragement to trade or business or to the buying of any commodity, or for the purpose of
advertisement or popularising any commodity, and whoever publishes any such offer, shall be punishable with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine, or with both.]
92

CHAPTER XV
OF OFFENCES RELATING TO RELIGION
Injuring or defiling place
of worship, with intent
to insult the religion of
any class

295. Whoever destroys, damages or defiles any place of worship, or any object held sacred by any class of persons with the intention of
thereby insulting the religion of any class of persons or with the knowledge that any class of persons is likely to consider such
destruction, damage or defilement as an insult to their religion, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which
may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Deliberate and malicious
acts intended to outrage
religious feelings of any
class by insulting its
religion or religious
beliefs

93

Disturbing religious
assembly

296. Whoever voluntarily causes disturbance to any assembly lawfully engaged in the performance of religious worship, or religious
ceremonies, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.

Trespassing on burial
places, etc.

297. Whoever, with the intention of wounding the feelings of any person, or of insulting the religion of any person, or with the knowledge
that the feelings of any person are likely to be wounded, or that the religion of any person is likely to be insulted thereby,

[295A. Whoever, with deliberate and malicious intention of outraging the religious feelings of any class of the citizens of Bangladesh,
by words, either spoken or written, or by visible representations insults or attempts to insult the religion or the religious beliefs of that
class, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.]

commits any trespass in any place of worship or on any place of sepulture, or any place set apart for the performance of funeral rites or
as a depository for the remains of the dead, or offers any indignity to any human corpse, or causes disturbance to any persons
assembled for the performance of funeral ceremonies,
shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.
Uttering words, etc.,
with deliberate intent to
wound religious feelings

298. Whoever, with the deliberate intention of wounding the religious feelings of any person, utters any word or makes any sound in the
hearing of that person or makes any gesture in the sight of that person or places any object in the sight of that person, shall be punished
with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.

CHAPTER XVI
OF OFFENCES AFFECTING THE HUMAN BODY
Of Offences affecting Life
Culpable homicide

299. Whoever causes death by doing an act with the intention of causing death, or with the intention of causing such bodily injury as is
likely to cause death, or with the knowledge that he is likely by such act to cause death, commits the offence of culpable homicide.
Illustrations
(a) A lays sticks and turf over a pit, with the intention of thereby causing death, or with the knowledge that death is likely to be thereby
caused. Z, believing the ground to be firm, treads on it, falls in and is killed. A has committed the offence of culpable homicide.
(b) A knows Z to be behind a bush. B does not know it. A, intending to cause, or knowing it to be likely to cause Z's death induces B to
fire at the bush. B fires and kills Z. Here B may be guilty of no offence; but A has committed the offence of culpable homicide.
(c) A, by shooting at a fowl with intent to kill and steal it, kills B, who is behind a bush; A not knowing that he was there. Here, although A
was doing an unlawful act, he was not guilty of culpable homicide, as he did not intend to kill B or cause death by doing an act that he
knew was likely to cause death.
Explanation 1. A person who causes bodily injury to another who is labouring under a disorder, disease or bodily infirmity, and thereby
accelerates the death of that other, shall be deemed to have caused his death.
Explanation 2. Where death is caused by bodily injury, the person who causes such bodily injury shall be deemed to have caused the
death, although by resorting to proper remedies and skilful treatment the death might have been prevented.
Explanation 3. The causing of the death of a child in the mother's womb is not homicide. But it may amount to culpable homicide to
cause the death of a living child, if any part of that child has been brought forth, though the child may not have breathed or been
completely born.

Murder

300. Except in the cases hereinafter excepted, culpable homicide is murder, if the act by which the death is caused is done with the
intention of causing death, orSecondly.-If it is done with the intention of causing such bodily injury as the offender knows to be likely to cause the death of the person
to whom the harm is caused, or –
Thirdly.-If it is done with the intention of causing bodily injury to any person and the bodily injury intended to be inflicted is sufficient in the
ordinary course of nature to cause death, or –
Fourthly.--f the person committing the act knows that it is so imminently dangerous that it must, in all probability, cause death, or such
bodily injury as is likely to cause death, and commits such act without any excuse for incurring the risk of causing death or such injury as
aforesaid.
Illustrations
(a) A shoots Z with the intention of killing him. Z dies in consequence. A commits murder.
(b) A, knowing that Z is labouring under such a disease that a blow is likely to cause his death, strikes him with the intention of causing
bodily injury. Z dies in consequence of the blow. A is guilty of murder, although the blow might not have been sufficient in the ordinary
course of nature to cause the death of a person in a sound state of health. But if A, not knowing that Z is labouring under any disease,
gives him such a blow as would not in the ordinary course of nature kill a person in a sound state of health, here A, although he may
intend to cause bodily injury, is not guilty of murder, if he did not intend to cause death or such bodily injury as in the ordinary course of
nature would cause death.
(c) A intentionally gives Z a sword-cut or club-wound sufficient to cause the death of a man in the ordinary course of nature. Z dies in
consequence. Here A is guilty of murder, although he may not have intended to cause Z's death.
(d) A without any excuse fires a loaded cannon into a crowd of persons and kills one of them. A is guilty of murder, although he may not
have had a premeditated design to kill any particular individual.

When culpable homicide
is not murder

Exception 1.-Culpable homicide is not murder if the offender, whilst deprived of the power of self-control by grave and sudden
provocation, causes the death of the person who gave the provocation or cause the death of any other person by mistake or accident.
The above exception is subject to the following provisos:
Firstly.-That the provocation is not sought or voluntarily provoked by the offender as an excuse for killing or doing harm to any person.
Secondly.-That the provocation is not given by anything done in obedience to the law, or by a public servant in the lawful exercise of the
powers of such public servant.
Thirdly.-That the provocation is not given by anything done in the lawful exercise of the right of private defence.
Explanation.- Whether the provocation was grave and sudden enough to prevent the offence from amounting to murder is a question of
fact.
Illustrations
(a) A, under the influence of passion excited by a provocation given by Z, intentionally kills Y, Z's child. This is murder, inasmuch as the
provocation was not given by the child, and the death of the child was not caused by accident or misfortune in doing an act caused by
the provocation.
(b) Y gives grave and sudden provocation to A. A, on this provocation fires a pistol at Y, neither intending nor knowing himself to be likely
to kill Z, who is near him, but out of sight. A kills Z. Here A has not committed murder, but merely culpable homicide.
(c) A is lawfully arrested by Z, a bailiff. A is excited to sudden and violent passion by the arrest, and kills Z. This is murder, inasmuch as
the provocation was given by a thing done by a public servant in the exercise of his powers.
(d) A appears as a witness before Z, a Magistrate. Z says that he does not believe a word of A's deposition, and that A has perjured
himself, A is moved to sudden passion by these words, and kills Z. This is murder.
(e) A attempts to pull Z's nose. Z, in exercise of the right of private defense, lays hold of A to prevent him from doing so. A is moved to
sudden and violent passion in consequence, and kills Z. This is murder, inasmuch as the provocation was given by a thing done in the
exercise of the right of private defense.
(f) Z strikes B. B is by this provocation excited to violent rage. A, a by stander, intending to take advantage of B's rage, and to cause him
to kill Z, puts a knife into B's hand for that purpose. B kills Z with the knife. Here B may have committed only culpable homicide, but A is
guilty of murder.
Exception 2.- Culpable homicide is not murder if the offender, in the exercise in good faith of the right of private defense of person or
property, exceeds the powers given to him by law and causes the death of the person against whom he is exercising such right of
defense without premeditation, and without any intention of doing more harm than is necessary for the purpose of such defense.
Illustration
Z attempts to horsewhip A, not in such a manner as to cause grievous hurt to A. A draws out a pistol. Z persists in the assault. A
believing in good faith that can by no other means prevent himself from being horsewhipped, shoots Z dead. A has not committed
murder, but only culpable homicide.
Exception 3.- Culpable homicide is not murder if the offender, being a public servant or aiding a public servant acting for the
advancement of public justice, exceeds the powers given to him by law, and causes death by doing an act which he, in good faith,
believes to be lawful and necessary for the due discharge of his duty as such public servant and without ill-will towards the person
whose death is caused.
Exception 4.-Culpable homicide is not murder if it is committed without premeditation in a sudden fight in the heat of passion upon a
sudden quarrel and without the offender's having taken undue advantage or acted in a cruel or unusual manner.
Explanation.- It is immaterial in such cases which party offers the provocation or commits the first assault.
Exception 5.- Culpable homicide is not murder when the person whose death is caused, being above the age of eighteen years, suffers
death or takes the risk of death with his own consent.
Illustration
A, by instigation, voluntarily causes Z, a person under eighteen years of age, to commit suicide. Here, on account of Z's youth, he was
incapable of giving consent to his own death; A has therefore abetted murder.

Culpable homicide by
causing death of person
other than person
whose death was
intended

.

Punishment for murder

302. Whoever commits murder shall be punished with death, or 94[imprisonment] for life, and shall also be liable to fine.

Punishment for murder
by life-convict

303. Whoever, being under sentence of 95[imprisonment] for life, commits murder, shall be punished with death.

Punishment for culpable
homicide not amounting
to murder

304. Whoever commits culpable homicide not amounting to murder, shall be punished with 96[imprisonment] for life, or imprisonment of
either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine, if the act by which the death is caused is
done with intention of causing death, or of causing such bodily injury as is likely to cause death;

301. If a person, by doing anything which he intends or knows to be likely to cause death, commits culpable homicide by causing the
death of any person, whose death he neither intends nor knows himself to be likely to cause, the culpable homicide committed by the
offender is of the description of which it would have been if he had caused the death of the person whose death he intended or knew
himself to be likely to cause.

or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, or with fine, or with both, if the act is done with the
knowledge that it is likely to cause death, but without any intention to cause death or to cause such bodily injury as is likely to cause
death.
Causing death by
negligence

97

[304A. Whoever causes the death of any person by doing any rash or negligent act not amounting to culpable homicide shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to 98[five] years, or with fine, or with both.]

Causing death by rash
driving or riding on a
public way

99

Abetment of suicide of
child or insane person

305. If any person under eighteen years of age, any insane person, any delirious person, any idiot, or any person in a state of
intoxication commits suicide, whoever abets the commission

[304B. Whoever causes the death of any person by rash or negligent driving of any vehicle or riding on any public way not amounting
to culpable homicide shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to 100[three years], or with
fine, or with both.]

of such suicide shall be punished with death or 101[imprisonment] for life, or imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years, and shall
also be liable to fine.
Abetment of suicide

306. If any person commits suicide, whoever abets the commission of such suicide, shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Attempt to murder
Attempts by lifeconvicts

307. Whoever does any act with such intention or knowledge, and under such circumstances that, if he by that act caused death, he
would be guilty of murder, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall
also be liable to fine; and, if hurt is caused to any person by such act, the offender shall be liable either to 102[imprisonment] for life, or to
such punishment as is hereinbefore mentioned.
When any person offending under this section is under sentence of 103[imprisonment] for life, he may, if hurt is caused, be punished with
death.
Illustration
(a) A shoots at Z with intention to kill him, under such circumstances that, if death ensued, A would be guilty of murder. A is liable to
punishment under this section.
(b) A with the intention of causing the death of a child of tender years exposes it in a desert place. A has committed the offence defined
by this section, though the death of the child does not ensue.
(c) A, intending to murder Z, buys a gun and loads it. A has not yet committed the offence. A fires the gun at Z. He has committed the
offence defined in this section, and, if by such firing he wounds, he is liable to the punishment provided by the latter part of the first
paragraph of this section.
(d) A, intending to murder Z, by poison, purchases poison and mixes the same with food which remains in A's keeping; A has not yet
committed the offence in this section. A places the food on Z's table or delivers it to Z's servants to place it on Z's table. A has committed
the offence defined in this section.

Attempt to commit
culpable homicide

308. Whoever does any act with such intention or knowledge and under such circumstances that, if he by that act caused death, he
would be guilty of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which
may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both; and, if hurt is caused to any person by such act, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, or with fine, or with both.
Illustration
A, on grave and sudden provocation, fires a pistol at Z, under such circumstances that if he thereby caused death he would be guilty of
culpable homicide not amounting to murder. A has committed the offence defined in this section.

Attempt to commit
suicide

309. Whoever attempts to commit suicide and does any act towards the commission of such offence, shall be punished with simple
imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.

Thug

310. Whoever, at any time after the passing of this Act, shall have been habitually associated with any other or others for the purpose of
committing robbery or child-stealing by means of or accompanied with murder, is a thug.

Punishment

311. Whoever is a thug, shall be punished with 104[imprisonment] for life, and shall also be liable to fine.
Of the causing of Miscarriage, of Injuries to unborn Children, of the Exposure of Infants, and of the Concealment of Births.

Causing miscarriage

312. Whoever voluntarily causes a woman with child to miscarry, shall, if such miscarriage be not caused in good faith for the purpose of
saving the life of the woman, be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with
fine, or with both; and, if the woman be quick with child, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.
Explanation.-A woman who causes herself to miscarry, is within the meaning of this section.

Causing miscarriage
without women's
consent

313. Whoever commits the offence defined in the last preceding section without the consent of the woman, whether the woman is quick
with child or not, shall be punished with 105[imprisonment] for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend
to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Death caused by act
done with intent to
cause miscarriage

314. Whoever, with intent to cause the miscarriage of a woman with child, does any act which causes the death of such woman, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description

If act done without
women's consent

and if the act is done without the consent of the woman, shall be punished either with 106[imprisonment] for life, or with the punishment
above-mentioned.

for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine,

Explanation.It is not essential to this offence that the offender should know that the act is likely to cause death.
Act done with intent to
prevent child being born
alive or to cause it to die
after birth

315. Whoever before the birth of any child does any act with the intention of thereby preventing that child from being born alive or
causing it to die after its birth, and does by such act prevent that child from being born alive, or causes it to die after its birth, shall, if
such act be not caused in good faith for the purpose of saving the life of the mother, be punished with imprisonment of either description
for a term which may extend to ten years, or with fine, or with both.

Causing death of quick
unborn child by act
amounting to culpable
homicide

316. Whoever does any act under such circumstances, that if he thereby caused death he would be guilty of culpable homicide, and
does by such act cause the death of a quick unborn child, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which
may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.
Illustration
A, knowing that he is likely to cause the death of a pregnant woman, does an act which, if it caused the death of the woman, would
amount to culpable homicide. The woman is injured but does not die; but the death of an unborn quick child with which she is pregnant
thereby caused. A is guilty of the offence defined in this section.

Exposure and
abandonment of child
under twelve years by
parent or person having
care of it

317. Whoever being the father or mother of a child under the age of twelve years, or having the care of such child, shall expose or leave
such child in any place with the intention of wholly abandoning such child, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a
term which may extend to seven years, or with fine, or with both.

Concealment of birth by
secret disposal of dead
body

318. Whoever, by secretly burying or otherwise disposing of the dead body of a child whether such child die before or after or during its
birth, intentionally conceals or endeavours to conceal the birth of such child, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for
a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Explanation. This section is not intended to prevent the trial of the offender for murder or culpable homicide, as the case may be, if the
child die in consequence of the exposure.

Of Hurt
Hurt

319. Whoever causes bodily pain, disease or infirmity to any person is said to cause hurt.

Grievous hurt

320. The following kinds of hurt only are designated as "grievous":Firstly.-Emasculation.
Secondly.-Permanent privation of the sight of either eye.
Thirdly.-Permanent privation of the hearing of either ear.
Fourthly.-Privation of any member or joint.
Fifthly.-Destruction or permanent impairing of the powers of any member or joint.
Sixthly.-Permanent disfiguration of the head or face.
Seventhly.-Fracture or dislocation of a bone or tooth.
Eighthly.-Any hurt which endangers life or which causes the sufferer to be during the space of twenty days in severe bodily pain, or
unable to follow his ordinary pursuits.

Voluntarily causing hurt

321. Whoever does any act with the intention of thereby causing hurt to any person, or with the knowledge that he is likely thereby to
cause hurt to any person, and does thereby cause hurt to any person, is said "voluntarily to cause hurt".

Voluntarily causing
grievous hurt

322. Whoever voluntarily causes hurt, if the hurt which he intends to cause or knows himself to be likely to cause is grievous hurt, and if
the hurt which he causes is grievous hurt, is said “voluntarily to cause grievous hurt".
Explanation.-A person is not said voluntarily to cause grievous hurt except when he both causes grievous hurt and intends or knows
himself to be likely to cause grievous hurt. But he is said voluntarily to cause grievous hurt, if intending or knowing himself to be likely to
cause grievous hurt of one kind, he actually causes grievous hurt of another kind.
Illustration
A, intending or knowing himself to be likely permanently to disfigure Z's face, gives Z a blow which does not permanently disfigure Z's
face, but which causes Z to suffer severe bodily pain for the space of twenty days. A has voluntarily caused grievous hurt.

Punishment for
voluntarily causing hurt

323. Whoever, except in the case provided for by section 334, voluntarily causes hurt, shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine which may extend to one thousand taka, or with both.

Voluntarily causing hurt
by dangerous weapons
or means

324. Whoever, except in the case provided for by section 334, voluntarily causes hurt by means of any instrument for shooting, stabbing
or cutting, or any instrument which, used as a weapon of offence, is likely to cause death, or by means of fire
or any heated substance, or by means of any poison or any corrosive substance, or by means of any explosive substance or by means
of any substance which it is deleterious to the human body to inhale, to swallow, or to receive into the blood, or by means of any animal,
shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.

Punishment for
voluntarily causing
grievous hurt

325. Whoever, except in the case provided for by section 335, voluntarily causes grievous hurt, shall be punished with imprisonment of
either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Voluntarily causing
grievous hurt by
dangerous weapons or
means

326. Whoever, except in the case provided for by section 335, voluntarily causes grievous hurt by means of any instrument for shooting,
stabbing or cutting, or any instrument which, used as a weapon of offence, is likely to cause death, or by means of fire or any heated
substance, or by means of any poison or any corrosive substance, or by means of any explosive substance, or by means of any
substance which it is deleterious to the human body to inhale, to swallow, or to receive into the blood, or by means of any animal, shall
be punished with 107[imprisonment] for life or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall
also be liable to fine.

Voluntarily causing
grievous hurt in respect
of both eyes, hand or
face by means of
corrosive substance,
etc.

108

Voluntarily causing hurt
to extort property or to
constrain to an illegal
act

327. Whoever voluntarily causes hurt, for the purpose of extorting from the sufferer, or from any person interested in the sufferer, any
property or valuable security, or of constraining the sufferer, or any person interested in such sufferer to do anything which is illegal or
which may facilitate the commission of an offence, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Causing hurt by means
of poison, etc., with
intent to commit an
offence

328. Whoever administers to or causes to be taken by any person any poison or any stupefying, intoxicating or un- wholesome drug, or
other thing with intent to cause hurt to such person, or with intent to commit or to facilitate the commission of an offence or knowing it to
be likely that he will thereby cause hurt, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten
years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Voluntarily causing
grievous hurt to extort
property, or to constrain
to an illegal act

329. Whoever voluntarily causes grievous hurt for the purpose of extorting from the sufferer or from any person interested in the sufferer
any property or valuable security, or of constraining the sufferer or any person interested in such sufferer to do anything that is illegal or
which may facilitate the commission of an offence, shall be punished with 110[imprisonment] for life, or imprisonment of either description
for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Voluntarily causing hurt
to extort confession, or
to compel restoration of
property

330. Whoever voluntarily causes hurt, for the purpose of extorting from the sufferer or any person interested in the sufferer, any
confession or any information which may lead to the detection of an offence or misconduct, or for the purpose of constraining the
sufferer or any person interested in the sufferer to restore or to cause the restoration of any property or valuable security or to satisfy any
claim or demand, or to give information which may lead to the restoration of any property or valuable security, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

[326A. Whoever, except in the case provided for by section 335, voluntarily causes grievous hurt of the kind mentioned in

(a) clause secondly of section 320 in respect of both the eyes either by gouging out the same or by means of any corrosive substance;
or
(b) clause sixthly of section 320 by means of any corrosive substance,
shall be punished with death, or 109[imprisonment] for life and shall also be liable to fine.]

Illustrations
(a) A, a police-officer, tortures Z in order to induce Z to confess that he committed a crime. A is guilty of an offence under this section.
(a) A, a police-officer, tortures B to induce him to point out where certain stolen property is deposited. A is guilty of an offence under this
section.
(b) A, a revenue officer, tortures Z in order to compel him to pay certain arrears of revenue due from Z. A is guilty of an offence under
this section.
(c) A, a zamindar, tortures a raiyat in order to compel him to pay his rent. A is guilty of an offence under this section.
Voluntarily causing
grievous hurt to extort
confession, or to
compel restoration of
property

331. Whoever voluntarily causes grievous hurt for the purpose of extorting from the sufferer or any person interested in the sufferer any
confession or any information which may lead to the detection of an offence or misconduct, or for the purpose of constraining the
sufferer or any person interested in the sufferer to restore or to cause the restoration of any property or valuable security or to satisfy any
claim or demand or to give information which may lead to the restoration of any property or valuable security shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Voluntarily causing hurt
to deter public servant
from his duty

332. Whoever voluntarily causes hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty as such public servant, or with
intent to prevent or deter that person or any other public servant from discharging his duty as such public servant, or in consequence of
anything done or attempted to be done by that person in the lawful discharge of his duty as such public servant, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.

Voluntarily causing
grievous hurt to deter
public servant from his
duty

333. Whoever voluntarily causes grievous hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty as such public servant,
or with intent to prevent or deter that person or any other public servant from discharging his duty as such public servant, or in
consequence of anything done or attempted to be done by that person in the lawful discharge of his duty as such public servant, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Voluntarily causing hurt
on provocation

334. Whoever voluntarily causes hurt on grave and sudden provocation, if he neither intends nor knows himself to be likely to cause hurt
to any person other than the person who gave the provocation shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which

may extend to one month, or with fine which may extend to five hundred taka, or with both.
Voluntarily causing
grievous hurt on
provocation

335. Whoever voluntarily causes grievous hurt on grave and sudden provocation, if he neither intends nor knows himself to be likely to
cause grievous hurt to any person other than the person who gave the provocation shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to four years, or with fine which may extend to two thousand taka, or with both.
Explanation. The last two sections are subject to the same provisos as Exception 1, section 300.

Act endangering life or
personal safety to
others

336. Whoever does any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life or the personal safety of others, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three months, or with fine which may extend to two hundred and fifty
taka, or with both.

Causing hurt by act
endangering life or
personal safety of
others

337. Whoever causes hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life, or the personal safety of
others shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to six months, or with fine which may
extend to five hundred taka, or with both.

Causing grievous hurt
by act endangering life
or personal safety of
others

338. Whoever causes grievous hurt to any person by doing any act so rashly or negligently as to endanger human life, or the personal
safety of others, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extent to two years, or with fine which
may extend to 111[five thousand taka], or with both.

Causing grievous hurt
by rush driving or riding
on a public way

112

[338A. Whoever causes grievous hurt to any person by driving any vehicle or riding on any public way so rashly or negligently as to
endanger human life, or the personal safety of others shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to 113[two years], or with fine, or with both.]
Of Wrongful Restraint and Wrongful Confinement

Wrongful restraint

339. Whoever voluntarily obstructs any person so as to prevent that person from proceeding in any direction in which that person has a
right to proceed, is said wrongfully to restrain that person.
Exception. The obstruction of a private way over land or water which a person in good faith believes himself to have a lawful right to
obstruct, is not an offence within the meaning of this section.
Illustration
A obstructs a path along which Z has a right to pass, A not believing in good faith that he has a right to stop the path. Z is thereby
prevented from passing. A wrongfully restrains Z.

Wrongful confinement

340. Whoever wrongfully restrains any person in such a manner as to prevent that person form proceeding beyond certain
circumscribing limits, is said "wrongfully to confine" that person.
Illustrations
(a) A causes Z to go within a walled space, and locks Z in. Z is thus prevented from proceeding in any direction beyond the
circumscribing line of wall. A wrongfully confines Z.
(b) A places men with firearms at the outlets of a building, and tells Z that they will fire at Z if Z attempts to leave the building. A
wrongfully confines Z.

Punishment for
wrongful restraint

341. Whoever wrongfully restrains any person, shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to one month,
or with fine which may extend to five hundred taka, or with both.

Punishment for
wrongful confinement

342. Whoever wrongfully confines any person, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to
one year, or with fine which may extend to one thousand taka, or with both.

Wrongful confinement
for three or more days

343. Whoever wrongfully confines any person for three days or more, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a
term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Wrongful confinement
for ten or more days

344. Whoever wrongfully confines any person for ten days, or more, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Wrongful confinement
of person for whose
liberation writ has been
issued

345. Whoever keeps any person in wrongful confinement, knowing that a writ for the liberation of that person has been duly issued, shall
be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years in addition to any term of imprisonment to
which he may be liable under any other section of this Chapter.

Wrongful confinement in
secret

346. Whoever wrongfully confines any person in such manner as to indicate an intention that the confinement of such person may not be
known to any person interested in the person so confined, or to any public servant, or that the place of such confinement may not be
known to or discovered by any such person or public servant as hereinbefore mentioned, shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to two years in addition to any other punishment to which he may be liable for such wrongful
confinement.

Wrongful confinement
to extort property or
constrain to illegal act

347. Whoever wrongfully confines any person for the purpose of extorting from the person confined, or from any person interested in the
person confined, any property or valuable security or of constraining the person confined or any person interested in such person to do
anything illegal or to give any information which may facilitate the commission of an offence, shall be punished with imprisonment of
either description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Wrongful confinement
to extort confession or
compel restoration of
property

348. Whoever wrongfully confines any person for the purpose of extorting from the person confined or any person interested in the
person confined any confession or any information which may lead to the detection of an offence or misconduct, or for the purpose of
constraining the person confined or any person interested in the person confined to restore or to cause the restoration of any property or
valuable security or to satisfy any claim or demand, or to give information which may lead to the restoration of any property or valuable
security, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to
fine.
Of Criminal Force and Assault

Force

349. A person is said to use force to another if he causes motion, change of motion, or cessation of motion to that other, or if he causes
to any substance such motion, or change of motion, or cessation of motion as brings that substance into contact with any part of that
other's body, or with anything which that other is wearing or carrying, or with anything so situated that such contact affects that other's
sense of feeling: Provided that the person causing the motion, or change of motion, or cessation of motion, causes that motion, change
of motion, or cessation of motion in one of the three ways hereinafter described:
Firstly. By his own bodily power.
Secondly. By disposing any substance in such a manner that the motion or change or cessation of motion takes place without any
further act on his part, or on the part of any other person.
Thirdly. By inducing any animal to move, to change its motion, or to cease to move.

Criminal force

350. Whoever intentionally uses force to any person, without that person's consent, in order to the committing of any offence, or
intending by the use of such force to cause, or knowing it to be likely that by the use of such force he will cause injury, fear or annoyance
to the person to whom the force is used, is said to use criminal force to that other.
Illustrations
(a) Z is sitting in a moored boat on a river. A unfastens the moorings, and thus intentionally causes the boat to drift down the stream.
Here A intentionally causes motion to Z, and he does this by disposing substances in such a manner that the motion is produced without
any other action on any person's part. A has therefore intentionally used force to Z; and if he has done so without Z's consent, in order to
the committing of any offence, or intending or knowing it to be likely that this use of force will cause injury, fear or annoyance to Z, A has
used criminal force to Z.
(b) Z is riding in a chariot. A lashes Z's horses, and thereby causes them to quicken their pace. Here A has caused change of motion to
Z by inducing the animals to change their motion. A has therefore used force to Z; and if A has done this without Z's consent, intending
or knowing it to be likely that he may thereby injure, frighten or annoy Z, A has used criminal force to Z.
(c) Z is riding in a palanquin. A, intending to rob Z, seizes the pole and stops the palanquin. Here A has caused cessation of motion to Z,
and he has done this by his own bodily power. A has therefore used force to Z; and as A has acted thus intentionally, without Z's
consent, in order to the commission of an offence. A has used criminal force to Z.
(d) A intentionally pushes against Z in the street. Here A has by his own bodily power moved his own person so as to bring it into contact
with Z. He has therefore intentionally used force to Z; and if he has done so without Z's consent, intending or knowing it to be likely that
he may thereby injure, frighten or annoy Z, he has used criminal force to Z.
(e) A throws a stone, intending or knowing it to be likely that the stone will be thus brought into contact with Z, or with Z's clothes, or with
something carried by Z, or that it will strike water, and dash up the water against Z's clothes or something carried by Z. Here, if the
throwing of the stone produce the effect of causing any substance to come into contact with Z, or Z's clothes, A has used force to Z; and
if he did so without Z's consent, intending thereby to injure, frighten or annoy Z, he has used criminal force to Z.
(f) A intentionally pulls up a woman's veil. Here A intentionally uses force to her, and if he does so without her consent intending or
knowing it to be likely that he may thereby injure, frighten or annoy her, he has used criminal force to her.
(g) Z is bathing, A pours into the bath water which he knows to be boiling. Here A intentionally by his own bodily power causes such
motion in the boiling water as brings that water into contact with Z, or with other water so situated that such contact must affect Z's sense
of feeling: A has therefore intentionally used force to Z; and if he has done this without Z's consent intending or knowing it to be likely
that he may thereby cause injury, fear or annoyance to Z, A has used criminal force.
(h) A incites a dog to spring upon Z, without Z's consent. Here, if A intends to cause injury, fear or annoyance to Z, he uses criminal force
to Z.

Assault

351. Whoever makes any gesture, or any preparation intending or knowing it to be likely that such gesture or preparation will cause any
person present to apprehend that he who makes that gesture or preparation is about to use criminal force to that person, is said to
commit an assault.
Explanation.- Mere words do not amount to an assault. But the words which a person uses may give to his gestures or preparation such
a meaning as may make those gestures or preparations amount to an assault.
Illustrations
(a) A shakes his fist at Z, intending or knowing it to be likely that he may thereby cause Z to believe that A is about to strike Z. A has
committed an assault.
(b) A begins to unloose the muzzle of a ferocious dog, intending, or knowing it to be likely that he may thereby cause Z to believe that he
is about to cause the dog to attack Z. A has committed an assault upon Z.
(c) A takes up a stick, saying to Z, "I will give you a beating". Here, though the words used by A could in no case amount to an assault,
and though the mere gesture, unaccompanied by any other circumstances, might not amount to an assault, the gesture explained by the
words may amount to an assault.

Punishment for assault
or criminal force
otherwise than on grave
provocation

352. Whoever assaults or uses criminal force to any person otherwise than on grave and sudden provocation given by that person, shall
be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three months, or with fine which may extend to five
hundred taka, or with both.
Explanation.- Grave and sudden provocation will not mitigate the punishment for an offence under this section, if the provocation is
sought or voluntarily provoked by the offender as an excuse for the offence, or
if the provocation is given by anything done in obedience to the law, or by a public servant, in the lawful exercise of the powers of such
public servant, or
if the provocation is given by anything done in the lawful exercise of the right of private defence.
Whether the provocation was grave and sudden enough to mitigate the offence, is a question of fact.

Assault or criminal force
to deter public servant
from discharge of his
duty

353. Whoever assaults or uses criminal force to any person being a public servant in the execution of his duty as such public servant, or
with intent to prevent or deter that person from discharging his duty as such public servant, or in consequence

Assault or criminal force
to woman with intent to
outage her modesty

354. Whoever assaults or uses criminal force to any woman, intending to outrage or knowing it to be likely that he will thereby outrage
her modesty, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with
both.

Assault or criminal force
with intent to dishonour
person, otherwise than
on grave provocation

355. Whoever assaults or uses criminal force to any person, intending thereby to dishonour that person, otherwise than on grave and
sudden provocation given by that person, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two
years, or with fine, or with both.

Assault or criminal force
in attempt to commit
theft of property carried
by a person

356. Whoever assaults or uses criminal force to any person in attempting to commit theft on any property which that person is then
wearing or carrying shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extent to two years, or with fine, or
with both.

Assault or criminal force
in attempt wrongfully to
confine a person

357. Whoever assaults or uses criminal force to any person, in attempting wrongfully to confine that person, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine which may extend to one thousand taka, or with
both.

Assault or criminal force
on grave provocation.

358. Whoever assaults or uses criminal force to any person on grave and sudden provocation given by that person, shall be punished
with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to one month or with fine which may extend to two hundred taka, or with both.

of anything done or attempted to be done by such person in the lawful discharge of his duty as such public servant, shall be punished
with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to 114[three years], or with fine, or with both.

Explanation.-The last section is subject to the same Explanation as section 352.
Of Kidnapping, Abduction, Slavery and Forced Labour
Kidnapping

359. Kidnapping is of two kinds: kidnapping from Bangladesh, and kidnapping from lawful guardianship.

Kidnapping from
Bangladesh, etc.

360. Whoever conveys any person beyond the limits of Bangladesh without the consent of that person, or of some person legally
authorized to consent on behalf of that person, is said to kidnap that person from Bangladesh.

Kidnapping from lawful
guardianship

361. Whoever takes or entices any minor under fourteen years of age if a male, or under sixteen years of age if a female, or any person
of unsound mind, out of the keeping of the lawful guardian of such minor or person of unsound mind, without the consent of such
guardian, is said to kidnap such minor or person from lawful guardianship.
Explanation.-The words "lawful guardian" in this section include any person lawfully entrusted with the care or custody of such minor or
other person.
Exception.-This section does not extend to the act of any person who in good faith believes himself to be the father of an illegitimate
child, or who in good faith believes himself to be entitled to the lawful custody of such child, unless such act is committed for an immoral
or unlawful purpose.

Abduction

362. Whoever by force compels, or by any deceitful means induces, any person to go from any place, is said to abduct that person.

Punishment for
kidnapping

363. Whoever kidnaps any person from Bangladesh or from lawful guardianship, shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Kidnapping or
abducting in order to
murder

364. Whoever kidnaps or abducts any person in order that such person may be murdered or may be so disposed of as to be put in
danger of being murdered, shall be punished with 115[imprisonment] for life or rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten
years, and shall also be liable to fine.
Illustrations
(a) A kidnaps Z from Bangladesh, intending or knowing it to be likely that Z may be sacrificed to an idol. A has committed the offence
defined in this section.
(b) A forcibly carries or entices B away from his home in order that B may be murdered. A has committed the offence defined in this
section.

Kidnapping or
abducting a person
under the age of ten

116

[364A. Whoever kidnaps or abducts any person under the age of ten, in order that such person may be murdered or subjected to
grievous hurt, or slavery, or to the lust of any person or may be so disposed of as to be put in danger of being murdered or subjected to
grievous hurt, or slavery, or to the lust of any person shall be punished with death or with 117[imprisonment] for life or with rigorous
imprisonment for a term which may extend to fourteen years and shall not be less than seven years.]

Kidnapping or
abducting with intent
secretly and wrongfully
to confine person

365. Whoever kidnaps or abducts any person with intent to cause that person to be secretly and wrongfully confined, shall be punished
with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Kidnapping or
abducting or inducing
woman to compel her
marriage, etc.

366. Whoever kidnaps or abducts any woman with intent that she may be compelled, or knowing it to be likely that she will be
compelled, to marry any person against her will, or in order that she may be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse, or knowing it to be
likely that she will be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which
may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine; and whoever, by means of criminal intimidation as defined in this Code or of
abuse of authority or any other method of compulsion, induces any woman to go from any place with intent that she may be, or knowing
that it is likely that she will be, forced or seduced to illicit intercourse with another person shall also be punishable as aforesaid.

Procuration of minor girl

118

Importation of girl from
foreign country

366B. Whoever imports into Bangladesh from any country outside Bangladesh any girl under the age of twenty-one years with intent that
she may be, or knowing it to be likely that she will be, forced or seduced to illicit intercourse with another person,

[366A. Whoever, by any means whatsoever, induces any minor girl under the age of eighteen years to go from any place or to do any
act with intent that such girl may be, or knowing that it is likely that she will be, forced or seduced to illicit intercourse with another person
shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to ten years and shall also be liable to fine.

119

[* * *]

shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to ten years and shall also be liable to fine.]
Kidnapping or
abducting in order to
subject person to
grievous hurt, slavery,
etc.

367. Whoever kidnaps or abducts any person in order that such person may be subjected, or may be so disposed of as to be put in
danger of being subjected to grievous hurt, or slavery, or to the unnatural lust of any person, or knowing it to be likely that such person
will be so subjected or disposed of, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years,
and shall also be liable to fine.

Wrongfully concealing
or keeping in
confinement, kidnapped
or abducted person

368. Whoever, knowing that any person has been kidnapped or has been abducted, wrongfully conceals or confines such person, shall
be punished in the same manner as if he had kidnapped or abducted such person with the same intention or knowledge, or for the same
purpose as that for which he conceals or detains such person in confinement.

Kidnapping or
abducting child under
ten years with intent to
steal from its person

369. Whoever kidnaps or abducts any child under the age of ten years with the intention of taking dishonestly any moveable property
from the person of such child, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and
shall also be liable to fine.

Buying or disposing of
any person as a slave

370. Whoever imports, exports, removes, buys, sells or disposes of any person as a slave, or accepts, receives or detains against his
will any person as a slave, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and
shall also be liable to fine.

Habitual dealing in
slaves

Buying or disposing of any person as a slave

Selling minor for
purposes of
prostitution, etc.

Habitual dealing in slaves

371. Whoever habitually imports, exports, removes, buys, sells, traffics or deals in slaves, shall be punished with 120[imprisonment] for
life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

372. Whoever sells, lets to hire, or otherwise disposes of any person under the age of eighteen years with intent that such person shall
at any age be employed or used for the purpose of prostitution of illicit intercourse with any person or for any unlawful and immoral
purpose, or knowing it to be likely that such person will at any age be employed or used for any such purpose, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine. Selling minor for purposes
on prostitution, etc.
Explanation I.- When a female under the age of eighteen years is sold, let for hire, or otherwise disposed of to a prostitute or to any
person who keeps or manages a brothel, the person so disposing of such female shall, until the contrary is proved, be presumed to have
disposed of her with the intent that she shall be used for the purpose of prostitution.
Explanation II.- For the purposes of this section "illicit intercourse" means sexual intercourse between person not united by marriage or
by any union or tie which, though not amounting to a marriage, is recognized by the personal law or custom of the community to which
they belong or, where they belong
to different communities, of both such communities, as constituting between them a quasi-marital relation.

Buying minor for
purposes of
prostitution, etc.

373. Whoever buys, hires or otherwise obtains possession of any person under the age of eighteen years with intent that such person
shall at any age be employed or used for the purpose of prostitution or illicit intercourse with any person or for any unlawful and immoral
purpose, or knowing it to be likely that such person will at any age be employed or used for any such purpose, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.
Explanation I.-Any prostitute or any person keeping or managing a brothel, who buys, hires or otherwise obtains possession of a female
under the age of eighteen years shall, until the contrary is proved, be presumed to have obtained possession of such female with the
intent that she shall be used for the purpose of prostitution.
Explanation II.-'Illicit intercourse' has the same meaning as in section 372.

Unlawful compulsory
labour

374. (1) Whoever unlawfully compels any person to labour against the will of that person, shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.
(2) Whoever compels a prisoner of war or a protected person to serve in the armed forces of Bangladesh shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one year.
Explanation. In this section the expressions "prisoner of war" and "protected person" shall have the same meaning as have been
assigned to them respectively by Article 4 of the Geneva Convention Relative to the Treatment of Prisoners of War of August 12, 1949,
and Article 4 of the Geneva Convention Relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War of August 12, 1949, 121[* * *].
Of Rape

Rape

375. A man is said to commit "rape" who except in the case hereinafter excepted, has sexual intercourse with a woman under
circumstances falling under any of the five following descriptions:
Firstly. Against her will.
Secondly. Without her consent.
Thirdly. With her consent, when her consent has been obtained by putting her in fear of death, or of hurt.
Fourthly. With her consent, when the man knows that he is not her husband, and that her consent is given because she believes that he
is another man to whom she is or believes herself to be lawfully married.
Fifthly. With or without her consent, when she is under fourteen years of age.
Explanation. Penetration is sufficient to constitute the sexual intercourse necessary to the offence of rape.
Exception. Sexual intercourse by a man with his own wife, the wife not being under thirteen years of age, is not rape.

Punishment for rape

376. Whoever commits rape shall be punished with 122[imprisonment] for life or with imprisonment of either description for a term which
may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine, unless the woman raped is his own wife and is not under twelve years of age, in
which case he shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with
both.
Of Unnatural Offences

Unnatural offences

377. Whoever voluntarily has carnal intercourse against the order of nature with any man, woman or animal, shall be punished with
123[imprisonment] for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to
fine.Explanation. Penetration is sufficient to constitute the carnal intercourse necessary to the offence described in this section.

CHAPTER XVII
OF OFFENCES AGAINST PROPERTY
Of Theft
Theft

378. Whoever, intending to take dishonestly any moveable property out of the possession of any person without that person's consent,
moves that property in order to such taking, is said to commit theft.
Explanation 1.-A thing so long as it is attached to the earth, not being moveable property, is not the subject of theft; but it becomes
capable of being the subject of theft as soon as it is severed from the earth.
Explanation 2.-A moving effected by the same act which effects the severance may be a theft.
Explanation 3.-A person is said to cause a thing to move by removing an obstacle which prevented it from moving or by separating it
from any other thing, as well as by actually moving it.
Explanation 4.-A person, who by any means causes an animal to move, is said to move that animal, and to move everything which, in
consequence of the motion so caused, is moved by that animal.
Explanation 5.-The consent mentioned in the definition may be express or implied, and may be given either by the person in possession,
or by any person having for that purpose authority either express or implied.
Illustrations
(a) A cuts down a tree on Z's ground, with the intention of dishonestly taking the tree out of Z's possession without Z's consent. Here, as
soon as A has severed the tree in order to such taking, he has committed theft.
(b) A puts a bait for dogs in his pocket, and thus induces Z's dog to follow it. Here, if A's intention be dishonestly to take the dog out of
Z's possession without Z's consent, A has committed theft as soon as Z's dog has begun to follow A.
(c) A meets a bullock carrying a box of treasure. He drives the bullock in a certain direction, in order that he may dishonestly take the
treasure. As soon as the bullock begins to move, A has committed theft of the treasure.
(d) A being Z's servant, and entrusted by Z with the care of Z's plate, dishonestly runs away with the plate, without Z's consent. A has
committed theft.
(e) Z, going on a journey, entrusts his plate to A, the keeper of a warehouse, till Z shall return. A carries the plate to a goldsmith and sells
it. Here the plate was not in Z's possession. It could not therefore be taken out of Z's possession, and A has not committed theft, though
he may have committed criminal breach of trust.
(f) A finds a ring belonging to Z on a table in the house which Z occupies. Here the ring is in Z's possession, and if A dishonestly
removes it, A commits theft.
(g) A finds a ring lying on the high-road, not in the possession of any person. A, by taking it, commits no theft, though he may commit
criminal misappropriation of property.
(h) A sees a ring belonging to Z lying on a table in Z's house. Not venturing to misappropriate the ring immediately for fear of search and
detection, A hides the ring in a place where it is highly improbable that it will ever be found by Z, with the intention of taking the ring from
the hiding place and selling it when the loss is forgotten. Here A, at the time of first moving the ring, commits theft.
(i) A delivers his watch to Z, a jeweler, to be regulated. Z carries it to his shop. A, not owing to the jeweler any debt for which the jeweler
might lawfully detain the watch as a security, enters the shop openly, takes his watch by force out of Z's hand, and carries it away. Here
A, though he may have committed criminal trespass and assault, has not committed theft, inasmuch as what he did was not done
dishonestly.
(j) If A owes money to Z for repairing the watch, and if Z retains the watch lawfully as a security for the debt, and A takes the watch out of
Z's possession, with the intention of depriving Z of the property as a security for his debt, he commits theft, inasmuch as he takes it
dishonestly.
(k) Again, if A, having pawned his watch to Z, takes it out of Z's possession without Z's consent, not having paid what he borrowed on
the watch, he commits theft, though the watch is his own property inasmuch as he takes it dishonestly.
(l) A takes an article belonging to Z out of Z's possession without Z's consent, with the intention of keeping it until he obtains money from
Z as a reward for its restoration. Here A takes dishonestly; A has therefore committed theft.
(m) A, being on friendly terms with Z, goes into Z's library in Z's absence, and takes away a book without Z's express consent for the
purpose merely of reading it, and with the intention of returning it. Here, it is probable that A may have conceived that he had Z's implied
consent to use Z's book. If this was A's impression, A has not committed theft.
(n) A asks charity from Z's wife. She gives A money, food and clothes, which A knows to belong to Z her husband. Here it is probable
that A may conceive that Z's wife is authorized to give away alms. If this was A's impression, A has not committed theft.
(o) A is the paramour of Z's wife. She gives A valuable property, which A knows to belong to her husband Z, and to be such property as
she has not authority from Z to give. If A takes the property dishonestly, he commits theft.
(p) A, in good faith, believing property belonging to Z to be A's own property, takes that property out of B's possession. Here, as A does
not take dishonestly, he does not commit theft.

Punishment for theft

379. Whoever commits theft shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or
with fine, or with both.

Theft in dwelling-house,
etc.

380. Whoever commits theft in any building, tent or vessel, which building, tent or vessel is used as a human dwelling, or use for the
custody of property, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also
be liable to fine.

Theft by clerk or servant
of property in
possession of master

381. Whoever being a clerk or servant, or being employed in the capacity of a clerk or servant, commits theft in respect of any property
in the possession of his master or employer, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to
seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Theft after preparation
made for causing death,
hurt or restraint, in order
to the committing of the
theft

382. Whoever commits theft, having made preparation for causing death, or hurt, or restraint, or fear of death, or of hurt, or of restraint,
to any person, in order to the committing of such theft, or in order to the effecting of his escape after the committing of such theft, or in
order to the retaining of property taken by such theft, shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten
years, and shall also be liable to fine.
Illustrations
(a) A commits theft on property in Z's possession; and, while committing this theft, he has a loaded pistol under his garment having
provided this pistol for the purpose of hunting Z in case Z should resist. A has committed the offence defined in this section.
(b) A picks Z's pocket, having posted several of his companions near him, in order that they may restrain Z, if Z should perceive what is
passing and should resist, or should attempt to apprehend A. A has committed the offence defined in this section.
Of Extortion

Extortion

383. Whoever intentionally puts any person in fear of any injury to that person, or to any other, and thereby dishonestly induces the
person so put in 124[fear to give donation or subscription of any kind or to deliver] to any person any property or valuable security or
anything signed or sealed which may be converted into a valuable security, commits "extortion".
Illustrations
(a) A threatens to publish a defamatory libel concerning Z unless Z gives him money. He thus induces Z to give him money. A has
committed extortion.
(b) A threatens Z that he will keep Z's child in wrongful confinement unless Z will sign and deliver to A a promissory note binding Z to pay
certain money to A. Z signs and delivers the note. A has committed extortion.
(c) A threatens to send club-men to plough up Z's field unless Z will sign and deliver to B and bond binding Z under a penalty to deliver
certain produce to B, and thereby induces Z to sign and deliver the bond. A has committed extortion.
(d) A, by putting Z in fear of grievous hurt, dishonestly induces Z to sign or affix his seal to a blank paper and deliver it to A. Z signs and
delivers the paper to A. Here, as the paper so signed may be converted into a valuable security, A has committed extortion.

Punishment for
extortion

384. Whoever commits extortion shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years,
or with fine, or with both.

Putting person in fear of
injury in order to commit
extortion

385. Whoever, in order to the committing of extortion, puts any person in fear, or attempts to put any person in fear, of any injury, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to 125[fourteen years and shall not be less than five years],
or with fine, or with both.

Extortion by putting a
person in fear of death
or grievous hurt

386. Whoever commits extortion by putting any person in fear of death or of grievous hurt to that person or to any other, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Putting person in fear of
death or of grievous
hurt, in order to commit
extortion

387. Whoever, in order to the committing of extortion, puts or attempts to put any person in fear of death or of grievous hurt to that
person or to any other, shall be punished with imprisonment 126[for life and shall not be less than seven years], and shall also be liable to
fine.

Extortion by threat of
accusation of an offence
punishable with death or
imprisonment, etc.

388. Whoever commits extortion by putting any person in fear of an accusation against that person or any other, of having committed or
attempted to commit any offence punishable with death, or with 127[imprisonment for life], or with imprisonment for a term which may
extend to ten years, or of having attempted to induce any other person to commit such offence, shall be punished with imprisonment of
either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine; and, if the offence be one punishable under
section 377 of this Code, may be punished with 128[imprisonment for life.]

Putting person in fear of
accusation of offence in
order to commit
extortion

389. Whoever, in order to the committing of extortion, puts or attempts to put any person in fear of an accusation, against that person or
any other, of having committed, or attempted to commit, an offence punishable with death or with 129[imprisonment] for life, or with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten years, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine; and, if the offence be punishable under section 377 of this Code, may be punished
with 130[imprisonment] for life.
Of Robbery and Dacoity

Robbery

390. In all robbery there is either theft or extortion.

When theft is robbery

Theft is "robbery" if, in order to the committing of the theft, or in committing the theft, or in carrying away or attempting to carry away
property obtained by the theft, the offender, for that end, voluntarily causes or attempts to cause to any person death or hurt or
wrongful restraint, or fear of instant death or of instant hurt, or of instant wrongful restraint.

When extortion is
robbery

Extortion is “robbery” if the offender, at the time of committing the extortion, is in the presence of the person put in fear, and commits
the extortion by putting that person in fear of instant death, instant hurt, or of instant wrongful restraint to that person, or to some
other person, and, by so putting in fear, induces the person so put in fear then and there to deliver up the thing extorted.
Explanation.-The offender is said to be present if he is sufficiently near to put the other person in fear of instant death, of instant hurt,
or of instant wrongful restraint.
Illustrations
(a) A holds Z down, and fraudulently takes Z's money and jewels from Z's clothes, without Z's consent. Here A has committed theft,
and, in order to the committing of that theft, has voluntarily caused wrongful restraint to Z. A has therefore committed robbery.
(b) A meets Z on the high-road, shows a pistol, and demands Z's purse, Z, in consequence, surrenders his purse. Here A has
extorted the purse from Z by putting him in fear of instant hurt, and being at the time of committing the extortion in his presence. A
has therefore committed robbery.
(c) A meets Z and Z's child on the high-road. A takes the child, and threatens to fling it down a precipice, unless Z deliver his purse.
Z, in consequence, delivers his purse. Here A has extorted the purse from Z, by causing Z to be in fear of instant hurt to the child
who is there present. A has therefore committed robbery on Z.
(d) A obtains property from Z by saying-"Your child is in the hands of my gang, and will be put to death unless you send us ten
thousand taka”. This is extortion, and punishable as such: but it is not robbery, unless Z is put in fear of the instant death of his child.

Dacoity

391. When five or more persons conjointly commit or attempt to commit a robbery, or where the whole number of persons conjointly
committing or attempting to commit a robbery, and persons present and aiding such commission or attempt, amount to five or more,
every person so committing, attempting or aiding, is said to commit "dacoity".

Punishment for robbery

392. Whoever commits robbery shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall
also be liable to fine; and, if the robbery be committed on the highway between sunset and sunrise, the imprisonment may be
extended to fourteen years.

Attempt to commit
robbery

393. Whoever attempts to commit robbery shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven
years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Voluntarily causing hurt
in committing robbery

394. If any person, in committing or in attempting to commit robbery, voluntarily causes hurt, such person, and any other person
jointly concerned in committing or attempting to commit such robbery shall be punished with 131[imprisonment] for life, or with
rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Punishment for dacoity

395. Whoever commits dacoity shall be punished with 132[imprisonment] for life, or with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may
extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Dacoity with murder

396. If any one of five or more persons, who are conjointly committing dacoity, commits murder in so committing dacoity, every one
of those persons shall be punished with death, or 133[imprisonment] for life, or rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to
ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Robbery or dacoity, with
attempt to cause death
or grievous hurt

397. If, at the time of committing robbery or dacoity, the offender uses any deadly weapon, or causes grievous hurt to any person, or
attempts to cause death or grievous hurt to any person, the imprisonment with which such offender shall be punished shall not be
less than seven years.

Attempt to commit
robbery or dacoity when
armed with deadly
weapon

398. If, at the time of attempting to commit robbery or dacoity, the offender is armed with any deadly weapon, the imprisonment with
which such offender shall be punished shall not be less than seven years.

Making preparation to
commit dacoity

399. Whoever makes any preparation for committing dacoity, shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may
extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Punishment for
belonging to gang of
dacoits

400. Whoever, at any time after the passing of this Act, shall belong to a gang of persons associated for the purpose of habitually
committing dacoity, shall be punished with 134[imprisonment] for life, or with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to
ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Punishment for
belonging to gang of
thieves

401. Whoever, at any time after the passing of this Act, shall belong to any wandering or other gang of persons associated for the
purpose of habitually committing theft or robbery, and not being a gang of thugs or dacoits, shall be punished with rigorous
imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Assembling for purpose
of committing dacoity

402. Whoever, at any time after the passing of this Act, shall be one of five or more persons assembled for the purpose of
committing dacoity, shall be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be
liable to fine.

Of Criminal Misappropriation of Property
Dishonestly
misappropriation of
property

403. Whoever dishonestly misappropriates or converts to his own use any moveable property, shall be punished with imprisonment of
either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.
Illustrations
(a) A takes property belonging to Z out of Z's possession in good faith, believing, at the time when he takes it, that the property belongs
to himself. A is not guilty of theft; but if A, after discovering his mistake, dishonestly appropriates the property to his own use, he is guilty
of an offence under this section.
(b) A, being on friendly terms with Z, goes into Z's library in Z's absence, and takes away a book without Z's express consent. Here, if A
was under the impression that he had Z's implied consent to take the
book for the purpose of reading it, A has not committed theft. But if A afterwards sells the book for his own benefit, he is guilty of an
offence under this section.
(c) A and B, being joint owners of a horse, A takes the horse out of B's possession, intending to use it. Here, as A has a right to use the
horse, he does not dishonestly misappropriate it. But, if A sells the horse and appropriates the whole proceeds to his own use, he is
guilty of an offence under this section.
Explanation 1.-A dishonest misappropriation for a time only is a misappropriation within the meaning of this section.
Illustration
A finds a Government promissory note belonging to Z, bearing a blank endorsement. A, knowing that the note belongs to Z, pledges it
with a banker as a security for a loan, intending at future time to restore it to Z. A has committed an offence under this section.
Explanation 2.-A person who finds property not in the possession of any other person, and takes such property for the purpose of
protecting it for, or of restoring it to, the owner, does not take or misappropriate it dishonestly, and is not guilty of an offence; but he is
guilty of the offence above defined, if he appropriates it to his own use, when he knows or has the means of discovering the owner, or
before he has used reasonable means to discover and give notice to the owner and has kept the property a reasonable time to enable
the owner to claim it.
What are reasonable means or what is a reasonable time in such a case, is a question of fact.
It is not necessary that the finder should know who is the owner of the property, or that any particular person is the owner of it, it is
sufficient if, at the time of appropriating it, he does not believe it to be his own property, or in good faith believes that the real owner
cannot be found.
Illustrations
(a) A finds a taka on the high-road, not knowing to whom the taka belongs. A picks up the taka. Here A has not committed the offence
defined in this section.
(b) A finds a letter on the road, containing a bank note. From the direction and contents of the letter he learns to whom the note belongs.
He appropriates the note. He is guilty of an offence under this section.
(c) A finds a cheque payable to bearer. He can form no conjecture as to the person who has lost the cheque. But the name of the
person, who has drawn the cheque, appears. A knows that this person can direct him to the person on whose favour the cheque was
drawn. A appropriates the cheque without attempting to discover the owner. He is guilty of an offence under this section.
(d) A sees Z drop his purse with money in it. A picks up the purse with the intention of restoring it to Z, but afterwards appropriates it to
his own use. A has committed an offence under this section.
(e) A finds a purse with money, not knowing to whom it belongs; he afterwards discovers that it belongs to Z, and appropriates it to his
own use. A is guilty of an offence under this section.
(f) A finds a valuable ring, not knowing to whom it belongs. A sells it immediately without attempting to discover the owner. A is guilty of
an offence under this section.

Dishonestly
misappropriation of
property possessed by
deceased person at the
time of his death

404. Whoever dishonestly misappropriates or converts to his own use property, knowing that such property was in the possession of a
deceased person at the time of that person's decease and has not since been in the possession of any person legally entitled to such
possession, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years and shall also be liable
to fine; and if the offender at the time of such person's decease was employed by him as a clerk or servant, the imprisonment may
extend to seven years.
Illustration
Z dies in possession of furniture and money. His servant A, before the money comes into possession of any person entitled to such
possession dishonestly misappropriates it. A has committed the offence defined in this section.
Of Criminal Breach of Trust

Criminal breach of trust

405. Whoever, being in any manner entrusted with property, or with any dominion over property, dishonestly misappropriates or converts
to his own use that property, or dishonestly uses or disposes of that property in violation of any direction of law prescribing the mode in
which such trust is to be discharged, or of any legal contract, express or implied, which he has made touching the discharge of such
trust, or wilfully suffers any other person so to do, commits "criminal breach of trust". Illustrations
(a) A, being executor to the will of a deceased person, dishonestly disobeys the law which directs him to divide the effects according to
the will, and appropriates them to his own use. A has committed criminal breach of trust.
(b) A is a warehouse-keeper. Z, going on a journey, entrusts his furniture to A, under a contract that it shall be returned on payment of a
stipulated sum for warehouse-room. A dishonestly sells the goods. A has committed criminal breach of trust.
(c) A, residing in Dhaka, is agent for Z, residing at 135[Chittagong]. There is an express or implied contract between A and Z, that all
sums remitted by Z to A shall be invested by A, according to Z's direction. Z remits a lakh of taka to A, with directions to A to invest the
same in Company's paper. A dishonestly disobeys the directions and employs the money in his own business. A has committed criminal
breach of trust.
(d) But if A, in the last illustration, not dishonestly but in good faith, believing that it will be more for Z's advantage to hold shares in the
Bank of Bengal, disobeys Z's directions, and buys shares in the Bank of Bengal, for Z, instead of buying Company's paper, here, though
Z should suffer loss, and should be entitled to bring a civil action against A, on account of that loss, yet A, not having acted dishonestly,
has not committed criminal breach of trust.
(e) A, a revenue-officer, is entrusted with public money and is either directed by law, or bound by a contract, express or implied, with the
Government, to pay into a certain treasury all the public money which he holds. A dishonestly appropriates the money. A has committed
criminal breach of trust.
(f) A, a carrier, is entrusted by Z with property to be carried by land or by water. A dishonestly misappropriates the property. A has
committed criminal breach of trust.

Punishment for criminal
breach of trust

406. Whoever commits criminal breach of trust shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to
three years, or with fine, or with both.

Criminal breach of trust
by carrier, etc.

407. Whoever, being entrusted with property as a carrier, wharfinger or warehouse-keeper, commits criminal breach of trust in respect of
such property, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be
liable to fine.

Criminal breach of trust
by clerk or servant

408. Whoever, being a clerk or servant or employed as a clerk or servant, and being in any manner entrusted in such capacity with
property, or with any dominion over property, commits criminal breach of trust in respect of that property, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Criminal breach of trust
by public servant, or by
banker, merchant or
agent

409. Whoever, being in any manner entrusted with property, or with any dominion over property in his capacity of a public servant or in
the way of his business as a banker, merchant, factor, broker, attorney or agent, commits criminal breach of trust in respect of that
property, shall be punished with 136[imprisonment] for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten
years, and shall also be liable to fine.
Of the Receiving of Stolen Property

Stolen property

410. Property, the possession whereof has been transferred by theft, or by extortion, or by robbery, and property which has been
criminally misappropriated or in respect of which criminal breach of trust has been committed, is designated as "stolen property,"
whether the transfer has been made, or the misappropriation or breach of trust has been committed, within or without Bangladesh. But, if
such property subsequently comes into the possession of a person legally entitled to the possession thereof, it then ceases to be stolen
property.

Dishonestly receiving
stolen property

411. Whoever dishonestly receives or retains any stolen property, knowing or having reason to believe the same to be stolen property,
shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.

Dishonestly receiving
property stolen in the
commission of a dacoity

412. Whoever dishonestly receives or retains any stolen property, the possession whereof he knows or has reason to believe to have
been transferred by the commission of dacoity, or dishonestly receives from a person, whom he knows or has reason to believe to
belong or to have belonged to a gang of dacoits, property which he knows or has reason to believe to have been stolen, shall be
punished with 137[imprisonment] for life, or with rigorous imprisonment for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable
to fine.

Habitually dealing in
stolen property

413. Whoever habitually receives or deals in property which he knows or has reason to believe to be stolen property, shall be punished
with 138[imprisonment] for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be
liable to fine.

Assisting in
concealment of stolen
property

414. Whoever voluntarily assists in concealing or disposing of or making away with property which he knows or has reason to believe to
be stolen property, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or
with both.
Of Cheating

Cheating

415. Whoever, by deceiving any person, fraudulently or dishonestly induces the person so deceived to deliver any property to any
person, or to consent that any person shall retain any property, or intentionally induces the person so deceived to do or omit to do
anything which he would not do or omit if he were not so deceived, and which act or omission causes or is likely to cause damage or
harm to that person in body, mind, reputation or property, is said to "cheat".
Explanation. A dishonest concealment of facts is a deception within the meaning of this section.
Illustrations
(a) A, by falsely pretending to be in the Civil Service, intentionally deceives Z, and thus dishonestly induces Z to let him have on credit
goods for which he does not mean, to pay. A cheats.
(b) A, by putting a counterfeit mark on an article, intentionally deceives Z into a belief that this article was made by a certain celebrated
manufacturer, and thus dishonestly induces Z to buy and pay for the article, A cheats.

(c) A, by exhibiting to Z a false sample of an article, intentionally deceives Z into believing that the article corresponds with the sample,
and thereby dishonestly induces Z to buy and pay for the article. A cheats.
(d) A, by tendering in payment for an article a bill on a house with which A keeps no money, and by which A expects that the bill will be
dishonoured, intentionally deceives Z, and thereby dishonestly induces Z to deliver the article, intending not to pay for it. A cheats.
(e) A, by pledging as diamonds articles which he knows are not diamonds intentionally deceives Z, and thereby dishonestly induces Z to
lend money. A cheats.
(f) A intentionally deceives Z into a belief that A means to repay any money that Z may lend to him and thereby dishonestly induces Z to
lend him money, A not intending to repay it. A cheats.
(g) A intentionally deceives Z into a belief that A means to deliver to Z a certain quantity of indigo plant which he does not intent to
deliver, and thereby dishonestly induces Z to advance money upon the faith of such delivery. A cheats; but if A, at the time of obtaining
the money, intends to deliver the indigo plant, and afterwards breaks his contract and does not deliver it, he does not cheat, but is liable
only to a civil action for breach of contract.
(h) A intentionally deceives Z into a belief that A has performed A's part of a contract made with Z, which he has not performed, and
thereby dishonestly induces Z to pay money. A cheats.
(i) A sells and conveys an estate to B. A, knowing that in consequence of such sale he has no right to the property, sells or mortgages
the same to Z, without disclosing the fact of the previous sale and conveyance to B, and receive the purchase or mortgage money from
Z, A cheats.
Cheating by personation

416. A person is said to "cheat by personation" if he cheats by pretending to be some other person, or by knowingly substituting one
person for another, or representing that he or any other person is a person other than he or such other person really is.
Explanation.-The offence is committed whether the individual personated is a real or imaginary person.
Illustrations
(a) A cheats by pretending to be a certain rich banker of the same name. A cheats by personation.
(b) A cheats by pretending to be B, a person who is deceased. A cheats by personation.

Punishment for cheating

417. Whoever cheats shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or
with both.

Cheating with
knowledge that wrongful
loss may ensue to
person whose interest
offender is bound to
protect

418. Whoever cheats with the knowledge that he is likely thereby to cause wrongful loss to a person whose interest in the transaction to
which the cheating relates, he was bound either by law, or by legal contract, to protect, shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.

Punishment for cheating
by personation

419. Whoever cheats by personation shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three
years, or with fine, or with both.

Cheating and
dishonestly inducing
deliver of property

420. Whoever cheats and thereby dishonestly induces the person deceived to deliver any property to any person, or to make, alter or
destroy the whole or any part of a valuable security, or anything which is signed or sealed, and which is capable to being converted into
a valuable security, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also
be liable to fine.
Of Fraudulent Deeds and Dispositions of Property

Dishonest or fraudulent
removal or concealment
of property to prevent
distribution among
creditors

421. Whoever dishonestly or fraudulently removes, conceals or delivers to any person, or transfers or causes to be transferred to any
person, without adequate consideration, any property, intending thereby to prevent, or knowing it to be likely that he will thereby prevent,
the distribution of that property according to law among his creditors or the creditors of any other person, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Dishonestly or
fraudulently preventing
debt being available for
creditors

422. Whoever dishonestly or fraudulently prevents any debt or demand due to himself or to any other person from being made available
according to law for payment of his debts or the debts of such other person, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for
a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Dishonest or fraudulent
execution of deed of
transfer containing false
statement of
consideration

423. Whoever dishonestly or fraudulently signs, executes or becomes a party to any deed or instrument which purports to transfer or
subject to any charge any property, or any interest therein, and which contains any false statement relating to the consideration for such
transfer or charge, or relating to the person or persons for whose use or benefit it is really intended to operate, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Dishonest or fraudulent
removal or concealment
of property

424. Whoever dishonestly or fraudulently conceals or removes any property of himself or any other person, or dishonestly or fraudulently
assists in the concealment or removal thereof, or dishonestly releases any demand or claim to which he is entitled, shall be punished
with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.
Of Mischief

Mischief

425. Whoever, with intent to cause, or knowing that he is likely to cause, wrongful loss or damage to the public or to any person,
causes the destruction of any property, or any such change in any property or in the situation thereof as destroys or diminishes its
value or utility, or affects it injuriously, commits "mischief".
Explanation 1.-It is not essential to the offence of mischief that the offender should intend to cause loss or damage to the owner of
the property injured or destroyed. It is sufficient if he intends to cause, or knows that he is likely to cause, wrongful loss or damage to
any person by injuring any property, whether it belongs to that person or not.
Explanation 2.-Mischief may be committed by an act affecting property belonging to the person who commits the act, or to that
person and others jointly.
Illustrations
(a) A voluntarily burns a valuable security belonging to Z intending to cause wrongful loss to Z. A has committed mischief.
(b) A introduces water into an ice-house belonging to Z and thus causes the ice to melt, intending wrongful loss to Z. A has
committed mischief.
(c) A voluntarily throws into a river a ring belonging to Z, with the intention of thereby causing wrongful loss to Z. A has committed
mischief.
(d) A, knowing that his effects are about to be taken in execution in order to satisfy a debt due from him to Z, destroys those effects,
with the intention of thereby preventing Z from obtaining satisfaction of the debt, and of thus causing damage to Z. A has committed
mischief.
(e) A having insured a ship, voluntarily causes the same to be cast away, with the intention of causing damage to the underwriters. A
has committed mischief.
(f) A, causes a ship to be cast away, intending thereby to cause damage to Z who has lent money on bottomry on the ship. A has
committed mischief.
(g) A, having joint property with Z in a horse, shoots the horse, intending thereby to cause wrongful loss to Z. A has committed
mischief.
(h) A causes cattle to enter upon a field belonging to Z, intending to cause and knowing that he is likely to cause damage to Z's crop.
A has committed mischief.

Punishment for mischief

426. Whoever commits mischief shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three
months, or with fine, or with both.

Mischief causing
damage to the amount
of fifty taka

427. Whoever commits mischief and thereby causes loss or damage to the amount of fifty taka or upwards, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Mischief by killing or
maiming animal of the
value of ten taka

428. Whoever commits mischief by killing, poisoning, maiming or rendering useless any animal or animals of the value of ten taka or
upwards, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with
both.

Mischief by killing or
maiming cattle, etc., of
any value or any animal
of the value of fifty taka

429. Whoever commits mischief by killing, poisoning, maiming or rendering useless, any elephant, camel, horse, mule, buffalo, bull,
cow or ox, whatever may be the value thereof, or any other animal of the value of fifty taka or upwards, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to five years, or with fine, or with both.

Mischief by injury to
works of irrigation or by
wrongfully diverting
water

430. Whoever commits mischief by doing any act which causes, or which he knows to be likely to cause, a diminution of the supply
of water for agricultural purposes, or for food or drink for human beings or for animals which are property, or for cleanliness or for
carrying on any manufacture, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to five years, or
with fine, or with both.

Mischief by injury to
public road, bridge, river
or channel

431. Whoever commits mischief by doing any act which renders or which he knows to be likely to render any public road, bridge,
navigable river or navigable channel, natural or artificial, impassable or less safe for traveling or conveying property, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to five years, or with fine, or with both.

Mischief by causing
inundation or
obstruction to public
drainage attended with
damage

432. Whoever commits mischief by doing any act which causes or which he knows to be likely to cause an inundation or an
obstruction to any public drainage attended with injury or damage, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a
term which may extend to five years, or with fine, or with both.

Mischief by destroying,
moving or rendering
less useful a light-house
or sea-mark

433. Whoever commits mischief by destroying or moving any light-house or other light used as a sea-mark, or any sea-mark or buoy
or other thing placed as a guide for navigators, or by any act which renders any such light-house, sea-mark, buoy or other such
thing as aforesaid less useful as a guide for navigators, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which
may extend to seven years, or with fine, or with both.

Mischief of destroying
or moving, etc., a landmark fixed by public
authority

434. Whoever commits mischief by destroying or moving any land-mark fixed by the authority of a public servant, or by any act
which renders such land-mark less useful as such, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.

Mischief by fire or
explosive substance
with intent to cause
damage to amount of
one hundred or (in case
of agricultural produce)
ten taka

435. Whoever commits mischief by fire or any explosive substance, intending to cause, or knowing it to be likely that he will thereby
cause, damage to any property to the amount of one hundred taka or upwards or (where the property is agricultural produce) ten
taka or upwards, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years and shall
also be liable to fine.

Mischief by fire or
explosive substance
with intent to destroy
house, etc.

436. Whoever commits mischief by fire or any explosive substance, intending to cause, or knowing it to be likely that he will thereby
cause, the destruction of any building which is ordinarily used as a place of worship or as a human dwelling or as a place for the
custody of property, shall be punished with 139[imprisonment] for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Mischief with intent to
destroy or make unsafe
a decked vessel or one
of twenty tons burden

437. Whoever commits mischief to any decked vessel or any vessel of a burden of twenty tons or upwards, intending to destroy or
render unsafe, or knowing it to be likely that he will thereby destroy or render unsafe, that vessel, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Punishment for the
mischief described in
section 437 committed
by fire or explosive
substance

438. Whoever commits, or attempts to commit, by fire or any explosive substance, such mischief as is described in the last
preceding section, shall be punished with 140[imprisonment] for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Punishment for
intentionally running
vessel aground or
ashore with intent to
commit theft, etc.

439. Whoever intentionally runs any vessel aground or ashore, intending to commit theft of any property contained therein or to
dishonestly misappropriate any such property, or with intent that such theft or misappropriation of property may be committed, shall
be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Mischief committed after
preparation made for
causing death or hurt

440. Whoever commits mischief, having made preparation for causing to any person death, or hurt, or wrongful restraint, or fear of
death, or of hurt or of wrongful restraint, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to
five years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Of Criminal Trespass
Criminal trespass

441. Whoever enters into or upon property in the possession of another with intent to commit an offence or to intimidate, insult or annoy
any person in possession of such property,or, having lawfully entered into or upon such property, unlawfully remains there with intent
thereby to intimidate, insult or annoy any such person, or with intent to commit an offence, is said to commit "criminal trespass".

House-trespass

442. Whoever commits criminal trespass by entering into or remaining in any building, tent or vessel used as a human dwelling or any
building used as a place for worship, or as a place for the custody of property, is said to commit "house-trespass".
Explanation.-The introduction of any part of the criminal trespasser's body is entering sufficient to constitute house-trespass.

Lurking house-trespass

443. Whoever commits house-trespass having taken precautions to conceal such house-trespass from some person who has a right to
exclude or eject the trespasser from the building, tent or vessel which is the subject of the trespass, is said to commit "lurking housetrespass".

Lurking house trespass
by night

444.. Whoever commits lurking house-trespass after sunset and before sunrise, is said to commit "lurking house-trespass by night".

House-breaking

445. A person is said to commit “house-breaking" who commits house-trespass if he effects his entrance into the house or any part of it
in any of the six ways hereinafter described; or if, being in the house or any part of it for the purpose of committing an offence, or, having
committed an offence therein, he quits the house or any part of it in any of such six ways, that is to say:
Firstly.-If he enters or quits through a passage made by himself, or by any abettor of the house-trespass, in order to the committing of
the house-trespass.
Secondly.-If he enters or quits through any passage not intended by any person, other than himself or an abettor of the offence, for
human entrance; or through any passage to which he has obtained access by scaling or climbing over any wall or building.
Thirdly.-If he enters or quits through any passage which he or any abettor of the house-trespass has opened, in order to the committing
of the house-trespass by any means by which that passage was not intended by the occupier of the house to be opened.
Fourthly.-If he enters or quits by opening any lock in order to the committing of the house-trespass, or in order to the quitting of the
house after a house-trespass.
Fifthly.-If he effects his entrance or departure by using criminal force or committing an assault, or by threatening any person with assault.
Sixthly.-If he enters or quits by any passage which he knows to have been fastened against such entrance or departure, and to have
been unfastened by himself or by an abettor of the house-trespass.
Explanation.-Any out-house or building occupied with a house, and between which and such house there is an immediate internal
communication, is part of the house within the meaning of this section.
Illustrations
(a) A commits house-trespass by making a hole through the wall of Z's house, and putting his hand through the aperture. This is housebreaking.
(b) A commits house-trespass by creeping into a ship at a port-hole between decks. This is house-breaking.
(c) A commits house-trespass by entering Z's house through a window. This is house-breaking.
(d) A commits house-trespass by entering Z's house through the door, having opened a door which was fastened. This is housebreaking.
(e) A commits house-trespass by entering Z's house through the door, having lifted a latch by putting a wire through a hole in the door.
This is house-breaking.
(a) A finds the key of Z's house door, which Z had lost, and commits house-trespass by entering Z's house, having opened the door with
that key. This is house-breaking.
(b) Z is standing in his doorway. A forces a passage by knocking Z down, and commits house-trespass by entering the house. This is
house breaking.
(h) Z, the door-keeper of Y, is standing in Y's doorway. A commits house-trespass by entering the house, having deterred Z from
opposing him by threatening to beat him. This is house-breaking.

House-breaking by night

446. Whoever commits house-breaking after sunset and before sunrise, is said to commit "house-breaking by night".

Punishment for criminal
trespass

447. Whoever commits criminal trespass shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three
months, or with fine which may extend to five hundred taka, or with both.

Punishment for housetrespass

448. Whoever commits house-trespass shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one
year, or with fine which may extend to one thousand taka, or with both.

House-trespass in order
to commit offence
punishable with death

449. Whoever commits house-trespass in order to the committing of any offence punishable with death, shall be punished with
[imprisonment] for life, or with rigorous imprisonment for a term not exceeding ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

House-trespass in order
to commit offence
punishable with
imprisonment for life

450. Whoever commits house-trespass in order to the committing of any offence punishable with 141[imprisonment] for life, shall be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term not exceeding ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

House-trespass in order
to commit offence
punishable with
imprisonment

451. Whoever commits house-trespass in order to the committing of any offence punishable with imprisonment, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, and shall also be liable to fine; and if the offence intended
to be committed is theft, the term of the imprisonment may be extended to seven years.

House-trespass after
preparation for hurt,
assault or wrongful
restraint

452. Whoever commits house-trespass, having made preparation for causing hurt to any person or for assaulting any person, or for
wrongfully restraining any person, or for putting any person in fear of hurt, or of assault, or of wrongful restraint, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Punishment for lurking
house-trespass or
house-breaking

453. Whoever commits lurking house-trespass or house-breaking, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to two years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Lurking house-trespass
or house-breaking in
order to commit offence
punishable with
imprisonment

454. Whoever commits lurking house-trespass or house-breaking, in order to the committing of any offence punishable with
imprisonment, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be
liable to fine; and if the offence intended to be committed is theft, the term of the imprisonment may be extended to ten years.

Lurking house-trespass
or house-breaking after
preparation for hurt,
assault or wrongful
restraint

455. Whoever commits lurking house-trespass, or house-breaking, having made preparation for causing hurt to any person, or for
assaulting any person, or for wrongfully restraining any person, or for putting any person in fear of hurt or of assault or of wrongful
restraint, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to
fine.

Punishment for lurking
house-trespass or
house-breaking by night

456. Whoever commits lurking house-trespass by night, or house-breaking by night, shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Lurking house-trespass
or house-breaking by
night in order to commit
offence punishable with
imprisonment

457. Whoever commits lurking house-trespass by night, or house breaking by night, in order to the committing of any offence punishable
with imprisonment, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to five years, and shall also be
liable to fine; and, if the offence intended to be committed is theft, the term of the imprisonment may be extended to fourteen years.

Lurking house-trespass
or house-breaking by
night, after preparation
for hurt, assault or
wrongful restraint

458. Whoever commits lurking house-trespass by night or house breaking by night, having made preparation for causing hurt to any
person or for assaulting any person, or for wrongfully restraining any person, or for putting any person in fear of hurt, or of assault, or
wrongful restraint, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to fourteen years, and shall
also be liable to fine.

Grievous hurt caused
whilst committing
lurking house-trespass
or house-breaking

459. Whoever, whilst committing lurking house-trespass or house-breaking, causes grievous hurt to any person or attempts to cause
death of grievous hurt to any person, shall be punished with 142[imprisonment] for life, or imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

All persons jointly
concerned in lurking
house-trespass or
house breaking by night
punishable where death
or grievous hurt caused
by one of them

460. If, at the time of the committing of lurking house-trespass by night or house breaking by night, any person guilty of such offence
shall voluntarily cause or attempt to cause death or grievous hurt to any person, every person jointly concerned in committing such
lurking house-trespass by night or house breaking by night, shall be punished with [imprisonment] for life, or with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Dishonestly breaking
open receptacle
containing property

461. Whoever dishonestly or with intent to commit mischief breaks open or unfastens any closed receptacle which contains or which he
believes to contain property, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or with
fine, or with both.

Punishment for same
offence when committed
by person entrusted
with custody

462. Whoever, being entrusted with any closed receptacle which contains or which he believes to contain property, without having
authority to open the same, dishonestly, or with intent to commit mischief, breaks open or unfastens that receptacle, shall be punished
with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.

Of the loss of property of Banking Company
Penalty for negligent
conduct of bank officers
and employees

462A. Whoever, being an officer or employee of a banking company, by his negligent conduct in dealing with a banking transaction
allows any customer of the company or any other person to cause loss of property to the company shall be punished with imprisonment
of either description for a term which may extend to two years or with fine or with both.
Explanation.-An officer or employee of a banking company shall be guilty or negligent conduct if in discharging his duties he fails, either
wilfully or negligently, to follow any direction of law prescribing the mode in which such duties are to be discharged.

Penalty for defrauding
banking company

462B. Whoever fraudulently receives any benefit from a banking company in the course of any banking transaction shall be punished
with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years or with fine or with both.
Explanation.-In section 462A and in this section “banking company” means
(a) banking company as defined in section 5(c) of the Banking Company Ordinance, 1962 (LVII of 1962);
(a) a bank constituted under the Bangladesh Banks (Nationaliza-tion) Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 26 of 1972);
(b) a financial institution as defined in section 50(c) of the Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 127 of 1972);
(c) Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha established under the Bangladesh Shilpa Rin Sangstha Order, 1972 (P. O. No. 128 of 1972);
(d) Bangladesh Shilpa Bank established under the Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Order, 1972 (P.O. No. 129 of 1972);
(e) Bangladesh House Building Finance Corporation established under the Bangladesh House Building Finance Corporation Order,
1973 (P.O. No. 7 of 1973);
(g) Bangladesh Krishi Bank established under the Bangladesh Krishi Bank Order, 1973 (P.O. No. 27 of 1973);
(h) Investment Corporation of Bangladesh established under the Investment Corporation of Bangladesh Ordinance, 1976 (XL of 1976);
(i) Grameen Bank established under the Grameen Bank Ordinance, 1983 (XLVI of 1983);
(j) Rajshahi Krishi Unnayan Bank established under the Rajshahi Krishi Unnayan Bank Ordinance, 1986 (LVIII of 1986);
(k) a bank conducted in accordance with Islamic shariah.]

CHAPTER XVIII
OF OFFENCES RELATING TO DOCUMENTS AND TO TRADE OR PROPERTY MARKS
Forgery

463. Whoever makes any false document or part of a document, with intent to cause damage or injury, to the public or to any person, or
to support any claim or title, or to cause any person to part with property, or to enter into any express or implied contract, or with intend
to commit fraud or that fraud may be committed, commits forgery.

Making a false
document

464. A person is said to make a false document
Firstly.-Who dishonesty or fraudulently makes, signs, seals or executes a document or part of a document, or makes any mark denoting
the execution of a document, with the intention of causing it to be believed that such document or part of a document was made, signed,
sealed or executed by or by the authority of a person by whom or by whose authority he knows that it was not made, signed, sealed or
executed, or at a time at which he knows that it was not made, signed, sealed or executed; or
Secondly.-Who, without lawful authority, dishonestly or fraudulently, by cancellation or otherwise, alters a document in any material part
thereof, after it has been made or executed either by himself or by any other person, whether such person be living or dead at the time
of such alteration; or
Thirdly.-Who dishonestly or fraudulently causes any person to sign, seal, execute or alter a document, knowing that such person by
reason of unsoundness of mind or intoxication cannot, or that by reason of deception practiced upon him he does not know the contents
of the document or the nature of the alteration.
Illustrations
(a) A has a letter of credit upon B for taka 10,000, written by Z. A, in order to defraud B, adds a cipher to the 10,000 and makes the sum
1,00,000, intending that it may be believed by B that Z so wrote the letter. A has committed forgery.
(b) A, without Z's authority, affixes Z's seal to a document purporting to be a conveyance of an estate from Z to A, with the intention of
selling the estate to B and thereby of obtaining from B the purchase-money. A has committed forgery.
(c) A picks up a cheque on a banker signed by B, payable to bearer, but without any sum having been inserted in the cheque. A
fraudulently fills up the cheque by inserting the sum of ten thousand taka. A commits forgery.
(d) A leaves with B, his agent, a cheque on a banker, signed by A, without inserting the sum payable and authorizes B to fill up the
cheque by inserting a sum not exceeding ten thousand taka for the purpose of making certain payments. B fraudulently fills up the
cheque by inserting the sum of twenty thousand taka. B commits forgery.
(e) A draws a bill of exchange on himself in the name of B without B's authority, intending to discount it as a genuine bill with a banker
and intending to take up the bill on its maturity. Here, as A draws the bill with intent to deceive the banker by leading him to suppose that
he had the security of B, and thereby to discount the bill, A is guilty of forgery.
(f) Z's will contains these words- "I direct that all my remaining property be equally divided between A, B and C." A dishonestly scratches
out B's name, intending that it may be believed that the whole was left to himself and C. A has committed forgery.
(g) A endorses a Government promissory note and makes it payable to Z or his order by writing on the bill the words "pay to Z or his
order" and signing the endorsement. B dishonestly erases the words "pay to Z or his order" and thereby converts the special
endorsement into a blank endorsement. B commits forgery.
(h) A sells and conveys an estate to Z. A afterwards, in order to defraud Z of his estate executes a conveyance of the same estate to B,
dated six months earlier than the date of the conveyance to Z, intending it to be believed that he had conveyed the estate to B before he
conveyed it to Z. A has committed forgery.
(i) Z dictates his will to A. A intentionally writes down a different legatee from the legatee named by Z, and by representing to Z that he
has prepared the will according to his instructions, induces Z to sign the will. A has committed forgery.
(j) A writes a letter and signs it with B's name without B's authority, certifying that A is a man of good character and in distressed
circumstances from unforeseen misfortune, intending by means of such letter to obtain alms from Z and other persons. Here, as A made
a false document in order to induce Z to part with property, A has committed forgery.
(k) A without B's authority writes a letter and signs it in B's name certifying to A's character, intending thereby to obtain employment
under Z. A has committed forgery inasmuch as he intended to deceive Z by the forged certificate, and thereby to induce Z to enter into
an express or implied contract for service.
Explanation 1.-A man's signature of his own name may amount to forgery.
Illustrations
(a) A signs his own name to a bill of exchange, intending that it may be believed that the bill was drawn by another person of the same
name. A has committed forgery.
(b) A writes the word "accepted" on a piece of paper and signs it with Z's name, in order that B may afterwards write on the paper a bill
of exchange drawn by B upon Z, and negotiate the bill as though it had been accepted by Z. A is guilty of forgery; and if B, knowing the
fact, draws the bill upon the paper pursuant to A's intention, B is also guilty of forgery.
(c) A picks up a bill of exchange payable to the order of a different person of the same name. A endorses the bill in his own name,
intending to cause it to be believed that it was endorsed by the person to whose order it was payable, Here A has committed forgery.
(d) A purchases an estate sold under execution of a decree against B. B, after the seizure of the estate, in collusion with Z, executes a
lease of the estate, to Z at a nominal rent and for a long period and dates the lease six months prior to the seizure, with intent to defraud
A, and to cause it to be believed that the lease was granted before the seizure. B, though he executes the lease in his own name,
commits forgery by antedating it.
(e) A, a trader, in anticipation of insolvency, lodges effects with B for A's benefit, and with intent to defraud his creditors; and in order to
give a colour to the transaction, writes a promissory note binding himself to pay to B a sum for value received, and antedates the note,
intending that it may be believed to have been made before A was on the point of insolvency. A has committed forgery under the first
head of the definition.
Explanation 2.- The making of a false document in the name of a fictitious person, intending it to be believed that the document was
made by a real person, or in the name of a deceased person, intending it to be believed that the document was made by the person in
his lifetime, may amount to forgery.
Illustration
A draws a bill of exchange upon a fictitious person, and fraudulently accepts the bill in the name of such fictitious person with intent to
negotiate it. A commits forgery.

Punishment for forgery

465. Whoever commits forgery shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to two years, or
with fine, or with both.

Forgery of record of
Court or of public
register, etc.

466. Whoever forges a document, purporting to be a record or proceeding of or in a Court of Justice, or a register of birth, baptism,
marriage or burial, or a register kept by a public servant as such, or a certificate or document purporting to be made by a public servant
in his official capacity, or an authority to institute or defend a suit, or to take any proceedings therein, or to confess judgment, or a power
of attorney, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be
liable to fine.

Forgery of valuable
security, will, etc.

467. Whoever forges a document which purports to be a valuable security or a will, or an authority to adopt a son,

Forgery for purpose of
cheating

468. Whoever commits forgery, intending that the document forged shall be used for the purpose of cheating, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be to liable to fine.

Forgery for purpose of
harming reputation

469. Whoever commits forgery, intending that the document forged shall harm the reputation of any party, or knowing that it is likely to be
used for that purpose, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall
also be liable to fine.

Forged document

470. A false document made wholly or in part by forgery is designated “a forged document".

Using as genuine a
forged document

471. Whoever fraudulently or dishonestly uses as genuine any document which he knows or has reason to believe to be a forged
document, shall be punished in the same manner as if he had forged such document.

Making or possessing
counterfeit seal, etc.,
with intent to commit
forgery punishable
under section 467

472. Whoever makes or counterfeits any seal, plate or other instrument for making an impression, intending that the same shall be used
for the purpose of committing any forgery which would be punishable under section 467 of this Code, or, with such intent, has in his
possession any such seal, plate or other instrument, knowing the same to be counterfeit, shall be punishable with 144[imprisonment] for
life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Making or possessing
counterfeit seal, etc.,
with intent to commit
forgery punishable
otherwise

473. Whoever makes or counterfeits any seal, plate or other instrument for making an impression, intending that the same shall be used
for the purpose of committing any forgery which would be punishable under any section of this chapter other than section 467, or, with
such intent, has in his possession any such seal, plate or other instrument, knowing the same to be counterfeit, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Having possession of
document described in
section 466 or 467,
knowing it to be forged
and intending to use it
as genuine

474. Whoever has in his possession any document, knowing the same to be forged, and intending that the same shall fraudulently or
dishonestly be used as genuine, shall, if the document is one of the description mentioned in section 466 of this Code, be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine; and if the document is
one of the description mentioned in section 467, shall be punished with 145[imprisonment] for life, or with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Counterfeiting device or
mark used for
authenticating
documents described in
section 467, or
possessing counterfeit
marked material

475. Whoever counterfeits upon, or in the substance of, any material, any device or mark used for the purpose of authenticating any
document described in section 467 of this Code, intending that such device or mark shall be used for the purpose of giving the
appearance of authenticity to any document then forged or thereafter to be forged on such material or who, with such intent, has in his
possession any material upon or in the substance of which any such device or mark has been counterfeited, shall be punished with
[imprisonment] for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to
fine.

Counterfeiting device or
mark used for
authenticating
documents other than
those described in
section 467, or
possessing counterfeit
marked material

476. Whoever counterfeits upon, or in the substance of, any material, any device or mark used for the purpose of authenticating any
document other than the document described in section 467 of this Code, intending that such device or mark shall be used for the
purpose of giving the appearance of authenticity to any document then forged or thereafter to be forged on such material, or who, with
such intent, has in his possession any material upon or in the substance of which any such device or mark has been counterfeited, shall
be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Fraudulent cancellation,
destruction, etc., of will,
authority to adopt, or
valuable security

477. Whoever fraudulently or dishonestly, or with intent to cause damage or injury to the public or to any person, cancels, destroys or
defaces, or attempts to cancel, destroy or deface, or secrets or attempts to secret any document which is or purports to be a will, or an
authority to adopt a son, or any valuable security, or commits mischief in respect to such document, shall be punished with
146[imprisonment] for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable
to fine.

Falsification of accounts

147

or which purports to give authority to any person to make or transfer any valuable security, or to receive the principal, interest or
dividends thereon, or to receive or deliver any money, moveable property, or valuable security, or any document purporting to be an
acquaintance or receipt acknowledging the payment of money, or an acquaintance or receipt for the delivery of any moveable property
or valuable security, shall be punished with 143[imprisonment] for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

[477A. Whoever, being a clerk, officer or servant, or employed or acting in the capacity of a clerk, officer or servant, wilfully, and with
intent to defraud, destroys, alters, mutilates or falsifies any book, paper, writing, valuable security or account which belongs to or is in the
possession of his employer, or has been received by him for or on behalf of his employer, or wilfully, and with intent to defraud, makes or
abets the making of any false entry in, or omits or alters or abets the omission or alteration of any material particular from or in, any such
book, paper, writing, valuable security or account, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend
to seven years, or with fine, or with both.
Explanation.-It shall be sufficient in any charge under this section to allege a general intent to defraud without naming any particular
person intended to be defrauded or specifying any particular sum of money intended to be the subject of the fraud, or any particular day
on which the offence was committed.]
Of Trade, Property and Other Marks

Trade mark

478. A mark used for denoting that goods are the manufacture or merchandise of a particular person is called a trade mark, and for the
purposes of this Code the expression "trade mark" includes any trade mark which is registered in the register of trade marks kept under
the Patents, Designs and Trade Marks Act, 1883, and any trade mark which, either with or without registration, is protected by law in any
British possession or Foreign State to which the provisions of the one hundred and third section of the Patents, Designs and Trade
Marks Act, 1883, are, under Order-in-Council, for the time being applicable.

Property mark

479. A mark used for denoting that moveable property belongs to a particular person is called a property mark.

Using a false trade mark

480. Whoever marks any goods or any case, package or other receptacle containing goods, or uses any case, package or other
receptacle with any mark thereon, in a manner reasonably calculated to cause it to be believed that the goods so marked, or any good
contained in any such receptacle so marked, are the manufacture or merchandise of a person whose manufacture or merchandise they
are not, is said to use a false trade mark.

Using a false property
mark

481. Whoever marks any moveable property or goods or any case, package or other receptacle containing moveable property or goods,
or uses any case, package or other receptacle having any mark thereon, in a manner reasonably calculated to cause it to be believed
that the property or goods so marked, or any property or goods contained in any such receptacle so marked, belong to a person to
whom they do not belong, is said to use a false property mark.

Punishment for using a
false trade mark or
property mark

482. Whoever use any false trade mark or any false property mark shall, unless he proves that he acted without intent to defraud, be
punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.

Counterfeiting a trade
mark or property mark
used by another

483. Whoever counterfeits any trade mark or property mark used by any other person shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Counterfeiting a mark
used by a public servant

484. Whoever counterfeits any property mark used by a public servant, or any mark used by a public servant to denote that any property
has been manufactured by a particular person or at a particular time or place, or that the property is of a particular quality or has passed
through a particular office, or that it is entitled to any exemption, or uses as genuine any such mark knowing the same to be counterfeit,
shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Making or possession of
any instrument for
counterfeiting a trade
mark or property mark

485. Whoever makes or has in his possession any die, plate or other instrument for the purpose of counterfeiting a trade mark or
property mark, or has in his possession a trade mark or property mark for the purpose of denoting that, any goods are the manufacture
or merchandise of a person whose manufacture or merchandise they are not, or that they belong to a person to whom they do not
belong, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.

Selling goods marked
with a counterfeit trade
mark or property mark

486. Whoever sells, or exposes, or has in possession for sale or any purpose of trade or manufacture, any goods or thing with a
counterfeit trade mark or property mark affixed to or impressed upon the same or to or upon any case, package or other receptacle in
which such goods are contained, shall, unless he proves
(a) that, having taken all reasonable precautions against committing an offence against this section, he had at the time of the
commission of the alleged offence no reason to suspect the genuineness of the mark, and
(b) that, on demand made by or on behalf of the prosecutor, he gave all the information in his power with respect to the persons from
whom he obtained such goods or things, or
(a) that otherwise he had acted innocently,
be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.

Making a false mark
upon any receptacle
containing goods

487. Whoever makes any false mark upon any case, package or other receptacle containing goods, in a manner reasonably calculated
to cause any public servant or any other person to believe that such receptacle contains goods which it does not contain or that it does
not contain goods which it does contain, or that the goods contained in such receptacle are of a nature or quality different from the real
nature or quality thereof, shall, unless he proves that he acted without intent to defraud, be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine, or with both.

Punishment for making
use of any such false
mark

488. Whoever makes use of any such false mark in any manner prohibited by the last foregoing section shall, unless he proves that he
acted without intent to defraud, be punished as if he had committed an offence against that section.

Tampering with property
mark with intent to
cause injury

489. Whoever removes, destroys, defaces or adds to any property mark, intending or knowing it to be likely that he may thereby cause
injury to any person, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or
with both.

Counterfeiting currencynotes or bank-notes

148

[489A. Whoever counterfeits, or knowingly performs any part of the process of counterfeiting, any currency-note or bank-note, shall be
punished with 149[imprisonment] for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall
also be liable to fine.
Explanation. For the purposes of this section and of sections 489B, 489C and 489D, the expression "bank-note" means a promissory
note or engagement for the payment of money to bearer on demand issued by any person carrying on the business of banking in any
part of the world, or issued by or under the authority of any State or Sovereign Power, and intended to be used as equivalent to, or a
substitute for, money.

Using as genuine a
forged document

489B. Whoever sells to, or buys or receives from, any other person, or otherwise traffics in or uses as genuine, any forged or counterfeit
currency-note or bank-note, knowing or having reason to believe the same to be forged or counterfeit, shall be punished with
150[imprisonment] for life, or with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall be liable to fine.

Possession of forged or
counterfeit currencynotes or bank-notes

489C. Whoever has in his possession any forged or counterfeit currency-note or bank-note, knowing or having reason to believe the
same to be forged or counterfeit and intending to use the same as genuine or that it may be used as genuine, shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, or with fine, or with both.

Making or possessing
instrument or materials
for forging or
counterfeiting currencynotes or bank-notes

489D. Whoever makes, or performs any part of the process of making, or buys or sells or disposes of, or has in his possession, any
machinery, instrument or material for the purpose of being used, or knowing or having reason to believe that it is intended to be used, for
forging or counterfeiting any currency-note or bank-note, shall be punished with 151[imprisonment] for life, or with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.]

Making or using
documents resembling
currency-notes or banknotes

152

[489E. Whoever makes, or causes to be made, or uses for any purpose whatsoever, or delivers to any person, any document
purporting to be, or in any way resembling, or so nearly resembling as to be calculated to deceive, any currency-note or bank-note shall
be punished with fine which may extend to one hundred taka.
(2) If any person, whose name appears on a document the making of which is an offence under sub-section (1), refuses, without lawful
excuse, to disclose to a police-officer on being so required the name and address of the person by whom it was printed or otherwise
made, he shall be punished with fine which may extend to two hundred taka.
(3) Where the name of any person appears on any document in respect of which any person is charged with an offence under subsection (1) or on any other document used or distributed in connection with that document it may, until the contrary is proved, be
presumed that, that person caused the document to be made.]

CHAPTER XIX
OF THE CRIMINAL BREACH OF CONTRACTS OF SERVICE
[Repealed]

490. [Repealed by the Workmen's Breach of Contract (Repealing) Act, 1925 (Act No. III of 1925).]

Breach of contract to
attend on and supply
wants of helpless
person

491. Whoever, being bound by a lawful contract to attend on or to supply the wants of any person who, by reason of youth, or of
unsoundness of mind, or of a disease or bodily weakness, is helpless or incapable of providing for his own safety or of supplying his own
wants, voluntarily omits so to do, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to three months,
or with fine which may extend to two hundred taka, or with both.

[Repealed]

492. [Repealed by the Workmen's Breach of Contract (Repealing) Act, 1925 (Act No. III of 1925).]

CHAPTER XX
OF OFFENCES RELATING TO MARRIAGE
Cohabitation caused by
a man deceitfully
inducing a belief of
lawful marriage

493. Every man who by deceit causes any woman who is not lawfully married to him to believe that she is lawfully married to him and to
cohabit or have sexual intercourse with him in that belief, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Marrying again during
lifetime of husband or
wife

494. Whoever, having a husband or wife living, marries in any case in which such marriage is void by reason of its taking place during
the life of such husband or wife, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years,
and shall also be liable to fine.
Exception.- This section does not extend to any person whose marriage with such husband or wife has been declared void by a Court of
competent jurisdiction,
nor to any person who contracts a marriage during the life of a former husband or wife, if such husband or wife, at the time of the
subsequent marriage, shall have been continually absent from such person for the space of seven years, and shall not have been heard
of by such person as being alive within that time provided the person contracting such subsequent marriage shall, before such marriage
takes place, inform the person with whom such marriage is contracted of the real state of facts so far as the same are within his or her
knowledge.

Same offence with
concealment of former
marriage from person
with whom subsequent
marriage is contracted

495. Whoever commits the offence defined in the last preceding section having concealed from the person with whom the subsequent
marriage is contracted, the fact of the former marriage, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may
extend to ten years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Marriage ceremony
fraudulently gone
through without lawful
marriage

496. Whoever, dishonestly or with a fraudulent intention, goes through the ceremony of being married, knowing that he is not thereby
lawfully married, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be
liable to fine.

Adultery

497. Whoever has sexual intercourse with a person who is and whom he knows or has reason to believe to be the wife of anather man,
without the consent or connivance of that man, such sexual intercourse not amounting to the offence of rape, is guilty of the offence of
adultery, and shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to five years, or with fine, or with
both. In such case the wife shall not be punished as an abettor.

Enticing or taking away
or detaining with
criminal intent a married
woman

498. Whoever takes or entices away any woman who is and whom he knows or has reason to believe to be wife of any other man, from
that man, or from any person having the care of her on behalf of that man, with intent that she may have illicit intercourse with any
person, or conceals or detains with that intent any such woman, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

CHAPTER XXI
OF DEFAMATION
Defamation

499. Whoever by words either spoken or intended to be read, or by signs or by visible representations, makes or published any
imputation concerning any person intending to harm, or knowing or having reason to believe that such imputation will harm, the
reputation or such person, is said, except in the cases hereinafter excepted, to defame that person.
Explanation 1.-It may amount to defamation to impute any thing to a deceased person, if the imputation would harm the reputation of
that person if living, and is intended to be hurtful to the feelings of his family or other near relatives.
Explanation 2.-It may amount to defamation to make an imputation concerning a company or an association or collection of persons as
such.
Explanation 3.-An imputation in the form of an alternative or expressed ironically, may amount to defamation.
Explanation 4.-No imputation is said to harm a person's reputation, unless that imputation directly or indirectly, in the estimation of
others, lowers the moral or intellectual character of his caste or of his calling, or lowers the credit of that person, or causes it to be
believe that body of that person is in a loathsome state, or in a state generally considered as disgraceful.

Illustrations
(a) A say's – “Z is an honest man; he never stole B's watch”; intending to cause it to be believed that Z did steal B's watch. This is
defamation, unless it fall within one of the exceptions.
(b) A is asked who stole B's watch. A points to Z, intending to cause it to be believed that Z stole B's watch. This is defamation, unless it
fall within one of the exceptions.
(c) A draws a picture of Z running away with B's watch, intending it to be believed that Z stole B's watch. This is defamation, unless it fall
within one of the exceptions.
Imputation of truth
which public good
requires to be made or
published

First Exception.-It is not defamation to impute anything which is true concerning any person, if it be for the public good that the
imputation should be made or published. Whether or not it is for the public good is a question of fact.

Public conduct of public
servants

Second Exception.-It is not defamation to express in good faith any opinion whatever respecting the conduct of a public servant in the
discharge of his public functions, or respecting his character, so far as his character appears in that conduct, and no further.

Conduct of any person
touching any public
question

Third Exception.-It is not defamation to express in good faith any opinion whatever respecting the conduct of any person touching any
public question, and respecting his character, so far as his character appears in that conduct, and no further.
Illustration
It is not defamation in A to express in good faith any opinion whatever respecting Z's conduct in petitioning Government on a public
question, in signing a requisition for a meeting on a public question, in presiding or attending at such meeting, in forming or joining any
society which invites the public support, in voting or canvassing for a particular candidate for any situation in the efficient discharge of
the duties of which the public is interested.

Publication of reports of
proceedings of Courts

Fourth Exception.-It is not defamation to publish a substantially true report of the proceedings of a Court of Justice, or of the result of any
such proceedings.
Explanation.-A Justice of the peace or other officer holding an enquiry in open Court preliminary to a trial in a Court of Justice, is a Court
within the meaning of the above section.

Merits of case decided
in Court, or conduct of
witnesses and others
concerned

Fifth Exception.-It is not defamation to express in good faith any opinion whatever respecting the merits of any case, civil or criminal,
which has been decided by a Court of Justice, or respecting the conduct of any person as a party, witness or agent, in any such case, or
respecting the character of such person, as far as his character appears in that conduct, and no further.
Illustrations
(a) A says- "I think Z's evidence on that trial is so contradictory that he must be stupid or dishonest." A is within this exception if he says
this in good faith, inasmuch as the opinion which he expresses respects Z's character as it appears in Z's conduct as a witness, and no
further.
(b) But if A says- "I do not believe what Z asserted at that trial because I know him to be a man without veracity." A is not within this
exception, inasmuch as the opinion which he expresses of Z's character, is an opinion not founded on Z's conduct as a witness.

Merits of public
performance

Sixth Exception.-It is not defamation to express in good faith any opinion respecting the merits of any performance which its author has
submitted to the judgment of the public, or respecting the character of the author so far as his character appears in such performance,
and no further.
Explanation.-A performance may be submitted to the judgment of the public expressly or by acts on the part of the author which imply
such submission to the judgment of the public.
Illustrations
(a) A person who publishes a book, submits that book to the judgment of the public.
(b) A person who makes a speech in public, submits that speech to the judgment of the public.
(c) An actor or singer who appears on a public stage, submits his acting or singing to the judgment of the public.
(d) A says of a book published by Z- "Z's book is foolish: Z must be a weak man. Z's book is indecent; Z must be a man of impure mind."
A is within this exception, if he says this in good faith, inasmuch as the opinion which he expresses of Z respects Z's character only so
far as it appears in Z's book, and no further.
(e) But if A says "I am not surprised that Z's book is foolish and indecent, for he is a weak man and a libertine." A is not within this
exception, inasmuch as the opinion which he expresses of Z's character is an opinion not founded on Z's book.

Censure passed in good
faith by person having
lawful authority over
another

Seventh Exception.-It is not defamation in a person having over another any authority, either conferred by law or arising out of a lawful
contract made with that other, to pass in good faith any censure on the conduct of that other in matters to which such lawful authority
relates.
Illustration
A Judge censuring in good faith the conduct of a witness, or of an officer of the Court; a head of a department censuring in good faith
those who are under his order; a parent censuring in good faith a child in the presence of other children; a school master, whose
authority is derived from a parent, censuring in good faith a pupil in the presence of other pupils; a master censuring a servant in good
faith for remissness in service; a banker censuring in good faith the cashier of his bank for the conduct of such cashier as such cashierare within this exception.

Accusation preferred in
good faith to authorized
person

Eighth Exception. It is not defamation to prefer in good faith an accusation against any person to any of those who have lawful authority
over that person with respect to the subject-matter of accusation.
Illustration
If A in good faith accuses Z before a Magistrate; if A in good faith complains of the conduct of Z, a servant, to Z's master; if A in good
faith complains of the conduct of Z, a child, to Z's father- A is within this exception.

Imputation made in
good faith by person for
protection of his or
other’s interests

Ninth Exception.-It is not defamation to make an imputation on the character of another, provided that the imputation be made in good
faith for the protection of the interest of the person making it, or of any other person, or for the public good.
Illustrations
(a) A, a shopkeeper, says to B, who manages his business-"Sell nothing to Z unless he pays you ready money, for I have no opinion of
his honesty.” A is within the exception, if he has made this imputation on Z in good faith for the protection of his own interests.
(b) A, a Magistrate, in making a report to his own superior officer, casts an imputation on the character of Z. Here, if the imputation is
made in good faith, and for the public good, A is within the exception.

Caution intended for
good of person to whom
conveyed or for public
good

Tenth Exception. It is not defamation to convey a caution, in good faith, to one person against another, provided that such caution be
intended for the good of the person to whom it is conveyed, or of some person in whom that person is interested, or for the public good.

Punishment for
defamation

500. Whoever defames another shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or
with both.

Printing or engraving
matter known to be
defamatory

501. Whoever prints or engraves any matter, knowing or having good reason to believe that such matter is defamatory of any person,
shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Sale of printed or
engraved substance
containing defamatory
matter

502. Whoever sells or offers for sale any printed or engraved substance containing defamatory matter, knowing that it contains such
matter, shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

CHAPTER XXII
153

Criminal intimidation

OF CRIMINAL INTIMIDATION, INSULT, PREJUDICIAL ACT AND ANNOYANCE

503. Whoever threatens another with any injury to his person, reputation or property, or to the person or reputation of any one in whom
that person is interested, with intent to cause to alarm to that person, or to cause that person to do any act which he is not legally bound
to do, or to omit to do any act which that person is legally entitled to do, as the means of avoiding the execution of such threat, commits
criminal intimidation.
Explanation.-A threat to injure the reputation of any deceased person in whom the person threatened is interested, is within this section.
Illustration
A, for the purpose of inducing B to desist from prosecuting a civil suit, threatens to burn B's house. A is guilty of criminal intimidation.

Intentional insult with
intent to provoke breach
of the peace

504. Whoever intentionally insults, and thereby gives provocation to any person, intending or knowing it to be likely that such
provocation will cause him to break the public peace, or to commit any other offence, shall be punished with imprisonment of either
description for a term which may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both.

Statements conducing
to public mischief

505. Whoever makes, publishes or circulates any statement, rumour or report,
(a) with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, any officer, soldier, sailor or airman in the Army, Navy or Air Force of Bangladesh to
mutiny or otherwise disregard or fail in his duty as such; or
(b) with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public or to any section of the public whereby any person may be
induced to commit an offence against the state or against the public tranquility; or
(c) with intent to incite, or which is likely to incite, any class or community of persons to commit any offence against any other class or
community 154[; or
(d) with intent to create or promote, or which is likely to create or promote, feelings of enmity, hatred or ill-will between different
communities, classes or sections of people,]
shall be punished with imprisonment which may extend to 155[seven years], or with fine, or with both.
Exception. It does not amount to an offence, within the meaning of this section, when the person making, publishing or circulating any
such statement, rumour or report, has reasonable grounds for believing that such statement, rumour or report is true and makes,
publishes or circulates it without any such intent as aforesaid.

Prejudicial act by words,
etc.

156

[505A. Whoever-

(a) by words, either spoken or written, or by signs or by visible representation or otherwise does anything, or
(b) makes, publishes or circulates any statement, rumour or report,
which is, or which is likely to be prejudicial to the interests of the security of Bangladesh or public order, or to the maintenance of friendly
relations of Bangladesh with foreign states or to the maintenance of supplies and services essential to the community, shall be punished
with imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years, or with fine, or with both.]

Punishment for criminal
intimidation

506. Whoever commits the offence of criminal intimidation shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which
may extend to two years, or with fine, or with both;
and if the threat be to cause death or grievous hurt, or to cause the destruction of any property by fire, or to cause an offence punishable
with death or 157[imprisonment for life], or with imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years, or to impute unchastity to a
woman, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, or with fine, or with both.

Criminal intimidation by
an anonymous
communication

507. Whoever commits the offence of criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication, or having taken precaution to conceal the
name or abode of the person from whom the threat comes, shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which
may extend to two years, in addition to the punishment provided for the offence by the last preceding section.

Act caused by inducing
person to believe that he
will be rendered an
object of the Divine
displeasure

508. Whoever voluntarily causes or attempts to cause any person to do anything which that person is not legally bound to do, or to omit
to do anything which he is legally entitled to do, by inducing or attempting to induce that person to believe that he or any person in whom
he is interested will become or will be rendered by some act of the offender an object of Divine displeasure if he does not do the thing
which it is the object of the offender to cause him to do, or if he does the thing which it is the object of the offender to cause him to omit,
shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.
Illustrations
(a) A sits dhurna at Z's door with the intention of causing it to be believed that, by so sitting, he renders Z an object of Divine displeasure.
A has committed the offence defined in this section.
(b) A threatens Z that, unless Z performs a certain act, A will kill one of A's own children, under such circumstances that the killing would
be believed to render Z an object of Divine displeasure. A has committed the offence defined in this section.

Word, gesture or act
intended to insult the
modesty of a woman

509. Whoever, intending to insult the modesty of any woman, utters any word, makes any sound or gesture, or exhibits any object,
intending that such word or sound shall be heard, or that such gesture or object shall be seen, by such woman, or intrudes upon the
privacy of such woman, shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.

Misconduct in public by
a drunken person

510. Whoever, in a state of intoxication appears in any public place, or in any place which it is a trespass in him to enter, and there
conducts himself in such a manner as to cause annoyance to any person, shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a term which
may extend to twenty-four hours, or with fine which may extend to ten taka, or with both.

CHAPTER XXIII
OF ATTEMPTS TO COMMIT OFFENCES
Punishment for
attempting to commit
offences punishable
with imprisonment for
life or imprisonment

511. Whoever attempts to commit an offence punishable by this Code with 158[imprisonment for life] or imprisonment, or to cause such
an offence to be committed, and in such attempt does any act towards the commission of the offence, shall, where no express provision
is made by this Code for the punishment of such attempt, be punished with 159[imprisonment of any description provided for the offence,
for a term which may extend to one-half of the longest term of imprisonment provided for that offence], or with such fine as is provided
for the offence, or with both.
Illustrations
(a) A makes an attempt to steal some jewels by breaking open a box, and finds after so opening the box, that there is no jewel in it. He
has done an act towards the commission of theft, and therefore is guilty under this section.
(b) A makes an attempt to pick the pocket of Z by thrusting his hand into Z's pocket. A fails in the attempt in consequence of Z's having
nothing in his pocket. A is guilty under this section.

1 Throughout this Act, except otherwise provided, the words “Bangladesh”, “Government”, “the Government” and “Taka” were substituted, for the words “Pakistan”, “Central or any Provincial Government” or “Central

Government or any Provincial Government” or “Central Government” or “the Provincial Government” or “Provincial Government” and “rupees” respectively by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision
And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973).
2 The words “Penal Code” were substituted, for the words “Pakistan Penal Code” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
3 The word “Rangpur” was substituted, for the word “Kahmir” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
4 The word “Khulna” was substituted, for the word “Junagadh” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
5 The word “Khulna” was substituted, for the word “Junagadh” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
6 The word “Chittagong” was substituted, for the word “Lahore” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
7 The words, figures, commas and semi colon “any of the provisions of the statute 3 & 4 William IV, Chapter 85, or of any Act of Parliament of the United Kingdom passed after that statute in anywise affecting the East Indian

Company or Pakistan or the inhabitants thereof; or” were omitted by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
8 The word “Republic” was substituted, for the word “State” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
9 The words “Servant of the Republic” were substituted, for the words “Servant of the State” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
10 The words “while serving under the Government” were omitted by section 2 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1982 (Ordinance No. X of 1982)
11 Clause Third was substituted, for clause Third by section 2 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1982 (Ordinance No. X of 1982)
12 The comma and words “, and every officer in the service or pay of the Government or remunerated by fees or commission for the performance of any public duty” were omitted by section 2 of the Penal Code

(Amendment) Ordinance, 1982 (Ordinance No. X of 1982)
13 Clause Twelfth was added by section 2 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1982 (Ordinance No. X of 1982)
14 Section 52A was inserted by section 2 of the Indian Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 1942 (Act No. VIII of 1942)
15 The words “Imprisonment for life” were substituted, for the word “Transportation” by section 2 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
16 The explanation was added by section 2 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
17 Section 53A was inserted by section 3 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
18 The words “the Government” were substituted, for the words “Central Government or the Provincial Government of the province within which the offender shall have been sentenced” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the

Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
19 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 4 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
20 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 4 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
21 The words “the Government” were substituted, for the words “Provincial Government of the Province within which the offender shall have been sentenced” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws

(Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
22 The word “twenty” was substituted, for the word “fourteen” by section 4 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
23 Section 55A was inserted by the Government of India (Adaptation of Indian Laws) Order, 1937
24 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 4 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
25 The words “rigorous imprisonment for thirty years” were substituted, for the words “transportation for twenty years” by section 5 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
26 The word “or” at the end of clause (a) was omitted by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
27 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 7 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
28 The word “nine” was substituted, for the word “seven” by section 2 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 2004 (Act No. XXIV of 2004)
29 The word “nine” was substituted, for the word “seven” by section 3 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 2004 (Act No. XXIV of 2004)
30 Section 108A was added by section 3 of the Indian Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 1898 (Act No. IV of 1898)
31 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 7 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
32 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 7 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
33 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 7 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
34 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 7 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
35 CHAPTER VA was inserted by the Indian Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 1913 (Act No. VIII of 1913).
36 The words “imprisonment for life” were substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 8 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
37 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 9 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
38 Section 121A was inserted by section 4 of the Indian Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 1870 (Act No. XXVII of 1870)
39 The words “imprisonment for life” were substituted, for the words “transportation for life or any shorter term” by section 10 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
40 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 11 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
41 Section 123A was inserted by section 2 of the Pakistan Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 1950 (Act No. LXXI of 1950)
42 The words “in pursuance of the Proclamation of Independence on the twenty-sixth day of March, 1971” were substituted, for the words, comma and figure “by virtue of the partition of India which was effected on the

fourteenth day of August, 1947” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
43 The words “the Government” were substituted, for the words “the Governor of any Province” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
44 The words “the Government” were substituted, for the word “Governor” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
45 The words “or Governor” were omitted by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
46 Section 124A was substituted, for section 124A by section 4 of the Indian Penal Coe Amendment Act, 1898 (Act No. IV of 1898)
47 The words “imprisonment for life” were substituted, for the words “transportation for life or any shorter term” by section 12 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
48 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 13 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
49 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 13 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
50 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 13 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
51 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 13 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
52 The words, commas and figures “Army Act, 1985 or the Navy Ordinance, 1961 or the Air Force Act, 1953” were substituted, for the words “Army Act, the Indian Army Act, 1911, the Pakistan Army Act, 1952, the Naval

Discipline Act or that Act as modified by the Pakistan Navy (Discipline) Act, 1934, the Air Force Act or the Indian Air Force Act, 1932 or the Pakistan Air Force Act, 1953” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh
Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
53 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 13 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
54 The words, commas and figure “Army Act, the Indian Army Act, 1911, the Pakistan” were omitted by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
55 The words, comma and figure “Navy Ordinance, 1961” were substituted, for the words, brackets, comma and figure “the Naval Discipline Act or that Act as modified by the Pakistan Navy (Discipline) Act, 1934” by section

3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
56 The words, comma and figure “Air Force Act or the Indian Air Force Act, 1932 or the Pakistan” were omitted by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of

1973)
57 Section 153A was added by section 5 of the Indian Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 1898 (Act No. IV of 1898)
58 Section 153B was inserted by section 2 of the Pakistan Penal Code (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 1962 (Ordinance No. LXX of 1962)
59 Section 165A was inserted by the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 1953 (Act No. XXXVII of 1953)
60 Section 165B was inserted by section 2 of the Pakistan Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1962 (Ordinance No. LIX of 1962)
61 CHAPTER IXA was inserted by section 2 of the Elections Offences and Inquiries Act, 1920 (Act No. XXXIX of 1920).
62 The words “Supreme Court of Bangladesh” were substituted, for the words “High Court of East Pakistan” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
63 The words “any law for the time being inforce” were substituted, for the words, figures and commas “clause 5, section VII of Regulation III, 1821, of the Bengal Code” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh

Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
64 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 13 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
65 The words “imprisonment for life” were substituted, for the words “transportation for life” by section 14 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
66 The words “imprisonment for life” were substituted, for the words “transportation for life” by section 14 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
67 The words “such imprisonment for life” were substituted, for the words “such transportation” by section 14 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
68 The words “imprisonment for life” were substituted, for the words “transportation for life” by section 15 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
69 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 16 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
70 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 16 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
71 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 16 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
72 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 16 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
73 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 16 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
74 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 16 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
75 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 16 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
76 The word “imprisonment for life” were substituted, for the words “transportation for life” by section 17 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
77 The word “imprisonment for life” were substituted, for the words “transportation for life” by section 17 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
78 The words “or to transportation” omitted by section 17 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
79 The word “imprisonment for life” were substituted, for the words “transportation for life” by section 17 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
80 The word “imprisonment for life” were substituted, for the words “transportation for life” by section 17 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
81 The words “or to transportation” were omitted by section 17 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
82 The word “imprisonment for life” were substituted, for the words “transportation for life” by section 17 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
83 Sections 225A and 225B were substituted, for section 225A by section 24of the Indian Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 1886 (Act No. X of 1886)
84 The words “of Pakistan” were omitted by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
85 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 19 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
86 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 19 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
87 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 19 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
88 Section 263A was inserted by section 2 of the Indian Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 1895 (Act No. III of 1895)
89 The words and commas “three years, or with fine which may, subject to the minimum of one thousand taka, extend to five thousand taka” were substituted, for the words “six month, or with fine which may extend to one

thousand taka” by section 3 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1982 (Ordinance No. X of 1982)
90 The explanation was added by section 3 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1982 (Ordinance No. X of 1982)
91 Section 294A was inserted by section 10 of the Indian Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 1870 (Act No. XXVII of 1870)
92 Section 294B was added by t section 3 of he Pakistan Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 1965 (Act No. XX of 1965)
93 Sections 295A was inserted by section 2 of the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 1927 (Act No. XXV of 1927)
94 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 19 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
95 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 19 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
96 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 19 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
97 Section 304A was inserted by section 12 of the Indian Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 1870 (Act No. XXVII of 1870)
98 The word “five” was substituted, for the word “two” by section 4 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1982 (Ordinance No. X of 1982)
99 Section 304B. was inserted by section 5 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1982 (Ordinance No. X of 1982)
100 The words “three years” were substituted, for the words “seven years” by section 2 of the Penal Code (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLVIII of 1985)
101 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 19 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
102 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 19 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
103 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 19 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
104 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 19 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
105 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 19 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
106 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 19 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
107 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 19 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
108 Section 326A. was inserted by section 2 of the Penal Code (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 1984 (Ordinance No. LXIX of 1984)
109 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 19 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
110 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 19 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
111 The words “five thousand taka” were substituted, for the words “one thousand taka” by section 6 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1982 (Ordinance No. X of 1982)
112 Section 338A was inserted by section 7 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1982 (Ordinance No. X of 1982)
113 The words “two years” were substituted, for the words “five years” by section 3 of the Penal Code (second Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLVIII of 1985)
114 The words “three years” were substituted, for the words “two years” by section 8 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1982 (Ordinance No. X of 1982)
115 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 19 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
116 Section 364A was inserted by section 2 of the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 1958 (Act No. XXXIV of 1958)
117 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 19 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
118 Sections 366A and 366B were inserted by section 2 of the Indian Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 1923 (Act No. XX of 1923)
119 Second paragraph of section 366B was omitted by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
120 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 19 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
121 The words, comma and figure “ratified by Pakistan on the second June, 1951” were omitted by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
122 The words, comma and figure “ratified by Pakistan on the second June, 1951” were omitted by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
123 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 19 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
124 The words “fear to give donation or subscription of any kind or to deliver” were substituted, for the words “fear to deliver” by section 2 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 1991 (Act No. XV of 1991)
125 The words “fourteen years and shall not be less than five years” were substituted, for the words “two years” by section 3 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 1991 (Act No. XV of 1991)
126 The words “for life and shall not be less than seven years” were substituted, for the words “of either description for a term which may extend to seven years” by section 4 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 1991 (Act

No. XV of 1991)
127 The words “imprisonment for life” were substituted, for the words “transportation for life” by section 20 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
128 The words “imprisonment for life” were substituted, for the words “transportation for life” by section 20 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
129 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 21 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
130 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 21 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
131 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 21 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
132 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 21 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
133 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 21 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
134 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 21 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
135 The word “Chittagong” was substituted, for the word “Lahore” by section 3 and 2nd Schedule of the Bangladesh Laws (Revision And Declaration) Act, 1973 (Act No. VIII of 1973)
136 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 21 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
137 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 21of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
138 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 21of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
139 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 21of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
140 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 21of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985).
141 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 21of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985).
142 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 21of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985).
143 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)
144 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 21 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985).
145 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)section 21 .
146 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985)section 21.
147 Section 477A was inserted by section 4 of the Criminal Law (Amendment) Act, 1895 (Act No. III of 1895).
148 Section 489A to 489D were inserted by section 2 of the Currency-Notes Forgery Act, 1899 (Act No. XII of 1899).
149 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 21 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985).
150 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 21 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985).
151 The word “imprisonment” was substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 21 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985).
152 Section 489E was inserted by section 2 of the Indian Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 1943 (Act No. VI of 1943).
153 The comma and words “, PREJUDICIAL ACT AND ANNOYANCE” were substituted, for the words “AND ANNOYANCE” by section 6 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 1991 (Act No. XV of 1991).
154 The semi-colon and word “; or” were substituted, for the comma “,” at the end of clause (c) and thereafter new clause (d) was inserted by section 7 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 1991 (Act No. XV of 1991).
155 The words “seven years” were substituted, for the words “two years” by section 7 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 1991 (Act No. XV of 1991).
156 Section 505A was inserted by section 8 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Act, 1991 (Act No. XV of 1991).
157 The words “imprisonment for life” were substituted, for the word “transportation” by section 22 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985).
158 The word “imprisonment for life” were substituted, for the words “transportation” by section 23 of the Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985).
159 The words and comma “imprisonment of any description provided for the offence, for a term which may extend to one-half of the longest term of imprisonment provided for that offence” were substituted, for the words and

comma “transportation or imprisonment of any description provided for the offence, for a term of transportation or imprisonment which may extend to one-half of the longest term provided for that offence” by section 23 of the
Penal Code (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 (Ordinance No. XLI of 1985).

Copyright © 2019, Legislative and Parliamentary Affairs Division
Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs

