2019/07/05

OBJECTS AND REASONS

This Bill would
(a) regulate the collection, keeping, processing, use and dissemination of
personal data;
(b) protect the privacy of individuals in relation to their personal data; and
(c) provide for matters related to (a) and (b).

2

Arrangement of Sections
PART I
PRELIMINARY
1.

Short title

2.

Interpretation

3.

Application of Act
PART II
DATA PROTECTION PRINCIPLES

4.

Principles relating to processing of personal data

5.

Fairness of processing

6.

Lawfulness of processing

7.

Conditions for consent

8.

Conditions applicable to child's consent

9.

Processing of sensitive personal data

3
PART III
RIGHTS OF A DATA SUBJECT
10.

Right of access

11.

Right to rectification

12.

Right to erasure

13.

Right to restriction of processing

14.

Notification regarding rectification or erasure of personal data or
restriction of processing of personal data

15.

Right to data portability

16.

Right to prevent processing likely to cause damage or distress

17.

Right to prevent processing for purposes of direct marketing

18.

Automated individual decision-making, including profiling

19.

Information to be provided where personal data is collected from the data
subject

20.

Information to be provided where personal data has not been obtained from
the data subject

21.

Transparent information, communication and modalities for the exercise
of the rights of the data subject

4
PART IV
TRANSFERS OF PERSONAL DATA OUTSIDE OF BARBADOS
22.

General principle for transfers

23.

Adequate level of protection

24.

Appropriate safeguards

25.

Binding corporate rules

26.

Derogations

27.

Non-compliance

28.

Substantial public interest
PART V
EXEMPTIONS

29.

References to subject information provisions and non-disclosure
provisions

30.

National Security

31.

Crime and taxation

32.

Health, education and social work

33.

Regulatory activity

34.

Journalism, literature and art

5
35.

Research, history and statistics

36.

Manual data held by public authorities

37.

Information available to the public by or under enactment

38.

Disclosures required by law or made in connection with legal proceedings

39.

Parliamentary privilege

40.

Legal professional privilege

41.

Domestic purposes

42.

Confidential references given by the data controller

43.

Armed forces

44.

Judicial appointments and honours

45.

Appointments to public service

46.

Corporate finance

47.

Negotiations with data subject

48.

Examinations

49.

Powers to make further exemptions by order
PART VI
DATA CONTROLLER AND DATA PROCESSOR

50.

Data controllers must be registered

6
51.

Register of Data Controllers

52.

Notification of changes in respect of a data controller

53.

Responsibility of the data controller

54.

Data protection by design and by default

55.

Data processors must be registered

56.

Register of Data Processors

57.

Notification of changes in respect of a data processor

58.

Data Processor

59.

Processing under the authority of the data controller or data processor

60.

Records of processing activities

61.

Cooperation with the Commissioner

62.

Security of processing

63.

Notification of a personal data breach to the Commissioner

64.

Communication of a personal data breach to the data subject

65.

Data protection impact assessment

66.

Prior consultation

67.

Designation of the data privacy officer

68.

Position of the data privacy officer

7
69.

Duties and functions of a data privacy officer
PART VII
DATA PROTECTION COMMISSIONER

70.

Data Protection Commissioner

71.

Functions of Commissioner

72.

Staff

73.

Confidential information

74.

Indemnity

75.

Report
PART VIII
ENFORCEMENT

76.

Enforcement notice

77.

Cancellation of enforcement notice

78.

Request for assessment

79.

Information notice

80.

Special information notice

81.

Determination by Commissioner as to the purposes of journalism or artistic
or literary purposes

8
82.

Restriction on enforcement in case of processing for the purposes of
journalism or for artistic or literary purposes

83.

Failure to comply with notice

84.

Service of notice by Commissioner

85.

Warrants

86.

Execution of warrants

87.

Matters exempt from inspection and seizure

88.

Return of warrants

89.

Obstruction of execution of a warrant
PART IX
DATA PROTECTION TRIBUNAL

90.

Establishment of the Data Protection Tribunal

91.

Right of appeal

92.

Determination of appeals
PART X
MISCELLANEOUS

93.

Right to compensation and liability

94.

Unlawful obtaining of personal data

9
95.

Administrative penalty

96.

Disclosure of information

97.

Act binds Crown

98.

Amendment of Schedule

99.

Regulations

100. Commencement
SCHEDULE
Data Protection Tribunal

BARBADOS
A Bill entitled
An Act to
(a) regulate the collection, keeping, processing, use and dissemination of
personal data;
(b) protect the privacy of individuals in relation to their personal data; and
(c) provide for matters related to (a) and (b).
ENACTED by the Parliament of Barbados as follows:

12
PART I
PRELIMINARY
Short title
1.

This Act may be cited as the Data Protection Act, 2019.

Interpretation
2.

In this Act

“accessible public record” means any record that is kept by a public authority
and to which members of the public are given access;
“accessible record” means
(a) a health record;
(b) an educational record; or
(c) an accessible public record;
“biometric data” means personal data resulting from specific technical processing
relating to the physical, physiological or behavioural characteristics of an
individual, which allow or confirm the unique identification of that
individual;
“child” means a person who is under the age of 18 years;
“Commissioner” means the Data Protection Commissioner referred to in section
70;
“consent” in relation to a data subject means any freely given, specific, informed
and unambiguous indication of the data subject's wishes by which he, by a
statement or by a clear affirmative action, signifies agreement to the
processing of personal data relating to him;

13
“data” means information that
(a) is being processed by means of equipment operating automatically in
response to instructions given for that purpose;
(b) is recorded with the intention that it should be processed by means of
such equipment;
(c) is recorded as part of a relevant filing system or with the intention that
it should form part of a relevant filing system;
(d) does not fall within paragraph (a), (b) or (c) but forms part of an
accessible record; or
(e) does not fall within paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d) but is recorded
information held by a public authority;
“data controller” means
(a) a person who alone, jointly or in common with others determines the
purposes for which, and the manner in which, any personal data is or
should be processed; or
(b) where personal data is processed only for the purpose for which the
data is required by or under an enactment to be processed, the person
on whom the obligation to process the data is imposed by or under an
enactment;
“data privacy officer” means a person designated as such pursuant to section 67;
“data processor” means any person, other than an employee of a data controller,
who processes personal data on behalf of the data controller;
“data subject” means an individual who is the subject of personal data;
“genetic data” means personal data relating to the inherited or acquired genetic
characteristics of an individual which gives unique information about the
physiology or the health of that individual and which result, in particular,
from an analysis of a biological sample from the individual;

14
“health care professional” includes a person who is registered under
(a) the Medical Professions Act (Act 2011-1);
(b) the Dental Registration Act, Cap. 367;
(c) the Nurses Act, Cap. 372 or enrolled under that Act;
(d) the Pharmacy Act, Cap. 372D; and
(e) the Paramedical Professions Act, Cap. 372C;
“health record” means any record which
(a) consists of information relating to the physical or mental condition of
an individual; and
(b) has been made by or on behalf of a health care professional in
connection with the care of the individual;
“personal data” means data which relates to an individual who can be
identified
(a) from that data; or
(b) from that data together with other information which is in the
possession of or is likely to come into the possession of the data
controller;
“personal data breach” means a breach of security leading to the accidental or
unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure of, or access
to, personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed;
“process” in relation to information or data, means to obtain, record or hold the
information or data or carry out any operation or set of operations on the
information or data, including the
(a) organization, adaptation or alteration of the information or data;
(b) retrieval, consultation or use of the information or data;

15
(c) disclosure of the information or data by transmission, dissemination or
otherwise making available; or
(d) alignment, combination, blocking, erasure or destruction of the
information or data;
“profiling” means any form of automated processing of personal data consisting
of the use of personal data to evaluate certain personal aspects relating to
an individual, in particular to analyse or predict aspects concerning that
individual's performance at work, economic situation, health, personal
preferences, interests, reliability, behaviour, location or movements;
“pseudonymisation” means the processing of personal data in such a manner that
the personal data can no longer be attributed to a specific data subject
without the use of additional information, provided that such additional
information is kept separately and is subject to technical and organisational
measures to ensure that the personal data is not attributed to an identified or
identifiable individual;
“public authority” means a public office or a ministry, department, agency, unit
other authority of the Government including a statutory body;
“recipient” means a person, public authority, agency or another body, to which
the personal data is disclosed but a public authority shall not be considered
a recipient where the personal data is received pursuant to an obligation
imposed by the any enactment;
“relevant filing system” means any set of information relating to individuals to
the extent that although the information is not processed by means of
equipment operating automatically in response to instructions given for that
purpose, the set is structured, either by reference to individuals or by
reference to criteria relating to individuals, in such a way that the specific
information relating to a particular individual is readily accessible;
“representative” means a representative of the data controller or data processor
who is not established in Barbados and is nominated pursuant to
(a) section 50(3) in respect of a data controller; or

16
(b) section 55(3) in respect of a data processor
and who represents that data controller or data processor with regard to their
obligations under this Act;
“restriction of processing of personal data” means the marking of stored personal
data with the aim of limiting their processing in the future;
“sensitive personal data” means personal data consisting of information on a data
subject’s
(a) racial or ethnic origin;
(b) political opinions;
(c) religious beliefs or other beliefs of a similar nature;
(d) membership of a political body;
(e) membership of a trade union;
(f)

genetic data;

(g) biometric data;
(h) sexual orientation or sexual life;
(i)

financial record or position;

(j)

criminal record; or

(k) proceedings for any offence committed or alleged to have been
committed by him, the disposal of such proceedings or the sentence of
any court of competent jurisdiction in such proceedings;
“trade union” has the meaning assigned to it by the Trade Unions Act,
Cap. 361;
“Tribunal” means the Data Protection Tribunal established pursuant to section
90.

17
Application of Act
3.(1)

This Act applies to
(a) the processing of personal data in the context of the activities of a data
controller or a data processor established in Barbados;
(b) the processing of personal data of data subjects in Barbados by a data
controller or a data processor not established in Barbados, where the
processing activities are related to the offering of goods or services to
data subjects in Barbados.

(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1) “established in Barbados” means
(a) an individual who is ordinarily resident in Barbados;
(b) a body, association or other entity incorporated, organised, registered
or otherwise formed under any enactment; or
(c) a person who does not fall within paragraph (a) or (b) but maintains in
Barbados an office, branch or agency through which he carries on any
activity related to the processing of personal data.
PART II
DATA PROTECTION PRINCIPLES

Principles relating to processing of personal data
4.(1)

Personal data shall be
(a) processed lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner in relation to the
data subject;
(b) collected for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes and not further
processed in a manner that is incompatible with those purposes;

18
(c) adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the
purposes for which they are processed;
(d) accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date and every reasonable
step shall be taken to ensure that personal data that is inaccurate, having
regard to the purposes for which they are processed, are erased or
rectified without delay;
(e) kept in a form which permits identification of data subjects for no
longer than is necessary for the purposes for which the personal data
is processed; and
(f)

processed in a manner that ensures appropriate security of the personal
data, including protection against unauthorised or unlawful processing
and against accidental loss, destruction or damage, using appropriate
technical or organisational measures.

(2) A data controller shall, in relation to all of the personal data he processes,
comply with the requirements set out in subsection (1).
(3) A data controller may specify the purpose for which personal data is
obtained pursuant to subsection 1(b)
(a) in any notice given for the purposes of section 5(3)(a) by the data
controller to the data subject; or
(b) in a notification given to the Commissioner pursuant to Part III.
(4) In determining whether any disclosure of personal data is compatible with
the purpose for which the data is obtained in accordance with subsection 1(b),
regard is to be had to the purpose for which the personal data is intended to be
processed by any person to whom the data is disclosed.

19
(5) Subsection 1(d) is not contravened by reason of any inaccuracy in personal
data which accurately record information obtained by the data controller from
the data subject or a third party in a case where
(a) having regard to the purpose for which the data was obtained and
further processed, the data controller has taken reasonable steps to
ensure the accuracy of the data; and
(b) the data subject has notified the data controller of the data subject’s
view that the data is inaccurate and the data indicates that fact.
(6) Pursuant to subsection 1(f), having regard to the state of technological
development and the cost of implementing any measures, the measures must
ensure a level of security appropriate to
(a) the harm that might result from such unauthorised or unlawful
processing or accidental loss, destruction or damage; and
(b) the nature of the data to be protected.
(7) The data controller shall take reasonable steps to ensure that his employees
who have access to the personal data comply with the requirements set out in
subsection (1).
(8) Pursuant to subsection 1(f), where processing of personal data is carried
out by a data processor on behalf of a data controller, the data controller shall
(a) choose a data processor who provides sufficient guarantees in respect
of the technical and organisational security measures governing the
processing to be carried out; and
(b) take reasonable steps to ensure compliance with the measures referred
to in paragraph (a).

20
(9) Where processing of personal data is carried out by a data processor on
behalf of a data controller, the data controller is not to be regarded as complying
with subsection 1(f) unless
(a) the processing is carried out under a contract
(i) which is made or evidenced in writing; and
(ii) under which the data processor is to act only on instructions from
the data controller; and
(b) the contract requires the data processor to comply with obligations
equivalent to those imposed on a data controller by subsection 1(f).
(10) A person who fails to comply with the requirements set out in subsection
(1) is guilty of an offence and is liable on summary conviction to a fine of $500
000 or to imprisonment for 3 years or to both.
Fairness of processing
In determining whether personal data is processed fairly, regard is to
5.(1)
be had to the method by which it is obtained, including in particular whether any
person from whom the personal data is obtained is deceived or misled as to the
purpose or purposes for which the personal data is to be processed.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), personal data is to be treated as having been
obtained fairly if the personal data consists of information obtained from a person
who is
(a) authorised by or under any enactment to supply the data; or
(b) required to supply by the data any convention or other instrument
imposing an international obligation on Barbados.

21
(3)

Personal data is not to be treated as processed fairly unless
(a) in the case of data obtained from the data subject, the data controller
ensures so far as practicable that the data subject has, is provided with,
or has readily available to him, the following information:
(i)

the identity of the data controller;

(ii)

where a data controller has nominated a representative for the
purposes of this Act, the identity of that representative;

(iii) the purpose or purposes for which the data is intended to be
processed; and
(iv) any further information which is necessary, having regard to the
specific circumstances in which the data is or is to be processed,
to enable processing in respect of the data subject to be fair; and
(b) in any other case, the data controller ensures so far as practicable that,
before the relevant time or as soon as practicable after that time, the
data subject is provided with, or has readily available to him, the
information specified in subparagraphs (i) to (iv) of paragraph (a).
(4)

For the purposes of subsection (3)(b), “the relevant time” means
(a) the time when the data controller first processes the data; or
(b) in a case where at that time disclosure to a third party within a
reasonable period is envisaged,
(i)

if the data is in fact disclosed to such a person within that period,
the time when the data is first disclosed;

(ii)

if within that period the data controller becomes, or ought to
become aware that the data is unlikely to be disclosed to such a
person within that period, the time when the data controller does
become, or ought to become, so aware; or

(iii) in any other case, the end of that period.

22
Lawfulness of processing
6.(1)

Processing shall be lawful where
(a) the data subject has given consent to the processing of his personal data
for one or more specific purposes; or
(b) the processing is necessary
(i)

for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is a
party;

(ii)

for the taking of steps at the request of the data subject with a
view to entering into a contract;

(iii)

for compliance with any legal obligation to which the data
controller is subject, other than an obligation imposed by
contract;

(iv)

in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject;

(v)

for the administration of justice;

(vi)

for the exercise of any functions of either House of Parliament;

(vii) for the exercise of any functions conferred on any person by or
under any enactment;
(viii) for the exercise of any functions of a public authority;
(ix)

for the purposes of legitimate interests pursued by the data
controller or by the third party to whom the data is disclosed,
except where the processing is unwarranted in any particular
case by reason of prejudice to the rights and freedoms or
legitimate interests of the data subject; or

(x)

processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate
interests pursued by the data controller or by a third party, except
where such interests are overridden by the interests or
fundamental rights and freedoms of the data subject which

23
require protection of personal data, in particular where the data
subject is a child.
(2) Subsection (1)(b)(x) shall not apply to processing carried out by public
authorities in the performance of their tasks.
Conditions for consent
Where processing is based on consent, the data controller shall
7.(1)
demonstrate that the data subject has consented to processing of his personal data.
(2) Where the data subject's consent is given in the context of a written
declaration which also concerns other matters, the request for consent shall be
presented in a manner which is clearly distinguishable from the other matters, in
an intelligible and easily accessible form, using clear and plain language.
(3) A data subject has the right to withdraw his consent in respect of the
processing of his personal data at any time and the data controller shall inform
the data subject of his right to withdraw prior to him giving consent to the data
controller to process his personal data.
(4) The withdrawal of consent by the data subject shall not affect the
lawfulness of processing based on consent before its withdrawal.
(5) In determining whether consent is freely given, the data controller shall
take into account whether the performance of a contract, including the provision
of a service, is conditional on consent to the processing of personal data that is
not necessary for the performance of that contract.
Conditions applicable to child's consent
8.(1)
The processing of a child’s personal data shall be lawful only where
and to the extent that consent is given or authorised by the parent or guardian of
the child.
(2) The data controller shall make reasonable efforts to verify in such cases
that consent is given or authorised by the parent or guardian of a child, taking
into consideration available technology.

24
(3) Subsection (1) shall not affect contract law under any enactment in respect
of the validity, formation or effect of a contract in relation to a child.
Processing of sensitive personal data
9.(1)

Processing of sensitive personal data shall be prohibited unless
(a) the data subject gives his consent to the processing;
(b) the processing is necessary for the purposes of exercising or performing
any right or obligation which is conferred or imposed by law on the
data controller in connection with employment;
(c) the processing is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the
data subject or another person, in a case where
(i) consent cannot be given by or on behalf of the data subject; or
(ii) the data controller cannot reasonably be expected to obtain the
consent of the data subject;
(d) the processing is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of
another person, in a case where consent by or on behalf of the data
subject has been unreasonably withheld;
(e) the processing
(i)

is carried out in the course of its legitimate activities by any body
or association which
(A) is not established or conducted for profit; and
(B) exists for political, philosophical, religious or trade union
purposes;

(ii)

is carried out with appropriate safeguards for the rights and
freedoms of data subjects;

(iii) relates only to individuals who either are members of the body
or association or have regular contact with it in connection with
its purposes; and

25
(iv) does not involve disclosure of the personal data to a third party
without the consent of the data subject;
(f)

the information contained in the personal data has been made public
as a result of steps deliberately taken by the data subject;

(g) the processing is necessary
(i)

for the purpose of, or in connection with, any legal proceedings
including prospective legal proceedings;

(ii)

for the purpose of obtaining legal advice; or

(iii) otherwise for the purposes of establishing, exercising or
defending legal rights;
(h) the processing is necessary for the administration of justice;
(i)

the processing is necessary for the exercise of any functions of either
House of Parliament;

(j)

the processing is necessary for the exercise of any functions conferred
on any person by or under an enactment;

(k) the processing is necessary for the exercise of any functions of a public
authority;
(l)

the processing is necessary for medical purposes and is undertaken by
(i) a health care professional; or
(ii) a person who in the circumstances owes a duty of confidentiality
which is equivalent to that which would arise if that person were
a health care professional;

(m) the processing
(i)

is of sensitive personal data consisting of information as to racial
or ethnic origin; and

(ii)

is necessary for the purpose of identifying or keeping under
review, the existence or absence of equality of opportunity or

26
treatment between persons of different racial or ethnic origins,
with a view to enabling such equality to be promoted or
maintained; and
(iii) is carried out with appropriate safeguards for the rights and
freedoms of data subjects.
(2) The Minister may by order specify circumstances other that those
identified in subsection (1) where sensitive personal data may be processed.
An order made pursuant to subsection (2) is subject to negative resolution.

(3)

(4) For the purposes of subsection (1)(l) “medical purposes” includes the
purposes of preventative medicine, medical diagnosis, medical research, the
provision of care and treatment and the management of health care services.
PART III
RIGHTS OF A DATA SUBJECT
Right of access
10.(1)

A data subject has the right

(a) to be informed by a data controller whether personal data of that data
subject is being processed by or on behalf of the data controller;
(b) where personal data of the data subject is being processed by or on
behalf of the data controller, to request from, and to be given by, the
data controller, a description of
(i)

the purposes of the processing;

(ii)

the categories of personal data concerned;

(iii)

the recipients or categories of recipient to whom the personal
data has been or will be disclosed, in particular recipients in
other countries or international organisations;

27
(iv)

where possible, the envisaged period for which the personal data
will be stored, or, if not possible, the criteria used to determine
that period;

(v)

the existence of the right to request from the data controller
rectification or erasure of personal data or restriction of
processing of personal data concerning the data subject or to
object to such processing;

(vi)

the right to lodge a complaint with the Commissioner;

(vii) any available information as to their source, where the personal
data is not collected from the data subject;
(viii) the existence of automated decision-making, including
profiling, referred to in section 18 and, at least in those cases,
meaningful information about the logic involved, as well as the
significance and the envisaged consequences of such processing
for the data subject.
(2) Where personal data is transferred to another country or to an international
organisation, the data subject shall have the right to be informed of the appropriate
safeguards pursuant to section 24.
(3) The data controller shall provide a copy of the personal data undergoing
processing to the data subject and where more copies are requested by the data
subject, the data controller may charge a reasonable fee based on administrative
costs.
(4) Where the data subject makes the request for personal data by electronic
means, and unless otherwise requested by the data subject, the personal data shall
be provided in electronic form.
(5) The right of the data subject to obtain a copy of personal data referred to
subsection (3) shall not adversely affect the rights and freedoms of other data
subjects.

28
Right to rectification
The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the data controller,
11.(1)
without undue delay, the rectification of inaccurate personal data concerning him.
(2) Taking into account the purposes of the processing, the data subject shall
have the right to have incomplete personal data completed by the data controller,
including by means of providing a supplementary statement.
Right to erasure
The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the data controller
12.(1)
the erasure of personal data concerning him without undue delay.
(2) The data controller shall erase personal data, without undue delay, where
one of the following grounds applies
(a) the personal data is no longer necessary in relation to the purposes for
which it was collected or otherwise processed;
(b) the data subject withdraws consent where the .processing is done
pursuant to section 6(1)(a) or section 9(1)(a), and where there is no
other legal ground for the processing;
(c) the data subject objects to the processing pursuant to section 16 and
there are no overriding legitimate grounds for the processing, or the
data subject objects to the processing pursuant to section 17;
(d) the personal data has been unlawfully processed;
(e) the personal data has to be erased in compliance with a legal obligation
in Barbados to which the data controller is subject.
(3) Where the data controller has made the personal data public and is obliged
pursuant to subsection (1) or (2) to erase the personal data, the data controller,
taking account of available technology and the cost of implementation, shall take
reasonable steps, including technical measures, to inform data controllers who
are processing the personal data that the data subject has requested the erasure

29
by such data controllers of any links to, or copy or replication of, the personal
data.
(4) Subsections (1), (2) and (3) shall not apply to the extent that processing is
necessary
(a) for exercising the right of freedom of expression and information;
(b) for compliance with a legal obligation which requires processing by
any enactment to which the data controller is subject or for the
performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise
of official authority vested in the data controller;
(c) for reasons of public interest in the area of public health;
(d) for archiving for the purposes of research, history or statistics in
accordance with section 35; or
(e) for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims.
Right to restriction of processing
13.(1)
The data subject shall have the right to obtain from the data controller
restriction of processing of personal data where one of the following applies:
(a) the accuracy of the personal data is contested by the data subject, for
a period enabling the data controller to verify the accuracy of the
personal data;
(b) the processing is unlawful and the data subject opposes the erasure of
the personal data and requests the restriction of their use instead;
(c) the data controller no longer needs the personal data for the purposes
of the processing, but they are required by the data subject for the
establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims;
(d) the data subject has objected to processing pursuant to section 16
pending the verification whether the legitimate grounds of the data
controller override those of the data subject.

30
(2) Where processing has been restricted under subsection (1), the personal
data shall, with the exception of storage, only be processed
(a) with the data subject's consent;
(b) for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims;
(c) for the protection of the rights of another person; or
(d) for reasons of important public interest of Barbados.
(3) A data subject who has obtained restriction of processing of personal data
pursuant to subsection (1) shall be informed by the data controller before the
restriction of processing of personal data is removed pursuant to subsection (2).
Notification regarding rectification or erasure of personal data or
restriction of processing of personal data
14.(1)

The data controller shall communicate any

(a) rectification of personal data pursuant to section 11;
(b) erasure of personal data pursuant to section 12; or
(c) restriction of processing of personal data pursuant to section 13
to each recipient to whom the personal data has been disclosed, unless this proves
impossible or involves disproportionate effort.
(2) The data controller shall inform the data subject about those recipients
where the data subject requests such information.
Right to data portability
15.(1)
The data subject has the right to receive the personal data concerning
him, which he has provided to a data controller, in a structured, commonly used
and machine-readable format.

31
(2) The data subject has the right to transmit the personal data concerning him,
which he has provided to a data controller to another data controller without
hindrance where
(a) the processing is based on consent pursuant to section 6(1)(a) or section
9(1)(a) or on a contract pursuant to section 6(1)(b)(i); and
(b) the processing is carried out by automated means.
(3) In exercising his right to data portability pursuant to subsections (1) and
(2), the data subject shall have the right to have his personal data transmitted
directly from one data controller to another, where technically feasible.
(4) The exercise of the right referred to in subsection (1) shall be exercised
without prejudice to section 12.
(5) The exercise of the right referred to in subsection (1) shall not apply to
processing necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public
interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the data controller.
(6) The exercise of the right referred to in subsection (1) shall not adversely
affect the rights and freedoms of other data subjects.
Right to prevent processing likely to cause damage or distress
16.(1)
Subject to subsection (2), a data subject is entitled, by a written notice,
to require the data controller at the end of a 21 day period to cease, or not to begin,
processing, or processing for a specified purpose or in a specified manner, any
personal data in respect of which he is the data subject, on the ground that
(a) the processing of the data or the data controller’s processing for that
purpose or in that manner is causing or is likely to cause substantial
damage or distress to the data subject or another; and
(b) the damage or distress is or would be unwarranted.

32
(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply
(a) in a case where any of the conditions in section 6(1)(a) or (b)(i), (ii),
(iii) or (iv) is satisfied; or
(b) in such other cases as the Minister may prescribe by order.

(3) The data controller shall, within 21 days of receiving a notice under
subsection (1), give the data subject written notice stating
(a) that he has complied or intends to comply with the data subject’s notice;
(b) the reasons for his refusal to comply with the data subject’s notice; or
(c) the reasons for complying with part of the data subject’s notice and the
extent of that compliance.
(4) Where the High Court is satisfied, on the application of a data subject who
has given notice under subsection (1), that the data controller in question has
failed to comply with the notice, the Court may order the data controller to take
such steps for complying with the notice as the Court sees fit.
Right to prevent processing for purposes of direct marketing
17.(1)
A person is entitled at any time, by a written notice to a data controller,
to require the data controller at the end of a 21 day period to cease processing for
the purposes of direct marketing, personal data in respect of which he is the data
subject.
(2) Where the High Court is satisfied, on the application of a data subject who
has given notice under subsection (1), that the data controller has failed to comply
with the notice, the Court may order the data controller to take such steps for
complying with the notice as the Court sees fit.
(3) For the purposes of this section “direct marketing” means the
communication, by whatever means, of any advertising or marketing material
which is directed to particular individuals.

33
Automated individual decision-making, including profiling
The data subject has the right not to be subject to a decision based
18.(1)
solely on automated processing, including profiling, which produces legal effects
concerning him or similarly significantly affects him.
(2) Subsection (1) shall not apply where the automated processing or profiling
of personal data is
(a) necessary for entering into, or performance of, a contract between the
data subject and a data controller;
(b) authorised by any enactment to which the data controller is subject and
which also lays down suitable measures to safeguard the data subject's
rights and freedoms and legitimate interests; or
(c) based on the data subject's consent.
(3) In the cases referred to in subsection (2)(a) and (c), the data controller shall
implement suitable measures to safeguard the data subject's rights and freedoms
and legitimate interests.
(4) Subsection (2) shall not apply to sensitive personal data unless it is in the
public interest and suitable measures to safeguard the data subject's rights and
freedoms and legitimate interests are in place.
Information to be provided where personal data is collected from the
data subject
Where personal data relating to a data subject is collected from the
19.(1)
data subject, the data controller shall, at the time when personal data is obtained,
provide the data subject with the following:
(a) the identity and the contact details of the data controller and, where
applicable, of the data controller's representative;
(b) the contact details of the data privacy officer, where applicable;

34
(c) the purposes of the processing for which the personal data is intended
as well as the legal basis for the processing;
(d) where the processing is done pursuant to 6(1)(b)(x), the legitimate
interests pursued by the data controller or by a third party;
(e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if any;
(f)

where applicable, the fact that the data controller intends to transfer
personal data to another country or international organisation and the
existence or absence of an adequacy decision by the Commission, or
in the case of transfers to the appropriate safeguards referred to in
section 24 and the means by which to obtain a copy of them or where
they have been made available.

(2) In addition to the information referred to in subsection (1), the data
controller shall at the time when personal data is obtained, provide the data
subject with the following further information necessary to ensure fair and
transparent processing:
(a) the period for which the personal data will be stored, or if that is not
possible, the criteria used to determine that period;
(b) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to
and rectification or erasure of personal data or restriction of processing
concerning the data subject or to object to processing as well as the
right to data portability;
(c) where the processing is done pursuant to section 6(1)(a) or section 9(1)
(a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time, without
affecting the lawfulness of processing based on consent before its
withdrawal;
(d) the right to lodge a complaint with the Commissioner;
(e) whether the provision of personal data is a statutory or contractual
requirement, or a requirement necessary to enter into a contract, as well

35
as whether the data subject is obliged to provide the personal data and
of the possible consequences of failure to provide such data;
(f)

the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling,
referred to in section 18 and, at least in those cases, meaningful
information about the logic involved, as well as the significance and
the envisaged consequences of such processing for the data subject.

(3) Where the data controller intends to further process the personal data for
a purpose other than that for which the personal data was collected, the data
controller shall provide the data subject prior to that further processing with
information on that other purpose and with any relevant further information as
referred to in subsection (2).
(4) Subsections (1), (2) and (3) shall not apply where the data subject already
has the information.
Information to be provided where personal data has not been obtained
from the data subject
20.(1)
Where personal data has not been obtained from the data subject, the
data controller shall provide the data subject with the following:
(a) the identity and the contact details of the data controller and, where
applicable, of the data controller's representative;
(b) the contact details of the data privacy officer, where applicable;
(c) the purposes of the processing for which the personal data is intended
as well as the legal basis for the processing;
(d) the categories of personal data concerned;
(e) the recipients or categories of recipients of the personal data, if any;
(f)

where applicable, that the data controller intends to transfer personal
data to a recipient in a third country or international organisation and
the existence or absence of an adequacy decision by the Commission,
or in the case of transfers to the appropriate safeguards referred to in

36
section 24 Parliamentary Counseland the means to obtain a copy of
them or where they have been made available.
(2) In addition to the information referred to in subsection (1), the data
controller shall provide the data subject with the following information necessary
to ensure fair and transparent processing in respect of the data subject:
(a) the period for which the personal data will be stored, or if that is not
possible, the criteria used to determine that period;
(b) where the processing is done pursuant to section 6(1)(b)(x), the
legitimate interests pursued by the data controller;
(c) the existence of the right to request from the data controller access to
and rectification or erasure of personal data or restriction of processing
concerning the data subject and to object to processing as well as the
right to data portability;
(d) where processing is done pursuant to section 6(1)(a) or section 9(1)
(a), the existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time, without
affecting the lawfulness of processing based on consent before its
withdrawal;
(e) the right to lodge a complaint with the Commissioner;
(f)

from the source from which originated the personal data, and if
applicable, whether it came from publicly accessible sources;

(g) the existence of automated decision-making, including profiling,
referred to in section 18 and, at least in those cases, meaningful
information about the logic involved, as well as the significance and
the envisaged consequences of such processing for the data subject.
(3) The data controller shall provide the information referred to in subsections
(1) and (2)
(a) within a reasonable period after obtaining the personal data, but at the
latest within one month, having regard to the specific circumstances in
which the personal data is processed;

37
(b) if the personal data is to be used for communication with the data
subject, at the latest, at the time of the first communication to that data
subject; or
(c) if a disclosure to another recipient is envisaged, at the latest when the
personal data is first disclosed.
(4) Where the data controller intends to further process the personal data for
a purpose other than that for which the personal data was obtained, the data
controller shall provide the data subject prior to that further processing with
information on that other purpose and with any relevant further information as
referred to in subsection (2).
(5)

Subsections (1), (2), (3) and (4) shall not apply where and insofar as:
(a) the data subject already has the information;
(b) the provision of such information proves impossible or would involve
a disproportionate effort, in particular for processing for archiving
purposes pursuant to section 35;
(c) obtaining or disclosure is expressly laid down by any enactment to
which the data controller is subject and which provides appropriate
measures to protect the data subject's legitimate interests; or
(d) where the personal data must remain confidential subject to an
obligation of professional secrecy regulated by any enactment.

Transparent information, communication and modalities for the
exercise of the rights of the data subject
21.(1)
The data controller shall take appropriate measures to provide any
information referred to in section 19 and section 20 and any communication under
sections 10 to 18 and section 63 relating to processing to the data subject in a
concise, transparent, intelligible and easily accessible form, using clear and plain
language, in particular for any information addressed specifically to a child.

38
(2) The information pursuant to subsection (1) shall be provided in writing, or
by other means, including, where appropriate, by electronic means.
(3) When requested by the data subject, the data controller may provide the
information, pursuant to his rights under sections 10 to 15 and 18 orally, provided
that the identity of the data subject is verified.
(4) The data controller shall facilitate the exercise of data subject rights under
sections 10 to 15 and 18.
(5) The data controller shall provide information on action taken on a request
under sections 10 to 15 and 18 to the data subject without undue delay and in any
event within one month of receipt of the request.
(6) The period of time referred to in subsection (5) shall be extended by two
months where necessary, taking into account the complexity and number of the
requests under sections 10 to 15 and 18.
(7) The data controller shall inform the data subject of any extension granted
pursuant to subsection (6) within one month of receipt of the request, together
with the reasons for the delay.
(8) Where the data subject makes the request pursuant to his rights under
sections 10 to 15 and 18 by electronic form means, the information shall be
provided by electronic means where possible, unless otherwise requested by the
data subject.
(9) Where the data controller does not take action on the request of the data
subject under this section, the data controller shall inform the data subject without
delay and at the latest within one month of receipt of the request of the reasons
for not taking action and on the possibility of lodging a complaint with the
Commissioner or appealing to the High Court.
(10) Information provided under section 18 and section 19 and any
communication and any actions taken under sections 10 to 15 and 18 and section
63 shall be provided free of charge.

39
(11) Where requests referred to in this section from a data subject are manifestly
unfounded or excessive, in particular because of their repetitive character, the
data controller may either
(a) charge a reasonable fee taking into account the administrative costs of
providing the information or communication or taking the action
requested; or
(b) refuse to act on the request.
(12) The data subject may object to the decision of a data controller made
pursuant to subsection (11) by lodging a complaint with the Commissioner or
appealing to the Tribunal.
(13) For the purposes of subsection (12), the data controller shall bear the
burden of demonstrating the manifestly unfounded or excessive character of a
request referred to in subsection (11).
(14) Where a data controller has reasonable doubts concerning the identity of
the individual making a request pursuant to sections 10 to 18, the data controller
may request the provision of additional information necessary to confirm the
identity of the data subject.
(15) The information to be provided to data subjects pursuant to section 19 and
section 20 may be provided in combination with standardised icons in order to
give in an easily visible, intelligible and clearly legible manner a meaningful
overview of the intended processing and where the icons are presented
electronically they shall be machine-readable.
(16) The Minister in consultation with the Commissioner, may make
regulations for the purpose of determining the information to be presented by the
icons and the procedures for providing standardised icons.

40
PART IV
TRANSFERS OF PERSONAL DATA OUTSIDE OF BARBADOS
General principle for transfers
Personal data shall not be transferred to a country or territory outside
22.
Barbados unless that country or territory provides for
(a) an adequate level of protection for the rights and freedoms of data
subjects in relation to the processing of their personal data; and
(b) appropriate safeguards on condition that the rights of the data subject
are enforceable and there are available, effective legal remedies for
data subjects.
Adequate level of protection
For the purposes of section 22, an adequate level of protection is one
23.
which is adequate in all the circumstances of the case, having regard in particular
to
(a) the nature of the personal data;
(b) the country or territory of origin of the information contained in the
data;
(c) the country or territory of final destination of that information;
(d) the purposes for which and period during which the data is intended to
be processed;
(e) the law in force in the country or territory in question;
(f)

the international obligations of that country or territory;

(g) any relevant codes of conduct or other rules which are enforceable in
that country or territory whether generally or by arrangement in
particular cases; and

41
(h) any security measures taken in respect of the data in that country or
territory.
Appropriate safeguards
24.
For the purposes of section 22, appropriate safeguards may be
provided for by
(a) a legally binding and enforceable instrument between public
authorities;
(b) binding corporate rules in accordance with section 25;
(c) standard data protection clauses prescribed by the Commissioner with
the approval of the Minister;
(d) contractual clauses authorised by the Commissioner between the data
controller or data processor and the data controller, data processor or
the recipient of the personal data; or
(e) provisions, authorised by the Commissioner, to be inserted into
administrative arrangements between public authorities which include
enforceable and effective data subject rights.
Binding corporate rules
25.(1)
Data controllers and data processors shall develop binding corporate
rules which shall specify
(a) the structure and contact details of the group of undertakings, or group
of enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity and of each of its
members;
(b) the data transfers or set of transfers, including the categories of personal
data, the type of processing and its purposes, the type of data subjects
affected and the identification of the third country or countries in
question;
(c) their legally binding nature, both in and outside of Barbados;

42
(d) the application of principles regarding purpose limitation, data
minimisation, limited storage periods, data quality, data protection by
design and by default, legal basis for processing, processing of
sensitive personal data, measures to ensure data security, and the
requirements in respect of onward transfers to bodies not bound by the
binding corporate rules;
(e) the rights of data subjects in regard to processing and the means to
exercise those rights, including the right not to be subject to decisions
based solely on automated processing, including profiling in
accordance with this Act, the right to lodge a complaint with the
competent supervisory authority or Commissioner and the High Court
and to obtain any other available form of redress and, where
appropriate, compensation for a breach of the binding corporate rules;
(f)

the acceptance by the data controller or data processor of liability for
any breaches of the binding corporate rules;

(g) that the data controller or the data processor shall be exempt from the
liability referred to in paragraph (f), in whole or in part, only where it
is proven that the data controller or data processor is not responsible
for the event giving rise to the damage;
(h) how the information on the binding corporate rules is provided to the
data subjects;
(i)

the complaint procedures;

(j)

the mechanisms within the group of undertakings, or group of
enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity for ensuring the
verification of compliance with the binding corporate rules;

(k) the mechanisms for reporting and recording changes to the binding
corporate rules and reporting those changes to the supervisory
authority;
(l)

the cooperation mechanism with the supervisory authority to ensure
compliance by any member of the group of undertakings, or group of

43
enterprises engaged in a joint economic activity, in particular by
making available to the supervisory authority or Commissioner the
results of verifications of the measures specified in paragraph (j);
(m) the mechanisms for reporting to the competent supervisory authority
any legal requirements to which a member of the group of
undertakings, or group of enterprises engaged in a joint economic
activity is subject which are likely to have a substantial adverse effect
on the guarantees provided by the binding corporate rules; and
(n) the appropriate data protection training to personnel having permanent
or regular access to personal data.
(2) The binding corporate rules referred to in subsection (1) shall be submitted
to the Commissioner for authorisation.
(3) The Commissioner may specify the format and procedures for the
exchange of information between data controllers, data processors and
supervisory authorities for binding corporate rules.
(4)

For the purposes of this section,

“binding corporate rules” means personal data protection policies which are
adhered to by a data controller or data processor for transfers or a set of
transfers of personal data to a data controller or a data processor in one or
more countries within a group of undertakings, or group of enterprises
engaged in a joint economic activity;
“enterprise” means a person engaged in an economic activity;
“group of undertakings” means a controlling undertaking and its controlled
undertakings;
“supervisory authority” means an independent public authority which is
established by in a country or territory outside of Barbados.

44
Derogations
26.

Section 22, 23 and 24 shall not apply where
(a) the data subject has given his consent to the transfer of personal data;
(b) the transfer of personal data is necessary for
(i)

the performance of a contract between the data subject and the
data controller;

(ii)

the taking of steps at the request of the data subject with a view
to his entering into a contract with the data controller;

(iii)

the conclusion of a contract between the data controller and a
person other than the data subject which
(A) is entered into at the request of the data subject; or
(B) is in the interest of the data subject;

(iv)

the performance of a contract described in subparagraph (iii);

(v)

reasons of substantial public interest;

(vi)

the purpose of, or in connection with, any legal proceedings
including prospective legal proceedings;

(vii) the purpose of obtaining legal advice;
(viii) the purposes of establishing, exercising or defending legal
rights; or
(ix)

the protection of the vital interests of the data subject;

(c) the transfer of personal data is part of the personal data on a public
register and any conditions subject to which the register is open to
inspection are complied with by any person to whom the data is or may
be disclosed after the transfer;

45
(d) the transfer of personal data is made on terms which are of a kind
approved by the Commissioner as ensuring adequate safeguards for the
rights and freedoms of data subjects; or
(e) the transfer of personal data has been authorised by the Commissioner
as being made in such a manner as to ensure adequate safeguards for
the rights and freedoms of data subjects.
Non-compliance
A person who contravenes sections 22, 23 or 24 is guilty of an offence
27.
and is liable on summary conviction to a fine of $500 000 or to imprisonment for
3 years or to both.
Substantial public interest
28.(1)

The Minister may by order specify the

(a) circumstances in which a transfer of the personal data of data subjects
outside of Barbados is to be considered to be necessary for reasons of
substantial public interest; and
(b) circumstances in which a transfer of the personal data of data subjects
outside of Barbados, which is not required by or under an enactment,
is not to be considered necessary for reasons of substantial public
interest.
(2) An order made pursuant to subsection (1) shall be subject to negative
resolution.

46
PART V
EXEMPTIONS
References to subject information provisions and non-disclosure
provisions
29.(1)

In this Part

(a) “the subject information provisions” refers to
(i) section 4(1)(a) to the extent to which it requires compliance with
section 5(2); and
(ii) section 10;
(b) “the non-disclosure provisions” refers to the following provisions to
the extent to which they are inconsistent with the disclosure in question:
(i)

section 4(1)(a), except to the extent to which it requires
compliance with the conditions in 6 and 9;

(ii)

section 4(1) (b), (c), (d), (e); and

(iii) sections 11 to 18.
(2) Except as provided for by this Part, the subject information provisions shall
have effect notwithstanding any enactment or rule of law prohibiting or
restricting the disclosure, or authorising the withholding of information.
National Security
Parts II, III, IV, VI and section 79 do not apply where the processing
30.
of the personal data is required for the purpose of safeguarding national security.
Crime and taxation
31.(1)

Personal data processed for

(a) the prevention or detection of crime;

47
(b) the apprehension or prosecution of offenders; or
(c) the assessment or collection of any tax, duty or other imposition of a
similar nature,
is exempt from section 4(1)(a), except to the extent to which it requires
compliance with the conditions in section 6 and 9, and from section 10 in any
case to the extent to which the application of those provisions to the data is likely
to prejudice any of the matters mentioned in paragraphs (a) to (c).
(2)

Personal data which
(a) is processed for the purpose of discharging statutory functions; and
(b) consist of information obtained for such a purpose from a person who
had it in his possession for any of the purposes mentioned in
subsection (1)(a) to (c)

is exempt from the subject information provisions to the same extent as personal
data processed for any of the purposes mentioned in subsection (1)(a) to (c).
(3)

Personal data is exempt from the non-disclosure provisions where
(a) the disclosure is for any of the purposes mentioned in subsection (1)
(a) to (c); and
(b) the application of those provisions in relation to disclosure is likely to
prejudice any of the matters mentioned in subsection (1)(a) to (c).

(4) Personal data in respect of which the data controller is a public authority
and which
(a) consist of a classification applied to the data subject as a part of a system
of risk assessment which is operated by the public authority for any of
the following purposes:
(i) the assessment or collection of any tax, duty or other imposition
of a similar nature; or

48
(ii) the prevention or detection of crime or the apprehension or
prosecution of offenders, where the offence concerned involves
an unlawful claim for payment out of, or an unlawful application
of, public funds; and
(b) is processed for either of those purposes
is exempt from section 10 to the extent to which the exemption is required in the
interests of the operation of the system.
Health, education and social work
The Minister may by order exempt from the subject information
32.(1)
provisions, or modify those provisions in relation to, personal data
(a) consisting of information as to the physical or mental health or
condition of a data subject;
(b) in respect of which the data controller is an educational institution and
which consist of information relating to persons who are or have been
pupils at the educational institution;
(c) in respect of which the data controller is a tertiary institution and which
consist of information relating to persons who are or have been students
at the tertiary institution;
(d) of such other descriptions as may be specified in the order, being
information processed
(i) by public authorities, charities or other entities designated by or
under the order; and
(ii) in the course of, or for the purposes of, carrying out social work
in relation to the data subject or other individuals.

(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1)(d), Minister shall not confer any
exemption or make any modification under subsection (1)(d) except so far as he

49
considers that the application to the data of those provisions (or of those
provisions without modification) is likely to prejudice the carrying out of social
work.
(3)

In subsection (1)

“educational institution” has the meaning assigned to it by section 2 of the
Education Act, Cap. 41;
“tertiary institution” has the meaning assigned to it by section 2 of the Education
Act, Cap. 41.
Regulatory activity
Personal data processed for the purposes of discharging functions to
33.(1)
which this subsection applies is exempt from the subject information provisions
to the extent to which the application of those provisions to the data would be
likely to prejudice the proper discharge of those functions.
(2) Subsection (1) applies to any relevant function which is designed for the
purpose of
(a) protecting members of the public against
(i)

financial loss due to dishonesty, malpractice or other seriously
improper conduct by, or the unfitness or incompetence of,
persons concerned in the provision of banking, insurance,
investment or other financial services or in the management of
bodies corporate;

(ii)

financial loss due to the conduct of discharged or undischarged
bankrupts; or

(iii) dishonesty, malpractice or other seriously improper conduct by,
or the unfitness or incompetence of, persons authorised to carry
on any profession or other activity;
(b) protecting charities against misconduct or mismanagement, whether
by trustees or other persons in their administration;

50
(c) protecting the property of charities from loss or misapplication;
(d) the recovery of the property of charities;
(e) securing the health, safety and welfare of persons at work; or
(f)

protecting persons other than persons at work against risk to health or
safety arising out of, or in connection with, the actions of persons at
work.

(3) Personal data processed for the purpose of discharging any function which
is designed for protecting members of the public against
(a) maladministration by public authorities;
(b) failures in services provided by public authorities; or
(c) a failure of a public authority to provide a service which it is a function
of the authority to provide
is exempt from the subject information provisions in any case to the extent to
which the application of those provisions to the data would be likely to prejudice
the proper discharge of that function.
(4) Personal data processed for the purpose of discharging any function which
is designed for
(a) protecting members of the public against conduct which may adversely
affect their interests by persons carrying on a business;
(b) regulating agreements or conduct which have as their object or effect
the prevention, restriction or distortion of competition in connection
with any commercial activity; or
(c) regulating conduct on the part of one or more undertakings which
amounts to the abuse of a dominant position in a market
is exempt from the subject information provisions to the extent to which the
application of those provisions to the data would be likely to prejudice the proper
discharge of that function.

51
(5)

For the purposes of subsection (2) “relevant function” means
(a) any function conferred on any person by or under any enactment;
(b) any function of a public authority; or
(c) any other function which is of a public nature and is exercised in the
public interest.

Journalism, literature and art
34.(1)
Personal data which is processed only for the purposes of journalism
or for artistic or literary purposes is exempt from any provision to which this
subsection relates where
(a) the processing is undertaken with a view to the publication by any
person of any journalistic, literary or artistic material;
(b) the data controller reasonably believes that, having regard in particular
to the special importance of the public interest in freedom of
expression, publication would be in the public interest; and
(c) the data controller reasonably believes that, in all the circumstances,
compliance with that provision is incompatible with the purpose of
journalism or artistic or literary purposes.
(2) In considering for the purposes of subsection (1)(b) whether the belief of
a data controller that publication would be in the public interest was or is a
reasonable one, regard may be had to his compliance with any code of practice
which is relevant to the publication in question and is designated by the Minister
by order for the purposes of this subsection.
(4) In any proceedings against a data controller where the data controller
claims, or it appears that any personal data to which the proceedings relate are
being processed
(a) only for the purposes of journalism or for artistic or literary purposes;
and

52
(b) with a view to the publication by any person of any journalistic, literary
or artistic material which, at the time 24 hours immediately before the
relevant time, had not previously been published by the data controller,
the proceedings shall be stayed until either of the conditions in subsection (5) is
met.
(5)

The conditions referred to in subsection (4) are
(a) that a determination of the Commissioner with respect to the data in
question takes effect; or
(b) in a case where the proceedings were stayed on the making of a claim,
that the claim is withdrawn.

(6) For the purposes of this section “publication”, in relation to journalistic,
literary or artistic material, means make available to the public or any section of
the public.
Research, history and statistics
The processing of personal data only for research purposes in
35.(1)
compliance with the relevant conditions is not to be regarded as incompatible
with the purposes for which it was obtained.
(2) Personal data which is processed only for research purposes in compliance
with the relevant conditions may be kept indefinitely.
(3) Personal data which is processed only for research purposes is exempt from
section 10 where
(a) the personal data is processed in compliance with the relevant
conditions; and
(b) the results of the research or any resulting statistics are not made
available in a form which identifies data subjects.

53
(4) For the purposes of subsections (1) to (3), personal data is not to be treated
as processed otherwise than for research purposes merely because the data is
disclosed
(a) to any person, for research purposes only;
(b) to the data subject or a person acting on his behalf;
(c) at the request, or with the consent, of the data subject or a person acting
on his behalf; or
(d) in circumstances in which the person making the disclosure has
reasonable grounds for believing that the disclosure falls within
paragraph (a), (b) or (c).
(5)

In this section

“research purposes” includes statistical or historical purposes;
“the relevant conditions”, in relation to processing of personal data, means the
conditions that the data
(a) is not processed to support measures or decisions with respect to
particular individuals; and
(b) is not processed in such a way that substantial damage or substantial
distress is, or is likely to be, caused to any data subject.
Manual data held by public authorities
Personal data which fall within paragraph (e) of the definition of
36.
“data” in section 2 is exempt from Parts II, III, IV and VI.
Information available to the public by or under enactment
37.
Personal data is exempt from Parts II, III, IV and VI where the data
consist of information which the data controller is obliged by or under any
enactment to make available to the public, whether by publishing it, by making
it available for inspection, or otherwise and whether gratuitously or on payment
of a fee.

54
Disclosures required by law or made in connection with legal
proceedings
Personal data is exempt from the non-disclosure provisions where the
38.(1)
disclosure is required by or under any enactment, by any rule of law or by the
order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(2) Personal data is exempt from the non-disclosure provisions where the
disclosure is necessary
(a) for the purpose of, or in connection with, any legal proceedings
including prospective legal proceedings; or
(b) for the purpose of obtaining legal advice,
or is otherwise necessary for the purposes of establishing, exercising or defending
legal rights.
Parliamentary privilege
39.
Personal data is exempt from Parts II, III, IV and VI where the
exemption is required for the purpose of avoiding an infringement of the
privileges of either House of Parliament.
Legal professional privilege
40.
Personal data is exempt from the subject information provisions where
the data consist of information in respect of which a claim to legal professional
privilege could be maintained in legal proceedings.
Domestic purposes
41.
Personal data processed by an individual only for the purposes of that
individual’s personal, family or household affairs including recreational purposes
is exempt from Parts II, III, IV and VI.

55
Confidential references given by the data controller
Personal data is exempt from section 10 where it consists of a reference
42.
given or to be given in confidence by the data controller for the purposes of
(a) the education, training or employment, or prospective education,
training or employment, of the data subject;
(b) the appointment, or prospective appointment, of the data subject to any
office; or
(c) the provision, or prospective provision, by the data subject of any
service.
Armed forces
43.
Personal data is exempt from the subject information provisions to the
extent to which the application of those provisions would be likely to prejudice
the combat effectiveness of any of the armed forces of the Crown.
Judicial appointments and honours
44.

Personal data processed for the purposes of
(a) assessing any person’s suitability for judicial office or the office of
Queen’s Counsel; or
(b) the conferring by the Crown of any honour or dignity,

is exempt from the subject information provisions.
Appointments to public service
45.
The Minister may by order exempt from the subject information
provisions personal data processed for the purposes of assessing any person’s
suitability for
(a) employment in the Public Service; or

56
(b) any office to which appointments are made by the Governor-General
or by a Minister.
Corporate finance
46.(1)
Where personal data is processed for the purposes of, or in connection
with, a corporate finance service
(a) the data is exempt from the subject information provisions to the extent
to which either
(i) the application of those provisions to the data could affect the price
of any instrument which is already in existence or is to be or may
be created; or
(ii) the data controller reasonably believes that the application of those
provisions to the data could affect the price of any such instrument;
and
(b) to the extent that the data is not exempt from the subject information
provisions by virtue of paragraph (a), the data is exempt from those
provisions where the exemption is required for the purpose of
safeguarding an important economic or financial interest of Barbados.
(2)

For the purposes of subsection (1)(b) the Minister may by order specify
(a) matters to be taken into account in determining whether exemption
from the subject information provisions is required for the purpose of
safeguarding an important economic or financial interest of Barbados;
or
(b) circumstances in which exemption from those provisions is, or is not,
to be taken to be required for that purpose.

(3)

In this section

57
“corporate finance service”means a service consisting of
(a) underwriting in respect of issues of, or the placing of issues of, any
instrument;
(b) advice to undertakings on capital structure, industrial strategy and
related matters and advice and service relating to mergers and the
purchase of undertakings; or
(c) services relating to such underwriting as is mentioned in paragraph
(a);
“price”includes value.
Negotiations with data subject
Personal data which consist of records of the intentions of the data
47.
controller in relation to any negotiations with the data subject is exempt from the
subject information provisions in any case to the extent to which the application
of those provisions would be likely to prejudice those negotiations.
Examinations
48.(1)

The results of an examination are exempt from section 10.

(2) Personal data consisting of information recorded by candidates during an
academic, professional or other examination is exempt from section 10.
(3) In this section“examination”includes any process for determining the
knowledge, intelligence, skill or ability of a candidate by reference to his
performance in any test, work or other activity.
Powers to make further exemptions by order
49.(1)
The Minister may by order exempt from the subject information
provisions personal data consisting of information the disclosure of which is

58
prohibited or restricted by or under any enactment where and to the extent that
he considers it necessary for the safeguarding of
(a) the interests of the data subject; or
(b) the rights and freedoms of any other individual,
that the prohibition or restriction ought to prevail over those provisions.
(2) The Minister may by order exempt from the non-disclosure provisions any
disclosures of personal data made in circumstances specified in the order, where
he considers the exemption is necessary for the safeguarding of the interests of
the data subject or the rights and freedoms of any other person.
(3)

An order made under this section shall be subject to negative resolution.
PART VI
DATA CONTROLLER AND DATA PROCESSOR

Data controllers must be registered
50.(1)
A person shall not operate as a data controller unless he is registered
in the Register of Data Controllers.
(2) A person who desires to operate as a data controller may, upon application
to the Commissioner in the prescribed form and payment of the prescribed fee,
obtain a certificate from the Commissioner for the purpose.
(3) A data controller that is not established in Barbados shall nominate, for the
purposes of this Act, a representative established in Barbados.
(4) A person who operates as a data controller without being registered under
subsection (1) is guilty of an offence and is liable on summary conviction to a
fine of $10 000 or to a term of imprisonment of 2 months or to both.
(5) A data controller who is not established in Barbados and who does not
nominate a representative pursuant to subsection (3) is guilty of an offence and

59
is liable on summary conviction to a fine of $10 000 or to a term of imprisonment
of 2 months or to both.
(6) For the purposes of subsections (3) and (5), each of the following is to be
treated as established in Barbados:
(a) an individual who is ordinarily resident in Barbados;
(b) a body, association or other entity incorporated, organised, registered
or otherwise formed under any enactment; or
(c) any person who does not fall within paragraph (a) or (b) but maintains
in Barbados an office, branch or agency through which he carries on
any activity related to data processing.
Register of Data Controllers
The Commissioner shall keep a register, to be called the Register of
51.(1)
Data Controllers, in which he shall cause to be entered in relation to each data
controller registered pursuant to section 50, the following particulars:
(a) the name and address and other contact information of the data
controller;
(b) the date of registration;
(c) a description of the personal data processed by or on behalf of the data
controller and of the categories of data subject to which they relate;
(d) a description of the purposes for which the data is processed;
(e) a description of any recipients to whom the data controller intends or
may wish to disclose the data;
(f)

the names, or a description of, any countries outside Barbados to which
the data controller directly or indirectly transfers, or intends or may
wish directly or indirectly to transfer, the data; and

60
(g) where the data controller is not established in Barbados within the
meaning of section 50(6), the name, address and other contact
information of the representative nominated pursuant to section 50(3).
(2) The Register of Data Controllers shall be open to inspection at the office
of the Commissioner.
(3) The Commissioner shall ensure that the Register of Data Controllers is
kept accurate and up to date.
Notification of changes in respect of a data controller
The data controller shall give written notice to the Commissioner of
52.(1)
any changes which may affect the particulars entered in the Register of Data
Controllers in relation to him.
(2) On receiving notification of the data controller under subsection (1) the
Commissioner shall make such amendments to the Register of Data Controllers
as are necessary.
Responsibility of the data controller
53.(1)
The data controller shall implement the appropriate technical and
organisational measures to ensure that processing is performed in accordance
with this Act taking into consideration the nature, scope, context and purposes
of processing as well as the risks of varying likelihood and severity to the rights
and freedoms of individuals.
(2) Where proportionate in relation to processing activities, the measures
referred to in subsection (1) shall include the implementation of appropriate data
protection policies by the data controller.
Data protection by design and by default
54.(1)
The data controller shall both at the time of the determination of the
means for processing and at the time of the processing itself, implement
appropriate technical and organisational measures designed to implement the

61
principles set out in section 4 in an effective manner and to integrate the necessary
safeguards into the processing in order to meet the requirements of this Act and
protect the rights of data subjects, taking into consideration the state of the art,
the cost of implementation and the nature, scope, context and purposes of
processing as well as the risks of varying likelihood and severity for rights and
freedoms of individuals posed by the processing.
(2) The data controller shall implement the appropriate technical and
organisational measures for ensuring that, by default, only personal data which
are necessary for each specific purpose of the processing is processed.
(3) Subsection (2) applies to the amount of personal data collected, the extent
of processing of the personal data, the period of storage of the personal data and
the accessibility to the personal data.
(4) The technical and organisational measures referred to in subsection (1)
shall ensure that personal data is not, by default, made accessible without the
individual's intervention to an indefinite number of individuals.
Data processors must be registered
55.(1)
A person shall not operate as a data processor unless he is registered
in the Register of Data Processors.
(2) A person who desires to operate as a data processor may, upon application
to the Commissioner in the prescribed form and payment of the prescribed fee,
obtain a certificate from the Commissioner for the purpose.
(3) A data processor that is not established in Barbados shall nominate, for the
purposes of this Act, a representative established in Barbados.
(4) A person who operates as a data processor without being registered under
subsection (1) is guilty of an offence and is liable on summary conviction to a
fine of $10 000 or to a term of imprisonment of 2 months or to both.
(5) A data processor that is not established in Barbados and who does not
nominate a representative pursuant to subsection (3) is guilty of an offence and

62
is liable on summary conviction to a fine of $10 000 or to a term of imprisonment
of 2 months or to both.
(6) For the purposes of subsections (3) and (5), each of the following is to be
treated as established in Barbados:
(a) an individual who is ordinarily resident in Barbados;
(b) a body, association or other entity incorporated, organised, registered
or otherwise formed under any enactment; or
(c) any person who does not fall within paragraph (a) or (b) but maintains
in Barbados an office, branch or agency through which he carries on
any activity related to data processing.
Register of Data Processors
The Commissioner shall keep a register, to be called the Register of
56.(1)
Data Processors, in which he shall cause to be entered in relation to each data
processor, the following particulars:
(a) the name and address and other contact information of the data
processor;
(b) the date of registration;
(c) a description of the personal data processed by or on behalf of the data
processor and of the categories of data subject to which they relate;
(d) a description of the purposes for which the data is processed;
(e) a description of any recipients to whom the data processor intends or
may wish to disclose the data;
(f)

the names, or a description of, any countries or territories outside
Barbados to which the data processor directly or indirectly transfers,
or intends or may wish directly or indirectly to transfer, the data; and

63
(g) where the data processor is not established in Barbados within the
meaning of section 55(6), the name, address and other contact
information of the representative nominated pursuant to section 55(3).
(2) The Register of Data Processors shall be open to inspection at the office
of the Commissioner.
(3) The Commissioner shall ensure that the Register of Data Processors is kept
accurate and up to date.
Notification of changes in respect of a data processor
The data processor shall give written notice to the Commissioner of
57.(1)
any changes which may affect the particulars entered in the Register of Data
Processors in relation to him.
(2) On receiving notification of the data processor under subsection (1) the
Commissioner shall make such amendments to the Register of Data Processors
as are necessary.
Data Processor
58.(1)
Where processing is to be carried out on behalf of a data controller,
the data controller shall only use a data processor who shall implement the
appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure that processing will
(a) be in accordance with the requirements of this Act; and
(b) ensure the protection of the rights of the data subject.
(2) The data processor shall not engage another data processor without prior
specific or general written authorisation of the data controller.
(3) Where there is general written authorisation pursuant to subsection (2), the
data processor shall inform the data controller of any intended changes
concerning the addition or replacement of other data processors and the data
controller shall be given the opportunity to object to such changes.

64
(4) Processing by a data processor shall be governed by a written contract
between the data processor and the data controller which sets out the
following:
(a) the subject-matter and duration of the processing;
(b) the nature and purpose of the processing;
(c) the type of personal data and categories of data subjects;
(d) the obligations and rights of the data controller.
(5) The contract prepared pursuant to subsection (4) shall also stipulate that
the data processor
(a) processes the personal data only on documented instructions from the
data controller, including with regard to transfers of personal data to
countries outside of Barbados or an international organisation, unless
required to do so by any enactment and in such a case, the data
processor shall inform the data controller of that legal requirement
before processing, unless the enactment prohibits such information to
be shared on important grounds of public interest;
(b) ensures that persons authorised to process the personal data have
committed themselves to confidentiality or are under an appropriate
statutory obligation of confidentiality;
(c) takes all measures required pursuant to section 62.
(d) respects the conditions referred to in subsections (2) and (7) for
engaging another data processor;
(e) taking into account the nature of the processing, assists the data
controller by appropriate technical and organisational measures,
insofar as this is possible, for the fulfilment of the data controller's
obligation to respond to requests for exercising the data subject's rights
under Part III;

65
(f)

assists the data controller in ensuring compliance with the obligations
pursuant to sections 62 to 66 taking into account the nature of
processing and the information available to the data processor;

(g) on the determination of the data controller, deletes or returns all the
personal data to the data controller after the end of the provision of
services relating to processing, and deletes existing copies unless the
enactment requires storage of the personal data;
(h) makes available to the data controller all information necessary to
demonstrate compliance with the obligations set out in this section and
allow for and contribute to audits, including inspections, conducted by
the data controller or another auditor mandated by the data controller.
(6) Where in relation to subsection (5)(h) an instruction from the data
controller to the data processor infringes this Act, the data processor shall
immediately inform the data controller.
(7) Where a data processor engages another data processor for carrying out
specific processing activities on behalf of the data controller in accordance with
subsection (2), the same obligations as set out in the contract between the data
controller and the data processor as referred to subsections (5) and (6) shall be
imposed on that other data processor, in particular providing sufficient guarantees
to implement appropriate technical and organisational measures in such a manner
that the processing will meet the requirements of this Act.
(8) Where that other data processor mentioned in subsection (7) fails to fulfil
its data protection obligations, the initial data processor referred to in subsection
(7) shall remain fully liable to the data controller for the performance of that other
data processor's obligations.
(9) The Commissioner with the approval of the Minister may prescribe
standard contractual clauses for the matters referred to in subsections (5) and (7).
(10) Where data processor contravenes this Act by determining the purposes
and means of processing, the data processor shall be considered to be a data
controller in respect of that processing.

66
Processing under the authority of the data controller or data processor
The data processor and any person acting under the authority of the
59.(1)
data controller or of the data processor, who has access to personal data, shall not
process those data except on instructions from the data controller, unless required
to do so by any enactment.
(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) is guilty of an offence and is
liable on summary conviction to a fine of $500 000 or to a term of imprisonment
of 3 years or to both.
Records of processing activities
A data controller and, where applicable, the data controller's
60.(1)
representative, shall maintain a record of processing activities under its
responsibility and that record shall contain all of the following:
(a) the name and contact details of the data controller and, where
applicable, the joint data controller, the data controller's representative
and the data privacy officer;
(b) the purposes of the processing;
(c) a description of the categories of data subjects and of the categories of
personal data;
(d) the categories of recipients to whom the personal data has been or will
be disclosed including recipients in other countries or international
organisations;
(e) where applicable, transfers of personal data to another country or an
international organisation, including the identification of that country
or international organisation and, in the case of transfers referred to in
section 26, the documentation of suitable safeguards;
(f)

where possible, the envisaged time limits for erasure of the different
categories of data;

67
(g) where possible, a general description of the technical and
organisational security measures referred to in section 62(1).
(2) A data processor and, where applicable, the data processor's representative
shall maintain a record of all categories of processing activities carried out on
behalf of a data controller, which contains:
(a) the name and contact details of the data processor or data processors
and of each data controller on behalf of whom the data processor is
acting, and, where applicable, of the data controller's or the data
processor's representative, and the data privacy officer;
(b) the categories of processing carried out on behalf of each data
controller;
(c) where applicable, transfers of personal data to another country or an
international organisation, including the identification of that country
or international organisation and, in the case of transfers referred to in
section 26, the documentation of suitable safeguards;
(d) where possible, a general description of the technical and
organisational security measures referred to in section 62(1).
Cooperation with the Commissioner
61.
A data controller and the data processor and, where applicable, their
representatives, shall cooperate, on request, with the Commissioner in the
performance of his tasks.
Security of processing
62.(1)
Taking into account the state of the art, the costs of implementation
and the nature, scope, context and purposes of processing as well as the risk of
varying likelihood and severity for the rights and freedoms of individuals, the
data controller and the data processor shall implement appropriate technical and

68
organisational measures to ensure a level of security appropriate to the risk,
including:
(a) the pseudonymisation and encryption of personal data;
(b) the ability to ensure the ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability
and resilience of processing systems and services;
(c) the ability to restore the availability and access to personal data in a
timely manner in the event of a physical or technical incident;
(d) a process for regularly testing, assessing and evaluating the
effectiveness of technical and organisational measures for ensuring the
security of the processing.
(2) In assessing the appropriate level of security account shall be taken in
particular of the risks that are presented by processing, in particular from
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure of,
or access to personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed.
(3) The data controller and data processor shall take steps to ensure that any
individual acting under the authority of the data controller or the data processor
who has access to personal data does not process the personal data except on
instructions from the data controller, unless he is required to do so by any
enactment.
Notification of a personal data breach to the Commissioner
63.(1)
Where there is a personal data breach the data controller shall without
undue delay and, where feasible, not later than 72 hours after having become
aware of it, notify the personal data breach to the Commissioner, unless the
personal data breach is unlikely to result in a risk to the rights and freedoms of
an individual.
(2) Where the notification of the personal data breach to the Commissioner is
not made within 72 hours, the notification shall be accompanied by reasons for
the delay.

69
(3) The data processor shall notify the data controller without undue delay
after becoming aware of a personal data breach.
(4) The notification of the personal data breach to the Commissioner referred
to in subsection (1) shall
(a) describe the nature of the personal data breach including where
possible, the categories and approximate number of data subjects
concerned and the categories and approximate number of personal data
records concerned;
(b) communicate the name and contact details of the data privacy officer
or other contact point where more information can be obtained;
(c) describe the likely consequences of the personal data breach;
(d) describe the measures taken or proposed to be taken by the data
controller to address the personal data breach, including, where
appropriate, measures to mitigate its possible adverse effects.
(5) Where it is not possible to provide the information at the same time, the
information may be provided in phases without undue further delay.
(6) The data controller shall document any personal data breaches, comprising
the facts relating to the personal data breach, its effects and the remedial action
taken in order to facilitate the Commissioner in his assessment of the data
controller’s compliance with this section.
Communication of a personal data breach to the data subject
64.(1)
Where a personal data breach is likely to result in a high risk to the
rights and freedoms of individuals, the data controller shall communicate the
personal data breach to the data subject without undue delay and, where feasible,
not later than 72 hours after having become aware of it.
(2) The communication to the data subject referred to in subsection (1) shall
describe in clear and plain language the nature of the personal data breach and

70
contain the information referred to in paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) of section
63(4).
(3) The communication to the data subject referred to in subsection (1) shall
not be required where any of the following conditions are met:
(a) the data controller has implemented appropriate technical and
organisational protection measures, and those measures were applied
to the personal data affected by the personal data breach, in particular
those that render the personal data unintelligible to any person who is
not authorised to access it, such as encryption;
(b) the data controller has taken subsequent measures which ensure that
the high risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects referred to in
subsection (1) is no longer likely to materialise;
(c) it would involve disproportionate effort and in such a case, there shall
be a public communication or similar measure whereby the data
subjects are informed in an equally effective manner.
Data protection impact assessment
65.(1)
Where a type of processing in particular using new technologies, and
taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing, is
likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of an individual, the data
controller shall, prior to the processing, carry out an assessment of the impact of
the envisaged processing operations on the protection of personal data.
(2) A single assessment pursuant to subsection (1) may address a set of similar
processing operations that present similar high risks.
(3) The data controller shall seek the advice of the data privacy officer, where
designated, when carrying out a data protection impact assessment.

71
(4) A data protection impact assessment referred to in subsection (1) shall in
particular be required in the case of:
(a) a systematic and extensive evaluation of personal aspects relating to
individuals which is based on automated processing, including
profiling, and on which decisions are based that produce legal effects
concerning an individual or similarly significantly affect the
individual;
(b) processing on a large scale of sensitive personal data; or
(c) a systematic monitoring of a publicly accessible area on a large scale.
(5) The Commissioner shall establish and make public a list of the kind of
processing operations which are subject to the requirement for a data protection
impact assessment pursuant to subsection (1) and the Commissioner shall publish
that list in the Official Gazette.
(6) The Commissioner shall establish and make public a list of the kind of
processing operations where no data protection impact assessment is required
and the Commissioner shall publish that list in the Official Gazette.
(7) A data protection impact assessment referred to in subsection (1) shall
contain
(a) systematic description of the envisaged processing operations and the
purposes of the processing, including, where applicable, the legitimate
interest pursued by the data controller;
(b) an assessment of the necessity and proportionality of the processing
operations in relation to the purposes;
(c) an assessment of the risks to the rights and freedoms of data subjects
referred to in subsection (1); and
(d) the measures envisaged to address the risks, including safeguards,
security measures and mechanisms to ensure the protection of personal
data and to demonstrate compliance with this Act taking into account

72
the rights and legitimate interests of data subjects and other persons
concerned.
(8) Where appropriate, the data controller shall seek the views of data subjects
or their representatives on the intended processing, without prejudice to the
protection of commercial or public interests or the security of processing
operations.
(9) Where necessary, the data controller shall carry out a review to assess if
processing is performed in accordance with the data protection impact assessment
at least when there is a change of the risk represented by processing operations.
Prior consultation
The data controller shall consult the Commissioner prior to processing
66.(1)
where a data protection impact assessment under section 65 indicates that the
processing would result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of an individual
in the absence of measures taken by the data controller to mitigate the risk.
(2) Where the Commissioner is of the opinion that the intended processing
referred to in subsection (1) would infringe this Act, in particular where the data
controller has insufficiently identified or mitigated the risk, the Commissioner
shall, within a period of up to 8 weeks of receipt of the request for consultation,
provide written advice to the data controller and, where applicable to the data
processor.
(3) The period mentioned in subsection (2) may be extended by 6 weeks,
taking into account the complexity of the intended processing.
(4) The Commissioner shall inform the data controller and, where applicable,
the data processor, of any such extension within one month of receipt of the
request for consultation together with the reasons for the delay.
(5) The period mentioned in subsection (2) may be suspended until the
Commissioner has obtained information he has requested for the purposes of the
consultation.

73
(6) When consulting the Commissioner pursuant to subsection (1), the data
controller shall provide the Commissioner with:
(a) where applicable, the respective responsibilities of the data controller
and data processors involved in the processing, in particular for
processing within a group of undertakings;
(b) the purposes and means of the intended processing;
(c) the measures and safeguards provided to protect the rights and
freedoms of data subjects pursuant to this Act;
(d) where applicable, the contact details of the data privacy officer;
(e) the data protection impact assessment provided for in section 65;
(f)

any other information requested by the Commissioner.

Designation of the data privacy officer
The data controller and the data processor shall designate a data
67.(1)
privacy officer in any case where:
(a) the processing is carried out by a public authority or body, except for
a court of competent jurisdiction acting in their judicial capacity;
(b) the core activities of the data controller or the data processor consist of
processing operations which, by virtue of their nature, their scope and
their purposes, require regular and systematic monitoring of data
subjects on a large scale; or
(c) the core activities of the data controller or the data processor consist of
processing on a large scale of sensitive personal data.
(2) A group of undertakings may appoint a single data privacy officer provided
that a data privacy officer is easily accessible from each establishment.
(3) Where a data controller or the data processor is a public authority or body,
a single data privacy officer may be designated for several such authorities or
bodies, taking account of their organisational structure and size.

74
(4) In cases other than those referred to in subsection (1), the data controller
or data processor or associations and other bodies representing categories of data
controllers or data processors may designate a data privacy officer.
(5) The data privacy officer shall be designated on the basis of professional
qualities and, in particular, expert knowledge of data protection law and practices
and the ability to fulfil the duties and functions referred to in section 69.
(6) The data privacy officer may be a staff member of the data controller or
data processor, or fulfil the tasks on the basis of a service contract.
(7) The data controller or the data processor shall communicate the contact
details of the data privacy officer to the Commissioner.
Position of the data privacy officer
The data controller and the data processor shall ensure that the data
68.(1)
privacy officer is involved, properly and in a timely manner, in all issues which
relate to the protection of personal data.
(2) The data controller and data processor shall support the data privacy officer
in performing the duties and functions referred to in section 69 by providing
resources necessary to carry out those tasks and access to personal data and
processing operations, and to maintain his expert knowledge.
(3) A data privacy officer shall not be dismissed or penalised by the data
controller or the data processor for performing duties and functions referred to
in section 69.
(4) A data privacy officer shall report directly to highest management level of
a data controller or a data processor.
(5) Data subjects may contact the data privacy officer with regard to all issues
related to processing of their personal data and to the exercise of their rights under
this Act.
(6) A data privacy officer is required to keep confidential all matters
concerning the performance of his duties and functions referred to in section 69.

75
Duties and functions of a data privacy officer
69.(1)

A data privacy officer shall

(a) inform and advise the data controller or the data processor and the
employees who carry out processing of their obligations pursuant to
this Act;
(b) monitor compliance with this Act and with the policies of the data
controller or data processor in relation to the protection of personal
data, including the assignment of responsibilities, awareness-raising
and training of staff involved in processing operations, and the related
audits;
(c) provide advice where requested as regards the data protection impact
assessment and monitor its performance pursuant to section 65;
(d) cooperate with the Commissioner;
(e) act as the contact point for the Commissioner on issues relating to
processing, including the prior consultation referred to in section 66,
and to consult, where appropriate, with regard to any other matter.
(2) A data privacy officer shall in the performance of his duties and functions
under this section have due regard to the risk associated with processing
operations, taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of
processing.

76
PART VII
DATA PROTECTION COMMISSIONER
Data Protection Commissioner
There shall be a public officer, to be called the Data Protection
70.(1)
Commissioner, who shall be responsible for the general administration of this
Act.
(2) A person is qualified to hold or to act in the post of Data Protection
Commissioner, where that person is qualified to practise as an attorney-at- law
and has so practised for a period of not less than 7 years, or for periods amounting
in the aggregate to not less than 7 years.
(3) In this section “practise as an attorney-at-law” includes any period during
which a person served as an attorney-at-law, advocate, barrister-at-law, solicitor,
parliamentary counsel, magistrate or registrar of a court of competent jurisdiction
in some part of the Commonwealth, or as a professor or teacher of law at the
University of the West Indies or at a school for legal education approved by the
Judicial and Legal Service Commission.
Functions of Commissioner
71.
Without prejudice to the generality of the functions set out in this Act,
the functions of the Commissioner are to
(a) monitor and enforce the application of this Act;
(b) promote public awareness and understanding of the risks, rules,
safeguards and rights in relation to processing;
(c) promote the awareness of data controllers and data processors of their
obligations under this Act;
(d) organise activities addressed specifically to children to educate them
about the risks, rules, safeguards and rights in relation to processing;

77
(e) conduct, at his own discretion or where requested to do so by any
person, an audit of the personal data processed by the person, for the
purpose of ascertaining whether or not the data is processed in
accordance with this Act;
(f)

upon request, provide information to any data subject concerning the
exercise of their rights under this Act;

(g) monitor the processing of personal data and, in particular, sensitive
personal data, and any other matter affecting the privacy of persons in
respect of their personal data, and
(i) report to the Minister on the results of that monitoring; and
(ii) where appropriate, make recommendations on the need for, or
desirability of, taking legislative, administrative or other action to
give protection or better protection, to the privacy of persons in
respect of their personal data;
(h) examine any proposed legislation or proposed policy of the
Government that
(i) the Commissioner considers may affect the privacy of persons in
respect of their personal data; or
(ii) provides for the collection of personal data by any public
authority or the disclosure of personal data by one public
authority to another public authority,
and report to the Minister the results of that examination;
(i)

conduct investigations on the application of this Act, including on the
basis of information received from a public authority;

(j)

receive and invite representations from members of the public on any
matter affecting the privacy of persons in respect of their personal
data;

78
(k) consult and cooperate with other persons concerned with the privacy
of persons in respect of their personal data;
(l)

make suggestions to any person in relation to any matter that concerns
the need for, or the desirability of, action by that person in the interest
of the privacy of persons in respect of their personal data;

(m) provide, at his own discretion or where requested to do so, advice to
any Minister, public authority or person on any matter relevant to the
operation of this Act;
(n) inquire generally into any matter, including any law, practice or
procedure, whether governmental or non-governmental, or any
technical development, where it appears to the Commissioner that the
privacy of persons in respect of their personal data is being or may be
infringed thereby;
(o) undertake research into, and monitor developments in, data processing
and computer technology to ensure that any adverse effects of such
developments on the privacy of persons in respect of their personal
data is minimised, and report to the Minister the results of such research
and monitoring;
(p) report to the Minister on the desirability of the acceptance, by
Barbados, of any international instrument relating to the privacy of
persons in respect of their personal data;
(q) monitor relevant developments, insofar as they have an impact on the
protection of personal data, in particular the development of
information and communication technologies and commercial
practices;
(r) prepare appropriate codes of practice for the guidance of persons
processing personal data;
(s) recommend the adoption and development of standard contractual
clauses and standard data protection clauses pursuant to this Act;

79
(t)

establish and maintain a list in relation to the requirement for data
protection impact assessment pursuant to section 65(5) and (6);

(u) investigate complaints from persons concerning abuses in the
processing of personal data;
(v) approve binding corporate rules pursuant to section 25;
(w) keep internal records of contraventions of this Act and of measures
taken to address those contraventions;
(x) do anything incidental or conducive to the performance of any of the
preceding functions; and
(y) exercise such other functions as are conferred or imposed on the
Commissioner by or under this Act or any other enactment.
Staff
There shall be appointed to assist the Commissioner in the discharge
72.(1)
of his functions such number of public officers as may be required.
(2) A person appointed pursuant to subsection (1) section is subject to the
Commissioner's direction and control in the performance of functions under this
Act.
Confidential information
73.(1)
The Commissioner and a public officer appointed pursuant to section
72(1) shall keep secret all confidential information coming to his knowledge
during the course of the administration of this Act or any other Act that the
Commissioner has jurisdiction to administer or enforce, except insofar as
disclosure is necessary for the administration of this Act or insofar as the
Commissioner authorises that person to release the information.
(2)

Subsection (1) shall not apply where disclosure is required pursuant to
(a) an order made by a court of competent jurisdiction;
(b) a duty or obligation imposed by any enactment; or

80
(c) an international agreement to which Barbados is a party.
(3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) subject to subsection (2) is guilty
of an offence and is liable on summary conviction to a fine of $50 000 or to
imprisonment for a term of 12 months, or to both.
(4) In this section, “confidential information” means information of any kind
and in any form that relates to one or more persons and that is obtained by or on
behalf of the Commissioner for the purpose of administering or enforcing this
Act or any enactment that the Commissioner has jurisdiction to administer or
enforce, or that is prepared from such information, but does not include
information that does not directly or indirectly reveal the identity of the person
to whom it relates.
Indemnity
The Commissioner and his staff shall not be subject to any action,
74.
claim or demand by, or liability to, any person in respect of anything done or
omitted to be done in good faith in the discharge or in connection with the
discharge of the functions conferred on the Commissioner and his staff pursuant
to this Act.
Report
75.(1)
The Commissioner shall, not later than 3 months after the end of each
financial year, submit to the Minister a report of the activities and operations of
the Commissioner throughout the preceding financial year in such detail as the
Minister may direct.
(2) A copy of the report of the Commissioner referred to in subsection (1) shall
be printed and laid before both Houses of Parliament and published in the Official
Gazette not later than 3 months from the date of receipt thereof by the Minister.

81
PART VIII
ENFORCEMENT
Enforcement notice
Where the Commissioner is satisfied that a data controller or a data
76.(1)
processor has contravened or is contravening this Act, the Commissioner may
serve him with a notice, to be referred to as an “enforcement notice” requiring
him, to do either or both of the following:
(a) to take within such time as may be specified in the notice, or to refrain
from taking after such time as may be so specified, such steps as are
so specified; or
(b) to refrain from processing any personal data, or any personal data of a
description specified in the notice, or to refrain from processing the
personal data for a purpose so specified or in a manner so specified,
after such time as may be so specified.
(2) In deciding whether to serve an enforcement notice, the Commissioner
shall consider whether the contravention has caused or is likely to cause any
person damage or distress.
(3)

An enforcement notice shall contain
(a) a statement of the provision of the Act which the Commissioner is
satisfied have been or are being contravened and his reasons for
reaching that conclusion; and
(b) particulars of the right of appeal conferred by section 91.

(4) Subject to subsections (5) and (6), an enforcement notice shall not require
any of the provisions of the notice to be complied with before the end of the
period within which an appeal can be brought against the notice and, where such
an appeal is brought, the notice need not be complied with pending the
determination or withdrawal of the appeal.

82
(5) Where by reason of special circumstances the Commissioner considers that
an enforcement notice should be complied with as a matter of urgency he may
include in the notice a statement to that effect and a statement of his reasons for
reaching that conclusion.
(6) Where subsection (5) applies, the notice shall not require the provisions of
the notice to be complied with before the end of the period of 7 days beginning
with the day on which the notice is served.
Cancellation of enforcement notice
Where the Commissioner considers that all or any of the provisions
77.(1)
of an enforcement notice need not be complied with in order to ensure compliance
with this Act, he may cancel or vary the enforcement notice by written notice to
the person on whom it was served.
(2) A person on whom an enforcement notice has been served may, at any time
after the expiry of the period during which an appeal can be brought against that
enforcement notice, apply in writing to the Commissioner for the cancellation or
variation of the notice on the ground that, by reason of a change of circumstances,
all or any of the provisions of the notice need not be complied with in order to
ensure compliance with the provisions of this Act to which the notice relates.
Request for assessment
A request may be made to the Commissioner by or on behalf of any
78.(1)
person who is, or believes himself to be, directly affected by any processing of
personal data for an assessment as to whether it is likely or unlikely that the
processing has been or is being carried out in compliance with this Act.
(2) On receiving a request under this section, the Commissioner shall make an
assessment in such manner as appears to him to be appropriate, unless he is not
supplied with such information as he may reasonably require to
(a) satisfy himself as to the identity of the person making the request; and
(b) enable him to identify the processing in question.

83
(3) The matters to which the Commissioner may have regard in determining
in what manner it is appropriate to make an assessment include
(a) the extent to which the request appears to him to raise a matter of
substance;
(b) any undue delay in making the request; and
(c) whether or not the person making the request has a right to access the
personal data in question as specified in section 10.
(4) Where the Commissioner has received a request under this section he shall
notify the person who made the request
(a) whether he has made an assessment as a result of the request; and
(b) to the extent that he considers appropriate, having regard in particular
to any exemption from section 10 applying in relation to the personal
data concerned, of any view formed or action taken as a result of the
request.
Information notice
79.(1)

Where the Commissioner

(a) has received a request under section 78 in respect of any processing of
personal data; or
(b) reasonably requires any information for the purpose of determining
whether a data controller has complied or is complying with the data
protection principles,
he may serve the data controller with a notice, to be referred to as an “information
notice”, requiring the data controller to furnish him with specified information
relating to the request or to compliance with the provisions of this Act.

84
(2)

An information notice shall contain
(a) in a case falling within
(i) subsection (1)(a), a statement that the Commissioner has received
a request under section 78 in relation to the specified processing;
or
(ii) subsection (1)(b), a statement that the Commissioner regards the
specified information as relevant for the purpose of determining
whether the data controller or the data processor has complied or
is complying with the provisions of this Act and his reasons for
regarding it as relevant for that purpose; and
(b) particulars of the right of appeal conferred by section 91.

(3)

The Commissioner may specify in an information notice
(a) the form in which the information must be furnished; and
(b) the period within which, or the time and place at which, the information
must be furnished.

(4) Subject to subsection (5), a period specified in an information notice under
subsection (3)(b) must not end, and a time so specified must not fall, before the
end of the period within which an appeal can be brought against the notice and,
where such an appeal is brought, the information need not be furnished pending
the determination or withdrawal of the appeal.
(5) Where by reason of special circumstances the Commissioner considers that
the information is required as a matter of urgency, he may include in the notice
a statement to that effect and a statement of his reasons for reaching that
conclusion and in that event subsection (4) shall not apply, but the notice shall
not require the information to be furnished before the end of the period of 7 days
beginning with the day on which the notice is served.

85
(6) A person shall not be required by virtue of this section to furnish the
Commissioner with any information in respect of
(a) any communication between a professional legal adviser and his client
in connection with the giving of legal advice to the client with respect
to his obligations, liabilities or rights under this Act; or
(b) any communication between a professional legal adviser and his client,
or between such an adviser or his client and any other person, made in
connection with or in contemplation of proceedings under or arising
out of this Act (including proceedings before the Tribunal) and for the
purposes of such proceedings.
(7) In subsection (6) references to the client of a professional legal adviser
includes references to any person representing such a client.
(8) A person shall not be required by virtue of this section to furnish the
Commissioner with any information where the furnishing of that information
would, by revealing evidence of the commission of any offence, other than an
offence under this Act or an offence of perjury, expose that person to proceedings
for that offence.
(9) Any relevant statement provided by a person in response to a requirement
under this section may not be used in evidence against that person on a
prosecution for an offence under this Act, other than an offence under section 83,
unless in the proceedings
(a) in giving evidence the person provides information that is inconsistent
with it; and
(b) evidence relating to it is adduced, or a question relating to it is asked,
by that person or on that person’s behalf.
(10) The Commissioner may cancel an information notice by written notice to
the person on whom it was served.
(11) This section has effect subject to section 82(3).

86
(12) In subsection (1)“specified information”means information
(a) specified or described in the information notice; or
(b) falling within a category which is specified or described in the
information notice.
(13) In subsection (9),“relevant statement”, in relation to a requirement under
this section, means
(a) an oral statement; or
(b) a written statement made for the purposes of the requirement.
Special information notice
80.(1)

Where the Commissioner

(a) receives a request under section 78 in respect of any processing of
personal data; or
(b) has reasonable grounds for suspecting that, in a case in which
proceedings have been stayed under section 34, the personal data to
which the proceedings relate
(i) is not being processed only for the purposes of journalism or for
artistic or literary purposes; or
(ii) is not being processed with a view to the publication by any person
of any journalistic, literary or artistic material which has not
previously been published by the data controller,
he may serve the data controller with a notice, referred to as a “special information
notice”, requiring the data controller to furnish him with specified information
for the purpose specified in subsection (2).
(2) The purpose referred to in subsection (1) is the purpose of ascertaining
whether personal data is being processed
(a) only for the purposes of journalism or for artistic or literary purposes;
or

87
(b) with a view to the publication by any person of any journalistic, literary
or artistic material which has not previously been published by the data
controller.
(3)

A special information notice must contain
(a) particulars of the right of appeal conferred by section 91; and
(b) in a case falling within
(i) subsection (1)(a), a statement that the Commissioner has received
a request under section 78 in relation to the specified processing;
or
(ii) subsection (1)(b), a statement of the Commissioner’s grounds for
suspecting that the personal data is not being processed as
mentioned in that paragraph.

(4)

The Commissioner may also specify in the special information notice
(a) the form in which the information must be furnished; and
(b) the period within which, or the time and place at which, the information
must be furnished.

(5) Subject to subsection (6), a period specified in a special information notice
under subsection (4)(b) must not end, and a time so specified must not fall, before
the end of the period within which an appeal can be brought against the notice
and, if such an appeal is brought, the information need not be furnished pending
the determination or withdrawal of the appeal.
(6) Where by reason of special circumstances the Commissioner considers that
the information is required as a matter of urgency, he may include in the notice
a statement to that effect and a statement of his reasons for reaching that
conclusion and in that event subsection (5) shall not apply, but the notice shall
not require the information to be furnished before the end of the period of 7 days
beginning with the day on which the notice is served.

88
(7) A person shall not be required by virtue of this section to furnish the
Commissioner with any information in respect of
(a) any communication between a professional legal adviser and his client
in connection with the giving of legal advice to the client with respect
to his obligations, liabilities or rights under this Act; or
(b) any communication between a professional legal adviser and his client,
or between such an adviser or his client and any other person, made in
connection with or in contemplation of proceedings under or arising
out of this Act, including proceedings before the Tribunal, and for the
purposes of such proceedings.
(8) In subsection (7) a reference to the client of a professional legal adviser
include a reference to any person representing such a client.
(9) A person shall not be required by virtue of this section to furnish the
Commissioner with any information where the furnishing of that information
would, by revealing evidence of the commission of any offence, other than an
offence under this Act or an offence of perjury, expose him to proceedings for
that offence.
(10) Any relevant statement provided by a person in response to a requirement
under this section may not be used in evidence against that person on a
prosecution for any offence under this Act, other than an offence under section
83, unless in the proceedings
(a) in giving evidence the person provides information inconsistent with
it; and
(b) evidence relating to it is adduced, or a question relating to it is asked,
by that person or on that person's behalf.
(11) In subsection (10) “relevant statement”, in relation to a requirement under
this section, means
(a) an oral statement; or
(b) a written statement made for the purposes of the requirement.

89
(12) The Commissioner may cancel a special information notice by written
notice to the person on whom it was served.
(13) In subsection (1) “specified information”means information
(a) specified, or described, in the special information notice; or
(b) falling within a category which is specified, or described, in the special
information notice.
Determination by Commissioner as to the purposes of journalism or
artistic or literary purposes
Where at any time it appears to the Commissioner, whether as a result
81.(1)
of the service of a special information notice or otherwise, that any personal data
is not being processed
(a) only for the purposes of journalism or for artistic or literary purposes;
or
(b) with a view to the publication by any person of any journalistic, literary
or artistic material which has not previously been published by the data
controller,
he may make a determination in writing to that effect.
(2) Notice of the determination shall be given to the data controller; and the
notice must contain particulars of the right of appeal conferred by section 91.
(3) A determination under subsection (1) shall not take effect until the end of
the period within which an appeal can be brought and, where an appeal is brought,
shall not take effect pending the determination or withdrawal of the appeal.

90
Restriction on enforcement in case of processing for the purposes of
journalism or for artistic or literary purposes
The Commissioner may not serve an enforcement notice on a data
82.(1)
controller with respect to the processing of personal data for the purposes of
journalism or for artistic or literary purposes unless
(a) a determination under section 81(1) with respect to those data has taken
effect; and
(b) the High Court has granted leave for the notice to be served.
(2) The High Court shall not grant leave for the purposes of subsection (1)
(b) unless he is satisfied
(a) that the Commissioner has reason to suspect a contravention of the data
protection principles which is of substantial public importance; and
(b) except where the case is one of urgency, that the data controller has
been given notice of the application for leave.
(3) The Commissioner may not serve an information notice on a data controller
with respect to the processing of personal data for the purposes of journalism or
for artistic or literary purposes unless a determination under section 81(1) with
respect to those data has taken effect.
Failure to comply with notice
83.(1)
A person who fails to comply with an enforcement notice, an
information notice or a special information notice is guilty of an offence and is
liable on summary conviction to a fine of $15 000 or to a term of imprisonment
of 6 months.
(2)

A person who, in purported compliance with an information notice
(a) makes a statement which he knows to be false in a material respect; or
(b) recklessly makes a statement which is false in a material respect,

91
is guilty of an offence and is liable on summary conviction to a fine of $500 000
or to a term of imprisonment of 3 years or to both.
(3) It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under subsection (1)
to prove that he exercised all due diligence to comply with the notice in
question.
Service of notice by Commissioner
84.(1)
Any notice authorised or required by this Act to be served on or given
to any person by the Commissioner may where the person is
(a) an individual, be served on him by
(i)

delivering it to him;

(ii)

sending it to him by post addressed to him at his usual or last
known place of residence or business; or

(iii) leaving it for him at that place; or
(b) a body corporate or partnership, be served on it by
(i) sending it by post to the proper officer of the company at its
principal office; or
(ii) addressing it to the proper officer of the partnership and leaving it
at the office of the proper officer.
(2) This section is without prejudice to any other lawful method of serving or
giving a notice.
(3) Nothing in subsections (1) and (2) precludes the service of a notice by
electronic means.

92
Warrants
Where a Judge of the High Court is satisfied by information on oath
85.(1)
supplied by the Commissioner that there are reasonable grounds for suspecting
that
(a) a data controller or a data processor has contravened or is contravening
Parts II, III or IV; or
(b) an offence under this Act has been or is being committed, and that
evidence of the contravention or of the commission of the offence is
to be found on any premises specified by the Commissioner,
the Judge may issue a warrant.
(2) A warrant issued, under subsection (1), shall authorise a police officer
accompanied by the Commissioner, staff or such other person skilled in
information technology as the police officer may deem necessary for the purpose,
within 7 days of the date of the warrant, to
(a) enter the premises;
(b) search the premises;
(c) inspect, examine, operate and test any equipment found on the premises
which is used or intended to be used for the processing of personal data;
(d) inspect and seize any documents or other material found on the
premises;
(e) require any person on the premises to provide
(i) an explanation of any document or other material found on the
premises;
(ii) such other information as may reasonably be required for the
purpose of determining whether the data controller has
contravened or is contravening Parts II, III or IV.

93
(3) A Judge shall not issue a warrant in respect of any personal data processed
for the purposes of journalism or for artistic or literary purposes unless a
determination by the Commissioner under section 81 with respect to those data
has taken effect.
Execution of warrants
A police officer executing a warrant may use such reasonable force
86.(1)
as may be necessary.
(2) Where the person who occupies the premises in respect of which a warrant
is issued is present when the warrant is executed, he shall be shown the warrant
and supplied with a copy of it and where the person is not present, a copy of the
warrant shall be left in a prominent place on the premises.
(3) A police officer seizing anything in pursuance of a warrant shall make a
list of any items seized with the date and time of the seizure and shall give the
list to
(a) the data controller; or
(b) the occupier of the premises.
Matters exempt from inspection and seizure
87.(1)
The powers of inspection and seizure conferred by a warrant shall not
be exercisable in respect of personal data which, by virtue of section 30, is exempt
from any of the provisions of this Act.
(2) The powers of inspection and seizure conferred by a warrant shall not be
exercisable in respect of any communication between
(a) a professional legal adviser and his client in connection with the giving
of legal advice to the client with respect to his obligations, liabilities
or rights under this Act; or
(b) a professional legal adviser and his client, or between such an adviser
or his client and any other person, made in connection with or in

94
contemplation of proceedings under or arising out of this Act including
proceedings before the Tribunal and for the purposes of those
proceedings.
Return of warrants
88.

A warrant shall be returned to the High Court
(a) after being executed; or
(b) where not executed within the time authorised for its execution;

and the police officer by whom any such warrant is executed shall make an
endorsement on it stating what powers have been exercised by him under the
warrant.
Obstruction of execution of a warrant
89.

Any person who
(a) intentionally obstructs a person in the execution of a warrant;
(b) fails without reasonable excuse to give any police officer executing
such a warrant such assistance as he may reasonably require for the
execution of the warrant;
(c) makes a statement in response to a requirement under section 85(2)
(e) which that person knows to be false in a material respect; or
(d) recklessly makes a statement in response to a requirement under section
85(2)(e) which is false in a material respect,

is guilty of an offence and is liable on summary conviction to a fine of $100 000
or to a term of imprisonment of 2 years or to both.

95
PART IX
DATA PROTECTION TRIBUNAL
Establishment of the Data Protection Tribunal
90.(1)

There is established a tribunal called the Data Protection Tribunal.

(2) The Schedule has the effect as to the constitution of Tribunal and otherwise
in relation to the Tribunal.
Right of appeal
A person on whom an enforcement notice, an information notice or a
91.(1)
special information notice has been served may appeal to the Tribunal against
the notice.
(2) A person on whom an enforcement notice has been served may appeal to
the Tribunal against the refusal of an application under 77(2) for cancellation or
variation of the notice.
(3) Where an enforcement notice, an information notice or a special
information notice contains a statement by the Commissioner in accordance with
section 76(3), section 79(5) or 80(6) then, whether or not the person appeals
against the notice, he may appeal against
(a) the Commissioner’s decision to include the statement in the notice; or
(b) the effect of the inclusion of the statement in respect of any part of the
notice.
(4) A data controller in respect of whom a determination has been made under
section 81 may appeal to the Tribunal against the determination.
(5) A person on whom an order has been made pursuant to under section 94
may appeal to the Tribunal against that order.

96
Determination of appeals
92.(1)

Where on an appeal under section 91(1) the Tribunal considers

(a) that the notice against which the appeal is brought is not in accordance
with this Act or any regulations made thereunder; or
(b) to the extent that the notice involved an exercise of discretion by the
Commissioner, and it is determined that the Commissioner ought to
have exercised his discretion differently,
the Tribunal shall allow the appeal or substitute such other notice or decision as
could have been served or made by the Commissioner and in any other case the
Tribunal shall dismiss the appeal.
(2) Upon appeal pursuant to subsection (1), the Tribunal may review any
determination of fact on which the notice in question was based.
(3) Where on an appeal under 91(2) the Tribunal considers that the
enforcement notice ought to be cancelled or varied by reason of a change in
circumstances, the Tribunal shall cancel or vary the notice.
(4)

On an appeal under 91(3) the Tribunal may direct
(a) that the notice in question shall have effect as if it did not contain any
such statement as is mentioned in that subsection; or
(b) that the inclusion of the statement in accordance with section 76(3),
section 79(5) or 80(6) shall not have effect in relation to any part of the
notice, and may make such modifications in the notice as may be
required for giving effect to the direction.

(5) On an appeal under section 91(4), the Tribunal may cancel the
determination of the Commissioner.
(6) Any party to an appeal to the Tribunal under section 91 may appeal from
the decision of the Tribunal on a point of law to the High Court.

97
PART X
MISCELLANEOUS
Right to compensation and liability
An individual who suffers damage or distress due to any contravention
93.(1)
of this Act by the data controller or the data processor is entitled to compensation
from that data controller or the data processor for that damage.
(2) In proceedings brought by an individual pursuant to subsection (1), it is a
defence for the data controller or the data processor to prove that he took all such
measures in the circumstances as would be reasonably required to comply with
the provisions of this Act.
Unlawful obtaining of personal data
A person shall not knowingly or recklessly, without the consent of the
94.(1)
data controller
(a) obtain or disclose personal data or the information contained in
personal data; or
(b) procure the disclosure to another person of the information contained
in personal data.
(2)

Subsection (1) does not apply to a person who shows that
(a) the obtaining, disclosing or procuring
(i) was necessary for the purpose of preventing or detecting crime; or
(ii) was required or authorised by or under any enactment, by any rule
of law or by the order of a court of competent jurisdiction;
(b) he acted in the reasonable belief that he had in law, the right to obtain
or disclose the data or information or, as the case may be, to procure
the disclosure of the information to the other person;

98
(c) he acted in the reasonable belief that he would have had the consent of
the data controller, if, the data controller had known of the obtaining,
disclosing or procuring and the circumstances of it; or
(d) in the particular circumstances, the obtaining, disclosing or procuring
was justified as being in the public interest.
(3) A person who, contravenes subsection (1), is guilty of an offence and is
liable on summary conviction to a fine of $10 000 or to a term of imprisonment
of 6 months or to both.
(4) A person who sells personal data is guilty of an offence if he obtained the
data in contravention of subsection (1) and is liable on summary conviction to a
fine of $100 000 or to a term of imprisonment of 3 years or to both.
(5)

A person who offers to sell personal data is guilty of an offence where
(a) he has obtained the data in contravention of subsection (1); or
(b) he subsequently obtains the data in contravention of subsection (1)

and is liable on summary conviction to a fine of $100 000 or to a term of
imprisonment of 3 years or to both.
(6) For the purposes of subsection (5), an advertisement indicating that
personal data is or may be for sale is an offer to sell the data.
Administrative penalty
Where the Commissioner after a hearing determines that a person has
95.(1)
contravened section 52(1), section 57(1) and sections 60 to 67 and the
Commissioner considers it to be in the public interest to make an order, the
Commissioner may order the person to pay to the Crown a penalty of an amount
not exceeding $50 000.

99
(2) In addition to the public interest, where the Commissioner seeks to make
an order pursuant to subsection (1), he shall have due regard to the following:
(a) the nature, gravity and duration of the contravention taking into account
the nature scope or purpose of the processing concerned as well as the
number of data subjects affected and the level of damage suffered by
them;
(b) the intentional or negligent character of the contravention;
(c) any action taken by the data controller or data processor to mitigate the
damage suffered by data subjects;
(d) any relevant previous contraventions by the data controller or data
processor;
(e) the degree of cooperation with the Commissioner, in order to remedy
the infringement and mitigate the possible adverse effects of the
contravention;
(f)

the categories of personal data affected by the contravention;

(g) the manner in which the contravention became known to the
Commissioner and, in particular whether, and to what extent, the data
controller or data processor gave notice of the contravention; and
(h) any other aggravating or mitigating factor applicable to the
circumstances of the case, such as financial benefits gained, or losses
avoided, directly or indirectly, from the contravention.
(3) Where the Commissioner makes an order under subsection (1) the
Commissioner shall file in the registry of the High Court a copy of the order
certified by the Commissioner, and on being filed the order shall have the same
force and effect, and all proceedings may be taken on it, as if it were a judgment
of the High Court, unless an appeal has been filed pursuant to section 91.
(4) A penalty imposed by the Commissioner in the exercise of his powers
under this Act shall be payable into the general revenue and may be recovered
by the Crown as a civil debt and for the purposes of the proof of such debt a

100
certificate under the hand of the Commissioner shall be receivable in evidence
as sufficient proof of such debt.
(5) A person aggrieved by an order made by the Commissioner pursuant to
subsection (1) may appeal to the Tribunal within 28 days of the date of the order.
Disclosure of information
No enactment or rule of law prohibiting or restricting the disclosure
96.
of information shall preclude a person from furnishing the Commissioner or the
Tribunal with any information necessary for the discharge of their functions
under this Act.
Act binds Crown
97.

This Act binds the Crown.

Amendment of Schedule
98.

The Minister may by order amend the Schedule.

Regulations
99.
The Minister may make Regulations generally for the purposes of
giving effect to this Act.
Commencement
100.

This Act comes into operation on a date to be fixed by proclamation.

101
SCHEDULE
(Section 90)
Data Protection Tribunal
Constitution
Members of the Tribunal
The members of the Tribunal shall be appointed by the Minister by
1.(1)
instrument in writing from among persons who appear to him to be qualified as
having had experience of, and shown capacity in, matters relating to data
protection and privacy or such other related discipline.
(2) The Tribunal shall comprise 5 members who shall be appointed by the
Minister.
(3) At least one of the members of the Tribunal shall be an attorney-at-law of
at least 10 years standing, and he shall be the Chairman of the Tribunal.
(4) The members of the Tribunal shall hold office for such period not
exceeding 3 years as the Minister may specify in the instrument of
appointment.
(5) The Minister shall appoint a person appearing to him to have the
qualifications necessary for appointment under paragraph 1(3) to act temporarily
in the place of the Chairman where the Chairman is absent or unable to perform
his functions.
Resignation
2.
A member of the Tribunal may at any time resign his office by
instrument in writing addressed to the Minister and such resignation shall take
effect from the date of the receipt by the Minister of that instrument.

102
Revocation of appointments
The Minister shall revoke the appointment of any member of the
3.
Tribunal where that member
(a) fails to carry out any of the functions conferred or imposed on him
under this Act;
(b) becomes of unsound mind or becomes permanently unable to perform
his functions by reason of ill health;
(c) becomes bankrupt or compounds with, or suspends payment to, his
creditors;
(d) is convicted and sentenced to a term of imprisonment or to death; or
(e) is convicted of any offence involving dishonesty.
Gazetting appointments
The appointment, removal or resignation of a member of the Tribunal
4.
shall be recorded in the Official Gazette.
Protection of the members of the Tribunal
5.
No action, suit, prosecution or other proceedings shall be brought or
instituted personally against a member of the Tribunal in respect of any act done
in good faith in pursuance of their functions under this Act.
Remuneration of the members of the Tribunal
6.
There shall be paid to the members of the Tribunal such remuneration
and other such allowances as the Minister may determine.

