A.535

DATA PROTECTION ACT, 2018

No. 32							

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
SECTION

PART I — Preliminary

1. Short title and commencement
2. Interpretation
3. Application
PART II — Information and Data Protection Commission
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

Establishment of Information and Data Protection Commission
Functions and powers of Commission
Staff of Commission
Powers of Commissioner
Oath of secrecy
Direction by Minister

PART III — Information and Data Protection Commission’s Specific
Powers in Relation to Processing of Personal Data
10.
11.
12.
13.

Right of access to information by Commissioner
Commission to seek rectification
Order to delete personal data
Collaboration with other bodies
PART IV — Requirements and Criteria for Processing Data

14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.

Requirements for processing
Limitation to processing
Criteria for processing
Processing for other purposes
Processing for direct marketing
Revocation of consent
PART V — Processing of Sensitive Personal Data

20.
21.
22.
23.

Prohibition for processing of sensitive personal data
Safeguards for processing sensitive personal data
Processing by bodies or entities
Processing for health or medical purposes

of 2018

A.536

24.
25.
26.
27.

Processing for research, scientific and statistics purposes
Processing of genetic and biometric data
Processing for legal purposes or by Government
Processing of identity card

PART VI — Data Collection, Right to Access and Duties of Data
Controller
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.

Information for data subject
Data collected from other sources
Rights of data subject
Authorisation to process
Safeguards for processing of personal data
Notification of breach to safeguards
Obligation to notify Commissioner
Exemption from notification
Data protection representative
Register maintained by data protection representative
Mandatory notification
Register maintained by Commissioner
Information provided by data controller or data protection 		
representative
PART VII — Investigations and Enforcement

41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.

Investigation by Commissioner
Complaints
Enforcement notice
Variation or revocation of enforcement notice
Appeals Tribunal
Appeals
Proceedings of Tribunal
PART VIII — Miscellaneous Provisions

48.
49.
50.
51.
52.
53.
54.

Transborder flow of personal data
Transfer of personal data to third country
Protection from personal liability
Offences and penalties
Compensation for damages
Regulations
Transitional provisions

A.537

An Act to regulate the protection of personal data and to ensure
that the privacy of individuals in relation to their personal data
is maintained; to establish the Information and Data Protection
Commission; and to provide for all matters incidental thereto.
Date of Assent: 03.08.2018
Date of Commencement: ON NOTICE
ENACTED by the Parliament of Botswana.
PART I — Preliminary
1. This Act may be cited as the Data Protection Act, 2018 and
shall come into operation on such a date as the Minister may, by Order
published in the Gazette, appoint.
2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires —
“biometric data” means any information stemming from the statistical
analysis of biological data;
“block” in relation to personal data, means the operation to suspend
modification of data or suspend or restrict the provision of
information to a third party when such provision is suspended or
restricted in accordance with this Act;
“Commission” means the Information and Data Protection Commission
established under section 4;
“Commissioner” means the Commissioner of the Information and Data
Protection Commission appointed under section 6;
“consent” means any freely given, specific and informed expression of
the wishes of the data subject, by which the data subject agrees to
the processing of personal data relating to him or her;
“data controller” means a person who alone or jointly with others,
determines the purposes and means of which personal data is to
be processed, regardless of whether or not such data is processed
by such person or agent on that person’s behalf;
“data processor” means a person who processes data on behalf of the
data controller;
“data protection representative” means a person who is appointed by
the data controller, which person shall independently ensure that
personal data is processed in a correct and lawful manner;
“data subject” means an individual who is the subject of personal data;
“direct marketing” means directly reaching a market, customers or
potential customers on a personal basis or mass media basis, and it
includes attempting to locate, contact, offer and make incentives to
consumers, through communication medium such as phone calls,
private meetings infomercials, magazines or advertisements;
“file” means any structured set of personal data which is accessible
according to specific criteria, whether centralised or dispersed
on a functional or geographical basis, regardless of its format or
media;

Short title and
commencement
Interpretation

A.538

Cap. 01:02

“filing system” means a structured set of personal data which is
accessible according to specific criteria, whether centralised,
decentralised or disposed on a functional or geographical basis;
“genetic data” personal data relating to the inherited or acquired
characteristics of a natural person which give unique information
about the physiology or the health of that natural person and which
result, in particular, from an analysis of a biological sample from the
natural person in question;			
“identity card number” means the number that appears in the National
Identity Card issued in accordance with the National Registration
Act;
“personal data” means information relating to an identified or identifiable
individual, which individual can be identified directly or indirectly,
in particular by reference to an identification number, or to one or
more factors specific to the individual’s physical, physiological,
mental, economic, cultural or social identity; and “data” shall be
construed accordingly;
“processing of personal data” means any operation or a set of operations
which is taken in regard to personal data, whether or not it
occurs by automatic means, and includes the collection, recording,
organisation, storage, adaptation, alteration, retrieval, gathering,
use, disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise
making information available, alignment or combination, blocking,
erasure or destruction of such data; and “processing” shall be
construed accordingly;
“recipient” means a person to whom personal data is provided, but does
not include —
(a) a person who received data in the framework of a particular legal
		proceeding; and
(b) the Commissioner, when the personal data is provided in order to
		 perform the duty to supervise, control or audit;
“sensitive personal data” means personal data relating to a data subject
which reveals his or her —
(a) racial or ethnic origin;
(b) political opinions;
(c) religious beliefs or philosophical beliefs;
(d) membership of a trade union;
(e) physical or mental health or condition;
(f) sexual life;
(g) filiation; or
(h) personal financial information,
and includes —
(a) any commission or alleged commission by him or her of any offence;
(b) any proceedings for any offence committed or alleged to have
		 been committed by him or her, the disposal of such proceedings,
		 or the sentence of any court in such proceedings; and
(c) genetic data, biometric data and the personal data of minors;

A.539

“third country” means a State that is not included in the Order made
under section 48;
“third party” means a person other than the data subject, the data controller,
the data processor, the data protection representative and such
other person authorised by the data controller or data processor;
“transborder flow” means the international flow of personal data which can
either be transmitted by electronic or other forms of transmission,
including satellite; and
“Tribunal” means the Information and Data Protection Appeals Tribunal
established under section 45.
3. (1) This Act shall apply to the processing of personal data entered
in a file by or for a data controller —		
(a) in Botswana; or
(b) where the data controller is not in Botswana, by using automated
		 or non-automated means situated in Botswana, unless those
		 means are used only to transmit personal data:
Provided that when the recorded personal data is processed by nonautomated means, it forms part of a filing system or is intended to form
part of a filing system.
(2) This Act shall not apply to the processing of personal data —
(a) in the course of a purely personal or household activity;
		 and
(b) by or on behalf of the State where the processing —
			 (i) involves national security, defence or public safety,
			 (ii) is for the prevention, investigation or proof of offences,
				 the prosecution of offenders or the execution of sentences
				 or security measures,
			(iii) is for economic or financial interest, including monetary, 	
				 budgetary and taxation matters, and
			(iv) is for a monitoring, inspection or regulatory function connected
				 with the exercise of functions under subparagraphs (i), (ii)
				
and (iii).			
(3) This Act is exempt from application to the processing of personal
data specified under subsection (2) (b), to the extent that adequate
security safeguards have been established in specific legislation for the
protection of such personal data.

Application

PART II — Information and Data Protection Commission
4. (1) There is hereby established a body to be known as the
Information and Data Protection Commission.
(2) The Commission shall be a public office, and the provisions
of the Public Service Act shall apply to the Commission and its
officers.
5. (1) The Commission shall do all such things as are necessary to
protect the personal rights of individuals with regard to their personal
data, and shall ensure the effective application of and compliance with
this Act, in particular, to the right to protection of personal data, access,
rectification, objection and cancellation of such data.

Establishment
of Information
and Data
Protection
Commission
Cap. 26:01
Functions and
powers of
Commission

A.540

Cap. 17:01

Staff of
Commission

(2) Without derogating from the generality of subsection (1), the
Commission shall —
(a) ensure compliance with the provisions of the Statistics Act —
			 (i) with regard to the collection of statistical data and statistical
				 secrecy, and
			(ii) to issue precise instructions and give opinions on the security
				 safeguards in place, for files set up for purely statistical purposes;
(b) instruct a data controller to take such measures which are necessary
		 to ensure that the processing of personal data is in accordance
		 with this Act;
(c) provide guidance and instructions on appropriate measures to
		 ensure the security of personal data;
(d) conduct research and studies, and promote educational activities
		 relating to protection of personal data;
(e) provide information to persons on their rights connected to the
		 processing of personal data;
(f) receive reports and claims from a data subject or his or her
		 representative in regard to a violation of this Act, and to take such
		 remedial action as is necessary or as may be prescribed;
(g) investigate complaints from data subjects and respond to queries
		 of such complaints;
(h) monitor and adopt any authorisation for transborder flow of
		 personal data, and to facilitate international cooperation on the
		 protection of personal data;
(i) create and maintain a public register of all data controllers;
(j) obtain information from data controllers, which information is
		 necessary for the exercise of its functions;
(k) prepare and disseminate a code of practice for data controllers;
(l) issue, where applicable, instructions required to bring processing
		 operations in line with the principles of this Act;
(m) publicise the existence of personal data files, and regularly publish a
		 list of such files, and any other information that the Commission
		 deems necessary;
(n) record all directions received from the Minister in the course of
		 the year; and
(o) perform any other functions that may be conferred on it by the
		 Minister.
6. (1) The Commission shall consist of a Commissioner,
 	 Deputy Commissioner and such other officers as may be necessary
for the proper functioning of the Commission.
(2) The Minister shall appoint the Commissioner and the Deputy
Commissioner, and the Commissioner shall appoint other officers of
the Commission.
(3) The Commissioner shall be responsible for the direction and
administration of the Commission.

A.541

7. The Commissioner may, in the performance of the functions of
the Commission —
(a) authorise any officer of the Commission to conduct an investigation
		 of any alleged breach of the provisions of this Act;
(b) require any person, at any specific time, to provide any information
		 required in the process of an investigation conducted under this
		 Act;
(c) order or direct an officer of the Commission to block, erase or
		 distribute personal data, whichever is applicable; or
(d) do all such things as are necessary to protect the personal rights
		 of individuals with regard to their personal data.
8. The Commissioner and any officer and employee of the Commission
shall, before assuming their duties, take an oath of secrecy before the
Minister in such form as may be prescribed, to carry out their duties
with equity and impartiality and in accordance with the provisions of
this Act.
9. The Minister may give the Commission directions of a general or
specific nature regarding the exercise of its powers and the performance
of its functions, which directions shall not be inconsistent with this Act
or with the obligations of the Commission, and the Commission shall
give effect to any such direction.

Powers of
Commissioner

Oath of secrecy

Direction by
Minister

PART III — Information and Data Protection Commission’s Specific
Powers in Relation to Processing of Personal Data
10. (1) The Commissioner shall be entitled to obtain from the data
controller, on request made in writing —
(a) access to personal data that is processed; and
(b) any information or documentation relating to the processing of
personal data, and security safeguards of such processing:
Provided that where the personal data is processed for the purpose
of compliance with a legal obligation to which the data controller is
subject, the Minister may prescribe procedures for purposes of the
implementation of paragraph (a).
(2) The Commissioner shall at the time of the request made under
subsection (1), specify the time in which a data controller shall respond
to that request.
(3) Without prejudice to any written law, any person who does not
comply with the request made by the Commissioner under subsection
(1), or the time specified to respond to such request under subsection
(2), commits an offence and is liable to a fine not exceeding P100 000
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years, or to both.
(4) Where the Commissioner has made a request under subsection
(1), and obtains sufficient information in order to conclude that the
processing of personal data is unlawful, the Commissioner may prohibit
the data controller from processing personal data in any other manner
than by storing that data.

Right of access
to information
by
Commissioner

A.542

Commissioner
to seek
rectification

Order to delete
personal data

Collaboration
with other
bodies

(5) In the exercise of the functions of the Commission under this
section, the Commissioner may appoint officers for the purposes of
inspection, and such officers shall have the same powers to enter and
search any premises as are vested in a police officer.
(6) An officer appointed under subsection (5) shall produce an
identification card, issued by the Commissioner, to an owner or occupier
of any premises.
11. (1) Where the Commissioner concludes, as a consequence of
information received in terms of section 10, that the personal data that
is processed is incomplete or incorrect, the Commissioner shall order
the data controller to complete or correct the processing of such data.
(2) If the personal data is not completed or corrected in terms of
subsection (1), or if the matter is urgent, the Commissioner may prohibit
the data controller to continue processing the personal data in any other
manner than by storing that data.
12. (1) Where the Commissioner decides that personal data has been
unlawfully processed, the Commissioner shall, by notice made in writing,
order the data controller to delete the personal data.
(2) If the data controller is aggrieved by the decision of the
Commissioner, the data controller may, within 30 days of receipt of the
notice referred to under subsection (1), appeal against such decision to
the Appeals Tribunal.
13. The Commission shall, before taking a decision to exercise its
functions under section 5 (2) (b) and (k), which may significantly impact
on the operation of any Government Department or of any public or
private body, consult a third party who may be directly affected by the
decision and the Commission shall give reasons for the decision made.
PART IV — Requirements and Criteria for Processing Data

Requirements
for processing

14.
(a)
		
		
(b)
		
(c)
		
(d)
		
(e)
		
(f)
		
		

A data controller shall ensure that —
personal data is processed fairly and lawfully, and where appropriate,
the data is obtained with the knowledge or consent of the data
subject;
personal data that is collected is adequate and relevant in relation
to the purposes of its processing;
to the extent necessary for processing, personal data is accurate,
complete and kept up-to-date;
personal data is collected for specific, explicitly stated and legitimate 	
purposes;
personal data is not processed for any purpose that is incompatible
with the specified, explicitly stated and legitimate purposes;
personal data is protected by reasonable security safeguards
against risks such as loss, unauthorised access, destruction, use,
modification or disclosure;

A.543

(g) where data is incomplete or incorrect, all reasonable measures
		 are taken to complete, correct, block or delete the personal data,
		 having regard to the purposes for which it is processed;
(h) personal data is not kept for a period longer than is necessary,
		 having regard to the purposes for which it is processed; and
(i) personal data is processed in accordance with good practice.
15. Personal data shall not be disclosed, made available or otherwise
used for purposes other than those specified, except —
(a) with the consent of the data subject; or
(b) as may be authorised by any written law.
16. Personal data may be processed where —
(a) the data subject has given his or her consent in writing;
(b) processing is necessary for the performance of a contract to
		 which the data subject is party, or in order to take steps at the
		 request of the data subject prior to entering into a contract;
(c) processing is necessary for compliance with a legal obligation to
		 which the data controller is subject;
(d) processing is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of
		 the data subject;
(e) processing is necessary for the performance of an activity that is
		 carried out in the public interest or in  the exercise of an official
		 authorisation vested in the data controller or in a third party to
		 whom the data is disclosed; or
(f) processing is necessary for a purpose that concerns a legitimate
		 interest of the data controller, or of a third party to whom
		 personal data is provided, except where such interest is overridden
		 by the interest to protect the fundamental rights and freedoms of
		 the data subject and in particular the right to privacy.
17. (1) Notwithstanding section 14, personal data may be processed
for historical, statistical or scientific purposes.
(2) The data controller shall, when processing data in accordance
with subsection (1), ensure that —
(a) there are appropriate security safeguards in place where personal
		 data processed for historical, statistical or scientific purposes
		 may be kept for a period longer than is necessary, having regard
		 to the purposes for which it is processed; or
(b) personal data kept for historical, statistical or scientific purposes
		 is not used for any decision concerning the data subject.
18. (1) Subject to subsection (2), where personal data is processed
for purposes of direct marketing, the data controller shall, at no cost,
inform the data subject of his or her right to oppose the processing.
(2) Where the data subject gives a notice of objection to the
processing of his or her personal data for direct marketing, the personal
data of the data subject shall not be processed for such purpose.

Limitation to
processing

Criteria for
processing

Processing for
other purposes

Processing for
direct marketing

A.544

Revocation of
consent

(3) A data controller who processes data despite the objection of
the data subject under subsection (2), commits an offence and is liable
to a fine not exceeding P500 000 or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding nine years, or to both.
19. (1) Where the processing of personal data takes place with the
consent of the data subject, the data subject may at any time, in writing,
revoke his or her consent for legitimate grounds compelling him or her
at that particular time.
(2) The grounds referred to under subsection (1) shall be legitimate,
reasonable and compelling.
PART V — Processing of Sensitive Personal Data

Prohibition for
processing of
sensitive
personal data

Safeguards for
processing
sensitive
personal data
Processing by
bodies or
entities

20. Subject to the provisions of this Part, a person shall not process
sensitive personal data, except where —
(a) the processing is specifically provided for under this data Act;
(b) the data subject has given his or her consent in writing;
(c) the data subject has made the data public;
(d) the processing is —
			 (i) necessary for national security,
			 (ii) necessary for the purposes of exercising or performing any
				 right or obligation which is conferred or imposed by law on
				 the data controller in connection with employment, or
		 (iii)		 authorised by any other written law, for any reason of
				 substantial interest to the public; or
(e) the processing is necessary to protect the vital interest of a data
		 subject or another person in a case where —
			 (i) consent cannot be given by or on behalf of the data subject,
			 (ii) the data controller cannot be reasonably expected to obtain
				 consent of the data subject, or
			(iii) consent by or on behalf of the data subject has been unreasonably
				withheld.
21. A data controller, shall where sensitive personal data is processed,
ensure that appropriate security safeguards are adopted.
		
22. (1) A body of persons or an entity, not being a commercial
body or entity, which has political, philosophical, religious or trade
union objects may, in the course of its legitimate activities and with
appropriate guarantees, process sensitive personal data relating to the
political, philosophical, religious or trade union objects, whichever is
applicable, concerning —
(a) the members of that body or entity; or
(b) any other person who by reason of the objects of the body or
		 entity, the body or entity regularly exchanges information with.

A.545

(2) The sensitive personal data processed under subsection (1) may
be provided to a third party only on the written consent of the data
subject.
23. (1) A health professional or other person who is subject to the
obligation of professional secrecy, may process sensitive personal data
for health or medical purposes, where the processing is necessary for —
­
(a) preventive medicine and the protection of public health;
(b) medical diagnosis;
(c) health care; or
(d) the management of health and hospital care services.
(2) For the purposes of this section, a “health professional” means a
person registered under the Botswana Health Professions Act, the Nurses
and Midwives Act, or any other person under the personal direction
or supervision of the health professional and person who is directly
authorised to perform such functions.
24. (1) Sensitive personal data may be processed for research,
scientific and statistics purposes:
		 Provided that the processing is compatible with specified,
explicitly stated and legitimate purposes.
		 (2) To determine whether the processing of sensitive personal
		 data is necessary under subsection (1), the following shall be
		 satisfied —
			(a) in the case of research and scientific purposes, that the Commissioner
				 has approved the processing on the advice of a committee
				 responsible for research and scientific ethics in an institution
				 recognised by the Commissioner; and
			(b) in the case of statistics, the processing is necessary for the
				 purposes provided under the Statistics Act.
25. (1) The processing of genetic data and biometric data, if it is
processed for what it reveals or contains, is prohibited, except where
the processing is in accordance with section 20.
(2) Where genetic data and biometric data is processed for medicinal
purposes and the consent of the data subject has been granted, such
data shall be processed, only if, a unique patient identification number
is given to the data subject, which patient identification number is different
from any other identification number possessed by the data subject.
26. (1) Sensitive personal data may be processed for legal purposes,
where it is necessary —
(a) in connection with any legal proceedings, including prospective
		 legal proceedings;
(b) for the purpose of obtaining legal advice;
(c) for the purposes of establishing, exercising or defending legal
		 rights; or
(d) for the administration of justice.

Processing for
health or
medical
purposes

Cap. 61:02
Cap. 61:03

Processing for
research,
scientific and
statistics
purposes

Processing of
genetic and
biometric data

Processing for
legal purposes
or by
Government

A.546

Processing of
identity card

(2) Sensitive personal data may be processed by the National
Assembly, any Government Department or Ministry, if it is necessary —
(a) for the exercise of any function of the National Assembly; or
(b) for the exercise of any function of the Government Department
		 or Ministry,
and such processing is compatible with specified, explicitly stated
and legitimate purposes.
(3) The Minister responsible for constitutional affairs may, by Order
published in the Gazette —
(a) exclude the application of subsection (1) (d) and subsection (2)
		 in such cases as may be specified; or
(b) specify further conditions that are to be satisfied to enable the
		 processing under subsection (1) (d) and subsection (2).
27. A data subject’s identity card number may, in the absence of
the data subject’s consent, only be processed where such processing is
clearly justifiable, having regard to —
(a) the purpose of the processing;
(b) the importance of a secure identification; or
(c) any valid reason, as may be prescribed.
PART VI — Data Collection, Right to Access and Duties of Data
Controller

Information for
data subject

28. The data controller or data processor shall, where personal
data is obtained directly from the data subject, provide the following
information to the data subject, except where the data subject already
has the information —
(a) the identity and habitual residence or principal place of business
		 of the data controller or data processor;
(b) the purpose of the processing for which the personal data is
		 intended;
(c) the existence of the right to object to the intended processing,
		 if the processing of the personal data is obtained for the purposes
		 of direct marketing;
(d) taking into account the specific circumstances the data is processed,
		 any other additional information, if the information is necessary
		 to ensure fair processing for the data subject, which information
		 may include —
			 (i) the recipient or category of recipients of the data,
			(ii) whether the reply to any question made to the data subject
				 is obligatory or voluntary, as well as the possible consequence
				 of failure to reply, and
		 (iii)		 the existence of the right to access, rectify, and where
				 applicable, the right to delete the data concerning him or her;
				or

A.547

(e) any other information necessary for the specific nature of the
		 processing, to guarantee fair processing in respect of the data subject.
29. (1) Where personal data is not obtained directly from the data
subject, the data controller or data processor shall, except where the
data subject already has the information, at least provide the information
listed in section 28. 			
(2) The information referred to under subsection (1) shall be
provided —
(a) at the time of undertaking the recording of personal data; or
(b) if a disclosure to a third party is foreseen, not later than the time
		 when the personal data is first disclosed.
(3) The data controller or data processor may not provide the
information required under subsection (1) —
(a) if any other law provides for the registration or disclosure of any
		 such personal data, and appropriate security safeguards are
			adopted;
(b) if the personal data is required for —
			 (i) processing for statistical purposes,
			 (ii) purposes of historical or scientific research, or
			(iii) purposes of medical examination of the population, with a
				 view to protect and promote public health; or
(c) if the provision of such information will be impossible or would
		 involve a disproportionate effort.
30. (1) A data subject shall have the right to —
(a) obtain from a data controller or data processor, confirmation of
		 whether or not the data controller or data processor has personal
		 data relating to him or her;
(b) receive communication of personal data relating to him or her
		 within a reasonable time, from the time of request, and at a
		 reasonable charge, if any;
(c) be given a reason for refusal of a request made under paragraph
		 (a) or (b);
(d) challenge the refusal for requests made under paragraphs (a) and
		 (b) and submit a complaint in accordance with section 42 (1); and
(e) challenge personal data relating to him or her by submitting a
		 complaint in accordance with section 42 (1), and if the challenge
		 is successful, have the personal data deleted, rectified, completed
		 or amended, whichever is required:
				 Provided that where the data subject is for any reason
		 unable to challenge personal data relating to him or her then his or
		 her next of kin may submit a complaint on his or her behalf.
		 (2) Subsection (1) (a) and (b) shall not apply when the personal
data is processed solely for the purpose of scientific research or is kept in a
personal form for a period which does not exceed the period necessary
for the sole purpose of compiling statistics:

Data collected
from other
sources

Rights of data
subject

A.548

Authorisation
to process

Safeguards for
processing of
personal data

Notification of
breach to
safeguards

		 Provided that this subsection shall not apply where the personal
data is used for taking a measure or decision regarding any particular
individual or where there is a risk of breaching the privacy of the data
subject.
31. (1) A person who has access to personal data and is acting under
the authorisation of the data controller or the data processor, which
person includes the data processor, shall process personal data only as
instructed by the data controller or the data processor, as the case may
be, without prejudice to any duty or restriction imposed by law.
(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1), commits an offence
and is liable to a fine not exceeding P20 000 or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding one year, or to both.
(3) A person who processes personal data without authorisation
under this section, commits an offence and is liable to a fine not
exceeding P100 000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three
years, or to both.
32. (1) A data controller, a data processor or a person acting under
authorisation of the data controller or the data processor, shall, in order
to safeguard the security of personal data, take appropriate technical
and organisational security measures necessary to protect personal data
from —
(a) negligent or unauthorised destruction;
(b) negligent loss; or
(c) alteration, unauthorised access and any other unauthorised
		 processing of personal data.
(2) A data controller, a data processor or a person acting under
authorisation of the data controller or the data processor, shall when
undertaking the measures under subsection (1), ensure an appropriate
level of security by taking into account —
(a) technological development of processing personal data, and the
		 costs for implementing the security measures; and
(b) the nature of the personal data to be protected and the potential
		 risks involved.
(3) Where the data controller or data processor outsources the
processing of personal data, the data controller or data processor shall
choose a data processor who gives sufficient guarantees regarding
the technical and organisational security measures in place for the
processing to be done, and shall ensure that the measures are complied
with.
(4) The Commissioner may issue appropriate standards relating to
information for security safeguards for all categories of processing
personal data.
33. (1) The data controller shall, without delay, notify the
Commissioner of any breach to the security safeguards of personal data.

A.549

(2) The data processor shall, without delay, notify the data controller
of any breach to the security safeguards of personal data, which the data
processor holds on behalf of the data controller.
(3) A person who contravenes this section commits an offence and
is liable to a fine not exceeding P100 000 or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding three years, or to both.
34. (1) The data controller shall notify the Commissioner before
carrying out any wholly or partially automated processing operation or
set of such operations which are intended to serve a single purpose or
several related purposes.
(2) Subsection (1) shall not apply to operations which have the sole
purpose of keeping a register that is intended to provide information
to the public by virtue of any law, which register is open for public
inspection.
(3) The notification under subsection (1) may specify —
(a) the name and address of the data controller or data processor;
(b) the purpose of the processing;
(c) a description of the category or categories of a data subject and
		 of the personal data or categories of personal data relating to the
		 data subject;
(d) the recipient or categories of recipients to whom personal data
		 can be disclosed to;
(d) proposed transfers of personal data to a third country;
		 and
(f) a general description allowing a preliminary assessment to be
			made of the appropriateness of the measures taken under section
		 32 to ensure security of processing:
				 Provided that the data controller shall notify the Commissioner
		 of any changes affecting the information referred to under this
		 subsection and the Minister may prescribe any matter related to
		 the form of such notification.
35. (1) The Commissioner may exempt a notification required under
section 34 (1), where the Commissioner is satisfied that —
(a) the personal data being processed has no apparent risk of
		 infringement to the rights of the data subject;
(b) the purposes of the processing, the category of processing, the
		 category of a data subject, the category of a recipient, and the
		 data retention period are specified; and
(c) the data controller has appointed a data protection representative,
		 and the data controller has notified the Commissioner of such
		 appointment.
(2) Where an exemption is granted under subsection (1), the data
controller shall disclose any information required for processing under
section 28.
(3) A public body shall not be exempted from notification under
section 34 (1), for any processing undertaken by that body.

Obligation to
notify
Commissioner

Exemption
from
notification

A.550
Data protection
representative

Register
maintained by
data protection
representative

Mandatory
notification

Register
maintained by
Commissioner

36. (1) A data controller may appoint a data protection representative,
and shall thereupon notify the Commissioner of such appointment.
(2) A data protection representative appointed under subsection (1)
shall —
(a) be a person who holds the requisite qualifications; and
(b) keep a list of the processing carried out, which list shall be
		 immediately accessible to any person applying for access.
(2) Where a data protection representative is removed, the data
controller shall notify the Commissioner of such removal.
(3) Where a data protection representative has been appointed, the
notification required under section 34 (1) shall not be required.
(4) A data protection representative shall —
(a) ensure that the data controller processes personal data in a
		 lawful and correct manner and in accordance with good practice, and
		 where the data protection representative identifies any inadequacies,
		 he or she shall bring these to the attention of the data controller;
			and
(b) assist the data subject to ensure that his or her rights under the
		 Act are protected.
(5) Where the data protection representative has reason to suspect
that the data controller is contravening the rules applicable for processing
personal data, and if rectification is not implemented as soon as practicable
after such contravention is pointed out, the data protection representative
shall notify the Commissioner.
(6) The data protection representative may consult with the
Commissioner where there is doubt as to how the rules applicable to
processing of personal data are to be applied.
37. (1) A data protection representative shall maintain a register of
the processing conducted on behalf of the data controller.
(2) The data protection representative shall, at the instruction of the
data controller, provide the information referred to under section 34 (3)
(a) to (e) to any person who requests for it, if that information has not
been notified to the Commissioner in terms of section 34.
38. (1) An exemption for notification under section 35 (1) shall
not apply to processing of personal data that involves a particular
risk of improper interference with the rights and freedoms of the data
subject, and notification of such processing shall be submitted to the
Commissioner, prior to its processing.
(2) The Minister may prescribe the processing operations involving
particular risks referred to under subsection (1).
39. The Commissioner shall maintain a register of processing
operations notified under section 34 (1), and the register shall contain
the information listed under section 34 (3).

A.551

40. (1) A data controller or data protection representative, if instructed
by the data controller, shall provide to any person who requests for it —
(a) any information required under section 34 (3); or
(b) any information relating to the processing of personal data that is
		 not notified to the Commissioner under section 34 (3).
(2) This section shall not apply to the information specified under
section 34 (2).

Information
provided by
data controller
or data protection
representative

PART VII — Investigations and Enforcement
41. (1) The Commissioner may, either on his or her own initiative or
upon receipt of information or a complaint from any person, commence
an investigation, where the Commissioner has reasonable grounds to
suspect that —
(a) there is interference with the protection of personal data;
(b) the rights of a data subject are being infringed upon; or
(c) personal data is not processed in accordance with this Act.
(2) For the purposes of investigations under this section, any officer
of the Commission delegated to investigate may —
(a) enter any premises used or apparently used by a data controller,
		 at any reasonable time and search for any record, document or
		 thing that the investigator considers relevant to the investigation;
(b) inspect and make copies, or take extracts from, and where necessary
		 in an appropriate case, take possession of such record, document
		 or thing; and
(c) direct the data controller or any relevant person, in writing, to —
			 (i) produce the relevant evidence to the investigator as specified
				 in the direction,
			 (ii) give the investigator explanations or further information
				 about the relevant evidence, or
			(iii) attend before the investigator at a reasonable time and place
				 specified in the direction, and answer under oath, questions
				 relating to the matter.
 	(3) Section 10 (6) applies to an investigator who enters any premises
under this section.
42. (1) A person may submit a complaint in writing, to the
Commissioner —
(a) alleging interference with the protection of personal data; or
(b) against a decision made under this Act, of which the data subject
		 or his or her next of kin is aggrieved.
(2) The Commissioner may, where he or she is satisfied that there is
a need to investigate a complaint brought under subsection (1), direct an
investigation to be conducted in terms of section 41.
43. (1) Where the Commissioner is satisfied that any person has
interfered or is interfering with the protection of personal data, the
Commissioner may serve the person with an enforcement notice,
requiring that person —

Investigation
by
Commissioner

Complaints

Enforcement
notice

A.552

Variation or
revocation of
enforcement
notice

Appeals
Tribunal

Appeals

Proceedings of
Tribunal

(a) to take such steps as may be specified in the enforcement notice,
		 within the time specified therein; or
(b) within a period specified in the notice, to stop —
			 (i) 	 processing the personal data specified in the notice, or
			(ii) processing personal data for the purpose or in a manner
				 specified in the notice.
(2) An enforcement notice referred to under subsection (1) shall
contain a statement indicating the nature of the interference with the
protection of personal data, and the reasons for the decision to issue the
enforcement notice.
44. (1) The Commissioner may vary or revoke an enforcement
notice at his or her own instance, or by request made in application by
the person issued with the notice.
(2) The Commissioner may vary or revoke an enforcement notice if
he or she is satisfied that, due to a change in circumstances, all or any of
the provisions of the notice need not be complied with.
(3) An application to vary or revoke an enforcement notice
under subsection (1) shall be in such manner and upon payment of such
fee as may be prescribed.
45. (1) There shall be established an Information and Data Protection
Appeals Tribunal to adjudicate over matters brought before the Tribunal
for breach of any of the provisions of this Act.
(2) The Tribunal established under subsection (1) shall consist of —
(a) a Chairperson, who shall be a High Court judge, a retired High
		 Court judge or a legal practitioner who qualifies to be appointed
		 as a High Court judge; and
(b) two other persons who, in the opinion of the Minister, represent
		 the interests of data subjects and of data controllers.
 	(3) The members of the Tribunal shall be appointed by the Minister
for a term of three years, and shall be eligible for re-appointment for a
further term of three years.
(4) The members of the Tribunal shall be paid such allowances as
shall be determined by the Minister.
46. (1) A person aggrieved by the decision of the Commissioner to —
(a) serve him or her with an enforcement notice; or
(b) refuse to vary or revoke an enforcement notice, may, within 30
		 days of such decision, appeal to the Appeals Tribunal established
		 under section 45.
(2) In determining an appeal under this section the Tribunal may —
(a) dismiss the appeal; or
(b) reverse, amend or vary the decision of the Commissioner.
47. (1) The Tribunal shall sit as and when it has received a complaint.
(2) The Tribunal may call such witnesses or request the production
of such documents as is necessary for the conduct of the proceedings
before the Tribunal.

A.553

(3) A witness appearing before the Tribunal shall be entitled to
the same allowances as those of a witness in proceedings before a
magistrates’ court.
(4) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Tribunal may regulate
its own procedure.
PART VIII — Miscellaneous Provisions
48. (1) The transfer of personal data from Botswana to another
country is prohibited.
(2) Notwithstanding the generality under subsection (1), the Minister
may, by Order published in the Gazette, designate the transfer of
personal data to any country listed in such Order.
49. (1) Without prejudice to section 48, and subject to the provisions
of this Act, the transfer of personal data that is undergoing processing
or intended processing, to a third country may only take place if the
third country to which the data is transferred ensures an adequate level
of protection.
(2) The adequacy of the level of protection of data by a third country
referred to under subsection (1) shall be assessed by the Commissioner
in the light of all the circumstances surrounding a data transfer operation
or a set of data transfer operations, and particular consideration shall be
given to —
(a) the nature of the data;
(b) the purpose and duration of the proposed processing operation;
(c) the country of origin and country of final destination;
(d) the rule of law, both general and sectoral, in force in the third
		 country in question; and
(e) the professional rules and security safeguards which are complied
		 with in that country.
(3) The Commissioner shall decide whether a third country ensures
adequate security safeguards.
(4) The transfer of personal data to a third country that does not
ensure adequate security safeguards is prohibited.
(5) Notwithstanding subsection (4), a transfer of personal data to a
third country that does not ensure adequate security safeguards may be
effected by the data controller if the data subject has given his or her
consent to the proposed transfer or if the transfer —
(a) is necessary for the performance of a contract between the data
		 subject and the data controller or the implementation of
		 pre-contractual measures taken in response to the data subject’s
			request;
(b) is necessary for the performance or conclusion of a contract
		 concluded or to be concluded in the interests of the data subject
		 between the data controller and a third party;

Transborder
flow of
personal data

Transfer of
personal data
to third country

A.554

Protection from
personal
liability

Offences and
penalties

Compensation
for damages

(c) is necessary or legally required for the public interest, or for the
		 establishment, exercise or defence of a legal claim;
(d) is necessary in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject;
		 or
(e) is made from a register that according to any law, is intended to
		 provide information to the public and which is open for public
		 inspection.
(6) Notwithstanding subsection (1), the Commissioner may authorise
a transfer or a set of transfers of personal data to a third country that
does not ensure an adequate level of security safeguards within the
meaning of subsection (2):
		 Provided that the data controller provides adequate safeguards,
which may result by means of appropriate contractual provisions,
with respect to the protection of the privacy and fundamental rights
and freedoms of individuals and with respect to their exercise.
50. No matter or thing done or omitted to be done by the Commissioner
or any officer of the Commission shall, if the matter or thing is done
or omitted to be done bona fide in the course of the operations of the
Commission, render the Commissioner or officer or any person acting
under the direction of the Commissioner, personally liable to an action,
claim or demand.
51. (1) A person who processes personal data in contravention of this
Act commits an offence and is liable to a fine not exceeding P300 000 or
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years, or to both.
(2) A person who processes sensitive personal data in contravention
of this Act commits an offence and is liable to a fine not exceeding P500 000
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding nine years, or to both.
(3) A data controller who processes personal data in contravention of
this Act commits an offence and is liable to a fine not exceeding P500
000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding nine years, or to both.
(4) A data controller who processes sensitive personal data in
contravention of this Act commits an offence and is liable to a fine not
exceeding P1 000 000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 12
years, or to both.
(5) A data controller who does not inform a data subject of the rights
conferred on the data subject under this Act commits an offence and is
liable to a fine not exceeding P100 000 or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding three years, or to both.
(6) Where a data controller does not implement the security
safeguards under section 32, the data controller shall be liable to a fine
of P500 000 or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding nine years, or
to both.
52. (1) A data subject may institute an action for damages against a
data controller who processes data in contravention of this Act.
(2) An action under this section shall be commenced within a period
of 12 months from the date when the data subject became aware or
could have become aware of such contravention, whichever is earlier.

A.555

53. (1) The Minister may make regulations prescribing anything
under this Act which is to be prescribed or which is necessary for the
better carrying out of the objects and purposes of this Act or to give
force and effect to its provisions.
(2) Without derogating from the generality of subsection (1),
regulations may provide for —
(a) additional criteria for the processing of personal data;
(b) procedures for the implementation of access to personal data;
(c) processing operations; and
(d) a code of practice or rules relating to the processing of data.
54. (1) The processing of personal data by any person, which was
ongoing before the commencement of this Act or is ongoing and does
not conform to the provisions of this Act, shall, within a period of 12
months from the commencement of this Act, be made by such person to
conform to the provisions of this Act.
(2) A person who does not comply with subsection (1) commits an
offence and is liable to the penalties set out under section 51.

Regulations

Transitional
provisions

PASSED by the National Assembly this 12th day of July, 2018.
BARBARA N. DITHAPO,
Clerk of the National Assembly.

