(Informal Translation)

Kingdom of Cambodia
Nation Religion King
rrr°sss

Royal Government of Cambodia
No. 24 ANK.BK

SUB-DECREE
ON
THE CODE OF ETHICS FOR MIDWIVES
Royal Government of Cambodia
-

-

-

Having seen the Constitution of the Kingdom of Cambodia
Having seen the Royal Decree No. NS/RKT/0704/124 dated 15 July 2004, on the
Appointment of the Royal Government of Cambodia
Having seen the Reach Kram No. 02 NS/94 dated 20 July 1994 promulgating the
Law on the Organization and Functioning of the Council of Ministers.
Having seen the Reach Kram No. NS/RKT/0196/06 dated 24 January 1996
promulgating the Law on the Establishment of the Ministry of Health
Having seen the Reach Kram No. CS/RKM/1197/06 dated 12 November 1997
promulgating the Law on Abortion
Having seen the Reach Kram No. NS/RKT/1100/10 dated 3 November 2000
promulgating the Law on the Management of Private Medical Professional, ParaClinic Professional and Medical Assistance Professional
Having seen the Royal Decree No. NS/RKT/0906/389 dated 18 September 2006
on the Establishment of the Cambodian Midwives Council
Having seen the Sub-decree No. 67 ANK/BK dated 22 October 1997 on the
Organization and Functioning of the Ministry of Health
Having seen Sub-decree No. 94 ANK/BK dated 11 September 2002 on the
Procedure and Conditions for the Authorization of Foreign Medical, Para-Clinic,
Medical Assistance Professional to Practice in the Kingdom of Cambodia
Having seen the Approval of the Council of Ministers Meeting on 04 January
2013

1

HEREBY DECIDED

CHAPTER 1:
General Provisions
Article 1._
The goal of the Sub-decree is to uphold Midwives’ ethics, value, integrity, effectiveness,
and discipline in midwifery practice in particular obtaining the public’s trust.
Article 1._
The objective of the Sub-decree is to define professional midwifery code of ethics in the
Kingdom of Cambodia.

Article 3._
The Sub-decree governs all midwives who received permission from the Ministry of
Health to practice midwifery.

Article 4._
The terminologies in the Sub-decree are:

“Midwife” is referred to a legal person holding a Midwifery Degree issued by the
Ministry of Health of the Royal Government of Cambodia or issued by any educational
institution whose quality of education is recognized by the Accreditation Committee of
Cambodia (ACC).
“Midwifery practice” is referred to giving the necessary support, care and advice during
pregnancy, labour and the postpartum period, to conduct births on the midwife’s own
responsibility includes family planning, contraception, safe abortion as well as care for
the newborn and the infant.
“Midwifery establishments” is referred to location where midwife practice such as
referral hospital, obstetric clinic, health centre, clinic, private nursing room which
received permission from the competent authorities.

CHAPTER 2
General Duties and Responsibilities of a Midwife
2

Article 5._
To fulfil/achieve its duties and responsibilities, A Midwife shall:
1. Be responsible and accountable professional and works in partnership with
women and her partner, family, and representative.
2. Function in accordance with law, regulation/provision, national guideline and
protocol regulating on midwifery practice.
3. Maintain her professional independence in all circumstances.
4. Be involved in relevant effective policy and strategy development and
collaboration in midwifery practice to promote maternal and child health.
5. Provide safe and effective midwifery care with morality, good behaviour, friendly
and correct words/information, and care/attention.
6. Act to enhance regular professional development of self through continuing
education, research and receiving new information.
7. Develop midwifery profession through contribution in improving national
protocol, guideline, and other related provisions/regulations.
8. Respect the life, body, honor and dignity of patients while providing midwifery
services
9. Be responsible for professional confidentiality as prescribed by law and relevant
provisions for maintaining the privacy, honor and dignity of patients.
10. Respect the rights of a patient in choosing any midwife and shall facilitate a
patient in choosing a midwife of her choice.
11. Provide midwifery services to a patient without discrimination based on race,
color, language, belief, religion, political affiliation, origin, social status, resource,
or other status.
12. Advocate to protect the rights of women, families and communities in relation to
maternity care, including the right to carry out the pregnancy.
Article 6._
A midwife shall distribute medicine based on the prescription and in accordance with
national guideline of the Ministry of Health.
Article 7._
A midwife shall stay with a woman, who is pre-delivery, delivering, has recently
delivered, and/or an infant. In the case of mother and/or an infant in an immediate
danger, a midwife shall provide emergency obstetric neonatal care or provide primary
life saving and refer to midwifery service or other appropriate services.
Article 8._

3

A midwife who is requested by the competent authorities to examine or counsels a
suspect, an accused, a detainee or a convicted person on midwifery profession shall
notify the competent authority about her healthcare status.
Article 9._
To fulfil/achieve its duties and responsibilities, A Midwife shall not:
1. Work in any affairs or institutions which may humiliate or degrade the honor or
dignity of the midwifery profession.
2. Use her authority for obtaining a contract, privilege, rights, or interests from a
patient.
3. Act in conflict of interest with hospitals, clinics or other midwifery
establishments in regards to the referral of patients for commissions or fees.
4. Perform midwifery practice in a public places except of emergency.
5. Issue a midwifery certificate and other letter of certification concerning
midwifery practice.
6. Overcharge or provide false information concerning her services and fees.
7. Use a pseudonym in midwifery practice.
8. Advertise midwifery services without permission from the Ministry of Health.
9. Reveal a patient’s identity for publication or scientific purposes except when the
patient gives her consent.
10. Prescribe or sell medicine.
11. Provide midwifery services or offer midwifery counseling outside her field of
expertise or responsibility except in the case of an emergency.
Article 10._
A midwife who holds any electoral mandates or formal positions shall not use her
position to attract patients.
CHAPTER 3
Relationship between Midwife and Woman or Patient

Article 11._
In the event that a patient, her husband, parents, guardian or the legal representative of
the patient refuses the treatment or healthcare administered by the midwife, the
midwife shall respect their choice and explain to them the consequences of such refusal.
Article 12._
A midwife shall inform about the health condition to the patient, her husband, partner,
family or her legal representative with patient’s consent.
4

Article 13._
A midwife may refuse to provide midwifery services to any patients based on
professional or personal reasons except in case of emergency. If services are refused the
midwife shall refer the patient to alternative services.
Article 14._
A midwife who examines a minor or a person under general guardianship shall notify his
or her parents, general guardian or a legal representative and shall seek consent from
them before providing midwifery services.
In life threatening conditions, a midwife shall provide necessary services with the
presence and agreement from colleagues even they could not contact with those
people.
A midwife may also consider the comments made by a minor and a person under
general guardianship.
Article 15._
A midwife shall offer special protection for a minor, if she or he is not well treated, or if
her or his interests or rights in health are not well protected. In such case, a midwife
shall notify the competent authority as soon as possible.
Article 16._
A midwife or a midwifery establishment shall advertise the fee for midwifery
examination, consultation, care, treatment, and other midwifery services.
A midwife may inform the patient about the fees quote and other necessary costs
before providing midwifery service, except in case of emergency.
Article 17._
In case of an accident in a public place, a midwife shall not abandon the patients, infants
and/or children unless there is an appropriate order by competent authority.
Article 18._
A midwife shall not interfere in personal issues or invade the personal privacy of the
patients except when relating to midwifery practice.
CHAPTER 4
5

Relationship between Midwife and Colleagues and other Medical Professionals

Article 19._
A midwife shall maintain a good relationship with her colleagues and other medical
professionals by encouraging and supporting each other in the interests of professional
healthcare and wellbeing in the community and workplace.
Article 20._
A midwife shall carry out any midwifery duty with collaboration or seek advice or ask for
assistance from other midwives or medical professional except in the case it is
contradictory to the midwifery profession.
Article 21._
A midwife who provides midwifery services to a patient who has previously been
attended by another midwife shall comply as follows:
-

A midwife who may be invited to replace another midwife who is not available
or able to provide midwifery services shall have consent from the patient.

-

A midwife may communicate with a midwife who previously provided midwifery
services to the patient for comments or advice before providing services.

-

A midwife shall withdraw herself from the replacement when the first midwife
returns to practice and provide necessary information for sustainable care.

Article 22._
A midwife shall supervise or govern midwifery trainee who is practicing in her working
place.
Article 23._
A midwife shall not establish any groups or networking in order to discriminate other
colleagues.
Article 24._
A midwife shall not act any things which affect the midwifery profession or dignity of
midwives.
CHAPTER 5
6

Midwifery Practice
Article 25._
A midwife may print personal identification and information includes:
1. Full name, qualification, midwifery registration number with Cambodian
Midwives Council, address of the midwifery establishment, phone number, fax
number, e-mail address, website, date and time of consultation.
2. Full name of all midwives if practice as group

Article 26._
A midwife or midwifery establishment shall publicize information as follows:
1. Full name, midwifery registration number with Cambodian Midwives Council,
address of the midwifery establishment, phone number, fax number, e-mail
address, and website.
2. Full names and registration numbers with Cambodian Midwives Council of all
midwives employed in the establishment
3. Table of services prices
Article 27._
A midwife shall be allowed to practice in a private institution as a private midwife. If a
midwife work public and private, her private work shall not affect the public.
Article 28._
A midwife who treats a patient shall not be a member of disciplinary committee for the
same case.
A midwife who works at the same midwifery establishment or is a relative up to 3rd level
or a close connection to a person involved in the case being reviewed shall not be a
member of disciplinary committee.
Article 29._
A midwife who is a member of disciplinary committee shall be professionally
independent and competent to express opinions concerning her analysis and findings of
the reviewed case.

7

A midwife (A midwifery reviewer) shall not be biased in providing her arguments or
conclusions concerning to the reviewed case.
Article 30._
A midwifery reviewer shall not interfere in the treatment or healthcare plan of the
attended midwife except as the law or provisions state otherwise.
Article 31._
A midwifery reviewer shall strictly respect professional confidentiality. Reports or
documents containing identification of the patient or attending midwife shall not be
disclosed to irrelevant institutions or the public.

CHAPTER 6
Other Provisions
Article 32._
At the time of registration, a midwife shall declare before the Provincial Midwives
Council that she has understood the Sub-decree on the Code of Ethics for Midwives and
promise in the official written document you follow the Ethics .
Article 33._
A false statement submitted to the Provincial Midwives Council by a midwife shall be
subject to disciplinary actions.
Article 34._
A midwife who changes or gives up her midwifery professional practice shall notify to
the Provincial Midwives Council. Provincial Midwives Council acknowledges and report
to the National Midwives Council.
Article 35._
Each level of the Midwives Council shall make its decisions in implementing the Subdecree on Code of Ethics for Midwives based on clear reason.

Article 36._

8

In case of refusal of the decision of the Provincial Midwives Council, The request shall be
made within 2 months after the decision to the National Midwives Council by the
woman or midwife.
CHAPTER 7
Final Provisions

Article 37._
All provisions contrary to this Sub-decree shall be hereby repealed.
Article 38._
The Minister of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Ministry of Economics and
Finance, the Minister of the Ministry of Health, the Minister of the Ministry of Women
Affairs, all ministers, secretary of states of relevant ministries and institutions shall be
responsible to apply this Sub-decree from the date of signature.
Phnom Penh, 18 January 2013
Prime Minister
Signature & Stamp

Samdech Akka Maha Sena Padei Techo HUN SEN
Places of Reception
-

Ministry of the Royal Palace
General Secretariat of the Constitutional Council
General Secretariat of the Senate
General Secretariat of the National Assembly
General Secretariat of the Royal Government
Cabinet of the Prime Minister
Cabinets of H.E. Deputy Prime Ministers
As indicated in Article 38 of this Sub-decree
Official Gazette
Chronological File

9

