Kingdom of Cambodia
Nation Religion King
Royal Government of Cambodia
No. 156 អនក្រ.បរ
Sub Decree
On
Dentists’ Code of Ethics

Royal Government of Cambodia
-

-

-

Having seen the Constitution of the Kingdom of Cambodia;
Having seen the Royal Kret No. NS/RKT/0908/1055 dated July 25, 2008 on the Appointment of
the Royal Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia;
Having seen the Royal Kram No. 02/NS/94 dated July 20, 1994 promulgating the law on the
Organization and Functioning of the Council of Ministers;
Having seen the Royal Kram No. NS/RKM/0196/06 dated January 24, 1996 promulgating the law
on the Establishment of Ministry of Health;
Having seen the Royal Kram No. NS/RKM/1100/10 dated November 03, 2000 promulgating the
law on the Management of Private Professional Practice in the fields of Medical, Paramedical,
and Medical Aid;
Having seen the Royal Kret No. NS/RKT/0905/396 dated September 02, 2005 on the
Establishment of Cambodian Dental Council;
Having seen Sub Decree No. 67/ANKr/BK dated October 22, 1997 on the Organization and
Functioning of Ministry of Health;
Having seen the Sub Decree No. 94/ANKr/BK dated September 11, 2002 on Procedure and
Conditions Authorizing Medical Paramedical and Medical Aid Foreigners to Perform Private
Professional Practices in the Kingdom of Cambodia
Pursuant to the Approval of the Council of Ministers at its Plenary Session on September 04,
2009
HEREBY DECIDES
Chapter I
General Provisions

Article 1:
This Sub-decree aims at determining the provisions on professional ethics for dentists in
the Kingdom of Cambodia.
Article 2:
The objectives of this Sub-decree are to:
- Promote ethics of dentists
- Uphold honor and dignity for professional dental service practice
- Improve Quality and Effectiveness of professional dentists.
Article 3:
This Sub-decree covers on professional dentists and interned campus dental students
who are capable for replacing the active dentists throughout the Kingdom of Cambodia.

Article 4:
The term “Dentist” in this Sub-decree refers to a legal person who holds Dental degree
issued by the Ministry of Health or Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport or a higher educational
institute whose education quality is accredited by Accreditation Association of Cambodia.
Chapter 2
General Obligations of Dentist
Article 5:
In performing dental professional conduct, either in private sector or public sector, a
dentist shall respect human life, body and dignity.
Under any circumstances, dentists shall obey principles of ethics such as honesty and
fidelity required in dental professional conduct.
Article 6:
To the best interest of the patients, dentists shall maintain confidentiality as stipulated
by the provisions of the laws.
Article 7:

Under any circumstances, dentists shall not abandon their professional independence.

Article 8:
Dentists must respect patient’s rights of free choice for choosing his/her dentist.
Dentists shall facilitate in a choosing process.
Article 9:
Dentists shall conscientiously check and provide dental advice or treatment to the public
without discrimination on the grounds of nationality, race, gender, language, belief, religion, political
ideology, origin, social status, financial status, or under any circumstance.
Article 10:
Under the law, dentists have adequate freedom to make prescription perceived to be
suitable for the situation. Professional conscience requires dentists to make prescription and do what is
necessary to ensure quality and efficiency of dental care. Dentists shall take into consideration the
benefits and consequences that could eventually happen in the course of dental research and treatment.
Article 11:
Before sick or injured persons, dentist shall rescue them or provide any necessary
treatment and care professionally.
Article 12:
Dentists who are invited to examine or treat the patient who loses freedom, shall not
cause or collude to cause harm on the body, mind, or honor of the patient either directly or indirectly. In
case the person is ill-treated by any means, the dentists shall inform relevant competent authorities
after receiving the consent from the person-himself.
Article 13:
Dentists shall strive to maintain and improve their dental knowledge. Dentists must
attend every training activity. Dentists must participate in evaluation process on professional practice.
Article 14:
Dentists shall support activities related to prevention and education of oral health.
Listing, analyzing, and transmission of information of names either direct or indirect shall be done only
within the law permit.
Article 15:
Dentists, when participate in providing information on public health education by any
means of dissemination shall talk prudentially and care about repercussion of his or her comment to the

public. In this sense, dentists shall raise information that is well verified. Dentists shall not advertise for
his or herself, the entity by which he or she is employed, or in favored of, or any cause which does not
serve the public interest.
Article 16:
Dentists must not propagate in the health sector about how diagnostic or therapeutic
procedures without a proper confirmation and without attachments of the reserved information.
Dentists shall not make such propagation before the public which is not under the health-framework.
Article 17:
A dentist can participate in bio-medical research on human subjects that are permitted
by the law only. Dentists shall set clearly regulations and suitability including the final and actual
conclusions of the research.
A dentist who participates in the bio-medical research shall monitor the result of research which are not
affected the patient’s confidence in the dentist and sustainability of dental treatment.
Article 18:
Blood drawing, removal of organ, tissues, cells or another part of the body of living
person or dead body shall be carried out under legal permission only.
Article 19:
Dental profession shall not be authorized to be altered, to be a personal business. Of
either directly or indirectly visible objects that are exaggerated propagations exceed the actual fact shall
be prohibited.
Article 20:
Dentists shall always keep an eye on their name, advertisement, and qualification. A
dentist shall not forgive any public or private organizations where he or she is working or cooperate
with using his/her title or professional for advertisement.

Article 21:
Unless there is legal recognition otherwise the distribution of medical drugs,
equipments or devices, or products that seemed beneficial for health, but not yet guaranteed shall
be prohibited. Dentists shall not provide unauthorized pharmaceuticals to patients.
Article 22:
Collusions between dentists and dentists, physicians, pharmacist and paramedical,
or the public either through physical or psychological behavior that are aiming for the personal
interest shall be prohibited.
Article 23:
Dentists shall not provide counseling and treatment for patients at any commercial
facility or any place where they sell drugs, products or medical equipments that dentists prescribe
or use.
Article 24:
Dentists can practice other profession as long as it does not affect the professional
dignity, and does not generate benefits from dental prescription or dental advice.
Article 25:
Dentists who are fulfilling their mandate through election or perform public
administrative functions shall not use their functions to increase their clients.
Article 26:

Providing biased report or forged certificate shall be prohibited.

Article 27:
Deception, violation of authorized treatment fees, providing false information on
the cost of treatment as well as other profitable activities shall be prohibited.
Article 28:

Facilitating or supporting unlawful dental professional shall be prohibited.

Article 29:
Even outside of professional framework, dentists must avoid all performance that
undermines his/her owned profession.

Chapter 3
Duties of Dentists toward Patients
Article 30:
When accepting a patient for treatment, dentists shall ensure to treat him/ her
attentively and based on science knowledge, and when necessary, must seek help from those who
are more competent.
Article 31:
Dentists shall always diagnose disease with care, spending necessary times and
based on appropriate scientific procedure, when necessary, should seek for appropriate assistance.
Article 32:
Dentists shall write prescription clearly enough for the patients, relatives, and
neighbors to understand and follow the prescription properly.
Article 33:
Dentists shall provide patients clear and honest dental advice and information on
health condition of patients, other research and cares related to what dentists shall do during
treatment.
Dentists shall think about characteristic of patients when providing explanation and
make sure that they understand.
For the best interest of patients and in accordance with dental professional ethics
and conscience, dentists shall not inform patients about diagnosis or prognosis perception
of serious illness, except that illness may contaminate his neighbors.
Information of prognosis diseases that leads to hopeless for patient shall be held in a
very careful manner. The family of the patient shall be informed about the status except
someone who is prohibited by the patient.
Article 34:

In all cases, treatment and care shall get the consent of the patient.

When a normal patient denies dental research or treatment which is likely to be
carried out on the patient, the dentists must respect the denial, after informing the
consequence of the denial to patient.

If the patient cannot express his/her consent and without presence of his/her family,
dentists shall not intervene, except in case of emergencies or unable to contact with his/her
family.
Article 35:
Under any circumstances, dentists shall try to lessen the patient's worry, provide
mental supports, and not be obstinate in dental research or treatment.
Article 36:
Dentists shall stay close to patient who is on the brink of death until the last minute,
continue to provide care and act appropriately for a near death patient, maintain patient dignity
and provide psychological motivation to his neighbors.
A dentist has no right to cause death with intention.
Article 37:
Dentists shall not provide drug or therapeutic method which is improbable or
without adequate experimental support to health although perceiving that it may support for
health or harmless.
Deceitful treatment is prohibited.
Article 38:
Dentists shall not cause unreasonable danger to patient in term of medical research
and other interventions as well as treatment.
Article 39:
If there is no critical dental reason and without prior informed consent of the
patients, surgery shall not leave the patient handicapped, except in an emergency case or when
unable to contact the patients' family.
Article 40:
Dentists, who are invited to provide treatment and cares for minors or mental
disable adults, shall inform their parents or legitimate guardian to obtain their consents.
In case of emergency, even if family or guardian cannot be contacted, dentists must provide
necessary primary treatment.
In case the patient can express his/her idea, the dentist shall take his/her ideas into
consideration.
Article 41:
Dentists shall safeguard minors (children under 15 years old) when perceive that
people around the minor do not understand and protect the interest of the health of minors.
Article 42:
Dentists shall keep a dental record for each patient. The dental record should be
kept as confidential document and to be used to record daily all information that are beneficial for
diagnosis and treatment.
In every case, dentists shall be responsible in taking care of the records.

On request or with the consent of patient, dentists shall provide necessary
information and documents to other dentists who shall involve or continue to provide
treatment to the patient or dentist who is going to be selected for further treatment.
Article 43:
the patients.

Under any circumstance, dentists shall ensure the sustainability of nursing care for

Except in the case of emergency and in case that a dentist’s humanitarian obligation
cannot be fulfilled, a dentist has the right to refuse to provide dental treatment due to problems of
professional or personal reason.
If the dentist refuses this mission, the dentist shall inform the patient and send
necessary information to other dentists that selected by the patient to continue treatment.
Article 44:
Dentists shall not abandon his/ her patient in time of public danger, except on
receipt of absolute order from competent authorities in accordance with the laws.
Article 45:
A dentist who is invited to provide dental care for a family or a community shall take
every step to comply with the hygienic and preventive measures.
Dentists shall inform the patient about his/her responsibility and obligations and
toward other people including other precautions.
Article 46:
Dentists shall facilitate the patient to receive social benefits that should be given to
patient in accordance with the law, and not depend upon unreasonable request of the patient.
Except the case that a patient denies, dentists shall be authorized to provide
necessary dental information to advisory dentists of a social service organization to which the
patient belongs, or a dentist of public organization who has the right to distribute social benefits.
Article 47:
Dentists shall not interfere in any family or personal affair of patients, except
professional reasons.
Article 48:
A dentist who provides dental treatment to a patent until he/she die may inherit
benefits through his/her expression or will made during his/her treatment and in accordance with
the laws.
Dentists shall not use any influence to obtain power or to sign any contract with the
patient containing conditions that provide unusual benefits the dentist.
Article 49:
The fees of dental checking and treatment shall be determined into different
levels/categories that were carried out or in special circumstances. Fees of those treatments can be
charged only after treatment is provided.

Dentist must not demand any fee of treatment via his/her dental explanation or
advice given to patient through telephone or letters.
Dentists shall respond every request for information and explanation relating to
treatment fees.
No special way of payment can be imposed on the patient.
Article 50:
When there are more dentists collaborate to conduct dental examination or
treatment, the fees of treatment shall be made separately for each dentist.
Contribution for an assistant chosen to work under a dentist’s supervision shall be
included with the treatment fees of the dentist.
Article 51:
In all circumstances, monopolized contract for the effective treatment and demand
for deposit shall be prohibited.

Chapter 4
The Relationship between Dentist and Dentist, and
Between Dentist and Other Health Professionals
Article 52:
Dentists shall always maintain good relationships between each other. Dentist who
are in conflict shall seek solution through conciliation and if necessary through Provincial or
Municipal Dentist Council. Dentist shall help each other in time of difficulty.
Article 53:

Misleading or attempt to mislead clients shall be prohibited.

Article 54:
when consulting with patients who received previous dental treatment from
another colleague, dentist shall:
-

Respect the patient’s interest and provide special treatment for urgent
situation only,
Respect the rights of the patient for choosing another dentist with the
patient’s consent, a consulted dentist shall report any finding and decisions
to the treating dentist. In case that the patient refuses, the consulting
dentist shall inform the patient about consequences that might occur due to
the patient's refusal.

Article 55:
Dentist when invited to immediately consult with a patient, if the patient need to
receive re-examination by treating dentist or by another dentist, the consulting dentist should write

a report about his or her intervention and treatment or send to colleague directly after informing
the patient.
Consulting dentist shall keep a copy of the report.
Article 56:
Dentist, in necessary case, should seek for consultation with a colleague or agree to
consult with another dentist as requested by the patient or the patient’s relatives.
If a consulting dentist perceives that he or she cannot accept the patient’s choice,
the consulting dentist can refuse to participate. The consulting dentist can advise the
patient to choose another dentist as consulting dentist if patient does not choose any one
by himself.
After consultation, the consulting dentist shall inform in writing to the treating
dentist about his/her finding, conclusion and eventual treatment and patient shall also be
informed about this matter.
Article 57:
After dental consultation, if the consulting dentist and treating dentist have strong
conflicting ideas, the patients should be informed about the matter. The treating dentist has the
right to cancel his dental care in case that the patient or people around entrusted their confidence
on the consulting dentist.
Article 58:
Consulting dentist shall not initiate or re-examine the patient without prior
informing the treating dentist except in case of emergencies.
Consulting dentist shall not continue to provide dental care when the dental care is
under the competency of the treating dentist except that it is the patient’s will, then the
consulting dentist shall provide all necessary information to the treating dentist for
continuing treatment of the patient.
Article 59:
Without violation to the provisions on dental service of public and private hospitals,
a dentist in charge of treatment for inpatient shall inform about the hospitalization to treating
dentist or neighbors as indicated by patients. The dentist of the hospital shall inform about
necessary decisions to treating dentist who may be invited to take part if it is possible.
Article 60:
When there are more dentists collaborated to provide examination and treatment
of patients, those dentists shall share information to each other. Each dentist shall assume
responsibility individually and shall keep monitor the development of the patient.
Each dentist can refuse to participate or discontinue cooperation on condition when
the refusal to participate or discontinuity will not cause any harm to the patient and this
information must inform all colleagues.

Article 61:
Dentist can allow a colleague or in campus dental student who has completed all
conditions determined by Dentist Council to temporarily replace the professional practice. The
dentist shall inform beforehand to the relevant PDC about the name, qualification of the
replacement person including date and duration of replacement.
The dentist to be replaced shall stop all independent professional practice during
the replacement period.
Article 62:
At the end of the replacement period, the replacement person shall stop all
treatment activities that perform during the replacement period and shall provide all necessary
information to the concerned dentist for the continuity of treatment.
Article 63:
Professional dental practices that aim to discount the treatment fee of the dentist
for purpose of competition shall be prohibited.
A dentist has freedom to provide dental care free of charge.
Article 64:
For the interest of the patient, dentist shall maintain good relationship with all
fellow members of dental profession. All members shall have mutual respect among professional
independence and respect the freedom of patient’s selection.

Chapter 5
Professional Practice
Section 1
General Principle of all Professions
Article 65:
Dental professional practice is the duty of individual dentist. Each dentist shall be
responsible for his or her own decision and actions.
Article 66:
In principle, all dentists shall possess skills in making dental diagnosis, prevention
and treatment. Except in special cases, when it is beyond the capability, experience and available
means, dentist must not initiate or continue care or issue prescription.
Article 67:
At the professional practice place, dentist shall have appropriate facility, a suitable
room for maintaining professional confidentiality, and shall have adequate technical means which
are appropriate to duties of dentist or with people that the dentists is in charge of. A dentist shall
take precautions, especially on sterilization, and prevention of infection through equipments that
are used and to abolition of dental waste in compliance with procedural orders.
Dentist shall not practice their profession under conditions that may spoil the
quality of dental care and activities or may affect safety of the patient.

A dentist shall monitor capacity of those who involved in the same work.
Article 68:
Dentist shall make sure that his or her assistant know how to keep compliance and
professional confidentiality. A dentist shall be precautionary and not leak any confidential
information to nearby people through professional correspondence.
Article 69:
Dentist shall keep confidentiality of dental records and information of the patient
under his or her dental care or treatment regardless of either the content or benefits of those
documents.
When dentist needs to use his or her experience or documents in the purpose of
scientific promotion or teaching, dentist shall protect the patient’s identity or otherwise
shall seek the patient’s consent.
Article 70:
Dentist who performs his or her professional practice in uncertain place shall be
prohibited, unless there is an approval for benefits of public health.
Article 71:

Dentists shall not use any pseudonym to perform professional practice.

Article 72:
Issuance of dental certificate, letter of certification and other documents shall be
determined by the laws or orders.
Dental certificate, prescription, letter of certification or all documents issued by
dentist shall write clearly and easily to read by using the national script and specify the date
with signature of the dentist. The dentist may give patients documents translated in other
foreign language.
Article 73:
The framework of sustainable dental care, dentist shall participate in guarding duty
for both day and night-time. However, the provincial/ municipal dental council may eventually
grant exclusive permission to exempt dentists from this duty due to old age, health and condition of
the dental professional practice.
Article 74:
When dentist participates in guarding duty, emergency service, or fulfill any
assigned obligation, the dentist shall arrive at the work place immediately.
To facilitate this mission, dentist shall be authorized to use a sticky laminated label
of “Emergency Dentist” on the windscreen of his/ her vehicle, and the label shall be
removed when the emergency service is over.
The emergency dentist shall inform the treating dentist of the patient about his or
her intervention as stipulated in Article 55 of this Sub-decree.
Article 75:

Dentist shall be authorized to include the following points in a prescription:

1. Family name, given name, address of professional workplace, telephone, fax
numbers, e-mail, and date and time of consultation.
2. Name of all related dentists in case dentists are working as group.
3. Status of dentist with organization or health insurance company, if there is.
4. Qualification recognized by the Cambodian Dentist Council and the Ministry of
Health.
Article 76:
Dentist shall be authorized to include the following points in a publication manual
for the public:
1. Family name, given name, address of professional workplace, telephone, fax
numbers, e-mail, and date and time of consultation.
2. Name of all related dentists in case dentists are working as group.
3. Status of dentist with health organization or health insurance company, if there is.
4. Qualification, certificate of specialty, and other competencies recognized by the
Cambodian Dentist Council and the Ministry of Health.
Article 77:

Some features that a dentist shall be allowed to put on a label at the facility:
-

-

family name, given name, telephone numbers, date and working hours for
consultation, personal status with health organization or health insurance
company, certificate, position, and qualification recognized by the
Cambodian Dentist Council and the Ministry of Health.
A label can be put before the front door of the building, and another one at
the door of consulting room that is suitable for professional practice.

Article 78:
When opening a new location or changing profession, dentist may announce this
information on newspaper but not in the form of advertisement. The texts and how to advertise
must notify in advance to Provincial/ Municipal Dentist Council.
Article 79:
The dental professional practice of any form either it is in the enterprise, in a
collectivity or in the institutions that operate under private laws shall be performed under written
contract.
The contract shall be clearly written about the obligation of all relevant parties of
the contact.
All the contact shall obey the Labor Law of the Kingdom of Cambodia, and submit
one copy to the Provincial/ Municipal Dentist Council to preserve.
Article 80:
The dental professional practice of any form either it is under the state institution,
collectivity or public institutions shall be operate under written contract except that the dentist is a
lawful agent of the state, the collectivity, or the public institution.

The dentist shall submit one copy of the contract to jurisdiction body of the
Cambodian Dentist Council to preserve.

Section 2
Private Dental Professional Practice
Article 81:

In principle, a dentist shall have only one consulting room.

A dentist may have a consulting room as a branch when the dentist can provide
normal and regular consultation at the branch room. To establish or retain a consulting
branch room which is under any form must obtain the authorization of their respective
Dentist Council.
This authorization could be granted to another dentist who has the same expertise
if the other dentist is living far away and cannot fulfill needs of patient to ensure urgency,
quality, and sustainability of dental care.
Authorization shall be granted to the applicant and it is not transferable to another
person.
The authorization shall be valid for only three years and can be renewable when
there is new authorization from the provincial/ municipal dentist council.
The authorization can be revoked anytime especially when another dentist who has
equal competence to establish health care facility to serve needs of the patients there.
Of all circumstances, one dentist shall not have more than one branch of consulting
room.
Article 82:
Dentist or in-campus dental student who replace a colleague for a period of time of
at least three months shall not open a new consulting room before two years in the location that
may cause competitiveness with a dentist whom he or she has replaced and a colleague of the
dentist whom he or she has replaced, unless agreed by all parties and send a written notification to
provincial/ municipal dentist council.
In case that all parties shall not agree, the opening of a new location shall not get
authorization from provincial/ municipal dentist council.
Article 83:
The employment of one or more dentists or dental students in consulting room for
his own interest is prohibited.

However, dentist may seek for assistance when there are too many patients in any
specific region.
Eventually if the assistant is a dentist, authorization from provincial/ municipal
dentist council is required. If the assistant is a dental student, authorizations shall obtain as
stipulated in the law.
The provisions in this Article do not prohibit education clinical practice of the dental
student with operative dentist under the conditions of the laws.
Article 84:
In pursuance of the derogation of paragraph 1 of Article 82 of this Sub-decree, a
dentist may receive assistance from another dentist in special circumstance as such the outbreak of
epidemic or the dentist’s health condition.
It shall be provided special authorization for a period of three months with possible
eventual extension from the provincial/ municipal dentist council.
Article 85:

A dentist shall not allow a colleague to occupy his or her consulting room.

However, the provincial/ municipal dentist council may authorize another dentist to
take charge of his or her colleague’s consulting room for three months and possible
extension for other three months after his/her colleague has died.
Article 86:
A dentist shall not practice dental consultation in the same building that his/her
colleague is practicing the same profession without the consent of the colleague or without
authorization from the provincial/ municipal dentist council.
Article 87:
To set up association or company between dentists to perform professional practice
shall be carried out under written contract which respects the independence of the profession of
each dentist.
Relevant contracts and letters shall be sent to the provincial/ municipal dentist
council for verification of the compliance in accordance with the provisions of this Subdecree and other contents of the contract model prepared by National Dentist Council if any
to response within one month. If there is no response, it is considered as agreement.
Article 88:
Dentist shall not accept a contract which contains terms that would generate
benefits for the enterprise in order to obtain rewards or the duration of contract which may cause
impact over the independence of professional decision or quality of dental care.
Article 89:
In a building that has many dentists working together, under circumstance of any
type of legal conditions, the practice of dental profession is still under the duty of each dentist. Each
dentist shall maintain his/her professional independence.

Rights to choose dentist of the patients shall be respected.
Each dentist may use paper-sheet with sign/logo of an association or a company
which the dentist is a member. Signature of the dentists should be accompanied with name
and address.
Article 90:
In the Association of Dentist and in consulting and oral treatment clinic, the division
of treatment-fees between dentists shall be done as stated in their own contact or conditions.

Section 3
Paid Professional Dental Practice
Article 91:
Dentist who performs his/her professional practice under the contract or conditions
with the government, community, public organization, or private entity must his/her maintain
professional confidentiality and independence in decision-making.
In any circumstance, dentist shall not be limited over their independence of
maintaining professional practice from the enterprise's or organization's employers of that
dentist. Dentist shall always carry out duties by prioritizing on the interest of public health,
on the interest and safety of workers of the enterprise or community where dentist is
working for.
Article 92:
In any circumstance, dentist who receives salary shall not receive any bonus on the
ground of the standard of production, standard of outcome, or other management if that bonus
affects the independence and the quality of dental care.
Article 93:
Dentist who works in private or public services of dental care or disease prevention
shall not use their function to attract more clients for his/her own benefits.
Article 94:
Dentist in charge of providing preventive dental service for the community shall
have no rights for providing dental treatment to that community, except in emergency case or as
set by the law. This dentist shall refer the patient to another treating dentist or other dentists
appointed by that community.

Section 4
Professional Dental Inspection

Article 95:
A dentist who is responsible for dental inspection shall not be both preventive
dentist and treatment dentist on patients under his/ her inspection at the same time, except in
emergency case.
This prohibition applies to family's members of the patient who live together and to
community's members if the dentist is working for that community.
Article 96:
Being in the position of the mission, the inspecting dentist shall refuse if he/she
understands that the question is beyond the scope of dental techniques, competence or ability of
the dentist, or that it prompts the dentist to perform in contrary to the provisions of this Subdecree.
Article 97:
Inspecting dentist shall explain the patient whom shall be inspected about the
mission and the legal framework of the mission that carries out under his/ her limitation and scope
of application.
The inspecting dentist shall be cautionary with his/her verbal communication and
shall not leak any confidentiality or explanation about the mission.
An inspecting dentist must not be biased in his/her conclusion.
Article 98:
Inspecting dentist shall not intervene or alter dental treatment unless there is a
provision set by the laws. During inspection, if inspecting dentist does not agree with treating
dentist on diagnosis, or prognosis, or understand that the treating dentist do not care about
important factors, and benefits of dental treatment, the inspecting dentist shall directly inform the
treating dentist. When facing difficulty of the matter, the inspecting dentist may provide his/her
comment to the provincial/ municipal dentist council.
Article 99:
Inspecting dentist shall protect confidentiality from authorities, or entities that
invited him/her to conduct the inspection. Inspecting dentist may provide conclusion on general
administration to the authorities or institution only and does not need to mention about dental
reasons.
Dental information, that contains name or that may leads to name identified,
prepared by the dentist shall not be given to any non-dental person, authority or institution.

Section 5
Dental Forensic Profession

Article 100:
A dentist shall not act as a forensic dentist and treating dentist for the same patient.
A dentist shall not accept the mission for forensic which related to his/her personal interests, or
interests of patients, relatives, friends, or a community that always need the dentist's service.
Article 101:
Being in the position of the mission, the forensic dentist shall refuse if he/she
understands that the question is beyond the scope of dental technique, competence or ability of
the dentist or it may inspire dentist to perform contrary to the provisions of this Sub-decree.
Article 102:
The forensic dentist before implementing forensic method must inform the
controller of the mission and legal framework what the dentist may suggest.
Article 103:
In the report, forensic dentist shall mention only elements that may provide the
answer to the question. Forensic dentist shall not present any other elements known while applying
forensic.
The forensic dentist must certify that he/ she complete the mission personally.

Section 6
Other Provisions
Article 104:
When applying for registration, dentists shall declare before the board of the
provincial/ municipal dentist council that he/ she is fully understood this Sub-decree on Dentist’s
Code of Ethics and swear in accordance to the oath and written that “obey this code of ethics”.
Article 105:
Improper or incomplete certification with intentionally made by dentist for the
board of the provincial/ municipal dentist council shall result in disciplinary accusation.
Article 106:
Dentist who changes conditions of professional practice or abandon their profession
shall notify to the provincial/ municipal dentist council. After acknowledgment of notification, the
provincial/ municipal dentist council shall notify the board of the National Dentist Council.
Article 107:
All decisions of all levels of dentist council relating to the implementation of this
Sub-decree shall clearly specify the reasons.
Article 108:
Decisions of the provincial/ municipal dentist council shall be renewed or be
considered null and void by the National Dentist Council as provided by provision or at request of
individuals concerned. The proposal shall be made within two months after receipt of the decisions.
Article 109: All levels of the board of the provincial/ municipal dentist council shall be
responsible for monitoring the implementation of these provisions. Violation of these provisions
shall be punished as stipulated in the law.

Section 7
Final Provision
Article 110:

Any provision contrary to this Sub Decree shall be null and void.

Article 111: Minister of Council of Ministers, Minster of Health, Minister of Justice, Minister of
Interior, Minister of Social Affairs, Labor, Vocational Training and Youth Rehabilitation, Minister of
Environment, Minister of Rural Development, Ministers, Secretaries of State, all relevant ministries
and institutions shall implement this Sub-decree from date of signing.

Phnom Penh, September 16, 2009
Prime Minister

Hun Sen
Places of Reception
- Ministry of the Royal Palace
- General Secretariat of the Constitutional Council
- General Secretariat of the National Assembly
- General Secretariat of the Senate
- General Secretariat of the Royal Government
- Cabinet Office of Prime Minister
- Cabinet Office of Deputy Prime Minister
- As stated in Article 111
- Royal Acts
- Documents-Achieves

