Translation by Perfect Translation Service | Copyright © 2019 Pheakkdeylaw.com
(National Coat of Arms)
9 6:5/593%/1119/016 |
| | F
Preah Karuna Preah Bat Samdech Preah Borom Neath NORODOM SIHAMONI,
the faithful and devoted servant of the country, religion, nation and the Khmer
people; the protégé of Buddha and Indra; the unifier of all Khmers; and the defender
of independence, territorial integrity and peace of Kampuchea; and the happiness,
liberty and prosperity of the Khmer people, Preah Chao Krong Kampuchea Thipadei
- Having seen the Constitution of the Kingdom of Cambodia;
- Having seen Royal Decree number 8 ¢U/if1#1/0918/925, dated 6 September 2018, on the
Appointment of the Royal Government of the Kingdom of Cambodia;
- Having seen Royal Code number § fi /i715/0618/012, dated 28 June 2018, promulgating
the Law on the Organization and Functioning of the Council of Ministers;
- Having seen Royal Code number 8 fJ/1715/0196/16, dated 24 January .1996, promulgating
the Law on the Establishment of the Ministry of Commerce;
- Having seen the proposal of Samdech Akka Moha Sena Padei Techo HUN SEN, Prime |
Minister of the Kingdom of Cambodia;
Promulgate
The Law on Consumer Protection which was passed by the National Assembly on 8
October 2019 during its 3% session of the 6™ legislative term, and whose entire legal
form and substance were completely reviewed by the Senate on 18 October 2019 during
the extraordinary session of the 4° legislative term, and the whole content of which is
as follows: |


Law on Consumer Protection


| Chapter 1
General Provisions
Article 1.- Purpose
This Law is aimed at ensuring the protection of consumers and contributing to the
promotion of fair competition.
Article 2.- Objective
The objective of this Law is to define the rules and mechanisms for contributing
to the creation of the trading environment, in which:
- The rights and interests of consumers are protected;
- The trading is fairly competitive, and
- Consumers and business persons conduct activities together with trust.
Article 3.- Scope
This Law shall be applicable to all persons engaged in business whether for profit
making purpose or not, including the sale of goods or services or real rights to property
to consumers in the Kingdom of Cambodia, unless otherwise stipulated herein by
separate provisions.
Article 4.- Definitions
1. Access refers to the access to goods and real rights to property through gifts,
trading, exchange or other agreements and access to services through
agreements. |
2. Commercial advertisement refers to a public promotion or promotion in any form
to a group among the public for the purpose of promoting the supply of goods or
services or the sale or grant of real rights to property. |
3. Competent regulator refers to any ministry [or] institution whose function and
role is to protect the legitimate rights and interests of consumers under its
responsibility.
4. Business refers to activities:
- In which goods or services have been received or supplied, or whose real rights
to property have been received or waived or;
- Which are conducted in an organized and clear manner, or
- In which the person undertakes the activity with a profit-making purpose,
although the activity carried out by the person is a primary or secondary
activity or not conducted on a regular basis.
5. Consumer refers to a person who receives goods or services:
(Stamp) A. Which are used ordinarily for personal, domestic or household purposes and
B. For the purpose of:
_ - Not for further supply in dealing, or
” - Not for use in production chain or production process, or gs
| -Not for use of the goods for commercial activities, such as for building
repairs or for use as fixtures on property. |


6. Consumer rights refer to:


-The right to access information and education in order to distinguish the
difference between goods or services and to prevent fraud and fraudulence by
commercial advertisement;


- The right to choose goods or services with competitive prices and quality;


-The right to be heard on concerns and to examination and settlement by
competent regulators and the Royal Government,


- The right to claim compensation under this Law or other laws.


7. An act refers to an action, denial or ignorance of any act, including the
management or leading of business activities. |


8 Disclosure of information refers to the act of making sufficient and accurate
information public.


9. E-commerce refers to any trading, tenancy or exchange of goods or services,
including commercial and civil activities, as well as state activities and
transactions carried out electronically.


10. Fair competition refers to any competition on the basis of low cost, good quality
and good service based.on the principles of long-term economic sustainability and
of no abuse of power or superior position on the market.


11.Misleading representation refers to any representation whereby a person who is
conducting any business activity convinces the consumer that something is true
while it is actually untrue.


12.A person refers to a natural person or legal entity that is duly established or
organized under the law in force, whether for profit or not, registered or
unregistered.


13. Dissemination of information refers to the act of making something known to the
general public, including the dissemination via the homepage of relevant
regulators or via other means through which the public is able to find information
freely and without interruption.


14. Service refers to any rights, benefits, priorities or facilitation provided or offered
under the following types of contracts, except for non-bank financial services:


A. Contracts relating to:
- The work performance irrespective of the supply of goods.
- The provision of convenience or satisfaction with convenience including
(Stamp) accommodation, leisure, care for people, animals or other objects,
_ recreation (excluding commercial games), parking or entitlement, benefit
 or priority to be paid.


| B. Contracts between financial service providers and their clients.
15. Supply refers to:


- The supply of goods by way of gift, sale, exchange, tenancy, or purchase by
instalment payment and


- The provision of services.


16. Multiple supply refers to: |


- Multiple supply on a permanent basis of goods by gift, sale, exchange,
tenancy or purchase by instalment payment, and


- Multiple service provision. |


17.Trade description refers to the display or description of goods, including the
quantity or size, how it is made or produced, the substance used for production,
its production time, suitability, durability, function, nature or accuracy, and the
characteristics of appearance attached to the goods. Trade descriptions do not
include marks or trade names.


18. Unfair act refers to any act of a person in the business which may be misleading
or deceptive, whether intentionally or not, to the consumers.


-Act or representation such as advertising, sales promotion, and other
representations;


- Misleading of consumers regarding the cost, price or quality of the goods or
services. A person in business cannot rely on hard-to-read small print and
labels and misleading claims for self-defence to avoid liability;


-Failure to present to consumers promises, expectations and relevant
information; |


- Taking advantage of the consumers if the supplier is aware that the
consumers are not in a position to protect his or her interests or are
incapable of understanding the goods or services, such as _ the
characteristics, type, language, effect of the transaction or any problem
related to the transaction, or


- Other acts determined by the Prakas of the Ministry of Commerce.


Chapter 2
Competent Institutions
Article 5.- National Consumer Protection Committee


A National Consumer Protection Committee shall be set up and chaired by the


(Sta Minister of Commerce and with the participation of relevant ministries/institutions, with


the Ministry of Commerce’s General Department in charge of Consumer Protection as its


_ arm to perform the duties related to consumer protection in accordance with the
. provisions of this Law.
The organization and functioning of the National Consumer Protection Committee
shall be determined by a subdecree.
. Chapter 3
Consumer Association
Article 6.- Formation of a Consumer Association


Consumers in each sector have the right to form their own associations by
registering with the Ministry of Interior in accordance with the Law on Associations and
Non-Governmental Organizations.


Article 7.- Consumer Association


A consumer association in any sector shall obtain the prior authorization from the
ministries or institutions having their roles and duties over its sector.


After forming and registering the association at the Ministry of Interior and
obtaining the authorization from the relevant competent regulators, the association
shall file the above registration document and letter of authorization at the National
Consumer Protection Committee. :


Article 8.- Roles and Duties of the Consumer Association


The consumer association shall have the following roles and duties:


- Toconsult independently with consumers and coordinate consumer related issues;


- To act as a representative before the National Consumer Protection Committee
or before the court on behalf of any consumer or consumer group whose rights
and interests are infringed;


- To represent the views and interests of consumers in public forums or the press;


- To receive consultation from any competent regulator on any regulation
concerning information standard issued by the competent regulator to be provided
to consumers;


- To create a consumer protection working group in each sector; —


- To undertake to perform other duties as assigned by the National Consumer
Protection Committee.


Chapter 4
Unfair Acts in Business
Article 9.- Unfair Act
No person who conducts business shall be involved with an unfair act.
An unfair act refers to any act of a person in business, that may be misleading or
(Stangjejceptive to a consumer, whether that act is intentional or unintentional.
- An act or representation such as advertising, sales promotion, and other
ves representations; |
 Misleading of consumers regarding the cost, price or quality of the goods or
services; A person in business cannot rely on hard-to-read small print and labels
and misleading claims for self-defence to avoid liability;


- Failure to present to consumers promises, expectations and relevant information;


- Taking advantage of the consumers if the supplier is aware that the consumers
are not in a position to protect his or her interests or are incapable of
understanding the goods or services, such as the characteristics, type, language,
effect of the transaction or any problems related to the transaction, or


- Other acts determined by the Prakas of the Ministry of Commerce.


Article 10.- Unfair Act Regarding Goods


No person who conducts business shall engage in any unfair act which is
misleading or deceptive to the public concerning the type, production process,
characteristics, suitability, quantity, measurement, dimension, standard, or quality of —
the goods. |
Article 11.- Unfair Act Regarding Services


No person who conducts business shall engage in any unfair act which is
misleading or deceptive to the public concerning the type, standard, characteristics,
suitability, size, or quality of the services.
Article 12.- Misleading Representations


No person who conducts business shall supply or promote the supply or use of
goods or services through any of the following misleading representations:


-The goods are specifically unique to a type, standard, quality, classification,
quantity, composition, style, model, or the goods with special background or with
special use.


- That service is specifically unique to a type, standard, quality, size, or the service
is provided by a particular person or by person with a particular skill or special
qualification of conducting businesses.


- Any reputable person has already agreed to receive the goods or services.


- They are either new goods or refurbished goods, or the goods are produced,
made, invented at a specific occasion.


- That goods or services are sponsored, recognized, certified, effective for use,
contains associated objects or a wide range of use or benefits.


- Any person has provided support, recognition, certification, or affiliation with.


- That goods or services are recognized for their price.


- That goods or services are in high demand.


(Stamp) _ The goods or services include or do not include any insurance, compensation or
_ settlement, rights or other conditions.
ion - The goods are originated from somewhere.
 Other misleading representations shall be defined by the Prakas of the Minister of —_
Commerce, who is the Chairman of the National Consumer Protection Committee, at the
request of the competent regulators. |
Chapter 5
Unfair Practice
Article 13.- Prohibition of Unfair Sale |
Any sale which will cause consumer confusion in the purchase of goods or services
shall be prohibited.
Article 14.- Promise of Gifts and Prizes
No person shall offer a promise of gift, prize or other free objects with the
intention to deceive or lie to the consumer with respect to:
- The supply of goods or services or
- The sale or granting of real rights to property.
Article 15.- Bait Advertising
1. No person shall advertise in order to supply goods or services at a certain price for
: which the person has no intention of supplying or there is no reasonable ground to
believe that the person can provide supply at the advertised price.


2. Any person. advertising the goods or services for a certain price shall supply the
goods or services at the advertised price within a specified time and at a
reasonable quantity.


3. In the event of a complaint or protest against any person with respect to the non-
provision of goods or services to the consumers in accordance with the provisions
stated in this article, the person can defend himself/herself provided s/he has :
evidence that: |


A. [S/he] has supplied or asked any other authorized person to supply the
advertised goods or services to the consumer on his/her behalf for a defined
period of time at any defined quantity and at such price as advertised and for
which such supply is also approved by the consumer.


B. [S/he] has promptly supplied or asked any other authorized person to supply
on his/her behalf for a defined period of time to the consumer the goods or
services at a corresponding quantity and price as advertised and for which the
supply is also approved by the consumers.


Article 16.- Unfair Solicitation Sales
An unfair solicitation sale refers to any sale that entices or induces a purchaser to
Sta purchase goods or services on the condition that the purchaser will receive a bonus,
commission, or other benefits in exchange for provision of the name of a potential
_ customer or otherwise assists that person in persuading or soliciting other purchasers or
stat consumers for a commission or discount of the goods or create other events to arash
 other purchasers to purchase at the first consumer’s persuasion, and that potential
customer has actually purchased the goods or services at the first purchaser’s or
consumer’s persuasion, while those conditions are not met by the seller.
Article 17.- Demanding or Accepting Payments Without Intention to Supply Goods or
Services as per the Purchase Order
Prior to supplying goods or services, the supplier shall not demand or accept any
payment or other consideration in the event that the supplier:
- Does not intend to supply the goods or services as per the purchase order; or
- Has intention to supply the goods or services that are different from the goods or
services as per the purchase order, or
- There is no reasonable ground to prove that the supplier is able to supply the
goods or services within a defined period of time or within a reasonable time as
per the purchase order.
Article 18.- False or Misleading Representations in Respect of Some Business
Activities


1. No person shall make false or misleading representations concerning the potential
gains, risks or other significance in any business activity whereby s/he has
claimed that the other person may carry out that business activity from his or her
residence.


2. No person shall make false or misleading representations of key points concerning
the potential gains, risks or other significance of any business activity in which
the person invites other persons by advertising or by any other means to
participate, and that is the requirement of the business activity:


A. Engagement in the work performance by other persons or
B. Financial investment and engagement in the work performance by persons
involved in the investment.
Article 19.- Coercion by Force and Mental Threat
No person shall exert coercion by force, disturbance or mental threat with
respect to the supply of goods or services or payments for the goods or services.
Article 20.- Pyramid Scheme >
No person shall promote or carry out a pyramid scheme.
A pyramid scheme is any scheme that:
1. Provides supply of goods and/or services for a prize or consideration, and
2. Creates a purchase-sale and investment opportunity for numerous
participants, individually or through agents who are not creating real-world
(Stamp) sales opportunities, and
3. This scheme is unfair to a wide range of participants because:
 The participants’ bonus or considerations are based on the recruitment of
more participants.
- New participants cannot find more participants.
Article 21.- Selling Goods Bearing False Trade Description


No person shall sell goods bearing a false trade description.


A false trade description is a description that involves the supply of goods or the
promotion of the supply of goods by all means or use of goods that are considered to be
false. 7


This article applies to goods bearing a false trade description by:
- Sewing, pressing, inserting, attaching or sealing on the goods or
- Display on the cover, label, tube, package, or on the goods.
Article 22.- Other Unfair Practices


Other unfair practices shall be defined by the Prakas of a competent regulator
according to the scope of the roles and duties of that regulator, with the approval of the
National Consumer Protection Committee to protect the legitimate rights and interests
of the consumers.


_ Chapter 6
Information for Consumers
Article 23.- Standards of Information for Consumers


Any person who conducts business in the Kingdom of Cambodia shall disclose a
minimum of information to consumers in accordance with the information standard to be
determined by a Prakas of the competent regulator and may consult with the National
Consumer Protection Committee as necessary.


Article 24.- Obligation to Comply with Standards of Information for Consumers
Any person who conducts business, supplies, promises to supply or advertises that
s/he will supply the goods or services shall comply with the standards of information for
consumers.
Article 25.- Notification of Standards of Information for Consumers
Standards of information for consumers shall be disseminated by the relevant
regulators and/or the National Consumer Protection Committee and, when
disseminated, those standards will become part of the information standards covered
under this Law and will be implemented by the National Consumer Protection
Committee.
Article 26.- Preparation and Implementation of Standards of Information for Consumers
stamp} The competent regulators shall prepare standards of information for consumers in
relation to goods or services for business activities that fall under the scope of the roles
and duties of those regulators to protect the legitimate rights and interests of
fee consumers.
In the event that the regulation prepared by any competent regulator conflicts
with the regulation prepared by other regulators, the National Consumer Protection
Committee shall examine [the matter] and seek a resolution. In the event that this
cannot be resolved, the National Consumer Protection Committee shall submit a request
to the Head of the Royal Government for examination and decision.
Article 27.- Model of Content of Standards of Information for Consumers
1. Standards of information to be provided to consumers may:


A. Disclose information related to the type, classification, safety, quantity,
origin, usage function, maintenance, composition, design, installation,
usage instruction, cost, packaging, promotion or supply, dates of
manufacture and expiration, production information or information related
to the supply of goods or services and/or


B. Specify how this information is received and/or


C. Specify the form and how the information is disseminated in relation to:


- The supply of goods or services or
- The re-supply or possibility of re-supply of the goods or services or
| - The promotion by any method whatsoever concerning one or more of
the points related to the supply, re-supply or possibility of re-supply
of goods or services; or


D. Set the minimum standard of information for conducting e-commerce in


the Kingdom of Cambodia.
2. All written information shall be in Khmer according the Prakas of the competent
regulator.
3. Models for preparing other standards of information for consumers may be
determined by the National Consumer Protection Committee.
Chapter 7
Complaint and Investigation Procedures
Article 28.- Institution of Ombudsperson
The National Consumer Protection Committee has the competence to receive
complaints and conduct investigation through:
1. The initiative of the National Consumer Protection Committee itself, or
2. The complaint from any person or any consumer association;
3. The complaint from any competent regulator.


} Article 29.- Appointment of Ombudsperson


The ombudsperson shall have the qualification as a judicial police officer to
examine the offences stated in this Law in accordance with the provisions of the Code of
Criminal Procedures.


The formalities and procedures for giving qualification to the ombudsperson shall
be determined by an inter-ministerial Prakas between the Minister of Justice and the
Minister of Commerce.


Article 30.- Supervisory Authority
The ombudsperson shall have the following rights to:
1. Investigate, search and collect evidence related to violations of this Law. |
2. Inspect the products, goods and services, sales promotion, sale of any product or
storage for distribution required to be in compliance with the provisions of this


Law.


3. Take samples of other relevant products or tools in case of suspected violations of
this Law.


4. Ask the relevant person for answers or for the submission of documents or other
items for consideration.


5. Take action to temporarily ban the supply, distribution or market circulation of


any products, goods or services when evidence of non-compliance with the


provisions of this Law is found and shall report to the National Consumer


Protection Committee for coordination with the relevant competent institutions,


cooperate to take further action in accordance with the provisions of the laws in


force.


The formalities and procedures for inspection shall be determined by the Prakas
of the Minister of Commerce.


Article 31.- Searching Authority


The ombudsperson shall be authorized to conduct a field visit to and search at
any place in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedures.


The ombudsperson who has to perform obligations in the premises or location is
entitled to request assistance from local authorities at all levels or other relevant
competent authorities in order to participate in cracking down on the offences provided
for in this Law and shall comply with the Code of Criminal Procedures.


: Chapter 8
1. Issue decisions and/or
2. Issue administrative sanctions.


In issuing decisions and/or imposition of administrative sanctions, the National
Consumer Protection Committee may consider the actions or requests made by the
relevant competent regulator in connection with the approval, correction or denial of
any action to the requests made.


Article 33.- Settlement Procedures


The National Consumer Protection Committee may make the settlement by
negotiating with any person who violates any provision of this Law.


All resolutions shall not apply to:


1. Criminal cases. : ,


2. Repeated violation of the provisions of this Law by that person.


The procedures for settlement shall be determined by the Prakas of the Minister
of Commerce.


Article 34.- Decision Ordering the Information Disclosure or Re-dissemination


When the National Consumer Protection Committee finds that any relevant person
has violated any provisions of this Law, the National Consumer Protection Committee
may issue the following order that:


1. Requires a person who has failed to disseminate information or insufficiently
disseminate information to sufficiently disseminate the information or any
part thereof in the manner as specified in the order to the public or to any
relevant person at his/ her own expense.


2. Requires a person who has disseminated wrong or misleading information to


~ make a correction in the manner as specified in the order at his/her own
expense. |
Article 35.- Decision Prohibiting Managerial Position


The National Consumer Protection Committee may issue a decision prohibiting any
person from holding a managerial position if:


1. The person has committed the following violations for 2 (two) or more
times: |


- Unfair act involving goods and/or services
_- Misleading representations |
- Promise of gifts and prizes
_- Bait advertising
- Unfair solicitation sales
Coercion by force and mental threat
- Pyramid scheme and, |
- Selling goods bearing false trade description
2. The person has committed the following violations at least 2 (two) times in
a period of 5 (five) years when the person is in the position of director or
manager of a legal entity.
- Failure to disclose standards of information for consumers.
- Failure to perform obligations to comply with standards of information
for consumers.
- Failure to give notification of standards of information for consumers
3. A person prohibited by a foreign state in respect of consumer protection as
set forth in points 1 and 2.
Article 36.- Dissemination of Decision of Prohibition from Managerial Position
The National Consumer Protection Committee shall provide a copy of each of the
prohibitive decisions set forth in Article 35 of this Law to:
A. Any relevant person or consumer association
B. Competent regulators, and
C. Business registration unit of the Ministry of Commerce
The National Consumer Protection Committee shall publish the prohibitive
decisions set forth in Article 35 of this Law on its website or bulletin or by any other
means. _
Article 37.- Period of Prohibition from Managerial Position
The prohibition from holding the position of director or manager of a legal entity
in the Kingdom of Cambodia shall not be less than 2 (two) years and shall not exceed 5
(five) years. |
Chapter 9
Complaint
Article 38.- Correction of Decision of National Consumer Protection Committee
Any relevant person with the decision of the National Consumer Protection
Committee may file a complaint with the National Consumer Protection Committee,
requesting that the decision be reviewed, corrected or revoked within 15 (fifteen) days
at the latest from the date of receipt of notification of the decision.
The complaint for review shall state the following:
- Make it clear that any or more of the findings of the National Consumer
(Stamp) Protection Committee can be protested.
- Indicate that the decision or administrative sanctions imposed by the National
Consumer Protection Committee are not based on concrete evidence as stated
_ in the minutes of the National Consumer Protection Committee.
In this case, the National Consumer Protection Committee shall make a review
and decision within 30 (thirty) days at the latest.


Article 39.- Right to File a Complaint to Competent Court


Any person who is not satisfied with the decision of the National Consumer
Protection Committee may file a complaint to the competent court of the Kingdom of
Cambodia within 30 (thirty) days at the latest from the date of receipt of notification of
the final decision.


The formalities and procedures for National Consumer Protection Committee’s
notification shall be determined by a Prakas of the Minister of Commerce.


Chapter 10
Penalty Provisions a
Article 40.- Sanctions and Obstruction Penalties


The sanctions in this Law include written warning, suspension, revocation or
cancellation of a certificate of commercial registration or license, obstruction penalty,
fine and imprisonment.


Written warnings, suspensions, revocation or cancellations of certification of
commercial registration or licenses is the competence of the National Consumer
Protection Committee.


Obstruction penalty is the competence of the ombudsperson.


Payment of the obstruction penalty results in extinguishing a charge in criminal
action. | |


In case the violator refuses to pay the obstruction penalty, the ombudsperson may
bring the case of the offense to the competent court.


The procedures for imposition of obstruction penalties, fines payment, the
management of the receipt of fines and the management of revenue from the penalties
for the violations as stated in the provisions of this Law shall be determined by an inter- |
ministerial Prakas between the Minister of Commerce, Minister of Justice and Minister of
Economy and Finance.


Article 41.- Unfair Act Regarding Goods, Services or Misleading Representations


Any person who commits an unfair act in connection with goods, services or
misleading representations as stated in Articles 9, 10, 11 and 12 shall be subject to a
written warning. |


In case of a written warning [and] repeated violation as per paragraph 1 above,


(St ant BF certificate of commercial registration or license shall be suspended, revoked or
cancelled.
Any violation of paragraph 1 above, with respect to the quality and origin of the
goods, shall be subject to an obstruction penalty of not more than 20,000,000 (twenty
million) Riels. :
Article 42.- Aggravating Circumstance of the Unfair Act with Respect to Goods,
Services or Misleading Representations Due to Health and Safety Impact
Any violation of paragraph 1 of Article 41 shall be punishable by imprisonment
from 6 (six) months to 2 (two) years and a fine of 1,000,000 (one million) Riels to
4,000,000 (four million) Riels in case of any severe impact to the consumer’s health and
safety.
Article 43.- Aggravating Circumstance of the Unfair Act with Respect to the Goods or
Services or Misleading Representation Due to Disability or Death
Any violation of paragraph 1 of Article 41, which causes permanent disability or
death, shall be punishable by imprisonment from 2 (two) to 5 (five) years and a fine of
4,000,000 (four million) Riels to 10,000,000 (ten million) Riels.
Article 44.- Act Involving Unfair Practices
Any person who commits the act of bait advertising, demanding or accepting
payment without the intention of supplying goods or services, false or misleading
representations with respect to some business activities, coercion by force and mental
threats shall be subject to a fine of not more than 50,000,000 (fifty million) Riels.
Article 45.- Act of Pyramid Scheme or the Sale of Goods Bearing False Trade
Description
Any act of pyramid scheme or the sale of goods bearing a false trade description
shall be punishable by an obstruction fine of not more than 80,000,000 (eighty million)
Riels.
Article 46.- Aggravating Circumstance of the Act of Pyramid Scheme or the Sale of
Goods Bearing False Trade Descriptions Due to Health and Safety Impact
Any act of pyramid scheme or sale of goods bearing a false trade description and
which causes severe impact to consumer’s health and safety shall be punishable by
imprisonment from 6 (six) months to 2 (two) years and a fine of 1,000,000 (one million)
Riels to 4,000,000 (four million) Riels.
Article 47.- Aggravating Circumstance of the Act of Pyramid Scheme or the Sale of
Goods Bearing False Trade Description Due to Disability or Death.
Any act of pyramid scheme or sale of goods bearing a false trade description
which results in permanent disability or death shall be punishable by imprisonment from
2 (two) to 5 (five) years and a fine of 4,000,000 (four million) Riels to 10,000,000 (ten
(StamAilion) Riels.
Article 48.- Act of Non-compliance with Consumer Information Standards
Any person who commits an act of non-compliance with the standards of
information for consumers shall be subject to an obstruction fine of not more than
10,000,000 (ten million) Riels.
Article 49.- Violation of Decision Prohibiting Management
Any person who violates a decision which prohibits management shall be subject
to a fine of not more than 10,000,000 (ten million) Riels.
Chapter 11
Final Provisions
Article 50.- Abrogation
Any provision contrary to this Law shall be abrogated.
Article 51.- Immediate Promulgation
This Law shall be promulgated immediately.