Français



Search priv.gc.ca

For individuals
Home



Privacy topics

For businesses


Identities



For federal institutions

Report a concern

OPC actions and decisions

About the OPC

Identi*cation and authentication

Table of Contents

Guidelines for identi.cation and authentication

Identi/cation and Authentication: A
Primer

June 2016

Identity, Identity Attributes, and
Identi/ers

These guidelines are intended to help organizations subject to the Personal Information Protection and
Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA) identify and authenticate individuals in a manner that balances the right
to privacy and protection of personal information with the need of organizations to collect, use and disclose
personal information for legitimate purposes.

Identi/cation
Authentication and Authentication
Factors

Trust is an essential component of Canada's economy and the global digital economy. Mutually bene*cial
interactions between organizations and individuals serve to engender that trust.

Assurances and Authorization

Whether in the physical world or online, many organizations develop processes to manage their
interactions with individuals. As these processes often involve the collection, use and disclosure of
personal information, organizations are responsible for treating that personal information with care and for
protecting it in compliance with Canada's privacy laws.

Guidelines for Identi/cation and
Authentication
Only identify when necessary
Determine what identity attributes are
necessary to authorize a transaction
Inform individuals and obtain the
appropriate form of consent before
identi/cation
Only authenticate when necessary
Ensure the level of authentication is
commensurate with risks
Ensure employees are properly trained
Maintain appropriate transaction records
Continually assess threats and mitigate
risks
Protect personal information
Rely on trusted identity documents or
credentials

The Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA) is Canada's private sector
privacy law. It requires organizations engaged in commercial activities to collect, use or disclose personal
information with the knowledge and consent of the individual, except in speci*c circumstances. It requires
organizations to specify the purposes of collecting personal information and limit collection and use to
those purposes. Organizations are also required to protect personal information with appropriate security
safeguards.
Identi*cation and authentication processes can contribute to mutually bene*cial interactions and the
protection of privacy but only if they are appropriately designed. An organization needs enough
information about an individual to authorize a legitimate transaction, but needs to ensure that it does not
collect, use, retain or disclose personal information that is not necessary for that purpose. Requiring
individuals to unnecessarily go through identi*cation and/or authentication processes, or implementing
overly cumbersome processes, can not only be privacy intrusive but can work against mutually bene*cial
interactions.
This document is intended to help organizations devise methods of identifying and authenticating
individuals in ways that respect the fair information practices in PIPEDA. It is intended to replace the
Guidelines for Identi*cation and Authentication the OPC released in 2006.
By respecting individuals' personal information and protecting privacy, we hope that organizations will
continue to contribute to mutually bene*cial interactions, while further strengthening trust in Canada's
economy, particularly our increasingly digital economy.

Identi.cation and Authentication: A Primer

Rely on trusted parties when
outsourcing identity management

The terms identiCcation and authentication are frequently used interchangeably but in fact mean different
things. Put very simply, identi*cation involves a claim or statement of identity: "I am John Doe," "I am the
customer associated with this account." Authentication is a veri*cation of that claim.

Permit individuals to control their
identi/cation and authentication
information
Consider the use of biometrics carefully

Identity, Identity Attributes, and Identi.ers
An individual's identity can be de*ned as the sum of all the characteristics that make up who an individual
is, such as their name, birthday, where they live or other information. These characteristics are called
identity attributes.

Related content

An identity attribute can also be an identi*er. For example, an individual may be referred to by their name
or by a number that is assigned to them. An identi*er may be common (i.e., more than one person can
have the same birth date) or it may be unique in that it only pertains to one individual.

Guidance on Managing Family
Member/Household Accounts

These concepts, and their distinctions, are important to keep in mind when considering how to develop
and implement proper identi*cation and authentication processes.

Photo Identi*cation Guidance

Identi.cation

Settlement between the Privacy
Commissioner of Canada and Canad
Corporation of Manitoba Ltd.

Identi*cation typically occurs when an individual *rst enrolls or registers with an organization. Establishing
identity is the process of linking an identi*er to an individual so that he or she can be remembered.
Identifying an individual allows an organization to ensure, for example, that an individual's transactions are
associated with their account, and that their records are retrievable.
Depending on legal requirements and the nature of a business, the identi*er that is attached to the
individual need not be a "real world" identi*er such as a name (e.g., John Doe). It could be an identi*er
created for the purposes of the interaction (e.g., customer A167). Both are identity attributes used as
identi*ers to identify an individual - but they are distinguishable by how much they reveal about an
individual's actual identity.
Some transactions (face-to-face cash retail sales, for example) may be concluded in complete anonymity.
Others may require an individual to divulge only some information or identity attributes. In some cases,
legal requirements may require that the organization know exactly with whom it is dealing (i.e., banks and
other organizations subject to the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act, for
example).

Authentication and Authentication Factors
When someone presents themselves to an organization, or their website, and claims to be a customer with
whom the business has a relationship, the organization may need to authenticate that claim.
There are different ways to authenticate an individual's identity. Those are:
Something that is known to the individual (for example, a password, a personal identi*cation number
or PIN, an account number, favourite colour, name of *rst pet);
Something that the individual has (for example, a bankcard, token, identity card, public-key digital
certi*cate); and,
Something that the individual is (or does) (for example, a biometric, such as a facial image, retina
scan, voice print or gait).
In some cases, one of these factors may be used alone to authenticate an individual; in others,
combinations may be used. For example:
Access to e-mail using a password: This represents a single-factor authentication process that relies
on something the individual knows.
Access to a physically secure area using an identity card with an embedded chip (a smartcard) and a
hand-scan biometric: This represents a two-factor authentication process: it relies on something the
individual has (the smartcard) and something the individual is (the biometric).
Access to a secure area using a valid magnetic strip card, a four-digit PIN code and a hand-scan
biometric: This represents a three-factor authentication process: it relies on something that the
individual has (the card), something that the individual knows (the PIN), and something that the
individual is (the biometric.)
Authentication based on two elements from the same category, for example an account number and a
password-both things that someone knows-is more appropriately referred to as multi-layer authentication,
not multi-factor authentication.
In addition to the authentication factors listed above, other data such as behaviours or actions that an
individual takes (for example, logs on to their account from a certain computer, uses their credit card in a
certain location, or conducts web searches) may assist in authenticating an individual.

Assurances and Authorization
Identi*cation and authentication are fundamentally about the management of risk:
The risk to the organization of, through bad identi*cation or authentication practices, either denying
access to a legitimate customer or giving access to an impostor; or,
The risk to individuals that their personal information is lost or inappropriately disclosed, and that
their identity, *nances, or privacy are compromised.
Organizations need assurances that individuals legitimately possess the necessary identity attributes to
complete a legitimate transaction. Similarly, individuals need to be assured that only the right people are
accessing their account, or conducting transactions using their identi*cation, whether face-to-face or
online.
Once an individual's identity is properly authenticated, or veri*ed, the organization may authorize a
transaction.

Guidelines for Identi.cation and Authentication
There is no one-size-*ts-all approach to identi*cation or authentication. As stated above, these guidelines
are intended to help organizations develop appropriate identi*cation and authentication processes.
Although the guidelines are intended to address identi*cation and authentication of individuals by
organizations, organizations should also have appropriate processes in place to authenticate employees
who have access to customer or client personal information.

Only identify when necessary
If there is no legal requirement to do so, or the organization does not intend to maintain an ongoing
relationship with an individual, it likely does not need to identify an individual.
Organizations should ask themselves if they need to collect, store, and/or share personal information to
authorize transactions. In other words, is identi*cation necessary to ful*ll the transaction? Can the
transaction be authorized in a way that is just as secure without collecting any personal information?

Case in Point
In PIPEDA Case Summary #2008-396, the personal information collection and recording practices
exceeded what was required to verify age and permit entry into the premises. Also see the Summary
of the Settlement for this case.

Should organizations determine that identi*cation is necessary for their purposes, it is also important to
consider for how long personal information should be retained and how it should be destroyed when it is
no longer required for those purposes. See the OPC's Principles and Best Practices for Personal
Information Retention and Disposal for further details.

Determine what identity attributes are necessary to authorize a transaction
If an organization does determine that it needs to identify individuals to authorize transactions, the next
question to ask is: what is the minimum amount of information required to ful*ll that purpose?
Organizations should ask themselves whether the transaction could be authorized in a way that is secure
without collecting unnecessary personal information. For example, rather than collecting and storing a
person's full date of birth, a partial date of birth or attestation that someone is over a certain age may be
all that is required.
It is also important to avoid, where ever possible, using numbers such as a driver's licence number or
social insurance number as an identi*er as they were created for different purposes. For more information,
see our Guidelines on the collection of driver's licence numbers in the retail sector and our Best practices
for the use of Social Insurance Numbers in the Private Sector.

Inform individuals and obtain the appropriate form of consent before
identi.cation
Identifying individuals without their knowledge or consent limits their control over their personal
information and is contrary to the law. Organizations should therefore seek to inform individuals why their
information is being collected.
Consent is strongly tied to the principle that information should only be used for the purposes for which it
was collected. If an individual provides personal information for identi*cation or authentication purposes,
and it is envisioned that that information will be used for other purposes-such as personalizing or
enhancing the customer experience, targeted advertising, communicating product updates, or engaging in
other forms of relationship building-individuals should be informed of those purposes and their consent
obtained before or at the time of collection. In many instances, individuals should also be able to obtain
the service for which they signed up without having to agree to these other uses.
Advances in technology have led to newer, less transparent ways of identifying individuals. For example, by
analyzing metadata-data about data-individuals may be identi*ed without them directly providing
information about themselves. (See the OPC's Legal and Technical Overview of Metadata and Privacy).
Metadata could be collected through cookies or web beacons (See the OPC's Frequently Asked Questions
on Cookies); device *ngerprinting which involves collecting enough information about a device to uniquely
distinguish it from other devices; or signals monitoring, which uses cellular, Wi-Fi, or Bluetooth signals to
uniquely distinguish a device and monitor its location. Since a device is typically associated with the
individual who owns or uses it, such technologies can also be used to identify individuals without them
being aware.
Without informing individuals or obtaining their consent, such activities may be viewed as being more akin
to surveillance and pro*ling than promoting mutually bene*cial interactions that build trust in Canada's
economy.
For guidance on different ways of obtaining consent, depending on the circumstances, please refer to the
OPC's Guidelines for Online Consent.

Only authenticate when necessary
An individual should only be authenticated by an organization when it is necessary for the purposes of the
transaction. Even if there is a preexisting relationship between an organization and an individual (i.e., the
individual has gone through the identi*cation process), their identi*cation may not need to be veri*ed in
every instance.
If an individual does need to be authenticated, personal information should only be disclosed to that
person once the organization is assured that the individual is who they say they are.

Case in Point
In PIPEDA Case Summary #2003-155, the transaction did not require authentication and personal
information was inappropriately disclosed.

Ensure the level of authentication is commensurate with risks
The stringency of authentication processes should be commensurate with the risks to the organization as
well as to the individual. The higher the risks the higher the assurances an organization will likely need to
authorize a transaction. As such, the use of more authentication factors or layers may be appropriate. For
example:
A simple single-factor authentication process may be appropriate to allow an individual to obtain
access to voice mail or to check the account balance of a loyalty program;
Obtaining an account balance for a utility bill may require an account or membership number and a
numeric access code, (i.e., multi-layer single-factor authentication); or,
Financial services that permit the issuing of payment instructions and making transfers to thirdparties may require a multi-factor or multi-layer authentication process.

Case in Point
In PIPEDA Case Summary #2002-40, it was found that the collection of additional information was
not necessary to establish identity to limit *nancial risk.
In PIPEDA Case Summary #2009-012, it was found that additional information could have been
collected to verify identity and prevent identity theft.
In PIPEDA Case Summary #2003-185, the collection of several authentication factors was
reasonable for an organization that handled sensitive cargo.

While the number of authentication factors is important so is their quality. Authenticators should not be
easily replicated or spoofed. Processes that use commonly known or easily discoverable identity
attributes (i.e., birth dates), or one-factor authentication, are more easily taken advantage of by persons
who know the individual.

Case in Point
In PIPEDA Case Summary #2012-006, a family member who lacked the authority to modify the
account was able to do so by impersonating his stepfather.

Organizations should also avoid weak authentication processes, by requiring, for example, passwords that
are difcult to guess.

Ensure employees are properly trained
According to Principles 4.1.4 and 4.7.4 of PIPEDA organizations are required to train staff about the
organization's privacy policies and practices, and to make their employees aware of the importance of
maintaining the con*dentiality of personal information.
As such, organizations should ensure that all customer service representatives, data processors, and all
other employees who have access to personal information receive appropriate training on the importance
of protecting customers' personal information, including the importance of protecting it from unauthorized
access and disclosure. Organizations should provide ongoing training on identi*cation authentication
policies and processes.

Case in Point
In PIPEDA Case Summary #2007-381, a fraudulent transaction could have been prevented with better
employee training, as well as proper transactions records.

Maintain appropriate transaction records
The authentication process should maintain reliable audit records of authentication transactions including
the date, time and the outcome. Maintaining such records can assist in assessing risk, as well as
demonstrating compliance with applicable privacy laws. The level of detail in the audit logs, as well as the
retention period for data, should regect the risks associated with the information or service. Audit records
should record attempted and failed authentications, but should not contain the actual authentication
information (i.e., passwords).
As well, audit records need to be protected since they can create data trails that can reveal information
about the individual. Such metadata, when linked with other identifying information, could constitute
personal information under PIPEDA. Audit logs should therefore be treated with the same protections as
other personal information.

Continually assess threats and mitigate risks
Organizations should regularly reassess risks and threats for each service delivery touch point and deploy
appropriate risk mitigation measures, including adjusting the strength of authentication processes, to
address changing threats. This entails keeping abreast of changes in business practices and technologies
that either strengthen existing authentication processes or undermine them.
For example, organizations should have systems and procedures in place to address man-in-the-middle
attacks where a fraudulent actor intercepts communication between an organization and an individual.
Organizations should also have plans in place to address phishing, where a malicious actor attempts to
trick an individual into thinking that he/she is interacting with a real organization.
In addition to the due diligence required of organizations to mitigate risk, it is also important that
individuals play a part in protecting their personal information by maintaining up-to-date anti-virus, antispam, and *rewall programs, and by not sharing their PINs or passwords. At the same time, organizations
should not overlook more conventional low-tech threats.

Case in Point
In PIPEDA Case Summary #2012-004, an imposter used social engineering techniques to gain
access to an account.
PIPEDA Case Summary #2007-372 demonstrates the importance of adapting policies and practices
to mitigate new risks and ensuring employees are properly trained and follow customer
authentication procedures in order to adequately protect personal information.

Protect personal information
Organizations should have policies and practices in place to manage risks to the personal information they
hold. Security safeguards must take into account the sensitivity of the personal information and the risks
associated with it. For more information see our Securing Personal Information Self-Assessment Tool.
Given the potentially sensitive nature of identity information, organizations should also have a plan to
notify individuals should there be a security breach so that those individuals can take the necessary steps
to protect themselves from identity theft. For more information see Respond to a privacy breach at your
business.
It is important to note that S-4 (The Digital Privacy Act) received royal assent in June 2015 and that the
amendments dealing with breach reporting, noti*cation and recordkeeping will be brought into force once
the related regulations outlining speci*c requirements are developed and in place.

Rely on trusted identity documents or credentials
As a means of authentication, identity documents or credentials (for example, identity cards, drivers'
licences, passports, etc.) can be used with more con*dence when their genuineness can be veri*ed. In
general, the issuer of the document is in the best position to assess the appropriate reliance to place on a
credential.
Ideally, they should only be used for their original intended purpose. In other situations, an organization
should only rely on them when it has some assurance of the integrity of the issuance process. For
example, relying on a driver's licence from a foreign country may entail more risks than relying on a licence
issued in Canada. Organizations may also rely on e-credentials or tokens from trusted sources, preferably
if they have already entered into agreements with them.

Rely on trusted parties when outsourcing identity management
Under PIPEDA, an organization is responsible for personal information under its control, including
information that has been transferred to a third party for processing.
Therefore, in situations where an organization outsources identi*cation or authentication functions to a
third party, primary responsibility for ensuring the adequacy of the processes remains with the
organization providing the service to the individual. This means that the organization remains accountable,
through contractual or other means, for ensuring that identi*cation and authentication processes meet its
requirements and reliably protects its customers' personal information.
Organizations that outsource identity management to third parties should inform their customers' of this
practice. Third party organizations that act as identity management providers should also collect, use or
disclose personal information in accordance with these guidelines.

Permit individuals to control their identi.cation and authentication
information
Organizations should offer individuals options to manage their identi*cation and authentication
information. When possible, individuals should be allowed to choose their:
Own identi*er and should not be required to only use their name. However, there may be situations,
for example, when opening a bank account, where organizations are required to collect speci*c
information and the use of a nickname or other alternative identi*er is not possible;
Passwords or PINs, including those that exceed a standard minimum length and complexity; and,
Questions and answers where personal preferences are used for authentication.
Where reasonable and appropriate in the circumstances, organizations should also provide enhanced
authentication processes to individuals who request them.

Consider the use of biometrics carefully
Before considering the use of biometrics (such as automated facial recognition technology, retina scans,
*ngerprints, hand-scans) in their identity management systems, companies should consider whether they
are necessary, effective, and proportional to the potential privacy risks, and whether there is a less privacy
invasive way to identify or authenticate an individual. See Data at your Fingertips: Biometric and the
Challenges to Privacy for an overview of privacy issues related to biometrics.
Although they can be strong identi*ers (i.e., a *ngerprint is a unique and persistent identi*er that
corresponds to one individual the vast majority of times) they are far from being a panacea. For example,
faces change over time, *ngerprints can be worn down, and a person's gait can be altered by an accident
or injury. Depending on how unique and persistent a biometric is, and how effective the technology used is
at data matching, automated recognitions systems may produce false-positives or false-negatives.
Unlike a password, if a biometric is stolen or compromised it is very difcult, if not impossible, to change. If
there is a risk that a biometric could be compromised, it should not be used for authentication on its own it should be used with another authenticator, such as something only the individual has or knows.
When appropriate, biometric information should be locally stored (i.e., on a device) rather than in a central
database. Centralized storage heightens the risk of data loss or the inappropriate cross-linking of data
across systems. Local storage, such as mobile phones or smart cards, by contrast, gives individuals more
control over their personal information.
By its very nature biometric information is sensitive information and should be protected by appropriate
safeguards, including for example, encryption.

Case in Point
In PIPEDA Report of Findings # 2011-012, the immediate transformation of a biometric into an
encrypted binary template rendered the biometric difcult to interpret by other parties or applied to
other purposes. The raw data-the biometric image-was not retained.
In PIPEDA Case Summary #2004-281, a biometric was converted into "a matrix of numbers that
represent the behavioural and physical characteristics of the way the individual speaks." The
representations were stored in a secure database and access was highly restricted.

Organizations should always seek explicit consent to collect biometric information and give individuals the
choice not to use their biometric information for identi*cation or authentication purposes when there are
reasonable alternatives.

Report a problem or mistake on this page

Was this page helpful?

Date modi*ed: 2016-06-22

About the OPC

OPC news

Your privacy

Contact us

The Privacy Commissioner of
Canada is an Agent of Parliament
whose mission is to protect and
promote privacy rights.

Get updates about the OPC’s
announcements and activities, as
well as the events in which we
participate.

We respect your privacy

If you have a question, concerns
about your privacy or want to *le a
complaint against an organization,
we are here to help.

Who we are

News and announcements

What we do

Privacy events

OPC operational reports

Speeches

Publications
Working at the OPC

Read our Privacy policy and Terms
and conditions of use to *nd out
more about your privacy and rights
when using the priv.gc.ca website or
contacting the Ofce of the Privacy
Commissioner of Canada.

Contact the OPC

Stay connected

Transparency

! OPC Blog

Proactive disclosure

" OPC LinkedIn
# OPC RSS feeds
$ OPC Twitter
% OPC YouTube channel

Top of Page

&

