Français



Search priv.gc.ca

For individuals
Home



Privacy topics

For businesses


Technology



For federal institutions
Online privacy, tracking, and cookies

Report a concern


OPC actions and decisions

About the OPC

Tracking and ads

Guidelines on privacy and online behavioural
advertising

Related content
Online Behavioural Advertising in Brief
Frequently Asked Questions about Online
Behavioural Advertising

December 2011
Online behavioural advertising involves tracking consumers’ online activities, across sites and over time in
order to deliver advertisements targeted to their inferred interests. Behavioural advertisers often use
sophisticated algorithms to analyze the collected data, build detailed personal pro*les of users, and assign
them to various interest categories. Interest categories are used to present ads de*ned as relevant to
users in those categories.

Policy Position on Online Behavioural
Advertising

While advertising may help subsidize the delivery of free online content desired by most users, it is
nevertheless essential that online advertising practices respect an individual’s privacy rights and consent
choices.
Online behavioural advertising may be considered a reasonable purpose under the Personal Information
Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA), provided it is carried out under certain parameters, and
is not made a condition of service for accessing and using the Internet, generally.
The following guidelines were developed to help the various types of organizations involved in online
behavioural advertising ensure that their practices are fair, transparent and in compliance with PIPEDA.
Any future complaints concerning online behavioural advertising would be assessed based on the speci*c
facts of each individual case.

PIPEDA and Personal Information
PIPEDA de*nes personal information as “information about an identi*able individual”. Information will be
about an identi*able individual where there is a serious possibility that an individual could be identi*ed
through the use of that information, alone or in combination with other available information.
A prominent strategic element of online behavioural advertising comes from the tailoring of
advertisements based on an individual’s browsing activities, which could include purchasing patterns and
search queries. Given the scope and scale of information collected, the powerful means available for
gathering and analyzing disparate pieces of data and the personalized nature of the activity, it is
reasonable to consider that there will often be a serious possibility that the information could be linked to
an individual.
As such, we take the position that the information involved in online tracking and targeting for the purpose
of serving behaviourally targeted advertising to individuals will generally constitute personal information.

PIPEDA and User Choice
PIPEDA requires an individual’s knowledge and consent for the collection, use, or disclosure of personal
information. 1 PIPEDA also requires that the purposes for which an individual’s information is to be
collected, used or disclosed be explained in a clear and transparent manner. In addition, PIPEDA does
recognize that the form of consent can vary: for example, express consent (opt-in) when dealing with
sensitive information, and implied consent (opt-out) when the information is less sensitive. It is important
to note that the sensitivity of information depends on the nature of the information and the context in
which it is being collected, used or disclosed.
While obtaining consent in the online environment is not without its challenges, it is possible. Opt-out
consent for online behavioural advertising could be considered reasonable providing that:
Individuals are made aware of the purposes for the practice in a manner that is clear and
understandable – the purposes must be made obvious and cannot be buried in a privacy policy.
Organizations should be transparent about their practices and consider how to effectively inform
individuals of their online behavioural advertising practices, by using a variety of communication
methods, such as online banners, layered approaches, and interactive tools;
Individuals are informed of these purposes at or before the time of collection and provided with
information about the various parties involved in online behavioural advertising;
Individuals are able to easily opt-out of the practice - ideally at or before the time the information is
collected;
The opt-out takes effect immediately and is persistent;
The information collected and used is limited, to the extent practicable, to non-sensitive information
(avoiding sensitive information such as medical or health information); and
Information collected and used is destroyed as soon as possible or effectively de-identi*ed.

Restrictions
Inability to Decline
Any collection or use of an individual’s web browsing activity must be done with that person’s knowledge
and consent. Therefore, if an individual is not able to decline the tracking and targeting using an opt-out
mechanism because there is no viable possibility for them to exert control over the technology used, or if
doing so renders a service unusable, then organizations should not be employing that type of technology
for online behavioural advertising purposes. At present, this could include, for example, so-called zombie
cookies, super cookies and device *ngerprinting. Further information related to online tracking
technologies can be found on our Web Tracking with Cookies fact sheet.

Tracking of Children
PIPEDA requires meaningful consent for the collection, use and disclosure of personal information. It is
diWcult to ensure meaningful consent from children to online behavioural advertising practices. Therefore,
as a best practice, organizations should avoid tracking children and tracking on websites aimed at
children.

Addressing the Challenges
By putting in place privacy-sensitive frameworks, organizations will promote consumer trust in their online
activities. Addressing the privacy concerns raised by online behavioural advertising is central to
establishing and maintaining consumer con*dence in the online world.

Related OPC Documents
The OPC has a number of related resources available on our website:
Policy Position on Online Behavioural Advertising
OPC 2010 Consumer Consultations
Online privacy guidance documents
Behavioural advertising fact sheets
Web Tracking with Cookies
Updated in December 2015

Footnotes
1

Following the development of this guidance PIPEDA has been amended to include section 6.1
which states that for the purposes of clause 4.3 of Schedule 1, the consent of an individual is
only valid if it is reasonable to expect that an individual to whom the organization’s activities are
directed would understand the nature, purpose and consequences of the collection, use or
disclosure of the personal information to which they are consenting

Report a problem or mistake on this page

Was this page helpful?

Date modi*ed: 2015-12-17

About the OPC

OPC news

Your privacy

Contact us

The Privacy Commissioner of
Canada is an Agent of Parliament
whose mission is to protect and
promote privacy rights.

Get updates about the OPC’s
announcements and activities, as
well as the events in which we
participate.

We respect your privacy

If you have a question, concerns
about your privacy or want to *le a
complaint against an organization,
we are here to help.

Who we are

News and announcements

What we do

Privacy events

OPC operational reports
Publications
Working at the OPC

Speeches

Read our Privacy policy and Terms
and conditions of use to *nd out
more about your privacy and rights
when using the priv.gc.ca website or
contacting the OWce of the Privacy
Commissioner of Canada.

Contact the OPC

Stay connected

Transparency

! OPC Blog

Proactive disclosure

" OPC LinkedIn
# OPC RSS feeds
$ OPC Twitter
% OPC YouTube channel

Top of Page

&

