Français



Search priv.gc.ca

For individuals
Home



Privacy topics

For businesses


For federal institutions

Health, genetic and other body information



Report a concern

OPC actions and decisions

About the OPC

Health emergencies

Privacy and the COVID-19 outbreak
March 2020
The COVID-19 outbreak is raising questions about privacy issues during a pandemic. During a public health crisis, privacy laws still apply, but they are not a
barrier to appropriate information sharing. This document serves to provide general guidance on the applicable federal privacy laws.
In Canada, the management of public health crises is a matter involving close coordination between all levels of government. There is therefore a variety of
public and private sector privacy legislation at the federal, provincial and territorial levels that govern the collection, use and disclosure of personal information.
There are provincial and territorial privacy authorities that oversee compliance with the privacy legislation in their respective jurisdictions, and some have
published their own statements relevant to the matter of COVID-19:
OJce of the Information and Privacy Commissioner of British Columbia
OJce of the Information and Privacy Commissioner of Alberta
OJce of the Information and Privacy Commissioner of Saskatchewan
OJce of the Information and Privacy Commissioner of Ontario
Commission d'accès à l'information du Québec
OJce of the Information and Privacy Commissioner of Newfoundland and Labrador
Yukon Information and Privacy Commissioner
OJce of the Information and Privacy Commissioner of the Northwest Territories
While privacy laws include several provisions that authorize the collection, use and disclosure of personal information in the context of a public health crisis, if
you rely on them, you should be able to communicate to the persons involved the speci*c legislative authority under which this is done.
Public health situations are sometimes referred to as emergencies. Under both federal and provincial laws, governments are authorized to declare formal public
emergencies. Where that is done, the powers to collect, use and disclose personal information may be further extended and can be very broad. To understand the
impact of such legislation on privacy, one has to read its speci*c terms. Normal privacy laws apply unless emergency legislation provides otherwise.

The application of Canada’s federal privacy legislation
The OJce of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada is responsible for overseeing compliance with both the Personal Information Protection and Electronic
Documents Act (PIPEDA), and the Privacy Act. These Acts govern the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information.
PIPEDA applies to private-sector organizations that collect, use or disclose personal information in the course of a commercial activity and to information about
employees of federal works, undertakings or businesses. A number of provinces have enacted their own private-sector privacy laws and personal health
information laws deemed substantially similar to PIPEDA, which apply within the respective province. However, PIPEDA continues to apply to the collection, use
or disclosure of personal information in connection with the operations of a federal work, undertaking or business, such as airlines and telecommunications
providers, in the respective province and the collection, use or disclosure of personal information that occurs outside of the province.
The Privacy Act covers the personal information-handling practices of federal government departments and agencies.
PIPEDA and the Privacy Act each contain provisions that allow for personal information to be used or disclosed for speci*c reasons that may be relevant in the
time of a public health situation. The following is an overview of relevant provisions from each Act.

Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act
PIPEDA allows organizations to collect, use or disclose information only for purposes that a reasonable person would consider appropriate in the circumstances
(subsection 5(3)). Organizations are required to obtain the knowledge and meaningful consent of the individual for the collection, use, or disclosure of their
personal information (Principle 3). Consent is only valid if it is reasonable to expect that the individual understands the nature, purpose and consequences of the
collection, use or disclosure of the personal information to which they are consenting (section 6.1).
This said, there are some circumstances under which organizations may collect, use, or disclose personal information without the consent of the individual,
including:
If the collection is clearly in the interests of the individual and consent cannot be obtained in a timely way (paragraph 7(1)(a)), such as if an individual is
critically ill or in a particularly dangerous situation, and needs help.
If the collection and use is for the purpose of making a disclosure required by law (paragraphs 7(1)(e), 7(2)(d) and 7(3)(i)). For instance, this would include
where a public health authority has the legislative authority to require the disclosure.
If the disclosure is requested by a government institution under a lawful authority to obtain the information and the disclosure is for the purpose of
enforcing or administering any law of Canada or a province (subparagraphs 7(3)(c.1)(ii)-(iii)). Again, this would include instances where a public health
authority has the legislative authority to require the disclosure.
If the disclosure is made on the initiative of the organization to a government institution, which has reasonable grounds to believe that the information
relates to a contravention of the laws of Canada, a province or a foreign jurisdiction that has been, is being or is about to be committed (paragraph 7(3)(d)
(i)). This would include if an organization believes an individual is in contravention of an invoked quarantine order.
If the use or disclosure is for the purpose of acting in respect of an emergency that threatens the life, health or security of an individual (paragraphs 7(2)(b)
and 7(3)(e)), such as if an individual requires urgent medical attention, and they are unable to communicate directly with medical professionals.

Privacy Act
Under the Privacy Act, government institutions can only collect personal information that relates directly to an operating program or activity of the institution
(section 4). Where possible, government institutions must collect personal information that is to be used for an administrative purpose directly from the
individual to whom the personal information pertains, except where the individual authorizes otherwise or where personal information may be disclosed to the
institution under subsection 8(2) (subsection 5(1)). The individual must also be informed of the purpose for which the information is being collected from them
(subsection 5(2)). Personal information may be collected indirectly and without notice to the individual if direct collection and notice would result in the
collection of inaccurate information or defeat the purpose or prejudice the use for which information is collected (subsection 5(3)).
Unless the individual has provided consent, government institutions must only use an individual’s personal information for the purpose for which it was collected
or a use consistent with that purpose, or for speci*c purposes for which the information may be disclosed to the institution under subsection 8(2) (section 7).
Purposes for which personal information may be disclosed by a government institution without consent include:
For the purpose for which the information was obtained or compiled, or for a use consistent with that purpose (paragraph 8(2)(a)), including if employers
wish to use their employee’s phone number to provide updates about a pandemic.
Where authorized by any other Act of Parliament or any regulation made thereunder that authorizes its disclosure (paragraph 8(2)(b)), such as where a
public health authority has the legislative authority to require the disclosure.
Under an information sharing agreement between federal government institutions and the government of a province, some First Nations councils, the
government of a foreign state, and international government organizations, for the purpose of enforcing any law or carrying out a lawful investigation
(paragraph 8(2)(f)). For example, the Government of Canada is represented in a multi-lateral information sharing agreement as part of the Pan-Canadian
Public Health Network.
Where, in the opinion of the head of the institution, the public interest in disclosure clearly outweighs any invasion of privacy that could result from the
disclosure; or where the disclosure would clearly bene*t the individual to whom the information relates (paragraph 8(2)(m)). An example of this would be if
the Deputy Minister of an institution deemed that a disclosure to another institution where an infected individual recently visited and may have spread the
virus satis*ed the balancing test. Although the Privacy Act speci*es that the federal institution needs to notify the Privacy Commissioner in advance of a
public interest disclosure, it also recognizes that in certain matters, time is of the essence. Where it is not reasonably practicable for the head of the
government institution to inform the Commissioner in writing prior to the disclosure, noti*cation to the Commissioner must be made as soon as possible
after the fact (subsection 8(5)). If an institution suspects that the COVID-19 virus was spread or contracted in the workplace, it is recommended that the
relevant public health authority be contacted to conduct any necessary contact tracing.

Report a problem or mistake on this page

Was this page helpful?

Date modi*ed: 2020-03-20

About the OPC

OPC news

Your privacy

Contact us

The Privacy Commissioner of
Canada is an Agent of Parliament
whose mission is to protect and
promote privacy rights.

Get updates about the OPC’s
announcements and activities, as
well as the events in which we
participate.

We respect your privacy

If you have a question, concerns
about your privacy or want to *le a
complaint against an organization,
we are here to help.

Who we are

News and announcements

What we do

Privacy events

OPC operational reports

Speeches

Publications
Working at the OPC

Read our Privacy policy and Terms
and conditions of use to *nd out
more about your privacy and rights
when using the priv.gc.ca website or
contacting the OJce of the Privacy
Commissioner of Canada.

Contact the OPC

Stay connected

Transparency

! OPC Blog

Proactive disclosure

" OPC LinkedIn
# OPC RSS feeds
$ OPC Twitter
% OPC YouTube channel

Top of Page

&

