Français



Search priv.gc.ca

For individuals
Home



Privacy topics

For businesses


Surveillance



For federal institutions
Police and public safety

OPC actions and decisions

About the OPC

Financial transaction reporting

PIPEDA and the Proceeds of Crime (Money
Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act

Related content
Privacy and the Proceeds of Crime (Money
Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act for
customer-facing employees



Report a concern

March 2012
The Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act requires organizations subject to
the Act to undertake certain compliance activities, such as client identi*cation and record keeping
activities. As well, certain transactions are required to be reported to the Financial Transactions and
Reports Analysis Centre of Canada (FINTRAC).
The OPce of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada supports efforts to combat money laundering and
terrorist *nancing.
We advocate that programs or initiatives should be implemented in a manner that is privacy sensitive and
consistent with privacy laws. As such, the collection of personal information must be limited to what is
required and identi*ed by legislation and regulations, and in addition to that, what is required for an
organization’s speci*c business purposes.
Below are some questions and answers related to privacy that may be of interest:
Do organizations have to take privacy laws into account when complying with the Proceeds of Crime
(Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act?
What should an organization’s policies and procedures explain about their personal information
management practices?
Does PIPEDA require an individual’s knowledge or consent if a disclosure (report) is made to FINTRAC, as
required by section 7 of the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act?
Is it important to limit the collection of personal information?
Why is limiting the collection of personal information a good thing?
Should an identity document be photocopied when ascertaining an individual’s identity?
Should a health card be used to ascertain a customer’s identity?
Should a Social Insurance Number be used to ascertain a customer’s identity?
What should an organization be aware of if an individual requests information about disclosures made to
FINTRAC?

Do organizations have to take privacy laws into account when
complying with the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and
Terrorist Financing Act?
Yes!
Organizations subject to the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act that are
required to collect, use and disclose personal information to ful*l the requirements under that Act must
still comply with the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA) or
substantially similar provincial legislation.
PIPEDA applies to organizations engaged in commercial activities that collect, use or disclose personal
information and Schedule 1 of PIPEDA contains ten (10) fair information principles for organizations to
follow.
As well, the provinces of British Columbia, Alberta and Quebec have laws that are recognized as
substantially similar to PIPEDA.
Related Information:
For additional information, please refer to the OPce of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada’s fact sheets
on Complying with the Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act and Privacy
Legislation in Canada.
For reference material about the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act’s client
identi*cation, record keeping and reporting requirements, please visit FINTRAC’s website:
http://www.*ntrac-canafe.gc.ca

What should an organization’s policies and procedures explain
about their personal information management practices?
According to the Identifying Purpose Principle in PIPEDA, the purposes for which personal information is
collected shall be identi*ed by the organization at or before the time the information is collected.
As well, the Openness Principle states that an organization shall be open about their policies and
procedures. Individuals shall be able to acquire information about an organization’s policies and practices
without unreasonable effort. This information shall be made available in a form that is understandable.
Therefore, an organization’s policies and procedures must explain the purposes for which it collects, uses,
and discloses personal information, as required for its speci*c business purpose or as required by law. If
an entity is subject to the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act, the purposes
should re_ectthe activities related to that Act.
In PIPEDA case summary 2003-256, the Commissioner recommended that with respect to a bank's
personal deposit application forms, the language be changed to indicate that:
1. The collection of the name, address, date of birth and occupation of the account holder are required
by law;
2. The presentation of documentary evidence to prove identity is required by law.
For additional information, please refer to the Privacy Commissioner of Canada’s *ndings for PIPEDA Case
Summary #2003-256 and the OPce of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada’s guide for businesses and
organizations.
For reference material about the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act’s client
identi*cation, record keeping and reporting requirements, please visit FINTRAC’s website:
http://www.*ntrac-canafe.gc.ca

Does PIPEDA require an individual’s knowledge and consent if a
disclosure (report) is made to FINTRAC, as required by section 7
of Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing
Act?
No.
While an individual’s consent is required for the collection, use or disclosure of their personal information,
there are exceptions to the Consent Principle that are relevant with respect to the Proceeds of Crime
(Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act.

Exceptions to Consent
Section 7 of PIPEDA sets out the limited circumstances where knowledge or consent is not required.
As stated in s. 7(3)(c.2) of PIPEDA, an organization may disclose personal information to FINTRAC as
required by section 7 of the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act (reporting
to FINTRAC on a transaction that may be related to the commission or attempted commission of money
laundering or terrorist activity *nancing) without an individual’s knowledge or consent.
For more information about consent and exceptions to consent, please see the OPce of the Privacy
Commissioner of Canada’s PIPEDA Self Assessment Tool and guide for businesses and organizations.
For reference material about the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act’s client
identi*cation, record keeping and reporting requirements, please visit FINTRAC’s website:
http://www.*ntrac-canafe.gc.ca

Is it important to limit the collection of personal information?
Yes.
The Limiting Collection Principle in PIPEDA states that the collection of personal information shall be
limited to that which is necessary for identi*ed purposes.
An organization must limit collection to what is required and identi*ed by legislation and regulations and
what is required for its speci*c business purpose.
An organization must not indiscriminately collect personal information.
The Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act requires organizations subject to
the Act to record information for certain transactions – this can include an individual’s name, address, date
of birth, phone number and occupation.
As well, organizations may be required to record speci*c identity document information in the course of
ascertaining an individual’s identity: this includes the type of identity document, document reference
number and place of issue. An individual may be required to provide an identity document, such as a birth
certi*cate, a driver’s license, or similar type of document.
It is important for an organization to review the information they need to collect to comply with the
Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act and limit collection to what is required
and identi*ed by legislation and regulations, and in addition to that, what is required for its speci*c
business purpose.
Please refer to question # 6 for information about photocopying identity cards, question #7 for information
about health cards and question #8 for information about the Social Insurance Number.
For more information about limiting collection, use or disclosure of personal information please see the
OPce of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada’s PIPEDA Self Assessment Tool and guide for businesses
and organizations.
For reference material about the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act’s client
identi*cation, record keeping and reporting requirements, please visit FINTRAC’s website:
http://www.*ntrac-canafe.gc.ca

Why is limiting the collection of personal information a good
thing?
By not “over-collecting” personal information, human and *nancial resources are not spent collecting,
storing, and safeguarding nonessential personal information. An organization can reduce operational
inePciencies and minimize its risks by following the Limiting Collection Principle.
An organization shall put in place policies and procedures that focus on collecting, using, disclosing or
retaining that personal information which is required to ful*ll legal or regulatory obligations, and in addition
to that, is necessary for its speci*c business purpose.
For more information about limiting collection, use or disclosure of personal information please see the
OPce of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada’s PIPEDA Self Assessment Tool and guide for businesses
and organizations.
For reference material about the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act’s client
identi*cation, record keeping and reporting requirements, please visit FINTRAC’s website:
http://www.*ntrac-canafe.gc.ca

Should an identity document be photocopied when ascertaining
an individual’s identity?
Organizations may need to collect personal information about individuals to ful*l obligations required by
law and for its speci*c business purpose.
The Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act requires organizations subject to
the Act to ascertain the identity of customers who conduct certain types of transactions. Individuals may
be required to provide an identity document, such as a birth certi*cate, a driver’s license, or similar type of
document.
If according to law an organization is required to collect and keep a photocopy or copy of an identity
document, then an organization must comply.
If an organization is not required by law to collect a photocopy of an identity document, then an
organization must consider whether collecting or retaining a photocopy of an identity document (or a copy
in any form) is necessary for its legitimate business purpose, consistent with privacy legislation (PIPEDA
or substantially similar legislation) and with the Limiting Collection Principle.
The Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act states that in some cases
organizations may be required to collect a photocopy or copy of an identity document, invoice or account
statement. Some examples include:
If the person's identity is ascertained from an attestation signed by a commissioner of oaths in
Canada or a guarantor in Canada, and such use of the document is not prohibited by the applicable
provincial law, a record of the attestation (Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist
Financing Regulations s.67(g)).
If a person’s identity is ascertained by relying on a photocopy or electronic image of a document
provided by the person, that photocopy or electronic image (Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering)
and Terrorist Financing Regulations s.67(j)).
For certain non face-to-face identi*cation methods where a photocopy of an identity document is
needed (Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Regulations Schedule 7).
An organization must consider what personal information is required and necessary in order to ful*l legal
or regulatory obligation(s), and in addition to that for its speci*c business purpose, and only collect that
information.
For more information about limiting collection, use or disclosure of personal information please see the
OPce of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada’s PIPEDA Self Assessment Tool and guide for businesses
and organizations.
For reference material about the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act’s client
identi*cation, record keeping and reporting requirements, please visit FINTRAC’s website:
http://www.*ntrac-canafe.gc.ca

Should a health card be used to ascertain a customer’s identity?
A health card is a sensitive identity document. As such, the information on health cards should only be
collected in limited circumstances - such as when necessary or required by law.
In a number of provinces there is a stand-alone health information law that prescribes limits on the
collection of health service cards and numbers. In some cases, there is an outright prohibition against
requiring the production of these cards for any purpose unrelated to the provision of health services. In
other cases, health services cards can only be used for meeting the ascertaining identity obligations under
the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act if the production of this document is
genuinely voluntary on the part of the individual.
The Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act indicates that an identity can be
ascertained by referring to a health card – but only if provincial legislation does not prohibit it (Proceeds of
Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Regulations section 64.1(a)).
The Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act does not require a health card be
photocopied, except in those circumstances where an organization is required to collect or keep a
photocopy or copy of an identity document (Please see Question #6 for information on photocopying
identity documents).
Given that health cards contain sensitive personal information and their use for identity purposes may be
prohibited or limited in certain jurisdictions other identity documents, if available, should be used *rst to
ascertain a customer’s identity.
For reference material about the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act’s client
identi*cation, record keeping and reporting requirements, please visit FINTRAC’s website:
http://www.*ntrac-canafe.gc.ca

Should a Social Insurance Number (SIN) be used to verify a
customer’s identity?
The OPce of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada recommends that the Social Insurance Number (SIN)
should not be used as a general identi*er and organizations should restrict their collection, use and
disclosure of SINs to legislated purposes.
While some private-sector organizations are required by law to request customers’ or employees’ SINs, the
OPce of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada remains opposed in principle to the practice of requesting
the SIN for general purposes of identi*cation.
However, there is no law prohibiting an organization from asking for a customer’s SIN, or a customer from
supplying the SIN, for purposes other than income reporting. Although the practice is not recommended,
an organization may ask for the SIN, and a customer may choose to supply it, for reasonable purposes of
identi*cation, provided that the principles of PIPEDA are duly observed.
Some examples of legislated uses of the SIN include:
Employers are authorized to collect SINs from employees in order to provide them with records of
employment and T-4 slips for income tax and Canada Pension Plan (CPP) purposes.
Organizations such as banks, credit unions, brokers and trust companies are required under the
Income Tax Act to ask for customers’ SINs for tax reporting purposes (e.g., interest earning accounts,
RRSPs, etc.).
No private-sector organization is required to request a SIN for purposes other than income reporting. Even
for a *nancial institution, if a customer’s account is not of a type that earns interest (e.g., if it is a credit
account as opposed to a savings account), there is no legal requirement for the organization to collect the
individual’s SIN, and no obligation for the individual to supply it.
The Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act does not require an organization
to report an individual’s Social Insurance Number to FINTRAC.
Furthermore, FINTRAC’s Guideline 6 explains that a Social Insurance Number should never be provided to
FINTRAC on any type of report.
For more information about the social insurance number, please see the OPce of the Privacy
Commissioner of Canada’s Best Practices For The Use of Social Insurance Numbers In The Private Sector.
For reference material about the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act’s client
identi*cation, record keeping and reporting requirements, please visit FINTRAC’s website:
http://www.*ntrac-canafe.gc.ca

What should an organization be aware of if an individual
requests information about disclosures made to FINTRAC?
An individual may request to be informed of disclosures made by an organization to FINTRAC, but that
does not necessarily mean that the request can be granted.
Although Principle 4.9 of PIPEDA states that upon request an individual shall be informed of the existence,
use and disclosure of their personal information and be given access to that information, there are
exceptions that apply.
PIPEDA sets out clear procedures when responding to access requests involving personal information that
has been disclosed to FINTRAC or other government institutions.

Request About Information Disclosed
Step 1 - Inform FINTRAC
According to section 9(2.1)(a)(i) of PIPEDA, an organization must notify FINTRAC in writing of a request
made by an individual to the organization about any disclosure:
Where the organization disclosed personal information to FINTRAC without the individual’s
knowledge or consent on the grounds that the transaction may be related to the commission or
attempted commission of money laundering or terrorist activity *nancing (section 7(3)(c.2) of
PIPEDA).
An organization shall not respond to the request until receiving noti*cation from FINTRAC approving or
objecting to the access, or 30 days pass since FINTRAC was noti*ed.
Step 2 – Grounds For an Objection from FINTRAC
FINTRAC could object to the organization complying with the request but must indicate the grounds for its
objection. FINTRAC may object to the disclosure if it is of the opinion that compliance with the request
could reasonably be expected to be injurious to the detection, prevention or deterrence of money
laundering or the *nancing of terrorist activities.
Step 3 - In Case of an Objection
In the case of an objection, section 9(2.4) of PIPEDA indicates that the organization shall:
Refuse the request;
Notify the Privacy Commissioner of Canada, in writing, and without delay, of the refusal;
Not provide the individual any information relating to the disclosure;
Not mention that the organization noti*ed FINTRAC or the Privacy Commissioner of Canada; and
Not mention that FINTRAC objected to the request.
For additional information on access, please refer to the OPce of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada’s
guide for businesses and organizations and section 9 of PIPEDA.
For reference material about the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act’s client
identi*cation, record keeping and reporting requirements, please visit FINTRAC’s website:
http://www.*ntrac-canafe.gc.ca

Additional Links and Information
OPce of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada speeches and submissions regarding the Proceeds of Crime
(Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act.

Privacy Commissioner of Canada’s PIPEDA Findings:
PIPEDA Case Summary #2007-369
The importance of explaining the reasons for collecting personal information.
PIPEDA Case Summary #2006-347
Investment dealer needs personal information to comply with securities regulations.
PIPEDA Case Summary #2005-296
Language of consent and monitoring activity challenged.
PIPEDA Case Summary #2003-256
Customer *nds bank's collection, use and disclosure of personal information excessive in order to open a
personal deposit account, considers bank's purposes vague.
PIPEDA Case Summary #2002-40
Applicant objects to credit check as condition for opening bank account.
PIPEDA Case Summary #2002-46
Bank accused of inappropriately demanding birthdates from account applicants.
PIPEDA Case Summary #2002-93
Individual complains that bank used personal information for purpose other than that for which it was
collected.
For reference material about the Proceeds of Crime (Money Laundering) and Terrorist Financing Act’s client
identi*cation, record keeping and reporting requirements, please visit FINTRAC’s website:
http://www.*ntrac-canafe.gc.ca

Report a problem or mistake on this page

Was this page helpful?

Date modi*ed: 2012-03-28

About the OPC

OPC news

Your privacy

Contact us

The Privacy Commissioner of
Canada is an Agent of Parliament
whose mission is to protect and
promote privacy rights.

Get updates about the OPC’s
announcements and activities, as
well as the events in which we
participate.

We respect your privacy

If you have a question, concerns
about your privacy or want to *le a
complaint against an organization,
we are here to help.

Who we are

News and announcements

What we do

Privacy events

OPC operational reports
Publications
Working at the OPC

Speeches

Read our Privacy policy and Terms
and conditions of use to *nd out
more about your privacy and rights
when using the priv.gc.ca website or
contacting the OPce of the Privacy
Commissioner of Canada.

Contact the OPC

Stay connected

Transparency

! OPC Blog

Proactive disclosure

" OPC LinkedIn
# OPC RSS feeds
$ OPC Twitter
% OPC YouTube channel

Top of Page

&

