Français



Search priv.gc.ca

For individuals
Home



Privacy topics

For businesses


For federal institutions

Collecting personal information and consent



Report a concern

OPC actions and decisions

About the OPC

Consent

Guidance on inappropriate data practices: Interpretation and application of
subsection 5(3)
May 2018

On this page
Overview
What is PIPEDA subsection 5(3)?
How the Courts interpret 5(3)
Evaluating an organization’s purposes under 5(3)
Inappropriate purposes or No-Go Zones
Conclusion

Overview
Subsection 5(3) of PIPEDA is a critical gateway that either allows or prohibits organizations to collect, use and disclose personal information, depending on their
purposes for doing so. It is the legal boundary that protects individuals from the inappropriate data practices of companies. It separates those legitimate
information management practices that organizations may undertake in compliance with the law, from those areas in which organizations cannot venture,
otherwise known as “No-go zones”. In this guidance document, the OXce of the Privacy Commissioner of Canada (OPC) describes the guiding principles for
interpreting subsection 5(3) of PIPEDA as informed by past Court decisions, and sets out a series of no-go zones which we have determined, through past
*ndings and extensive consultations with stakeholders and focus groups with individuals across Canada, are offside PIPEDA as viewed from the perspective of
the reasonable person.

What is PIPEDA subsection 5(3)?
Subsection 5(3) of PIPEDA states:
An organization may collect, use or disclose personal information only for purposes that a reasonable person would consider are appropriate in the
circumstances.

How the Courts interpret 5(3)
1. A guiding principle
Subsection 5(3) “is a guiding principle that underpins the interpretation of the various provisions of PIPEDA”. 1 In turn, it must be read in light of the underlying
purpose of Part 1 of PIPEDA which is to balance the right of privacy of individuals with respect to their personal information and the need of organizations to
collect, use or disclose personal information. 2 In applying subsection 5(3), one is therefore required to engage in a “balancing of interests” between the
individual and the organization concerned. 3

2. Reasonable person lens
Subsection 5(3) requires a balancing of these interests “viewed through the eyes of a reasonable person.”

4

3. An overarching requirement
Within the scheme of PIPEDA, subsection 5(3) is “an overarching requirement” 5 that is superimposed on an organization’s other obligations to ensure that
their purposes for collection, use and disclosure of personal information are limited to only those which a reasonable person would consider appropriate in the
circumstances.

4. Necessary but not suNcient
In order to comply with subsection 5(3), it is not enough to demonstrate compliance with the other provisions of the Act. For instance, even with consent, an
organization must still show that its purposes for collecting, using or disclosing personal information in the *rst place are ones that a reasonable person would
consider appropriate in the circumstances.
Conversely, compliance with subsection 5(3) does not automatically mean compliance with other provisions of the Act. Even if an organization’s purposes are
considered appropriate under subsection 5(3), it must also ensure that the Act’s other requirements relating to the protection of personal information are
satis*ed. 6

Evaluating an organization’s purposes under 5(3)
The evaluation of subsection 5(3) requires an examination of whether the purposes are appropriate “in the circumstances.” As such, the analysis must be
conducted “in a contextual manner” and look at the particular facts surrounding the collection, use and disclosure, “all of which suggests ]exibility and variability
in accordance with the circumstances”. 7
In applying subsection 5(3), the courts have generally taken into consideration whether: “1) the collection, use or disclosure of personal information is directed to
a bona :de business interest, and 2) whether the loss of privacy is proportional to any bene*t gained.” 8 In Turner v. Telus Communications Inc, the Federal
Court, in a decision aXrmed by the Federal Court of Appeal, set out the following factors for evaluating whether an organization’s purpose was in compliance
with subsection 5(3):
The degree of sensitivity of the personal information at issue;
Whether the organization’s purpose represents a legitimate need / bona :de business interest;
Whether the collection, use and disclosure would be effective in meeting the organization’s need;
Whether there are less invasive means of achieving the same ends at comparable cost and with comparable bene*ts; and
Whether the loss of privacy is proportional to the bene*ts. 9

Inappropriate purposes or No-Go Zones
Based on the guiding principles and evaluative framework above, our OXce’s practical experience with the application of subsection 5(3) over the course of more
than *fteen years of applying PIPEDA, and comments received during our consultation on consent—we have determined that the following purposes for
collection, use or disclosure of personal information would generally be considered “inappropriate” by a reasonable person 10 . The following No-Go Zones are
currently considered to be offside PIPEDA, and may evolve over time.

1. Collection, use or disclosure that is otherwise unlawful
Organizations should have knowledge of all regulatory and legislative requirements that may govern their activities, and individuals should be safe in the
knowledge that collection, use or disclosure of their personal information will not be done for purposes that contravene the laws of Canada or its provinces. This
is supported by PIPEDA Principle 4 which requires collection to be “by fair and lawful means”.
For instance, the “reasonable person” would generally consider to be inappropriate any collection, use or disclosure of their personal information that would
violate credit reporting legislation. In PIPEDA Report of Findings 2016-002, the OPC found that it was inappropriate for a landlord association to be operating a
“bad tenant list” as by doing so, it was acting as an unlicensed credit reporting agency in violation of provincial credit reporting legislation. Similarly, in OPC’s
Report of Findings in respect of Bell Canada’s Relevant Ads Program, we found the company’s use of credit score information for the delivery of targeted ads was
not permitted under Ontario’s Consumer Reporting Act, and was therefore inappropriate under 5(3).
* As another example, organizations that require individuals to undergo a genetic test, or disclose the results of a genetic test, as a condition of providing good or
services, or entering into a contract, will be in contravention of the Genetic Non-Discrimination Act of 2017. Hence, consistent with OPC’s Policy statement on the
use of genetic test results by life and health insurance companies, and its Guidance on Direct to Consumer Genetic Testing, requiring individuals to undergo
genetic tests or provide existing genetic test results has been deemed to be a No-Go Zone.

2. ProTling or categorization that leads to unfair, unethical or discriminatory treatment contrary to human rights law
In an age of big data, it is increasingly important to understand the connection between the upstream collections, uses and disclosures of personal information
and the downstream discriminatory impacts thereof. 11 Data analytics—or any other type of pro*ling or categorization—that results in inferences being made
about individuals or groups, with a view to pro*ling them in ways that could lead to discrimination based on prohibited grounds contrary to human rights law
12 would not be considered appropriate under subsection 5(3)’s “appropriate purpose” test.
While pro*ling that leads to discrimination contrary to human rights law will always be inappropriate under 5(3), determining whether a result is unfair or
unethical will require a case-by-case assessment. Organizations should know, however, that unfair or unethical pro*ling or categorization will also generally be
found inappropriate under subsection 5(3).
This is consistent with the spirit of the International Resolution on Big Data adopted by Data Protection and Privacy Commissioners around the world at their
annual Conference in Mauritius in 2014, where we committed to calling on all parties to demonstrate that decisions around the use of Big Data are fair,
transparent and accountable; that results from pro*ling be responsible, fair and ethical; and that injustice for individuals due to fully automated false positive or
false negative results be avoided.

3. Collection, use or disclosure for purposes that are known or likely to cause signiTcant harm to the individual
The digital marketplace is *lled with privacy trade-offs individuals make every day in order to exercise their freedom as consumers. This includes giving up a
reasonable amount of one’s privacy in order to seek out convenience and choice. Individuals should be free to make their own discerning decisions of how much
privacy they are willing to give up in order to obtain certain products or services.
However, the OPC believes that a reasonable person would not consider it appropriate for organizations to require an individual to undergo signi*cant privacy
harm as a known or probable cost for products or services. By “signi*cant harm”, we mean “bodily harm, humiliation, damage to reputation or relationships, loss
of employment, business or professional opportunities, *nancial loss, identity theft, negative effects on (one’s) credit record and damage to or loss of property”.
13

4. Publishing personal information with the intended purpose of charging individuals for its removal
OPC has written extensively about the challenges of protecting one’s reputation online, and released a draft position paper on the topic. While this remains a
complex issue overall, our OXce has come across one practice which we clearly consider to be offside PIPEDA and that is, publishing sensitive personal
information online for the primary purpose of charging individuals to have it removed. In short, we believe a reasonable person is unlikely to consider “blackmail”
an appropriate purpose, and the Federal Court of Canada agreed with us when it con*rmed the *ndings of our investigation of Globe24h.

5. Requiring passwords to social media accounts for the purpose of employee screening
PIPEDA, as amended by the Digital Privacy Act, protects the personal information of job applicants as well as employees of federal works, undertaking or
businesses (organizations that are federally-regulated, such as banks, airlines, and telecommunications companies). Given the unequal positions of power
between employer and employee (or potential employee), there is a risk that employers ask for more information than is needed to assess an individual’s merit,
and individuals, in turn, may feel unduly pressured to provide such information for fear of not being given the job or maintaining their employment. In some cases,
employers may go overboard in requesting that employees (or potential employees) provide them with access to password-protected areas of their social media
accounts. Requiring passwords in order to access private parts of social media accounts has the potential of exposing incredible amounts of highly sensitive
personal information that are neither relevant nor necessary for the employers’ legitimate business purposes. Many U.S. States have passed legislation
prohibiting this practice. 14 The OPC agrees that requiring passwords to social media accounts for the purpose of employee screening 15 would generally
not be considered appropriate by a reasonable person.

6. Surveillance by an organization through audio or video functionality of the individual’s own device
Nothing can be more privacy-invasive than being tracked through the audio or video functionality of an individual’s device either covertly, that is without their
knowledge or consent, or even with so-called consent, when doing so is grossly disproportionate to the business objective sought to be achieved.
In PIPEDA Report of Findings 2013-016, the OPC found that a spyware application called “Detective Mode,” used by several rent-to-own companies to covertly
trace missing laptop computers resulted in surreptitious collection of keystrokes, screenshots, webcam photographs, and other information. Our OXce found
that the loss of privacy resulting from the use of Detective Mode in this context is vastly disproportionate to the possible bene*ts to be gained.
It may be permissible for the audio or video functionality of a device to regularly or constantly be turned on in order to provide a service if the individual is both
fully aware and in control of this fact, and the captured information is not recorded, used, disclosed or retained except for the speci*c purpose of providing the
service.

Conclusion
An appropriate purpose judged from the standpoint of a reasonable person is a ]exible concept that requires time, careful re]ection and practical experience to
de*ne. In practice, the test for appropriateness will require a contextual analysis but we *nd it useful—for transparency to both individual and organizations—to
provide examples of our expectations, such as those listed above. It is our intention to periodically revisit and update the above list of “No-Go zones” as
warranted.

Footnotes
1

R. v. Spencer, [2014] 2 S.C.R. 212, paragraph 63.

2

PIPEDA, s. 3; A.T. v. Globe24h.com, 2017 FC 114, paragraph 73 (“Globe24h.com”).

3

Turner v. Telus Communications Inc., 2005 FC 1601, ¶39, aff’d 2007 FCA 21 (“Turner”). See also Eastmond v. Canadian Paci:c Railway, 2004 FC 852,
paragraph 129 (“Eastmond”)

4

Turner v. Telus Communications Inc., 2005 FC 1601, paragraph 39, aff’d 2007 FCA 21 (“Turner”). See also Eastmond v. Canadian Paci:c Railway, 2004
FC 852, paragraph 129 (“Eastmond”).

5

A.T. v. Globe24h.com, 2017 FC 114, paragraph 73 (“Globe24h.com”).

6

R. v. Spencer, [2014] 2 SCR 212, ¶63.

7

Eastmond, paragraph 131.

8

Globe24h.com, paragraph 74, citing Turner at para 48.

9

Turner, ¶48. See also Eastmond, ¶¶127, 177, 179-181; Globe24h.com, ¶74; Penny Lane Entertainment Group v. Alberta (Information and Privacy
Commissioner), 2009 ABQB 140, ¶¶58-61; Leon’s Furniture Limited v. Alberta (Information and Privacy Commissioner), 2011 ABCA 94, ¶¶58-62.

10

The OPC remains open to the possibility that in exceptional cases, information related to the described contextual factors may lead to the conclusion
that a particular use would, in fact, be considered appropriate by a reasonable person, even though it falls within one of the listed no-go zone.

11

See “Privacy Upstream, Discrimination Downstream: The (Un)Intentended Consequences of Data Analytics.” Address by Patricia Kosseim at Reboot
18th Annual Privacy and Security Conference, February 10 2017.

12

Canadian Human Rights Act.

13

This is in keeping with the threshold concept of ‘signi*cant harm’ as de*ned in subsection 10.1(7) of PIPEDA (not yet in force).

14

See e.g. Arkansas Ark. Code § 11-2-124; California Calif. Lab. Code § 980; Colorado C.R.S. 8-2-127; Connecticut Conn. Gen. Stat. § 31-40x (2015 S.B.
425, Act 16); Delaware 19 Del. Code § 709A; Illinois 820 ILCS 55/10; Louisiana La. Rev. Stat. § 51:1951 to §§ 1953 and 1955; Maine 26 M.R.S. § 616 to
619; Maryland Md. Code, Labor and Emp. Law § 3-712; Michigan MCL § 37.271-37.278; Montana Mont. Code Ann. § 39-2-307; Nebraska Neb. Rev.
Stat. 48-3501 et seq.; Nevada NRS § 613.135; New Hampshire N.H. Rev. Stat. § 275:74; New Jersey N.J. Stat. § 34:6B-6; New Mexico N.M. Stat. § 504-34 (covers job applicants only); Oklahoma 40 Okla. Stat. § 173.2; Oregon O.R.S. § 659A.330; Rhode Island R.I. Gen. Laws § 28-56-1 to -6; Tennessee
Tenn. Code §§ 50-1-1001 to -1004; Utah Code § 34-48-201 et seq.; Virginia Va. Code § 40.1-28.7:5; Washington RCW §§ 49.44.200 and 49.44.205;
West Virginia W.V. Code § 21-5H-1; Wisconsin Wis. Stat. § 995.55.

15

This no-go zone has been limited to the employment screening context because this is where the practice of requiring social media passwords is
known to have arisen. It should not necessarily be inferred from this that requiring passwords to social media accounts is therefore permissible in
other contexts. Should this practice continue to expand inappropriately in other contexts of unequal bargaining relationship (such as landlord-lessee,
for instance), we will consider making this a rule of general application.

Report a problem or mistake on this page

Was this page helpful?

Date modi*ed: 2018-05-24

About the OPC

OPC news

Your privacy

Contact us

The Privacy Commissioner of
Canada is an Agent of Parliament
whose mission is to protect and
promote privacy rights.

Get updates about the OPC’s
announcements and activities, as
well as the events in which we
participate.

We respect your privacy

If you have a question, concerns
about your privacy or want to *le a
complaint against an organization,
we are here to help.

Who we are

News and announcements

What we do

Privacy events

OPC operational reports

Speeches

Publications
Working at the OPC

Read our Privacy policy and Terms
and conditions of use to *nd out
more about your privacy and rights
when using the priv.gc.ca website or
contacting the OXce of the Privacy
Commissioner of Canada.

Contact the OPC

Stay connected

Transparency

! OPC Blog

Proactive disclosure

" OPC LinkedIn
# OPC RSS feeds
$ OPC Twitter
% OPC YouTube channel

Top of Page

&

