PRIVACY SCOREBOX

GDPR OVERVIEW

GDPR APP

BLOG

DLA Piper Intelligence

DOWNLOAD

DOWNLOAD

current countries

DATA PROTECTION LAWS OF THE WORLD

the full handbook

Law
About
DENMARK

Change country

Compare to

Please select

World map
Law
Definitions
Authority
Registration
Data Protection Officers
Collection & Processing

The General Data Protection Regulation (Regulation (EU) 2016/679) (GDPR) is a European Union law which entered into force
in 2016 and, following a two-year transition period, became directly applicable law in all Member States of the European Union on
May 25, 2018, without requiring implementation by the EU Member States through national law.
A 'Regulation' (unlike the Directive which it replaced) is directly applicable and has consistent effect in all Member States.
However, there remain more than 50 areas covered by GDPR where Member States are permitted to legislate differently in their
own domestic data protection laws, and there continues to be room for different interpretation and enforcement practices
among the Member States.

Transfer

Territorial Scope

Security

Primarily, the application of the GDPR turns on whether an organization is established in the EU. An 'establishment' may take a
wide variety of forms, and is not necessarily a legal entity registered in an EU Member State.

Breach Notification
Enforcement

However, the GDPR also has extra-territorial effect. An organization that it is not established within the EU will still be subject to
the GDPR if it processes personal data of data subjects who are in the Union where the processing activities are related "to the
offering of goods or services" (Article 3(2)(a)) (no payment is required) to such data subjects in the EU or "the monitoring of their
behaviour" (Article 3(2)(b)) as far as their behaviour takes place within the EU.

Electronic Marketing
Online Privacy
Contacts

To implement the GDPR, the Danish Parliament enacted the Danish Act on Data Protection (the 'Danish Data Protection
Act’) on May 17, 2018, enforceable on May 25, 2018 and replacing the previous Danish Act on Processing of Personal
Data (Act no. 429 of 31/05/2000). Hence, data protection and processing in Denmark is now regulated by the GDPR as
supplemented by the Danish Data Protection Act.
The Danish Data Protection Act does not apply to Greenland and the Faroe Islands.

Last modified 12 Jan 2021

Legal Notices
Privacy Policy
Cookie Policy
© 2021 DLA Piper. DLA Piper is a global law firm operating through various separate and distinct legal entities.
For further information about these entities and DLA Piper's structure, please refer to our Legal Notices. All rights reserved. Attorney Advertising.

