f ~. .}.V' A'.f 'J .,.",

nh"~

~ ., I" :,. (II"J "II" .}.

cr'rc: ?if-it?";!Iv.f.j~ '}.fU.
f (lJ') ~ It~.

OD~6li}.

P'" P'C'i:'.

ifto}

n A'ih .t. .}. O?). it 1; C: .,. m 'I 'I ~~ .}. f., DO

~~

~nf)

f)oo:t:oot.,r

n"lC"7'P, .,..c;"7'P, ;",,/1 ,...I\{I, ').,.,., '1'w'.1'
Hh...H.t;,r nrnjf HOO'100')"1, 1' ;1""00 ::
'1". ;1''''00 ::

n~;J1I7. nh..Ilil OOAh ',./1:"".. !jiY.~1 ,.

'1.")/..1. ;JfI,lIJ nK'ih;c..}' "'l.til'I:C
f!ftn'i.

}of.oJ..,.oo f"'l.OIn/
f?'.

IHII:Y'tlj

M9"

.'t. <11.137

"'P''''I'P, :~f./I .."/I(\. """"'1..1'
"P,.l1

',II']

"..H'A'.r

"'mflfl~H
"

fl.:"

:J..,.UD
"

IMPERIAL ETHIOPIAN GOVERNMENT
PROCLAMATION

No.185 OF 1961

Criminal Procedure Code
Of Ethiopia

Published by authority of the
Ministry of Pen
Addis Ababa

The first edition of this book was published during this 3200 year
of the reign of His Imperial Majesty Haile Selassie I
Emperor of Ethiopia
This edition reset and reprinted

1962 E.C. (1969)

NEGARIT GAZETA
published monthly by authority of
th(' Ministry l?/ Pen
P.O. Box 137

Printed by
Berhanena Selam Haile Selassie I Printing Press
Addis Ababa Ethiopia

The Criminal Procedure Code Proclamation 1961
CONQUERING LION OF THE TRIBE OF JUDAH
HAILE SELLASSIE I
ELECT OF GOD, EMPEROR OF ETHIOPIA
WHEREAS a Criminal Procedure Code has been prepared under Our supervision
and has received the approval of Our Senate and Chamber of Deputies;
NOW THEREFORE, in accordance with Articles 34 and 88 of Our Revised
Constitution We approve the resolutions of Our Senate and Chamber of Deputies
and We accordingly proclaim as follows:
1.
2.

This proclamation may be cited as "The Criminal Procedure Code Proclamation 1961."
The Criminal Procedure Code 1961 as published in a separate volume
appearing as Extraordinary Issue No. I of 1961 of the Negarit Gazeta shall
come into force three months from the date of its publication in the Negarit
Gazeta.
Given at Addis Ababa, this 2nd day of November, 1961
TSAHAFE TAEZAZ AKLILU HABTE WOLD
Prime Minister and Minister
"f Pel!

Table of Contents
Art. I. 2. 3. -

PRELIMINARY TITLE
Sl'Opeofapplimtion.
Aj,plication as to time.
lnterpr('(ation.

BOOK

19

I

Jurisdiction of Courts,
Public Prosecution Department And Police
Chapter ]. - JURISDJCTION OF COURTS
Art. 4. - Juri!;cliui!m as regards offences.
5. - Person.\'to he tried.
6. - Area o/jurisdiction.
7, - Appe{{atejurisd;u;on.

20

Chapter 2. - PUBLIC
Art. 8. 9. 10. --

20

PROSECUTION

DEPARTMENT AND POLICE

POlI"ersof public prosecution department.
Duties of the police.
Police public prosecutors.

BOOK II
Prosecution And Inquiry
TITLE I
Selling

in Motion

Prosecution

and Inquiry

Chapter I. - SETTING JUSTICE IN MOTION
Section I. - A('('u,mtion and complaint
Art. II. - Accusation in general.
12. - Anonymous accusations.
13. - Offences punishable on complaint.
14, - Form ofaccu,mtion or complaint.
15. - Accusation or complaint against an unknown offender.

22
22

16.-

Authority competentfor receivingaccusationor complaint.

17. 18. -

A ccusation or complaint addressed to wrong authority.
False accusation or complaint.

Section 2. - Settingjustj('(' in motion inflagrant cases

Art. 19.20. 21. -

23

Flagrantoffences.
Assimilated cases.
Effect as regards setting in motion of proceedings or arrest.

Chapter2. -- POLICE INVESTIGATION
Art. 22. - Principle.
23. 24. 25. 26. 27. 28. 29. 30. -

Duty of police to investigate.
Recording of statement.
Summoning of accused or suspected person.
Arrest.
Interrogation.
Release on bond.
Procedure after arrest.
Examination of witnesses by the police.

31. -

No inducementto be offered.

32. -

Searches and seizures.

33. -

Issueof searchwarrant.

34. 35. 36. 37. 38. 39. -

Physical examinqtion.
Power of court to record statements and confessions.
Diary of investigation.
Report of police investigation.
Action by public prosecutor on receiving report.
Closure of police investigationfile.

Chapter 3. - INSTITUTION OF PROCEEDINGS

24

28

Art. 40. -- Duty to instituteproceedings.
41. 42. 43. 44. 45. -

Doubtful cases.
Cases where proceedings shall not be instituted.
Form of refusal.
Effect of refusal.
Form of and decision on application.

46. -

Liability of privatepro~ecutor.

47. -

Persons entitled to conduct private prosecutions.

48. - Stay of proceedingsinprivateprosecutionpendinginstitution
of proceedings by public prosecutor.

TiTLE 11
Steps to be Taken Pending Investigation
Otapter 1. - ARRFST
Section I. - Arrest without warrant
Art. 49. - Principle.
50. - Arrest without warrant inflagrant cases.
51. - Arrest without warrant by the police.

30
30

Section 2. - Warrant of arrest
Art. 52. - Principle.
53. - Issue of warrant.
54. - When warrant of arrest to be issued.
55. - Applicationfor warrant in urgent cases.

31

Section 3. - General provisions.
Art. 56. - Arrest how made.
57. - Assistance may be required to effect arrest.
58. - Handing over of arrested person.
59. - Detention.

32

Otapter 2. - REMAND
Art. 60. - Conditions of remond.
Art. 61. - Detained persons right to consult advocate.
Art. 62. - Finding of sureties.

33

Chapter 3. - BAIL
Section I. - Bail
Art. 63. 64. 65. -

33
33

66. 67. 68. 69. 70. 71. 72. -

Bond

Princi"le.
Application for bail.
Court may direct by C'1Idorsementon I\'arrant security to be
taken.
Decision on application for bail.
Bail not affowcd.
Bail affowed.
Amount to be secured.
Obligations of guarantors.
Duration of bail bond.
Release.

73. 74. -

Mistake orfraud.
New facts.

75. -

Application

to court of appeal where bail refused.

Section 2. - Effect of bail bond
Art. 76. 77. 78. 79. -

36

Failure to appear.
Releasedperson likely to abscond.
Discharge of sureties.
Forfeiture ofrecognisances.

BOOK III
Preliminary Inquiry And Committal For Trial
A'rt. 80. 81. -

82. 83. 84. 85. 86...,87. 88. 89; 90. 91. 92. 93. -

Principle.
Court havingjurtsdiction.

37

Procedure.
Opening of preliminary inquiry.
Taking evidence for prosecution.
Accused asked whether he wishes to make a statement.
Statement of accused.
Additional witnesses.
Recording of evidence.
Committal for trial.
Bond of witnesses.
Record to beforwarded to registrar.
Contents of record.
Accused may be remanded.

BOOK IV
Trial
TITLE I
Chapter1. -GENERAL
Art. 94. 95. 96.97. 98. -

PROVISIONS
Adjournmenl. - Conditions.
New adjournment and summonses.
EJ.fectofaq,ournment

Exhibits.
Contents o/record.

41

Chapter 2. - PLACE OF TRIAL
43
Art. 99. - Ordillary place oltrial.
100. - Accused triable in place where act is done or where consequences ensued.
]0]. - Place oltrial where act is (111
oJ/ence by reason ofrelatioll to
other oj/encl'.
102. - Trialll'here place ofoJ/ence is uncertain.
103. - Offellce C'Ommittedon ajoutney.
104. - Place ol trial of oflence committed outside Ethiopia on an
Ethiopian

105. ]06. 107. -

ship 01' aircrap.

Court hm'ingjurisdinion in mses olreillstatement.
Change olvenue.
Public prosecutor to direct place f!l trial.

Chapter3. - THE CHARGE
Art. 108. ]09. ] 10.
-

I] I. -

.45

Principle.
Framing, filing and service ot"the charge.
Clutl'ge wrongly filed.

Contentsandform of the charge.

1]2. -

Description of circum stances.

113. 114. -

Where it is doubtful what oflence has been C'Ommitted.
Aggravated offences how charged and procedure.

115. -- Person charged with an oj/ence may be convicted ol an
116. ] 17.
118. -

attempt or as accessory or instigator.
More than one charge.
Joinder olcharges.
Efl£'ct of errors.

119. 120. -

A Iteration or addition to charge.

12]. 122. -

Remll olwitnesscs.
Withdrawalolcharges.

El/ect olalteratioll

01'additioll.

Chapter 4. -- THE TRIAL
Section I. - The hearing
4rf. 123. - Trialfo he (i'\ed.
124. Witness summonses.

125.-

Benchwarrant.

]26. -127. --

Attendance of accused.

128. -

Verification

Opening of hearing.
ofidentitl'.

49
49

129. 130. 13\. 132. 133. 134. 135. -

Readink out of charKe.
Objections to the charge.
Settlement of objections.
Plea of accused.
Plea of not guilty.
Plea of guilty.
Amendment of plea.

51
Section 2. - Evidence andjudgment.
Art. 136. - Opening of case and calling of witnesses for prosecution.
137. - Form of questions put in examination-in-chief
138. - Antecedents of accused.
139. - Re-examination.
140. - Absence of cross-examination.
14\. - Acquittal of accused when no casefor prosecution.
142. - Opening of casefor defence.
143. - Additional witnesses.
144. - Depositions taken in preliminary inquiry may be put in
evidence.
145. - Statements made in police investigation may be put in
evidence.
146. - Objection to evidence.
147. - Recording of evidence.
148. - Final addresses.
149. - Judgment and sentence.

Chapter S. - PRIVATE PROSECUTION
Art. 150. - Filing complaint and charge.
IS\. - Attempt to reconcile the.parties.
152. - Security for costs.
153. - Hearing andjudgment.

55

Chapter 6. - INJURED PARTY IN CRIMINAL PROCEEDINGS
Art. 154. - Principle.
155. - Application dismissed..
156.- Application allowed.
157. - Injured party may withdraw.
158. - Acquittal or discharge.
159. - Order on award of compensation.

55

TITLE

II

Special Procedures
Cllaptll' 1. - PROCEDURE IN CASES OF DEFAULT
Art. 160. - Principle.
Section I. - F(lilure to appear in public proceedings
Art. 16!. - Conditions for trying accused person in his absence.
162. - Publication of summons.
163.- Hearing andjudgment.
164. - Setting a.fide of judgment.
Section 2. - Failure to appear in private proceedings.
Art. 165. - Absence of private prosecutor.
166. - Absence of accused.

57
57

58

CIIapter 1. - PROCEDURE IN CASES OF PE1TY OFFENCES
59
Art. 167.- Summoning of accused.
168. - Accusi>dmay plead guilty in writing to petty oflencC'.
169. - Proceedi!Jgsand judgment.
170. - PrOl'edure where accused (/ppears before the court charged
with petty offence.

OIapter 3. - PROCEDURE IN CASES CONCERNING YOUNG PERSONS fiO
Art.17!. - Principle.
172.- Institutionof proceedings.
173.- Summoning of young person's guardian.
174. 175. 176. 177. 178. 179. 180. -

Young person may be assisted by counsel.
Removal of young personfrom chambers.

Hearing.
Judgment.
Orders which may be made against parents and gu(/rdian,f.
Cost of upkeep of young person in certain circumstances.
Variation or modification of order made in respect of
young

pC'rson.

BOOK V
Appeals and ApplicatiolB to set Aside Judgments
Given in Default
TITLE I
Appeal
Principle.
63
Courts having appellatejur~diction.
Application to His Imperial Majesty's Chilot.
No interlocutory appeals.
Appeal against conviction and sentence.
Appeal where injured par~v claims compensation.
187.- Notice of appeal and memorandum of appeal.
188. - Stay of execution.
189. -Contents
of memorandum of appeal.
190. - Record and exhibits to be/orwarded to court of appeal.
191. - Applicatian/or leave to appeal outo/time.
192. - Hearing.
193.- Absence of a party to the appeal.
194. - Additional evidmce.
195. - Powers of court of appeal.
196. -Where
one appeal in case concerning several convkted
persons.

Art. 181. 182. 183. 184. 185. 186. -

TITLE II
Application to set Aside Judgment Given in Default
Art. 197. -.
198. 199. 200. 201. 202. -

Court IiOvingjurisdiction.
Time andform of applicatian.
Grounds/or granting application.
Actian uponf1ling 0/ application.
Hearing.
Judgment.

67

BOOK VI
Execution of Sentences
Chapter 1. - GENERAL
Art. 203. 204. 205. 206. 207. 208. 209. 210. 211. 212. 213. 214. 21~. -

69
PROVISIONS
Principle.
Warrant in respect of person sentenced to death.
Warrant in respect of person sentenced to loss of liberty.
Execution may be postponed in certain cases.
Warrant in respect of person sentenced toflogging.
Warrant in respect of irresponsible persons.
Recovery offines.
Payment of costs and compensation.
Confiscation of property
Sequestration of property.
Orders in respect of young persons.
Compulsory labour, secondary penaltips and measures.
Recording of orders for execution.

Chapter 2. - VARIATIONOF ORDERS CONTAINED IN SENTENCES
Art. 216. - Principle.'
217. - Procedureanddecision.

72

Chapter 3. - REINSTATEMENT
Art. 218. - Applicationfor reinstatement.
219. _. Procedureanddecision.

73

BOOK VII
Costs in Criminal Cases
Art. 220. 221. 222.-

Costs of public prosecution.
Costs of private prosecution.
Injuredparty.

74

BOOK VIII
Atbia Dagnias with Summary Jurisdiction
Art. 223. 224. -

Jurisdiction.
Appeal.

75

Schedule: Places of Trial

77

Second Schedule: Forms of Charges

89

Third Schedule: Forms

95

First

BACK

Preliminary Title

Art. I. - Scope of application.
(I) Unless otherwise expressly provided, the provisions of this Code shall apply
to all persons alike.
(2) Unless otherwise expressly provided, the provisions of this Code shall apply
to all matters coming within the jurisdiction of the courts, the prosecution
and police authorities.

Art. 2. -

Application as to time.

( I) The provisions of this Code shall apply from the day of its coming into
force to all cases pending on such day and occuring thereafter.
(2) Any case pending on the coming into force of this Code shall be completed
by the court having: jurisdiction Linder the law repealed by this C,'de:
Provided that where any case is pending before a court not mentioned in
this Code, such case shall be completed by the court having jurisdiction
under this Code.

Art. 3. -

Interpretation

In this Code the following expressions shall have the following meanings:
'Advocate General" shall mean the Advocate General appointed under the
provisions of the Public Prosecutors Proclamation No. 123 of 1952 and
shall include the Attorney General in whatsoever law mentioned;
"court" shall mean a court established by law;
"Deputy Advocate General" shall mean the Deputy Advocate General appointed under the provisions of the Public Prosecutors Proclamation No.
123 of 1952;
"law" shall include proclamations, decrees, orders and any subsidiary legislation made thereunder;
"Minister" shall mean the Minister of Justice;
"prescribed" shall mean prescribed by this Code or by regulations made thereunder;
"public prosecutor" shall mean a public prosecutor appointed under the provisions of the Public Prosecutors Proclamation No. 123 of 1952;
"registrar" shall include the deputy registrar, an assistant registrar and a clerk
of the court;
"young person" shall mean a person between the ages of nine and fifteen.

19

BACK
20

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

BOOK I
Jurisdiction of Courts, Public Prosecution
Department and Police
Chapter 1. -

Jurisdiction of Courts

Art. 4. - Jurisdiction as regards offences.
(I) The courts mentioned in the third column of the First Schedule to this Code
shall have jurisdiction to try the offences mentioned in the first and second
columns and impose the punishments provided by law.
(2) The Minister may by order published in the Negarit Gazeta alter or vary
the First Schedule.
Art. 5. - Persons to be tried.
(I) No young person (Art. 53 Penal Code) may be tried together with an adult.
(2) No member of the Armed Forces may be tried together with a civilian
except for an offence which does not come within the jurisdiction of a
military court.
Art. 6. - Area of jurisdiction.
Courts shall exercise local jurisdiction in accordance with the provisions of Art.
99-107.
Art. 7. - Appellate jurisdiction.
Courts shall exercise appellate jurisdiction in accordance with the provisions of
Arts. 182.
Chapter 2. -

Public Prosecution Department and Police

Art. 8. - Powers of public prosecution department.
(I) The Advocate General, the Deputy Advocate General and the public prosecutors shall be responsible for carrying out the duties imposed on them
under this Code.
(2) The public prosecution department may in the discharge of its duties give
the necessary orders and instructions to the police and ensure that the
police carry out their duties in accordance with law.

BACK
BOOK I

21

Art. 9. - Duties of the police.
The police shall in accordance with the provisions of this Code assist the public
prosecution department in:
(a) preserving the peace and preventing crime;
(b) discovering the commission of offences;
(c) apprehending offenders; and
(d) prosecuting offences when members of the police are appointed as public
prosecutors.
Art. 10. - Police public prosecutors.
Where a member of the police force is appointed as a public prosecutor he shall
carry out the instructions of the public prosecution department.

BACK
22

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

BOOK II
Prosecution and Inquiry
TITLEI
Setting in Motion Prosecution and Inquiry
Chapter1. - Setting Justice in Motion

Section I.
Art. II.

-

-

Accusation and complaint

Accusation in general.

( I) Any person

has the right to report

any offence,

whether

or not he has

witnessed the commission of the offence, with a view to criminal proceedings being instituted.
(2) There shall be a duty to report in the cases provided in Art. 267, 344 and
438 Penal Code.

Art. 12. -

Anonl"mousaccusations.

Anonymous accusations which disclose serious breaches of the law and are on
the face of them circumsta.1tial and credible shall be investigated by the competent police authorities in the manner prescribed by Art. 22 et seq. with a view
to ascertaining the truth or otherwise of the accusation.
Art. 13. - Offences punishable on complaint.
In the case of offences which under the law may be prosecuted and punished
only upon a formal complaint by the injured party or those deriving rights from
him, the provisions of Art. 217-222 and 721 Penal Code shall apply.

Art. 14. - Form of accusationor complaint.

(I) Any accusation (Art. II) or complaint (Art. 13) shall be reduced to writins
by the person to whom it is made and when completed shall be read over to
to the complainant who shall sign and date it.
(2) Where an accusation or complaint is made by more than one person (Art.
219 Penal Code), all such persons shall sign it.

Art. 15. - Accusationor complaintagainstan unknownoffender.
Where the offender cannot be identified because he is unknown to the person
making the accusation or complaint, such person shall furnish such details as
are known to him with a view to establishing the identity of the offender.

BACK
BOOK II

23

Art. 16. - Authority comfJPtent for receiving accusation or complaint.
(I) Any accusation (Art. I I) or complaint (Art. 13) may be made to the police
or the public prosecutor. An accUsation or complaint regarding a young
person shall be made in accordance with Art. 172.
(2) Where it is made to the public prosecutor, the prosecutor shall forward it
to the competent police officef with a View to an investigation being made
under Art. 22 et seq.
Art. 17. - Accusation or complaint addressed to wrong authority.
Where an accusation or complaint is made to a person or authority other than
the police or the public prosecutor or to a police authority or a prosecutor having no jurisdiction, such person, authority or prosecutor shall without delay
forward the accusation or complaint to the appropriate police a~thority or
public prosecutor.
Art. 18. - False accusation or complaint.
Whosoever makes a false accusation or false complaint shall be liable to the
punishments laid down in Art. 441 and 580 Penal Code.

Section 2.

-

Setting justice in motion in flagrant cases

Art. 19. - Flagrant offences.
(I) An offence shall be deemed to be flagrant where the offender is found committing the offence, attempting to commit the offence or has just committed
the offence.
(2) An offence shall be deemed to be quasi-flagrant when, after it has been committed, the offender who has escaped is chased by witnesses or by members
of the public or when a hue and cry has been raised.

Art. 20.

-

Assimilated cases.

An offence shall he deemed to be flagrant and to fall under the provisions of
Art. 19 when:
(a) the police are immediately called to the place where the offence has been
committed;
or
(b) a cry for help has been raised from the place where the offence is being or
has been committed.
Art. 21. - Effect as regards setting in motion of proceedings or arrest.
(I) In the case of offences as defined in Art. 19 and 20, proceedings may be
instituted without an accusation or complaint being lodged, unless the offence cannot be prosecuted except upon a formal complaint.

BACK

24

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CL

E

(2) An arrest without warrant may in such cases be made on the conditions
laid down in Art. 49 et seq.

Chapter 2.

-

Police Investigation

Art. 22. - Principle.
(I) Whenever the police know or suspect that an offence has been committed,
they shall proceed to investigate in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter.
(2) Investigation into offences committed by young persons shall be carried out
in accordance with instructions given by the court under Art. 172 (2).
Art. 23. - Duty oj police to investIgate.
Investigating police offiCers shall carry out their duties under this Chapter notwithstanding that they are of opinion that the accusation, complaint or information they may have received is open to doubt.
Art. 24. - Recording oj Statement.
After having recorded an accusation or complaint in the manner laid down in
Art. 14, the investigating police officer shall elicit from the person making the
accusation or complaint all relevant facts and dates, the name or description of
the offender. the names and addresses of principal witnesses and all other'
evidence which may be available and shaH record them.
Art. 25. - Summoning oj a"cused or suspected person.
Where the investigating police officer has reason to believe that a person hC's
committed an offence, be may by written-summons require such person to appear before him.
Art. 26. - Arrest.
(I) Where the accused or the suspect has not been arrested and the offence is
such as to justify arrest or where the person summoned under Art. 25 fails
to appear, the investigating police officer shall take such steps as are
necessary to effect his arrest.
(2) Where the arrest cannot be made without warrant, the investigating police
officer shall apply to the court for a warrant of arrest in accordance with
the provisions of Art. 53.
Art. 27. - Interrogation.
(I) Any person summoned under Art. 25 or arrested under Art. 26,50 or 51
shaH, after his identity and address have been established, be asked to
answer the accusation or complaint made against him.

BACK

BOOI(. II

25'

(2) He shall not be compelled to answer and shaD be informed that he has the
right not to answer and tfiat any statement he may make may be used in
evidence.
(3) Any statement which may be made shall be recorded.
(4) Where the arrested person is unable properly to understand the language in
which his answers are to be recorded. he shall be supplied with a competent
interpreter. who shall certify the correctness ofall questions and answers.
Art. 28. - Release on bond.
(I) Where the offence committed or complained of is not punishable with
rigorous imprisonment as a sole or akernative punishment; or where it is
doubtful that an offence has been committed or that the summoned or arrested person has committed the offence complained of, the investigating
police officer may in his discretion release such person' on his executing
a bond with or without sureties that he will appear at such place, on such
day and at such time as may be fixed by the potice.
(2) Where the accused is not released on bond under this Article,1te may apply
to the court to be released on bail in accordance with the provisions of
Art. 64.
Art. 29. - Procedure after arrest.
(I) Where the accused has been arrested by the police or a private person and
handed over to the police (Art. 58), the police shall bring him before the
nearest court within fortyeight hours of his arrest or so soon thereafter as
local circumstances and communications pennit. The time taken in the
journey to the court shall not be included.
(2) The court before which the accused is brought may make any order it thinks
fit in accordance with the provisions of Art. 59.
Art. 30. - Examination of witnesses by the police.
(I) The investigating police officer may. where necessary, summon and examine
any person likely to give information on any matter relating to the offence
or the offender.
(2) Any person so examined shall be bound to answer truthfully atl questions
put to him. He may refuse to answer any question the answer to which
would have a tendency to expose him to a criminal charge.
(3) Any statement which may be made shall be NCorded.
Art. 31. -No inducement to-be offered.
(I) No police officer or person in authority shall otTer or use or make or cause
to be offered, made or used any inducement, threat, promise or any Other
improper method to any person examined by the police.

BACK26

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE.

CODE

(2) No police officer or other person shall prevent or discourage by whatever
means any person from making or from requiring to be recorded in the
course of the police investigation any statement relating to such investigation which he may be disposed to make of his own free will.
Art. 32. - Searches and seizures.
Any investigating police officer or member of the police may make searches or
seizures in accordance with the provisions which follow:
(I) No arrested person shall be searched except where it is reasonably suspected
that he has about his person any articles which may be material as evidence
in respect of the offence with which he is accused or is suspected to have
committed. A search shall be made by a person of the same sex as the arrested person.
(2) No premises may be searched unless the police officer or member of the
police is in possession of a search warrant in the form prescribed in the
Third Schedule to this Code except where:
(a) an offender js followed in hot pursuit and enters premises or disposes
of articles the subject matter of an offence in premises;
(b) information is given to an investigating police officer or member of the
police that there is reasonable cause for suspecting that articles which
may be material as evidence in respect of an offence in respect l'f
which an accusation or complaint has been made under Art. 14 of this
Code and the offence is punishable with more than three years imprisonment, are concealed or lodged in any place and he has good
grounds for believing that by reason of the delay in obtaining a search
warrant such articles are likely to be removed.
4r1. 33. - Issue of search warrant.
0) A search warrant may be issued by any court. No search warrant shall be
issued unless the court is satisfied that the purposes of justice or of any
inquiry, trial or other proceedings under this Code will be served by the
issue of such warrant.
(2) Every search warrant issued shall specify the property to be searched for
and seized and no investigating police officer or member of the police may
seize any property other than that specified in such warrant.
(3) On seizing any property such investigating police officer or member of the
police shall make a list of the property seized and where possible shall have
the list checked and signed by an independent person. Any property seized
which is required for the trial shall be preserved in a safe place until handed
over to the court as an exhibit. Any property not so required may be returned to the person from whom it was taken and a receipt shall be taken.

BACK

BOOK II

rT

(4) In'effecting a search the investigating police officer or member of the police
may use such foroo as is necessary and may where access to premises is
denied use reasonable force to effect entry.
(5) Unless otherwise expl'essly ordered by the Court, searches shall be carried
out only between the hours of 6 A.M. and 6 P.M.
Art. 34. - Physical examination
(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of Art. 20 Civil Code where an investigating police officer considers it necessary, having regard to the offence with
which the accused is charged, that a physical examination of the accused
should be made, he may require a registered medical I-Iractitioner to make
such exal)1ination and require him to record in writing the results of such
examination. Examination under this Article shalI include the taking of
a blood test.
(2) An investigatingpofice officer may, with the agreement of the victim of an
offence or, where he is incapable with the consent of the parent or guardian,
require a registered medical practitioner to make such physical examination
ItSthe offence being inquired into would appear to require. He shalI require
the registered medical practitioner to record in writing the results of such
examination.
Art. 35. - Power of court to record statements and confessions.
(1) Any court may record any statement or confession made to it at any time
before the oPening of a preliminary inquiry or trial.
(2) No court shalI record any such statement or confession unless, upon
questioning the person makinz it. it ascertains that such person voluntarily
makes such statement or confession. A note to this effectshalI be made ol'i
the record.
(3) Such statement or confession shall be recorded in writing and in fuJlby the
court and shall thereafter be read over to the person making the statement
or Gonfession, who shalI sign and date it. The statement shalI then be signed
by the presIdent orthe court.
(4) A copy of the record shalI then be sent to the court before which the case
is to be inquired into or tried, and to the public prosecutor."
4rt. 36. - Diary of investigation'.
(I) Every police officer making a police investigation under this Chapter shall
day by day enter his proceedings in the investigation in a diary setting forth:
(a) the day on which he started and closed his investigation; and
(b) all the steps taken in the course of the investigation; and
(c) the circumstances which the investigation disclosed; and
(d) all the means of evidence which may have been collected.

BACK28

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

(2) He shall enter in the diary any order which he may have received from a
court or the public prosecutor in the course of the investigation.
4.rt. 37. - Report of police investigation.
(I) Every police investigation under this Chapter shall be completed without
unnecessary delay.
(2) As soon as the investigation is completed, the investigating police officer
shall forward to the public prosecutor a report setting forth:
(a) the name of the parties; and
(b) the nature of the information and the names of all persons who appear
to be acquainted with the cirumstances of the case; and
(c) all the means of evidence which have been collected.
(3) The report shall specify all the steps which may have been taken with a view
to preservation or otherwise.
AT-t.38. - Action by public prosecutor on receiving report.
On receiving the report under Art. 37 the public prosecutor may:
(a) pro~cute the accused on a charge drawn up by him under Art. 109-122;
or
(b) order that a preliminary inquiry be held under Art. 80-93; or
(c) order further investigations; or
(d) refuse to institute proceedings under Art. 42.
Art. 39. : Closure of police investigation file.
(I ) The public prosecutor shall close the police investigation file where the
accused:
(a) has died; or
(b) is under nine years of age~or
(c) cannot be prosecuted under any special law or under public internationallaw (diplomatic immunity).
(2) The provisions of Art. 43-45 shall not apply where the case file is closed
under this Article.
(3) On closing the case file, the public prosecutor shall send a copy of his
decision to the Advocate General, the private complainant, if any, and the
investigating police officer.

Chapter3. -

Institutionof Proceedings

Art. 40. - Duty to institute proceedings.
(I) Subject to the provisions of Art. 42, the public prosecutor shall institute
proceedings accordance with the provisions of this Chapter whenever he
is of opinion that there are sufficient grounds for prosecuting the accused.

BOOK II

29

(2) The public prosecutor shall not institute proceedings against a young person
unless instructed so to do by the court under Art. 172.
Art. 41. - Doubtful cases.
Where it is not clear whether proceedings should be instituted, the public prosecutor shall refer the matter for instructions to the Advocate General.
Art. 42. - Cases where proceedings shall not be instituted
(I) No proceedings shall be instituted where:
(a) the public prosecutor is of opinion that there is not sufficient evidence
to justify a conviction: or
(b) there is no possibility of finding the accused and the case is one which
may not be tried in his absence: or.
(c) the prosecution is barred by limitation or the offence is made the subject
of a pardon or amnesty; or
(d I the public prosecutor is instructed not to institute proceedings in the
public interest by the Minister by order under his hand.
(2) On no other grounds may the public prosecutor refuse to institute proceedings.
(3) The public prosecutor shall institute proceedings In cases affecling the
Government when so instructed by the Minister.
Art. 43. --- Form of refusal.
(I) A refusal to institute proceedings under Art. 42 shall be in writing and shall
record clearly the reasons for such refusal.
(2) A copy thereof shall be sent to the a~propriate person mr>ntioned in Art. 47
and to the investigating police officer.

An 44.

..-

qfCi.t of refusal.

(I) Where the public prosecutor refuses to institule proceedmgs
(II (a) in relation to an offence punishable
on complain!
authorise

in writing the appropriate

person mentioned

a private prosecution. A copy of such authcrisation

under Art. 42
only, he shall

in Art. 47 to cpnduct
shall bt' sent to the

cpurt having jurisdiction.
(2) Where the public prosecutor refuses to institu!c proceedings under Art. 42
(I) (a) in relation to an offence which is not punishable On complaint only.
the appropriate
person mentioned in Art 47 may. within thirty days from
having received the decision of the public: prosecutor.
apply for an order
that the public prosecutor institute proceedings.
4/"r. 45.

-

Form

of and decision

(I) An applic"tiol1

under

11// application.

Art. 44 (2) shall be made to the court to which an

BACK
CRIMINAL

30

PROCEDURE

CODE

appeal lies from decisions of the court which would have had jurisdiction,
had proceedings been instituted.
(2) The court Shall, after considering the refusal of the public prosecutor to
institute proceedings under Art. 42 (I) (a) and the reasons therefor either
confirm the decision of the public prosecutor or order him to institute
proceedings:
Liability of private prosecutor.
Art. 46.
The private prosecutor authorised to conduct a private prosecution under Art.
44 (I) shall conduct the private prosecution at his peril and at his own expense.
~

Art. 47.
No
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)

~

Personsentitled to co' Ictprivateprosecutions.
person other than:
the injured party or his legal representative: or
the husband or wife on behalf of the spouse; or
the legal representative of an incapable person; or
the attorney 01 a body corporate:
may conduct a private prosecution.

Art. 48. ~Stay.of proceedings in private prosecution pending institution of proceedings
by public prosecutor.
Where the evidence in a private prosecution discloses that a more serious offence has resulted than has been charged in a private prosecution, the p~blic
prosecutor may apply to the court to stay the proceedings pending the institution of fresh proceedings by the public prosecutor.and the court shall thereon
stay the proceedings.

TITLE II
Steps to be taken Pending Investigation
Chapter1.
Section 1.

~

~

Arrest

Arrest without warrant

Art. 49. - Principle.
Save as is otherwise expressly provided, no person may be arrested unless a
warrant is issued and no person may be detained in custody except on an order
by the court. An arrest without warrant may only be made on the conditions
laid down in this Section.

BACK
BOOK II

31

Art. 50. - Arrest without warrant in flagrant cases.
Any private person or member of the police may arrest without wa l'I'ant a perS0n
who has committed a flagrant offence as defined in Art. 19 and 20 of this Code.
where the offence is punishable with simple imprisonment for not less than
three months.

Art. 51. -- Arrest without warrantby the police.

(I) Any member of the police may arrest without warrant any perS0n:
(a) whom he reasonably suspects of having committed or being about to
commit an offence punishable with imprisonment for not less than one
year;
(b) who is in the act of committing a breach of the peace;
(c) who obstructs a member of the police while in the execution of his
duties or who has escaped or attempted to escape from lawful custody;
(d) who has evaded or is reasonably suspected of having evaded police
supervision;
(e) who is reasonably suspected of being a deserter from the armed forces
or the police forces;
(0 who has in his possession without lawful excuse housebreaking implements or weapons:
(g) who has in his possession without lawful excuse anything which may
reasonably be suspected of being stolen or otherwise obtained by the
commission of an offence;
(h) who may reasonably be suspected of being a dangerous vagrant within
the meaning of Art. 471 Penal Code.
(2) Nothing in this Article shall affect the powers of other government officers
to make an arrest without warrant under special provisions of other laws.

Section 2.

-

Warrant of arrest

Art. 52. - Principle.
(I) Where a warrant is required by law to be issued by a court before a person
is arrested the provisions which follow shall apply.
(2) A warrant of arrest shall be in the form prescribed in the Third Schedule
to this Code.
(3) A warrant of arrest shall remain in force until executed or cancelled by the
court which issued it notwithstanding the death, retirement or replacement
of the judge having issued the warrant.
Art. 53. -- Issue of warrant.
(I) A warrant of arrest may be issued on the application of any investigating

BACK
CRIMINAL

32

PROCEDURE

CODE

po:ice officer by any court and shall be addressed to the chief of the police in
the Taklay Guezat in which it is issuea.
(2) A warrant may be issued at any time and on any day of the year.
(3) A warrant of arrest may be executed in any part of the Empire by any
member of the police.
Art. 54. - When warrant of arrest to be issued.
A warrant of arrest shall only be issued where the attendance of a person before
the court is absolutely necessary and tannot otherwise be obtained.
Art. 55. - Application for warrant in urgent cases.
(I) In cases of urgency the investigating police officer may apply for a warrant
by telephone or telegraph.
(2) In such cases the application to the court in question shall be confirmed in
writing within 24 hours.

Section 3.

-

General provisions

Art. 56. - Arrest how made.
(I) The police officer making an arrest shall first establish the identity of the
person to be arrested.
(2) Where the arrest is made with a warrant, the police officer shall read out the
warrant to the person to bC arrested and shall show it to the person arrested
if he so requests.
(3) He shall then actually touch or confine the body of the person to be arrested
unless there be a submission to his custody by word or action.
(4) If such person forcibly resists the endeavours to arrest or attempts to evade
the arrest, such officer may use all means proportionate to the circumstance.s to effect the arrest.
(5) The provisions of this Article shall also apply to bench warrants.
4rt. 57. - Assistance may be required to effect arrest.
Where the police call for assistance in making an arrest with or without warrant
there shall be a duty to assist where assistance can be given without risk (Art.
761 Penal Code).

Art. 58. -

Handing over of arrested person.

(I) Where an arrest is made the person making the arrest shall without unnecessary delay hand over the person so arrested to the nearest police
station.

BACK
BOOK 11

33

(2) Where the person making the arrest has witnessed the commission of the
offence, he"shall make a statement in accordance with the pr("';~ions of
Art. 30.
Art. 59. - Detention.
(l) The court before which the arrested person is brought (Art. 29) shall decide
whether such pel1ion shall be kept in custody or be released on bail.
(2) Where the police, investigation is not completed the investigating police
officer may apply for a remand for a sufficient time to enable the investigation to be completed.
(3) A remand,may be granted in writing. No remand shall be granted for more
than fourteen days on each occasion.

Chapter 2.

-

Remand

Art, 60. - Conaitions of remand.
Any arrested person shall be detained on the conditions prescribed by the law
relating to prisons.
Art. 6t .,- Detained persons right to consul! fldvocatl!.
Any person detained on arrest or on remand shall be permitted forthwith tQ
call and interview his advocate and shall, if he so requests, be provided with
the means to write.
Art. 62. - Finding of sureties.
Any person on remand who may be released on bail shall be given the opportunity to find sureties.

Chapter 3.
Section I.

-

-

BaD

Bail Bond

Art. 63. - Principle.
(I) Whosoever nas been arrested may be released on bail where the offence with
which he is charged does not carry the death penalty or rigorous imprisonment for fd'teen years or more and where there is no possibility of the
person in respect of whom the offence was committed dying.
(2) No person shall be released on bail unless he has entered into a bail bond,
with or without sureties, which, in the opinion of the Court, is sufficient to
secure 'his attendance at the court when so required to appear.
(3) Nothing in this Article shall affect the provisions of Art. 67.

34

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

Art. 64. - Application for bail.
(I) A person under arrest may at any time apply for bail.
(2) The application shan be made in writing and signed by the applicant. It
shan contain a summary of the reasons for making the application and the
nature of the bail bond the applicant is prepared to enter into.
(3) An application for bail may be granted by any court.
Art. 65. - Court may direct by endorsement on warrant security to be taken.
(1) Any court issuing a warrant for the arrest of any person may, in its discretion, direct by endorsement on the warrant that .if such person enters
into a bail bond on the terms laid down by the court, the police officer to
whom the warrant is directed by the court shan take such security and shall
release such person from custody.
(2) The endorsement shan state:
(a) the amount to be guaranteed and.the guarantors, if any; and
(b) the time at which the person released is to attend before the court.
(3) Where a bail bond is entered into as required under this Article, the police
officer to whom the warrant is directed shan release the arrested person and
forward the bond to the court.
Art. 66. - Decision on application for bail.
Any court to which an application for bail is made shan consider it withou~
delay and shan can upon the prosecutor or the investigating police officer in
his absence for comments and recommendations. It shan make its decision
within 48 bours.
Art. 67. - Bail not aI/owed
An application for bail shan not be anowed where:
(a) the applicant is of such nature that it is unlikely,dl'at he win comply with
the conditions laid down in the bail bond;
(b) the a2plicant, if set at liberty, is likely to commit other offences;
(c) the applicant is likely to interfere with witnesses or tamper with the evidence.

Art. 68. -

Bail aI/owed.

Where the application is anowed, the court shan fix the conditions on which
bail is granted.
Art. 69. - Amount to be secured.
(I) The choice of the guarantors and the amount to be guaranteed shan be in the
discretion of the court.
(2) The court shan decide such matter having regard to:
(a) the seriousness of the charge; and

BOOK II

is

(bl the likelihood of the accused's appearance: and
fc) the dan!!er to public order which his release mav occasion: and
(d) the resources of the accused and his guarantors.
(3) Any decision granting or refusing the application shall be in writing and
shall give reasons.
Art. 70. - Obligations of guarantors.
(I) Unless otherwise expressly provided in the bail bond the guarantor shall
be responsible for securing the appearance of the person released on bail
at any time and place to which during the course of the proceedings the
hearing may from time to time be adjourned.
(2) Nothing herein contained shalI affect the provisions of Art. 77 and 78.
(3) Where the guarantor of a bail bond dies, his guarantee shalIlapse. Any
recognisance which has been deposited shalI be returned to the, guarantor's
personal representative. The person released on bail may be ,required to
produce new sureties.
Art. 71. - Duration of bail hOlld.
(I) The bail bond shalI be in the form prescribed in the Third Schedule to this
Code.
(2) The bail bond shalI remain in force for such period as shall be fixed by the
court but may be extended from time to time by the court.
(3) Where the charge against the person released on bail is withdrawn the
court shalI discharge the bail bond.

Art. 72. - Release.
When the bail bond has been entered into and alI formalities complied with,
the accused shall be released from custody.
Art. 73. - Mistake o/'fraud.
( I) If through mistake, fraud or otherwise, insufficient sureties have been
accepted the court may issue a warrant for the arrest of the person released
on bail and when such person appears, the court may order him to fmd
sufficient sureties.
(2) Where he refuses or is unable to do so, the court shall order that he be
remanded.
Art. 74. - New facts.
Where. certain facts are disclosed which were unknown when bail was granted,
the court m.ay at any time of its own motion or on application reconsider the
conditions on which bail has been granted and may order the released person
to produce new sureties or to be remanded.

BACK
36

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

Art. 75. - Application to court of appeal where baihefused.
(1) Where bail has been refused by a court, the accused may apply in writing
within twenty days against such refusal to the court having appellate jurisdiction under Art. 182 (1) to grant bail. The application shall set forth
concisely the reasons why bail should be granted.
(2) The court of appeal after considering the application shall dismiss the application or grant bail' on such conditions as it shall fix. No appeal shall lie
against a decision given by the court of appeal under this Article.

Section 2. -

Effect of bail bond

Art. 76. - Failure to appear.
(1) Where the person released on bail fails to appear on the date fixed a warrant
for his arrest shall be issued.
(2) The guarantors shall be summoned and required to show cause why their
recognisances should not be estreated.
(3) The court shall make such order regarding the bail bond as the circumstances of the case may require.
Art. 77. - Released person like(v to abscond.
(1) Where the guarantors are of 'opinion that the accused may abscond, they
shall inform the court and may apply to the court to be released from "their
obligations.
(2) The court shall issue a warrant of arrest and when the accused has been
arrested the court shall release the guarantors.
Art. 78. - Discharge of sureties.
(1) The guarantors may at any time bring the released person to the court
which released him and thereupon they shall be discharged.
(2) All or any of the guarantors may at any time apply to the court which
caused the bond to be taken to discharge the bail-bond either wholly or so
far as relates to the applicant. On such application the court shall issue a
warrant for the arrest of the person on whose behalf the bail bond was
executed and upon his appearance shall discharge the bond either wholly or
so far as relates the applicant.
(3) In the case provided in sub-art. (1) and (2), the court shall require the accused to find other sufficient sureties and, if he is unable or refuses to do so,
shall order his remand.
Art. 79. - Forfeiture ofrecognisances.
Whenever the accused fails to comply with a condition in a bail bond, the bail
bond shall be forfeited unless the accuSed or his guarantors can show cause
why the bond shall not be forfeited.

BACK
BOOK III

37

BOOK III
Preliminary Inquiry and Committal for Trial
Art. 80. - Principle.
(I) Where any pe,rson is accused of an offence under Art. 522 (homicide in the
first degree) or Art. 637 (aggravated robbery) a preliminary inquiry shall be
held under the provisions of this Book:
Provided that nothing in this Article shall prevent the High Court from
dispensing with the holding of a preliminary inquiry where it is satisfied
by the public prosecutor that the trial can be held immediately.
(2) Where any person is accused of any other offence triable only by the High
Court no preliminary inquiry shall be held unless the public prosecutor
under Art. 38 (b) so directs.
(3) The provisions of this Book shall not apply to offences coming within the
jurisdiction of the High Court which have been committed by young
persons.
Art. 81. - Court having jurisdiction.
Without prejudice to the provisions of Art. 99-107, the preliminary inquiry shall
be held before the Woreda Guezat Court within whose area of jurisdiction the
offence was committed.
Art. 82. --Pl"ocedure.
(I) All preliminary inquiries shall be held in the manner provided by the following Articles.
(2) An adjournment may De granted on the conditions laid down in Art. 94.
Art. 83. - Opening of preliminary inquiry.
(I) Where the public prosecutor decides under Art. 80 (2) that a preliminary
inquiry shall be held, he shall send a copy of his decision to the Woreda
Guezat Court having jurisdiction and, where appropriate, to the public
prosecutor acting before such court.
(2) The court shall fix the day on which the inquiry shall be held and cause to
be summoned such witnesses as the prosecutor may wish to call in support
of the prosecution.
(3) The case for the prosecution shall be conducted by the public prosecutor
acting before the commi~ting court.

BACK
38

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

Art. 84. - Taking-evidence for prosecution.
Where the accused person appears or is brought before it, the court shall require the pro~utor
to open his case and to call his witnesses.
Art. 85. - Accused asked whether he wishes to make a statement.
(1) After the witnesses for the prosecution have been heard and their evidence
recorded, the court shall ask the accused whether he wishes to make a
statement in-answer to the charge.
(2) He shall be informed that the preliminary inquiry does not constitute a
trial and that the decision as to his guilt or innocence will be taken by the
High Court and not by the committing court.
(3) He shall be informed that he is not bound to say anytl1ing but that any
statement he may wish to make will be taken down in writing and may be
put in at his trial.
.4rt. 86. - Statement of accused.
(1) If the accused elects to make no statement, he shall forthwith be committed
for trial before the High Court.
(2) If the accused elects to make a statement, such statement shall be taken
down in writing, read over to him, signed by the accused and kept in the
file.
Art. 87. - Additional witnesses.
The court may at any time call any witness whose testimo}lY it think!! necessary
in the interests of justice, notwithstanding that the prosecutor has not applied
for such witness to be summoned.
Art. 88. - Recordingof evidence.
Evidence shall be recorded in accordance with Art. 147 and the evidence of
each witness shall be recorded on separate sheets of paper.
Art. 89. - Committal for trial.
(I) After the statement, if any, of the accused has been taken down, the court
shall commit the accused for trial before the High Court without specifying
the charge or charges on which he is committed for trial.
(2) Such charge or charges shall be specified in the charge framed by the public
prosecutor in accordance with Art. 109-122 of this Code.
(3) The court shall then require the accused to give a list of the witnesses he
wishes to call at his trial together with their addresses.
Art. 90. - Bond of witnesses.
(I) All witnesses who have given evidence at the preliminary inquiry shall

BACK
BOOK III

39

execute before the committing court bonds binding themselves to be in attendance before such court and on such date as they shall be summoned to
appear.
(2) Any witness who refuses to execute the bond may be kept in custody until
the trial or until he binds himself.
Art. 91. - Record to be forwarded to registrar.
(I) When the accused is committed for trial, the committing court shall send
the original record and the exhibits (if a~y) to the registrar of the High
Court. Any exhibit which from its bulk or otherwise cannot conveniently
be forwarded to the registrar of the High Court may remain in the custody
of the police.
(2) A list of all exhibits showing which of them are forwarded with the record
and which remain in the custody of the police shall be sent to the registrar
of the High Court with the record.
(3) The registrar of the High Court shall be responsible for making copies of
the record and sending one to the public prosecutor and one to the accused.
Art. 92. - Contents of record.
(I) The record shall contain the following particulars:(a) The serial number of the case; and
(b) the date of the commission of the offence; and
(c j the date of the accusation, if any; and
(d} the name and address of the accuser, if any: and
(e) the name, address, occupation and age, if known, and nationality of the
accused; anci
(0 the offence shown and, where appropriate, the value of the property
In respect of which or the special status of the person a!!ainst whom
the offence was committed; and
(g) the date of the warrant of arrest, if any, or on which the accused was
first arrested; and
(h) the date on which the accused was first brought before a court; and
(i) the name of the prosecutor and, where appropriate, of the advocate for
the defence; and
(j) the date of anQ reasons for any adjournment that may have been
granted; and
(k) the date on which the preliminary inquiry was completed; and
(I) all statements made in the course of the preliminary inquiry, including
those which mav have been made by the accused; and
(IJ?).thelist of defence witnesses.
(2) The same particulars shall appear in the copy of the proceedings sent to the
public prosecutor and the accused.

BACK
CRIMINAL

40

PROCEDURE

CODE

Accusedmay be remanded.
Art. 93.
Without prejudice to the provisions of this Code relating to release on bail the
committing court may order that the accused be kept on remand until the trial.
~

BACK
BOOK IV

41

BOOK IV
TITLE I
Trial
Chapter1. -

General Provisions

Art. 94. - Adjournment. - Conditions.
(I) The court may of its own motion or on the application of the prosecution
or the defence adjourn any hearing at any stage thereof where the interests
of justice so require.
(2) An adjournment may not be granted unless:
(a) the prosecutor, public or private, or the accused fails for good cause to
appear; or
(b) witnesses for the prosecution or the defence are not present; or
(c) in a trial other than that of a case committed on preliminary inquiry to
the High Court, the prosecution require time for investigation; or
(d) further evidence requires to be produced; or
(e) evidence is produced either by the prosecution or the defence which
takes the other side by surprise and the production of which could not
have been foreseen; or
(f) the charge has been altered or added to and the prosecutor or the accused requires time to reconsider the prosecution or defence; or
(g) '"theaccused has not been served with a copy of the charge or of the preliminary inquiry or has been served too short a time before the trial to
enable him properly to prepare his defence; or
(h) prior sanction for a prosecution is required before the trial may start; or
(i) a decision in the trial cannot be given unless other proceedings be first
completed; or
(j) the mental stability of an accused requires to be established by an
expert; or

(k) . the court considers that the accused, if a young person, should be
placed under observation; or
(I) the trial cannot be completed in one day and is adjourned to the following day.
(3) No adjournment under paragraphs (al and (fI- (h) inclusive shall be granted
for more than one week.
Art. 95. - New adjournment and summonses.
(I) Subject to the provisions of sub-art. (31 of Art. 94, the court shall adjourn

4~

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

the hearing for such time only as is sufficient to enable the purpose for
which the adjournment was granted to be carried out.
(2) Where the purpose for which the adjournment was granted has not been
cgrried out for a reason not attributable to the fault of the prosecution or
the defence, a further adjournment of the same or less duration shall be
granted.
(3) Where a hearing has been adjourned under paragraphs (c) or (i) (k) of
Art. 94 (2), the court shall, ,when the purpose for which the adjournment
was granted has been carried out, issue new summonses to the parties and
witnesses.

-

Art. 96. - Effect of adjournment.
(I) On granting an adjournment, the court shall make such order as is necessary to ensure that the purpose for which the adjournment is granted is
carried out. This shall include the issue of warrants on the conditions iaid
down in Art. 33, 53 and 125.
(2) Where an adjournment has been granted under paragraphs (j) or (k) of
Art.. 94 (2) the court shall order that the accused be remanded to a place
where his state of mind can be examined into by an expert.
Art. 97. - Exhibits.
All exhibits including depositions and statements under Art. 27 and 30 shall be
marked and numbered by the registrar of the court. Such exhibits shall be kept
by the registrar in a safe place and shall not be withdrawn without an order of
the court.
Art. 98. - Contents of record.
(1) The record of a trial shall be signed by the court and shall contain:
(a) a copy of the complaint or accusation:
(b) the record of the preliminary inquiry, if any:
(C) the date of the warrant of arrest, if any. or on which-the accllsed was
first arrested;
(d) the date on which the accused was first brought before a court:
(e) the charge filed by the public or private prosecutor and any alterations or
additions thereto and in the case of a private prosecution the certificate
of the public prosecutor shall be attached:
(f) the plea of the accused:
(g) a copy of the opening address of the public or private prosecutor;
(h) a full record of the evidence of all the witnesses including the crossexamination and the re-examination:
(i) a note of any objection made by the prosecutor or the accuse,! and the
ruling given thereon. Such note shall be made at the time the objection

BACK

BOOK IV

4B

was raised and where made during the giving of evidence by a witness,
the record Qf the evidence shall be interrupted and the note inserted
in the record at the point where such evidence was interrupted;
(j) a note of the exhibits admitted as evidence and the number attached
thereto including whether the exhibit has been put in by the prosecutor
or the accused;
(k) a full note of any submission on points of law and the ruling thereon.
Such note shall be included in the record at the time when the submission was made;
(I) a note of all adjournments granted and the date to which the trial is
adjourned together with a note of the reasons for granting such adjournment;
(m) a note that the prosecutor and the accused have been informed of
their right of appeal.
(2) The record of the trial at each hearing shall start with:
(a) the name of the case and number;
(b) the date and time;
(c) the names of the prosecutor and defence advocate;
(d) the names of the judges.
(3) The record of the trial at each hearing shall close with a note of the time of
closure and the date and time to which the hearing is adjourned.

Chapter 2.

-

Place of Trial

Art. 99. - Ordinary place of trial.
Every offence shall be tried by the court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction it was committed,
Art. 100. - Accused triable in place where act is done or where consequences ensued.
Where a person is accused of the commission of any offence by reason of anything which has been done and of any consequence which has ensued such
offence may be tried by a court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction any
such thing has been done or any such .consequence has ensued.
Art. 101. - Place of trial where act is an offence by reason of relation to other offence.
Where an act is an offence by reason of its relation to another offence a charge
of the first mentioned offence may be tried by a court within the local limits of
whose jurisdiction either act was done.
Art. 102. - Trial wherr place of offence is uncertain.
(a) Where it is uncertain in which of several local areas an offence was committed; or

BACK
CRIMINAL

44

PROCEDURE

CODE

(b) where an offence is committed partly in one local area and partly in another;
or
(c) where an offence continues to be committed in more than one local area;
or
(d) where an offence consists of several acts done in differept local areas, it
may be tried by a court having jurisdiction over any of such local areas.
Art. 103. - Offence committed on a journey.
An offence committed whilst the offender is in the course of performing a
journey or voyage may be tried by a court through or into the local limits of
wbose ju_risdictiOll.the offender or the person against whom or the thing in
respect of which the offence was committed passed in the course ofthatjoumey
or voyage.
committed outside Ethiopia on an Ethiopian ship
Art. 104. - Place of trial of offence
\

.

or aircraft.
An offence committed outside Ethiopia on an Ethiopian ship or aircraft shall
be deemed to have been committed in Ethiopia.

Art. 10S. - Court having jurisdiction in cases of reinstatement.
Requests for reinstatement shaIJ..\1e"
brought before the court having passed the
sentence the cancellation of which is sought.
Art. 106. - Change of venue.
Whenever it is made to appear to the High Court by application before a trial
has started either by the public prosecutor or by the accused:
(a) that a fair and impartial trial cannot be held in any criminal court subordinate thereto; or
(b) that some question of law of unusual difficulty is likely to arise; or
(c) that an order under this Article will tmd to the general convenience of the
parties or witnesses; or
(d) that such an order is expedient for the ends of justice or is required by any
provision of this Code,
it may make an order against which no appeal shall lie to the effect that:
(i) any offence be tried by any court not empowered under the provisions
of Art. 99.104 of this Chapter but in other respects competent to try
such offence;
(ii) an accused person be committed for trial to itself.
Art. 107. - Public prosecutor to direct place of trUJl.
In cases under Art. 100-104, 116 or 117 the public prosecutor shall decide the
court in which the charge shall be ftled and on the filing of the charge in accordance with such decision the court shall have jurisdiction.

BACK
BOOK IV

Chapter3.

-

45

The CJwae

Art. IOS. - PrinciplB.
(1) No person may ~ tried for an offence other than a petty offence unless a
charge has been framed in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter.
(2) l'be provisions of this Chapter shall apply to charges framed:
(a) by the public prosecutor, whether the case is to be tried by the High
Court or a subordinate coun; ana
(b) by ~ private prosecutor, where he has been authorised to conduct a
private prosecution.
(3) The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply in cases concerning young
persons unless an order to the contrary be made under Art. 172.
Art. 109. - Framing, filing and service of the charge.
(I) The public prosecutor shall within fifteen days of the receipt of the police
report (Art. 31) or the record of a preliminary inquiry (Art. 91) frame such
charge as he thinks fit, having regard to the police investigation or preliminary inquiry, and shall file it in the court having jurisdiction.
(2) If, before the trial by the High Court, the prosecutor is of opinion upon the
record of the preliminary inquiry received by him that ~he case is one which
is to be tried by a subordinate court, he shall, notwithstanding the decision
of the committing court, frame such charge as he thinks fit and shall file it
in the subordinate court having jurisdiction.
(3) Where the preliminary inquiry discloses offences some of which are to be
tried by the High Court and some by a subordinate court, the prosecutor
shall frame such charges as he thinks fit and shall file them in the High
Court which shall have jurisdiction to try all offences thus charged.
(4) A copy of every charge shall be given to the accused free of cost.
Art. 110. - Charge wrong~I' filed.
Where the public prosecutor files ii charge in a court having no jurisdiction the
court shall refuse to accept such charge and shall direct the public prosecutor
to file the charge in a court..having jurisdiction and shall so sPecify in writing
in the charge sheet:
Provided that the court may not refuse to accept a charge filed by the public
prosecutor under Art. 630 Penal Code by reason only that a court subordinate
thereto has jurisdiction to try such charge and on the filing of such charge the
court shall have jurisdiction to try such offence.
Art. Ill. - Contents and form of the charge.
(I) Every charge shall be dated and signed and shall contain:
(a) the name of the accused; and

BACK
46

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

(b) the offence with which the accused is charged and its legal and material
ingredients; and
(c) the time and place of the offence and, where appropriate, the person
against whom or the property in respect of which the offence was committed; and
(d) the law and article of the law against which the offence is said to have
been committed.
(2) The charge shall be in the form set out in the Second Schedule to this Code
or shall conform thereto as nearly as may be.
Art. 112. - Description of circumstances.
Each charge shall describe the offence and its circumstances so as to enable the
accused to know exactly what charge he has to answer. Such description shall
follow as closely as may be the words of the law creating the offence.
Art. 113. - Where it is doubtful what offence has been committed.
(I) If a si~gle .act or series of acts is of such a nature that it is doubtful which of
several offences the facts which can be proved will constitute, the accused
may be charged with having committed the offence which appears the more
probable to have been committed and he may be charged in the alternative
with having committed all other offences which the facts which can be
proved might constitute.
(2) Where the evidence shows that the accused committed an offence with
which he might have been charged in the alternative and the offence is
within the jurisdiction of the court, he may be convicted of such offence
notwithstanding that he was not charged with it, where such offence is of
lesser gravity than the offence charged.
(3) Nothing in this Article shall prevent the court from applying the provisions
of Art. 6 and 9 Penal Code.
Art. 114. - Aggravated offences how charged and procedure.
(I) Where an accused person may be charged with an aggravated offence by
reason of previous convictions, he shall be charged with the unaggravated
offence and the charge shall be filed in the court having jurisdiction to try
the aggravated offence.
(2) Where the accused is convicted of the unaggravated offence the public
prosecutor may, after conviction and before sentence, prove the previous
convictions of the accused which, had they been proved at the trial, would
have resulted in his conviction of the aggravated offence. The court may
sentence him as though he had been convicted accordingly.

BACK
BOOK IV

47

Art. 115. -

Person charged IiUthan offence may be convicted of an attempt or as accessory or instigator.
(1) Where the accused is charged with an offence, he may be convicted of having attempted to commit the offence although the attempt is not separately
charged.
(2) Where an accused is charged with an offence as principal, he may be con.
victed as an instigator or as an accessory, although he was not charged as
such.

Art. 116. - More than one charge.
(I) A charge may contain several different counts relating to the same accused
and each offence so charged shall be described separately.
(2) All charges may be tried together but where the accused is likely to be
embarrassed in his defence, the court shall order the charges to be tried
separately.
Art. 117. - Joinder of charges.
(1) All persons accused of having participated in whatever capacity' in the offence or offences even at different times shall be charged and tried together.
(2) Nothing in this Article shall prevent the court from ordering separate trials
where separation is required in the interests of justice.
(3) Where several persons have committed different offences connected with
the same criminal activity they may where necessary M charged and tried
together.
Art. 118. - Effect of errors.
No error in stating either the offence or the particulars required to be stated in
the charge and no omission to state the offence or those particulars shall be
regarded as material and no charge containing such errors or omissions shall
be regarded as invalid unless they relate to essential points or the accused was
in fact misled by such error or omission or justice is likely to be thereby defeated.
Art. 119. - Alteration or addition to charge.
(1) Where the>accused is brought to trial on a charge containing essential errors or omissions or such errors or omissions that the accused has been or
is likely to be misled, the court may at any time before judgment of its
own motion or on application order the charge to be altered or added to or
a new charge to be framed, as the case may be.
(2) Every such alteration, addition or new charge shall be read and explained
to the accused..

BACK
48

CRIM-INAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

(3) The provisions of this Article shall also apply in the case of errors or omissions within the meaning of Art. 118.
Art. 120. - Effect of alteration or addition.
(1) Where a charge is altered or added to or a new charge is framed, the court
shall ask the accused to state whether he is ready to be tried on such altered,
added or new charge.
(2) Where the accused declares that he is not ready, the court shall consider the
reasons he gives. If proceeding immediately with the trial is not likely, in the
opinion of the court, to prejudice the accused in his defence the court may
proceelwith the trial as if the altered, added or new charge had been the
original charge.
(3) If proceeding immediately with the trial is lijcely in the opinion of the court
to prejudIce the accused in his defence or the prosecutor in the conduct of
the case, an adjournment shall be ordered (Art. 94).
Art. 121. - Recall of witnesses.
Whenever a charge is altered or added to or a new charge is framed after the
beginning of the trial, the prosecutor and the accused shall be allowed to recall
and examine, with reference to such alteration, addition or new charge, any
witnesses who may have been examined and may also call any further evidence
which may be material.

Art. 122. -

Withdrawalof charges.

(1) With the permission of the court the public prosecutor may before judgment at any stage of the proceedings withdraw any charge other than a
charge under Art. 522 (homicide in the first degree) or Art. 637 (aggravated robbery).
(2) Where the public prosecutor informs the court that the withdrawal of a
charge is on the instructions of government, the court shall, if it is satisfied
that the public prosecutor has been so ordered, grant permission to the
public prosecutor to withdraw the charge.
(3) Where no new charge is framed under the provisions of Art. 119 the accused shall be discharged.
(4) The court shall give reasons for allowing or refusing withdrawal of a charge.
(5) The withdrawal of a charge under the provisions of this Article is no bar
to subsequent proceedings.

BACK
BOOK IV

Chapter 4.

Section

I

-

-

49

The Trial
The hearing

Art. 123. - Trial to be fixed.
When the charge has been filed under Art. 109, the court shall forthwith fIx the
date of trial and cause the accused and the public prosecutor to be summoned
to appear on the date and at the time fIxed by the court. It shall take such steps
as are necessary to secure the attendance ~f the accused, if in custody.

Art. 124. -

Witness summonses.

(I) So soon as the date of the trial has been fIxed. the public prosecutor

and

the accused shall give the registrar a list of their witnesses and experts, if
any. whose presence is necessary. The registrar shall forthwith issue summonses in the form prescribed in the Third Schedule to this Code.
(2) The public prosecutor
and the accused shall be responsible for ensuring
that all exhibits to be produced
at the trial shall be in court on the day
fIxed for the trial.

Art. 125. - Bench warrant.
Where an accused person or a witness, who has been duly summoned and there
is proof of service of such summons. has failed to appear as required, the court
may issuea bench warrant and such accused person or witness shall be brought
before the court by the police.
Art. 126. -

Opening of hearing.

(I) The court shall sit on the day and at the hour fIxed for the hearing.
(2) Where an interpreter is required for the purposes of any proceedings. the
court shall select a qualifIed court interpreter. Where none is available it
will select a competent interpreter but no person shall be selected who is a
relative to the accused or prosecutor or is himself a witness.
(3) The case shall be called and the accused shall be produced.
Art. 127. - Attendance of accused.
(I) The accused shall appear personally to be informed of the charge and to
defend himself. When he is assisted by an advocate the advocate shall appear with him.
0) The accused shall be adequately guarded and shall not be chained unless
there are good reasons to believe that he is dangerous or may become violent
or may try to escape.

50

Art.

CRIMINAL

PROCFDlIRL

128.
Verificatiol/ of idel/titJ'.
When the accused has been brought
shall be established.

CODI":

-

into the dock his identity,

age and trade

Art. 129.-- Reading out of charge.
The charge shall be read out to the accused by the presiding judge who shall
then ask the accused if he has any objection to the charge.
Art. 130.
Ohjections to the charge.
(I) If the accused has anything to say as to the form or contents of the charge,
the provisions of Art. 119 et seq. shall apply.
(2) The provisions of Art. 131 shall apply where the accused states:
(a) that the case is pending before another court: or
(b) that he has previously been acquitted or convicted on the same charge:
or
(c) that the charge against him has been barred by limitation or the ofTence
with which he has been charged has been made the subject of pardon
or amnesty: or
(d) that he will be embarrassed in his defence if he is not granted a sepaparate trial, where he is tried with others: or
(e) that no permission to prosecute as required by law has been obtained:
or
(0 that the decision in the criminal case against him cannot be given until
other proceedings have been completed: or
(g) that he is not responsible for his acts.
(3) Where no objection is raised under this Article immediately after the accused has been required by the court to state his objections, the accused
shall be barred from raising any such objection at any later stage in the
trial, unless the objection be such as to prevent a valid judgment being
gIven.
-

Art. 13J. - Seulement of objections.
(I) The court shall take down any objection that may have been raised under
Art. 130 (2) and shall ask the prosecutor whether he has any statement to
make in relation to such objection.
(2) The court shall decide forthwith on the objection where the objection can
be disposed of by reference to the law or the facts on which the objection
is based are not disputed by the prosecutor.
(3) Where a decision cannot be made forthwith owing to lack of evidence. the
court shall order that the necessary evidence be submitted without delay.
(4) The court shall make its decision forthwith upon the necessary evidence
having been produced.

BACK

SI

Art. 132. - Plea of accused.
( I) After the charge has been read out and explained to the accused, the presiding judge shall ask the accused whether he pleads guilty or not guilty.
(2) Where there is more than one charge the presiding judge shall read out and
explain each charge one by one and shall record the plea of the accused in
respect of each charge separately.
(3) The plea of the accused shall be recorded as nearly as possible in the words
of the accused.
Art. 133. - Plea of not guilty.
(I) Where the accused says nothing in answer to the charge or denies the
charge, a plea of not guilty shall be entered.
(2) Where the accused admits the charge with reservations, the court shall enter
a plea of not guilty.
Art. 134. - Plea of guilty.
(I) Where the accused admits without reservations every ingredient in the ofrence charged, the court shall enter a plea of guilty and may forthwith
convict the accused.
(2) Where a plea of guilty has been entered, the court may require the prosecution to call such evidence for the prosecution as it considers necessary and
may pennit the accused to call evidence.
Art. 135. - Amendment of plea.
(I) Where a plea of guilty has been entered and it appears to the court in the
course of proceedings that a plea of not guilty should have been entered,
the court may change the plea to one of not guilty.
(2) The conviction, if any, shall then be set aside.
Section 2. -

Evidence and judgment

Art. 136. - Opening of case and calling of witnesses for prosecution.
(I) After the plea of the accused has been entered, the public prosecutor shall
open his case explaining shortly the charges he proposes to prove and the
nature of the evidence he will lead. He shall do so in an impartial and
objective manner.
(2) The public prosecutor shall then call his witnesses and experts, if any. The
witnesses and experts shall be sworn or affinned before they give their
testimony.
(3) They shall be examined in chief by the public prosecutor, cross-examined
by the accused or his advocate and may be re-examined by the public
proseCutor.

-

BACK
52

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

(4) The court may at any time put to a witness any question which appears
necessary for the just decision of the case.
Art. 137; - Form of questions put in examination-in-chief
(I) Questions put in examination-in-chief shall only relate to facts which are
relevant to the issues to be decided and to such facts only of which the
witness has direct or indirect knowledge.
(2) No leading question shall be put to a witness without the permission of the
accused or his advocate or the public prosecutor, as the case may be.
(3) Questions put in cross-examination shall tend to show to the court what is
erroneous, doubtful or untrue in the answers given in examination-in-chief.
Leading questions may be to a witness in cross-examination.
Art. 138. - Antecedents of accused.
(I) Unless otherwise expressly provided by law, the previous convictions of
an accused person shall not be disclosed to the court until after he has been
convicted.
(2) The previous convictions of an accused person shall not be included in the
record of any preliminary inquiry.
Art. 139. - Re-examination.
The public prosecutor, the accused or his advocate may on re-examination only
ask questions for the purpose of clarifying matters which have been raised in
cross-examination.

Art. 140. -

Absence of cross-examination.

Failure to cross-examine on a particular point does not constitute an admission of the truth of the point by the opposite party.
Art. 141. - Acquittal of accused when no case for prosecution.
When the case for the prosecution is concluded, the court, if it finds that no
case against the accused has been made out which, if unrebutted, would warrant his conviction, shall record an order of acquittal.
Art. 142. - Opening of case for defence.
( I) Where the court finds that a case against the accused has been made out and
the witnesses for the injured party, if any, have been heard it shall calIon
the accused to enter upon his defence and shall inform him that he may
make a statement in answer to the charge and may call witnesses in his de.
fence.
(2) The accused or his advocate may then open his case and shortly explain
his defence stating the evidence he proposes to put forward. He shall then

BACK
BOOK IV

S3

call his witnesses and experts, if any, who shall be sworn or affirmed before
they give their testimony.
(3) The witnesses for the defence may be called in any order:
Provided that, where the accused wishes to make a statement, he shall
speak first.
The accused may not be cross-examined on his statement but the court may
put questions to him for the purpose of clarifying any part of his statement.
Art. 143. - Additional witnesses.
( I) The court may at any time before giving judgment call any witness whose
testimony it thinks is necessary in the interests of justice.
(2) The prosecution and the accused may call any witness whose name does not
appear on the list of witnesses. Such witness shall be summoned where the
court is satisfied that he is a material witn~ and the application for a summons is not being made for the purpose of delaying the case.
(3) The prosecutor may in a case committed for trial to the High Court call
any witness who has not given evidence at the preliminary inquiry where
he informs the accused in writing of the name of the witness he proposes to
call and of the nature of the testimony he will give.
Art. 144. - Depositions taken In preliminary inquiry may be put ill evidence.
(I) The deposition of a witness taken at a preliminary inquiry J;naybe read and
put in evidence before the High Court where the witness is dead or insane,
cannot be found, is so ill as not to be able to attend the trial or is absent
from the Empire.
(2) The deposition of an expert taken at a preliminary inquiry may be read and
put in evidence before the High Court although he is not called as a witness.
Art. 145. - Statemellts made in police investigation may be put UIevidence.
(1) The court may, on the request of the accused or the prosecutor, refer to
statement made by a witness to a police officer in the course of police investigation.
(2) It may then, if it thinks it expetlil!nt in the interests of justice, direct the
accused to. be furnished with a copy thereof and such statement may be
used to impeach the credit of such witness.
Art. 146. - Objection to evidence.
Where the prosecutor or the accused objects to the admission of any evidence
or the putting of a question to a witness, the court shall decide forthwith on the
admissibility of such evidence.

BACK
54

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

Art. 147. - Recording of evidence.
(I) The evidence of every witness shall start with his name, address, occupation
and age and an indication that he has been sworn or affirmed.
(2) The evidence of each witness shall be taken down in writing by the presiding
judge or, if, for some reason, he is unable to record the evidence, by
another judge or clerk under his personal direction and superintendence.
(3) The evidence shall be divided into evidence-in-chief, cross-examination and
re-examination with a note as to where the cross-examination and re-examination begin and end.
(4) The evidence shall ordinarily be taken down in the form of a narrative:
Provided that the presiding judge may, in his direction, take down or
cause to be taken down any particular question and answer.
Art. 148. - Final addresses.
(I) After the evidence for the defence has been concluded the prosecutor may
address the court on questions of law and fact.
(2) The accused or his advocate shall then address the court on questions of
law and fact. He shall always have the last word,
(3) Where there are more than one accused the presiding judge shall decide in
which order the accused or their advocates shall address the court.
A.rt. 149. - Judgment and sentence.
(1) When the final addresses including the addresses under Art. 156, if any,
have been conduded, the court shall give judgment. The judgment shall be
dated and signed by the judge delivering it. The judgment shall contain a
summary of the evidence, shall give reasons for accepting or rejecting
evidence and shall contain the provisions of the law on which it is based
and, in the case of a conviction, the article of the law under which the
conviction is m<1de.
(2) Where tht, an used is found not guilty, the judgment shall contain an order
of acquittal and, where appropriate, an order that the accused be released
from cllstody.
(3) Where the accused is found guilty, the court shall ask the prosecutor
whether he has anything to say as regards sentence by way of aggravation
or mitigation. The prosecutor may call witnesses as to the character of the
accused,
(4) Where the prosecutor has made his submissions on sentence the accused or
his advocate shall be entitled to reply and may call witnesses as to character.
Where the accused does not admit any fact regarding his antecedents, the
prosecutor shall be required to prove the same.
(5) The court shall then pass sentence and shall record the articles of the law
under which the sentence has been passed.

BACK
~OOKIV

55

(6) Nothing herein contained shall affect the provisions of Art. 195 and 196
Penal Code.
(7) After delivery of judgment the prosecutor and the accused shall be informed of their right of appeal.

Chapter 5. -

Private Prosecutioo

Art. ISO. - Filing complaint and charge.
(I) Where a private complainant has been authorised under Art. 44 (I) to
conduct a private prosecution, he shall within fifteen days file his complaint
and the charge in the court having jurisdiction.
(2) Where a charge is not in accordance with the authorisation the court shall
require the private complainant to amend the charge to conform to such
authorisation.
Art. 151. - Attempt to reconcile the parties.
(I) When the complaint and the charge have been filed the court shall summon
the complainant and the accused to appear.
(2) Before reading out the charge to the accused the court shall attempt to
reconcile the parties. Where a reconciliation is effected, it shall be recorded
by the court and shall have the effect of a judgment.
Art. 152. - Security/or costs.
Where a reconciliation has not been effected, the court shall decide whether
the private prosecutor should give security for costs. Where an order for
security is made, the sum to be secured and the nature of the security shall be
stated in the order.
Art. 153. - Hearing and judgment.
(I) Where the private prosecutor has complied with the order, if any, under
Art. 152, the case shall proceed in accordance with Art. 123-149, the
parties having the same rights and duties as in public proceedings.
(2) The court shall give judgment as in ordinary cases.
Chapter 6. -

Injured Party in Criminal Proceedings

Art. 154. - Principle.
(I) Where a person has been injuted by a criminal offence, he or his representative may at the opening of the hearing apply to the court trying
the case for an order that compensation be awarded for the injury caused.
The application shall be in writing and shall specify the nature and amount
of the compensation sought. He shall not on filing his application pay tht"

56

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

prescribed court fees as though it were a civil case.
(2) The person making the application shall be shown the list of the witnesses
to be called by the prosecution and defence and shall be asked whether he
wishes additional witnesses to be called. Where he wishes additional
witnesses. to be called, he shall be required 'to' pay the prescribed fees for
the issue of witness summonses as though it were a civil case.
(3) The provisions of this chapter shall apply to public and private prosecutions.
(4) Where the person making the application acts in the capacity of private
prosecutor, he shall specify which witnesses he calls in support of the
prosecution and which he calls in support of his civil claim. The provisions
of sub-art. (I) and (2) shall apply.
Arl..155. - Applicalion dismissed.
(I) The court shall consider the application and shall of its own motion or on
the request of the prosecution or the defence refuse the application where:
(a) a young person is the accused: or
(b) the accused is being tried in his absence: or
(c) the injured party has instituted proceedings in a civil court having
jurisdiction; or
(d) the person making the application is not qualified for suing; or
(e) the claim for compensation cannot be determined without calling
numerous witnesses in addition to those to be called by the prosecution
and defence; or
(0 the court is of opinion that the hearing of the injured party's claim for
compensation is likely to confuse, complicate or delay the hearing of
the criminal case.
(2) The application shall be dismissed where the amount of compensation
claimed exceeds the pecuniary jurisdiction of the court.
(3) Where the court dismisses the application its decision shall be final and no
appeal shall lie against it. The injured party shall be informed by the court
that he may file a claim against the accused in a civil court.
Arl. 156. - AI'I'Ii('Qlionallowed.
(1) Where the application is allowed the injured party shall be entitled to take
part in the proceedings and shall have with regard to evidence all the rights
of an ordinary party.
(2) The court shall at the close of the case for the defence permit the injured
party or his representative to address the court in person or by advocate on
the question of the amount of compensation to be awarded. The accused or
his advocate shall have the right to reply.
Arl. 157.

-

Injured par~" may wilhdraw.

An injured party may at any time before the close of the case for the defence

BACK
BOOKIV

S7

withdraw his application and thereupon he may file a claim against the accused
in the civil court having jurisdiction.
Art. 158. - Acquittal or discharge.
Where the accused is acquitted or discharged, the court shall not adjudicate
on the question of compenSation and shall inform the injured party that he
may file a claim agl:l,instthe accused in the civil court having jurisdiction.

Art. 159.- Order onawardof compensation.
(I) The court when awarding compensation to an injured party 'ihall order
that:
(a) the amount of compensation so awarded be paid to the injured party
or his representative: and...
(b) costs as provided for civil cases be paid to the injured party or his representative; and
(c) the accused pay the court fees as if it were a civil case.
(2) Judgment shall be given as in an ordinary case.

TITLE II
Special
Otaptert.

-

Procedures

Procedure in Cases of Default

Art. 160. - Principle.
(I) The provisions of this Chapter shall apply where the accused fails to appear
whether the prosecution is public or private but shall not apply to young
offenders.
(2) Where the accused does not appear on the date fixed for the trial and no
representative appears satisfactorily to explain his absence, the court shall
issue a warrant for his arrest.
(3) Where the warrant cannot be executed, the court shall consider trying the
accused in his absence. Where an order to this effect is made the provisions
of the following articles shall apply.

Section I.
Art. 161.

-

-

Failure to appear in public proceedings

Conditions for trying accused person in his absence.

(l) Where the accused fails without good cause to appear on the day fixed
for the hearing, the court shall record his absence and may direct that he
be tried in his absence in accordance with the provisions of this Section.

BACK

58

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODI::

(2) No accused person may be tried in his absence under the provisions of this
Section unless he is charged with:
(a) an offence punishable with rigorous imprisonment for not less than
twelve years; or
(b) an offence under Art. 354-365 Penal Code punishable with rigorous
imprisonment or fine exceeding five thousand dollars.
Art. 162. - Publication of summons.
Where the court decides to hear the case in the absence of the accused it shall
order the publication of the summons which shall show the date fixed for the
hearing. It shall contain a notific~tion to the accused that he will be tried in his
absence ifhe fails to appear.
Art. 163. - Hearing andjudgment.
(I) Where the accused fails to appear after publication of the summons in
accordance with Art. 162 the case shall continue as in ordinary cases.
(2) The prosecution witnesses shall then be heard and the public prosecutor
shall make his final submission.
(3) The court shall give judgment as in ordinary cases.
Art. 164. - Setting aside of judgment.
An application to set aside the judgment may be made on the conditions laid
down in Art. 197-202.

Section 2.

-

Failure to appear in private proceedings

Art. 165.- Absence/II privateprosecutor.

(I) Where the pllvate prosecutor fails without good cause to appear on the
the date fixed for the hearing, the court shall strike out the case and order
the discharge of the accused.
(2) Where a case has been struck out under sub-art. (I). the private prosecutor
may, within fifteen days of such striking out, apply to the court to have a
a fresh hearing date fixed. No application shall be granted unless the pnvate
prosecutor satisfies the court that his failure to attend on the day of the
hearing was due to causes beyond his control.
(3) Where no application is made within fifteen days or it is dismissed. the
striking out shall be final with regard to the private prosecutor.

Art. 166. - Ahsence of accused.
Where the accused is absent, the provisions of Art. 162 and 163 shall not apply
and a bench warrant shall be issued.

BACK
BOOK IV

S9

Chapter 2. - Procedure in Cases of Petty Offences
Art. 167. - Summoning of accused.
(I) Where a petty offence has been committed, the public or private prosecutor shall apply to the court having jurisdiction to summon the accused
to appear.
(2) The application and the summons shall contain the name of the accused,
the circumstances of the petty offence committed and the law and articles of
the law to be applied.
Art. 168. - Accused may plead guilty in writing to petty offence.
The accused may return the summons to the court endorsing thereon that he
pleads guilty to such offence. Such endorsement shall be dated and signed by
the accused. In such a case and without prejudice to the provisions of Art. 169
(3), he shall be dispensed with the necessity of appearing in court in answer to
the summons.
Art. 169. - Proceedings andjudgment.
(I) On receipt of the summons so endorsed, the court shall record the plea of
guilty and, having ascertained the facts of the case from the prosecutor,
shall sentence the accused and send him a copy of the judgment.
(2) Where the court proposes to impose a fine only, it shall do so forth with.
(3) Where the court intends to impose a sentence of arrest, compulsory labour,
a warning or reproof, it shall summon the accused to appear and shall give
the accused an opportunity to defend himself before sentence is passed.
Art. 170. -

Procedure where accused appears before the court charged with petty
offence
(I) Where the accused does not endorse on the summons that he pleads
guilty, he shall appear on the day and ~t the time fixed for the hearing.
(2) The prosecutor and the accused shall take such steps as are necessary -to
secure the attendance of their witnesses, if any.
(3) The procedure shall be oral. The court shall only record the salient part of
the evidence of each witness. It shall give judgment orally recording briefly
the reasons for its judgment and mentioning the provisions of the law
under which judgment is given;
(4) Where the accused fails without good cause to appear in private proceedings
the court shall give judgment forthwith.

BACK
60

CRIMINAL

Chapter 3. -

PROCEDURE

COO!::

Procedure in Cases Concerning Young Persons

Arl. 171. - Pril/ciple.
Criminal cases concerning young persons shall be tried in accordance with
the provisions of this Chapter.
Arl. 172. - /I/slilulion ofproceeding.r.
(I) In any case where a young person is involved. he shall be taken immediately
before the nearest Woreda Court by the police. the public prosecutor. the
parent or guardian or the complainant.
(2) The court shall ask the person bringing the young person to state the
particulars and the witnesses. if any, of the alleged offence or to make a
formal complaint, where appropriate. and such statement or complaint
shall be recorded. The court may give the police instructions as to the
manner in which investigations should be made.
(3) Where the accusation relates to an 'offence punishable with rigorous
imprisonment exceeding ten years or with death (Art. 173 Penal Codel
the court shall direct the public prosecutor to frame a charge.
(4) Where the case requires to be adjourned or to be transferred to a superior
court for trial. the young person shall be handed over to the care of his
parents, guardian or relative and in default of any such person to a reliable
person who shall be responsible for ensuring his attendance at the trial.
The witnesses shall be bound over to appear at the trial.
Arl. 173. - Summoning of young person's guardian.
Where the young person is brought before the court and his parent, guardian
or other person in loco parentis is not present. the court shall immediately
inquire whether such person exists and shall SUmmon such person to appear
without delay.
Arl. 174. - Young person may be assisted by counsel.
The court shall appoint an advocate to assist the young person where:
(al no parent. !:tuardian or other person in loco parentis appears to represent
the young person, or
(b) the young person is charged with an offence punishable with rigorous
imprisonment exceeding ten years or with death.

- Removal of young person from chambers.
Where any evidence or comments are to be given or made which it is undesirable that the young person should hear, he shall be removed from the
chambers while such evidence or comments are being given or made.

Arl. 175.

BACK

BOOK IV

6'

Art.176.-Hearing.
.
(I) Where the young person is brought before the court all the proceedinp
shall be held in chambers. Nobody shall be present at any hearing except.
witnesses, experts, the parent or guardian or representatives of welfare
organisations. The public prosecutor shall be present at any hearing in the

High Court.

.

(2) All proceedings shall be conducted in an informal manner.
(3) The accusation or complaint under Art. 172 (2) or the charge under Art.
172(3) shall be read out to the young person and he shall be asked what"',
has to say in answer to such accusation or charge.
(4) If it is clear to the court from what the accused says that he fully understands and admits the accusation or charge, the court shall record what the
young person has said and may convict him immediately.
(5) If it is clear to the court from what the accused says that he fully understands and does not admit the accusation or charge, the court shall inquire
as to what witnesses should be called to support such accusation or charseThe young person, his representative or advocate may cause any witnesses

to be summoned.

.

(6) All witnesses shall be examined by the court and may thereupon be (:rossexamine<I by the defence. All depositions shall be recorded.
( 7) When the evidence is concluded, the defence may sum up and there-after
the court shall give judgment.
Art. 177. - Judgment.
(I) The judgment shall specify the provisions of the law on which it is based.
Where the young person is found not guilty, he shall be acquitted and set
free forthwith. Where he is found guilty, the court shall impose the appropriate measure or penalty under Art. 162 et seq. Penal Code.
(2) The court may call before it any person or representative of any inslitution
with a view to obtaining information concerning the character and antecedents of the young person so as to arrive at a decision which is in thebe$t
.
interest of the young person.
(3) After these person's have been heard, the defence may reply an~ call his
witnesses as to character, who shall be interrogated by the court and
thereupon the defence shall address the court as to sentence.
.
(4) Judgment shall be given as in ordinary cases. The court shall explain its
decision to the young person and warn him against further misconduct.
,

Art. 178. - Orders which may be made against parents and guardians.
Where it thinks fit the court may warn, admonish or blame the parents or other
person legally responsible for the young person where it appears that they
have failed to carry out their duties.

BACK62

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

Art. 179. - Cost of upkeep of young person in certain circumstances.
( I) The parents or other person legally responsible for the care of a young
person may be ordered to bear all or part of the cost of his upkeep and
training where owing to their failure to exercise proper care and guardianship the court has ordered the young person to be sent to the care of another
person or to a corrective or curative institution.
(2) The scope and duration of such obligation shall be specified in the judgment.
Art. 180. - Variation or modification of order made in respect of young person.
Any court which has sentenced a young person to a measure may at any
time of its own motion or on the application of the young person, his legal
representative or the person or institution to which he was entrusted, vary or
modify such order if the interest of the young person so requires.

BACK

BOOK V

63

BOOK V
Appeals and Applications to Set Aside
Judgments given in Default
TITLEI
Appeal
Art. 181. - Principle.
(I) An appeal shall lie in accordance with the provisions of this Book from
a judgment of a criminal court whether it be a judgment convicting,
discharging or acquitting an accused person.
(2) A second appeal shall lie in accordance with the provisions of Art. 182.
Art. 182. - Courts having appel/ate jurisdiction.
(I) An appeal shall lie from the decision of:
(a) a Woreda Court to the Awradja Court in whose area of jurisdiction
such Woreda Court lies;.
(b) an Awradja Court to the High Court;
(c) the High Court to the Supreme Imperial Court.
(2) A second appeal shall lie from a decision of:
(a) the Awradja Court in its appellate jurisdiction to the High Court:
(b) the High Court in its appellate jurisdiction to the Supreme Imperial
Court.
Art. 183. -- Application to His Imperial Majestr's Chi/at.
(I) Nothing in Art. 182 shall prevent an appellant who has exhausted his
, rights of appeal under Art. 182 from applying to His Imperial Majesty's
Chi lot for a review of the case.
(2) The application to His Imperial Majesty's Chi lot shall be accompanied by:
(a) a copy of the judgment or judgments with which the applicant is
dissatisfied; and
(b) a reasoned memorandum setting forth clearly and concisely the
reasons on which the applicant bases his request for a review.
Art. 184. -- No inter/ocutory appeals.
No interlocutory appeal shall lie from a decision of the court:
(a) granting or refusing an adjournment under Art. 94; or
(0) regarding an objection under Art. 131; or

64
BACK

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

(c) regarding the admissibility or non-admissibility of evidence under Art. 146,
but any such decision may form the subject of a ground of appeal where an
appeal is lodged against conviction, discharge or acquittal.
Art. 185. - Appeal against conviction (Indsentence.
(1) A convicted person may appeal against his conviction and sentence;
Provided that no appeal may be lodged by a convicted person who has
pleaded guilty and has been convicted on such plea except as to the extent
or the legality of the sentence.
(2) The public prosecutor may appeal against a judgment of acquittal,
discharge 'or on the ground of inadequacy of sentence.
(3) Where a prosecution is conducted by a private prosecutor the private
prosecutor may appeal in the same manner as is provided in sub-article (2).
(4) An appeal by a young person or by an incapable person shall be through
his legal representative.
~

Art. 186. - Appeal where injured partv claims compensation.
(I) Where the court refuses to grant compensation under Art. 100 Penal Code
the injured party may appeal against such decision.
(2) Where the court grants compensation the accused may appea1 against such
decision.
(3) An appeal shall lie against the amount of compensation awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Art. 2153 Civil Code.
(4) An appeal under this Article shall be heard by the criminal court of appeal
where there is an appeal against conviction or sentence. but shall be heard
by the civil court of appeal where there is no appeal against conviction or
sentence or such appeal is withdrawn.
Art. 187. - Notice of appeal and memorandum of appeal.
(1) Notice of appeal against a judgment shall be given by the appellant or his
advocate within fifteen days of the delivery of the judgment appealed
against. On receipt of such notice of appeal, the registrar shall cause the
judgment appealed against to be copied and handed to the appellant or hIs
advocate and where the appellant is in custody the copy shall be sent to the
superintendent of the prison in which he is confined for service on the
appellant. Such copy shall be dated when completed and the date on which
it is h'anded to the appellant or his advocate or is sent to the superintendent
of the prison shall be certified by the registrar.
(2) The memorandum of appeal under Art. 189 shall be filed within thirty days
of the receipt of the copy of the decision appealed against. The notice and
memorandum of appeal shall be filed in the registry of the court which gave
the judgment appealed against.

BACK

BOOK V

65

(3) Where the appellant is in custody the superintendent of the prison in which
he is confined shall forward the memorandum of appeal without delay to
the court against whose decision an appeal is made.
(4) A copy of the memorandum of appeal shall be served on tht; respondent to
the appeal.
Art. 188. - Stay of execution.
(I) Where a convicted person has given notice of appeal no sentence of flogging
shall be carried out until the appeal has been heard or abandoned by ~~I"
appellant.
(2) Where an accused person is released on bail pending the hearing of his
appeal the sentence of imprisonment shall not commence until the court of
appeal delivers its judgment.
.
(3) Any measures which have been ordered by the court against whose judgment an appeal has been filed shall be carried out notwithstanding an
appeal.
(4) There, shall be no stay of execution in respect of the payment of compensation or costs.
(5) An application for stay of execution may be made to the court of appeal at
any time before the appeal is heard or at the hearing of the appeal.
Art. 189.- Contents of memo randum of appeal.
(I) The memorandum of appeal shall set forth concisely and under distinct
heads the grounds of objection to the judgment appealed against without
any arguments and such grounds shall be numbered consecutively. The
memorandum shall be accompanied by a copy of the judgment appealed
against. The memorandum of appeal shall state the nature of the relief that
is sought.
(2) The memorandum of appeal shall be signed by the appellant and his
advocate, if any.
Art. 190. - Record and exhibits to beforwarded to court of appeal.
(1) On receipt of the memorandum of appeal the court against whose judgment
an appeal has been filed shall prepare without delay within fifteen days a
copy of the record and forward it together with the appeal record (if any),
the notice and the memorandum of appeal and all exhibits to the court of
appeal.
(2) The court of appeal may dispense with the making of a copy of the record
where the 'making of such copy may delay unduly the hearing of the appeal
and the Court may order the original file to be produced.

66

CRIMINAL

BACK

PROCEDURE

CODE

Art. 191.-Applicationfor
leave to appeal out of time.
(1) Where notIce of appeal or a memorandum of appeal is filed out of time, the
court against whose judgment the appeal is filed shall refuse to accept such
notice or memorandum and shall require the person submitting such notice
or memorandum to apply in writing to the court of appeal for leave to
appeal out of time.
(2) The application shall state clearly the reasons why the appeal should be
heard out of time and the reasons which occasioned the delay.
(3) The court of appeal shall not give leave to appeal out of time unless it is
satisfied that the delay was not occasioned by the default of the applicant.
(4) Where leave to appeal out of time is given the court of appeal shall fix the
date by which the memorandum of appeal is to be filed.
Art. 192. - Hearing.
The president: of the court of appeal shall fix a day on which the apPeal will be
heard and the parties to the appeal shall be notified. The appellant shall open
the appeal, the respondent shall reply and the appellant shall be entitled to
reply.

Art. 193.

~

Absenceof a party to the appeal.

(I) Wftere tlie appellant or his advocate is not present on the d-ayfixed for the
appeal and he has been notified of the hearing date. the appeal shall be
struck out:
Provided that the appeal may be restored to the list where the appellant
or his advocate can show that he was not present oWing circumstances
'0
beyond his control.
(2) Where the respondent or his advocate .is not present the appeal shall
proceed in his absenee.
Art. 194. - Additional evidence.
(I) In dealing with an appeal the court of appeal, if it thinks additional evidence
is.necessary, shall record its reasons and may take such evidence itself.
(2) Evidence taken in pursuance of sub-art. (I) shall be taken as if it were
evidence taken at the trial in the court of first instance.
4.rt. 195. - Powers of court of appeal.
(I} At the hearin.g of an appeal the court of appeal shall dismiss the appeal
where there is no sufficient ground for interference.
(2) Where it considers that there is sufficient ground for interference, the court
of appeal may:
(a) on an appeal from an order of acquittal or discharge reverse such order
and direct that the accused be retried by a Court of competent jurisdic.

BACK

BOOK V

67

tion or find him guilty and sentence him according to law; or
(b) on an appeal from conviction and sentence:
(i) reverse the finding and sentence and acquit the accused; or
(ii! with or without altering the finding, maintain, increase or reduce
the sentence;
(c) on an appeal fli;Jmconviction only reverse the finding and sentence and
acquit the accused;
(d) on an appeal from sentence only maintain, increase or reduce the
sentence.
(31 Where the court of appeal confirms the conviction but alters the sentence
or vice versa a second appeal shall lie only in respect of the conviction or
sentence which has been altered.
Art. 196. - Where olle appeal ill case cOllcemillg several cOllvictedpersolls.
(I) Where a court of appeal hears an appeal which concerns several convicted
persons but only one of them appeals, it may direct that its judgment be
applied to those other accused as though they had appealed where:
(a) the judgment is to the benefit of the appellant, and
(b) had the accused appealed they would have benefitted similarly.
(2) No order made to the prejudice of an appellant may be applied to a person
who has not appealed.

TITLE II
Application to Set Aside Judgment given in Default
Art. 197. - Court having jurisdiction.
An application to set aside a judgment given in default may be made by the
person sentenced in his absence to the court which passed the judgment.
Art. 198. - Time andform of application.
An application under this Title shall be made within thirty days from the date
on which the applicant became aware of the judgment given in his absence and
shall contain the reasons on which he bases his application.
Art. 199. - Groundsfor granting application.
No application under this Title shall be granted unless the applicant can show:
(a) that he has not received a summons to appear; or
(b) that he was prevented by force majeure from appearing in person or by
advocate.

68

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

Art. 200. - Action uponfiling of application.
(I) 'On the filing of the application, a copy thereof shall be sent to the public
prosecutor and the applicant and the public prosecutor shall be informed
of the hearing date.
.
(2) Where the applicant, having been duly summoned, fails to appear on the
hearing date. the application shall be dismissed.
Art. 201. - Hearing.
(I) The applicant or his advocate shall speak in support of the application and
the public prosecutor shalr~ply. The applicant shall have the right to reply.
(2) The court shall then give its decision on the application.
Art. 202. - Judgment.
(I) Where the application is allowed under Art. 199, the court shall order a
retrial and the public prosecutor shall file the charge in a court having
jurisdiction.
(2) Where the application is dismissed, the court shall make such consequential
orders as the circumstances of the case require.
(3) No appeal shall lie against a decision dismissing the application but
.
nothing shall prevent the applicant from appealing against sentence only
within fIfteen days of the dismissal of the application.

BOOK VI

BACK

69

BOOK VI
Execution of Sentences
CII8..

I. -

Ge8enI ProYIIioM

Art. 203. - Principle.
(I) Any court having passed a sentence in a criminal case shall issue the
necessary warrants or orders requiring the appropriate authorities to carry
out or supervise the carrying out of the sentence in accordanc:e with the
provisions of this Book.
(2) Nothing in this Article shall affect the provisions of Art. 188.
Art. 204. - Warrant in respec" of person sentenced to death.
(I) Where any person is sentenced to death, the presiding judge shaD by
warrant under his hand in the form prescribed in the Third Schedule
to this Code order such person to be detained until the pleasure fI His
Imperial Majesty shall be made known.
(2) Where the sentence is confirmed. it shall be carried out in accordance with
the conditions laid down in the order of confirmation.
(3) Where the sentence is commuted. the order' of commutation shall be
sufficient authority for carrying into effect the terms of such order.
Art. 2OS. -

Warrant in respect of per san sentenced

to lass of liberty.

(I) Where any person is sentenced to arrest, imprisonment or internment,
the presiding judge shall by warrant under his hand in the form prescribed
in the Third Scheduleto this Code order the sentence to be carried out.
(2) Such warrant shall be sufficient authority for the otlker in charge of the
prison and all other persons to carry out the sentence described in the
warrant.
Art. 206. - Execution may be postponed in certain cases.
Where a person who has been sentenced to arrest or simple imprisonment not
exceeding one year is:
(a) a pregnant woman; or
(b) the sole support of his family,
and such person is not likely to be a danger to public security, the court may
postpone the execution of the sentence for a period not exceeding six months
on production of guarantors for his good behaviour.

70

CRIMINAL

BACK

Art. 207.

-

Warrant in respect o/person

PROCEDURE

CODE

sentenced tojlogging.

Where any person is sentenced to be flogged for an offence under Art. 635
(3) or 637 (I) Penal Code, the presiding judge shall by warrant under his hand
in the sixteenth fQrDlprescribed by the Third Schedule to this Code order that
the sentence be carried out in accordance with Art. 120A Penal Code by such
person and at such place as shall be specified in the warrant.
Art. 208. - Warrant in respect o/irresponsible persons.
Where any person is found to be not fully responsible for his acts and the
court decides that he ~ confined or treated in accordance with the provisions
of Art. 134 or 135 Penal Code, the presiding judge shall by warrant under his
hand in the fifteenth form prescribed in the Third Schedule to this code order
that the accused be remanded to a suitable institution for confinement or
treatment.
Art. 209. ~Recovery o/fmes.
(I) Fines shall! be recovered on the order of the court by the execution officer
in accordance with the provisions of Art. 91,171, (I), 703.and 710 Penal
Code.
(2) Where a fine or any part thereof has not been recovered, the execution
officer shall refer the matter to the court and thereupon the court shall
make the appropriate orders for execution or for the fine to be converted
il1to labour, arrest or simple imprisonment in accordance with the provisions
of Art. 92, 94, 96, 171 (2) and 709 Penal Code.
(3) Where a person has been sentenced in his absence to pay a fine, the provisions of sub-art. (I) shall not apply and the court shall forthwith order
that execution be levied on the convicted person's property.
Art. 210.

-

Payment 0/ costs and compensation.

Where a judgment given by a criminal court contains provisions for the payment of legal costs or compensation, such part of the judgment as contains
such provisions shall be executed in the same manner as a civil judgment.
Art. 211. - Confiscation o/property.
(I) Where an order for confiscation of property has been made under Art.272
Penal Code, the court shall make an order requiring the execution officer
to seize such property as is seizable under the provisions of Art. 97 Penal
Code and shall specify in such order the property to be seized.
(2) On seizing such property, the execution offiCer shall hold it un~l he receives
an order fromithe competent authority requiring him to.hand over such
property to a person'or persons named iii' such order and on so handing

BOOK VI

BACK

71

such property, the execution officer shall be given a detailed receipt by
such person or persons.
(3) The family of the convicted person may apply to the court for the release of
any ptopertywrongly confiscated.
Art. 212. - Sequestration of property.
(I) Where a person is sentenced in his absence to h;;ivehis property sequestrated
for an offence as defined in Art. 272 Penal Code, the court shall make an
order:
(a) requiring the execution officer to attach such property as may be
attached under Art. 98 Penal Code and shall specify in such order the
property to be attached; and
(b) appointing a trustee to manage the property and on such appointment
the execution officer shall hand over the property to such trustee
against a detailed receipt.
(2) The execution officer shall be responsible for ensuring that none of the
property mentioned in Art. 97 (3) Penal Code be attached. The family of the
convicted person may apply to the trustee for the release of any property
wrongly attached.
(3) An order of attachment made under sub-art. (I) shall remain in force until
an application for its removal is made to the court by th~ competent authority and thereupon the court shall order the attachment to be removed and
the trustee discharged on submitting proper accounts.
Art. 213. - Orders in respect of young persons.
(I) Where an order is made in respect of a young person under Art. 162, 165,
166, 173 or 703 Penal Code, the. presiding judge shall sign and send an
order to the responsible official, headmaster, director or officer in charge,
as the case may be, and such order shall be sufficient authority to deal with
young person on the conditions laid down in tb~ drder.
(2) Where an order is made in respect of a young person under Art. 163 Penal
Code, the presiding judge shall sign and send an order to one of the persons
mentioned in Art. 163 Penal Code and such order shall be sufficient
authority to deal with the young person on the conditions laid down in the
order.
(3) Where a young person is sentenced to caning under Art. 172 Penal Code,
the presiding judge shall cause the young person to be medically examined
as to his fitness to undergo corporal punishment and, where he has been
found fit, he shall cause the caning to be carried out in a private place by a
family elder or such other suitable person as the presiding judge shall
appoint, in the presence of himself, the person who has examined the young
person and the young person's parents, relatives or guardian, if any.

CRIMINAL

72

BACK

PROCEDURE

CODE

Art. 214. - Compulsory Iobour, secondary penoltil!s and ~asures.
Where an order is made under Art. 102, 103, 122, 144, 146, 147, 149-154.
158-160,178, 179,715,716, or 718-720 Penal Code, the court shall cause a copy
of the operative part of the j1Jdgment to be served on the appropriate authorities
and require them to carry the order into effect.
Art. 215. - Recording 0/ orders/or execution.

The court shall record any order it may have made with a view to the sentence
being executed. A note shall be made of the day on which such order was
executed and, where appropriate, of the reasons why such order could not be
executed.
Oapter 1. -

Vanation of Orden Contained In Sentences

Art. 216. Principle.
(I) Where any order as defined in sub-art. (2) requires to be made, such order
shall be made by the court having passed the sentence- in relation to which
such order is to be made.
(2) The provisions of sub-art. (I) shall apply in cases of:
(a) enforcement of internment (Art. 132 Penal Code); and
(b) revision of orders made in respect of offenders not fully responsible
(Art. 136 and 137 Penal Code); and
(c) extension of detention (Art. 140 (2) Penal Code); and
(d) revocation of probation or variation of rules of conduct (Art. 198. 202
(3) and 204 Penal Code); and
(e) conditional release (Art. 131,207,209 - 212 Penal Code); and
(0 orders under Art. 124 (2) and 156 Penal Code.
(3) Orders made in respect of young persons may be varied in accordance with
the provisions of Art. 180 ofthis Code.
Art. 217. - Procedure and decision.
( I) The court shall not make an order under this Chapter unless an application
to this effect is made by the convicted person or his legal representative. the
public prosecutor or any person or authority charged with executing or
supervising the execution of the sentence.
(2) Prior to making its decision, the court shall summon the person in respect
of whom the order is to be made and such other person as is likely to give
information to assist the court. The court may, where appropriate, order
such inquiries to be made as appear necessary.
(3) The court shall make its decision after having heard all the persons summoned and obtained the required information. Where the person in respect

BACK

BOOK VI

73

of whom the decision is to be made. fails to appear, the court shalf make
its decision in his absence.
(4) Any statement made and the decision of the court shall be recorded.
(5) No appeal shall lie from a decision under this Article..andsuch dt'!cillion.sbalL
be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Chapter I of this Book.

Chapter 3. -

Reinstatement

Art. 218. - Applicationfor reinstatement.
(1) Where a convicted person or his legal representative is of opinion that the
requirements of Art. 243 and 244 Penal Code are satisfied, he may apply
for reinstatement to the court having pasSed the sentence the cancellation
of which is sought.
(2) The application shall be in writing and shall give reasons. It shall. be accompanied by such documents as are necessary to enable the court to
ascertain .whether the.conditions laid down, in Art. 243 and 244 Penal
Code are fulfilled.
Art. 219. - Procedure and decision.
(I) The application shall be decided on by the court sitting in chambers.
Prior to making its decision, the court may order such inquiries- to be made

or (urther documents to be produced as it thinks fit.

.

(2) Where the application is allowed, the provisions of Art. 245 Penal, Code
shall apply an'd the court shall order the entry of the sentC?ncewhich it has
cancelled to be deleted from the reinstated person's police record.
(3) Where the application is dismissed, the provisions of Art. 246 Penal Code
shall apply.
(4) Any decision under this Article shall be in writing and shall give reasons.
The decision shall be read out in open court, and shall be published ina
newspaper.
(5) No appeal shall lie from any decision of any court under this Article.

74
BACK

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

BOOK VII
Costs In Criminal Cases
Art. 220. - Costs of public prosecution.
(I) AIl the costs of public prosecutions, including appeals, shaIl be borne by
the government.
(2) Where exceptional costs have been incurred by the prosecution for a
reason attributable to the convicted person and he is a person of property,
the court may, in addition to any other lawful punishment, order him to
pay the whole or any of the costs incurred by the prosecution as taxed by
the registrar of the court.
(3) Where a public prosecution has been instituted in respect of an offence.
punishable on complaint and the injured party withdraws his complaint
(Art. 221 Penal Code), he shaIl be liable for all the costs of the prosecution.
-

-

Art. 221. - Costs of private prosecution.
(I) The costs of a private pros~ution shaIl be borne by the private prosecutor
in accordance with Art. 46.
(2) Where in a private prosecution the accused is acquitted and the court is of
opinion that the charge was not made in good faith, it may order the private
prosecutor to pay the whole or any part of the costs incurred by the accused.
(3) Where a private prosecution is stayed as provided in Art. 48, all the costs of
the private prosecution shaIl be borne by the government.
Art. 222. - Injured party.
(I) Where the injured party claims compensation in a criminal case, he shaIl
pay:
(a) the court fees on the sum claimed as though it were a civil case; and
(b) the costs of summoning witnesses and calling experts.
(2) Where the injured party succeeds in his claim, the court shaIl order the
accused to pay the court fees and costs mentioned in sub-art. (I).

BACK

BOOK VIII

75

Book VIII
Atbia Dagnias with Summary Jurisdiction
Art. 223. - Jurisdiction,
(l) The atbia dagnia shall whenever possible settle by compromise all cases
arising out of the commission, wifhin -the local limits of his jurisdiction, of
minor offences of insult, assault, petty damage to property or petty theft
where the value of the property stolen does not exceed E. 55.
(2) Where the atbia dagnia is unable to effect a compromise he may sitting
with two assessors adjudicate on such offences and on conviction impose a
fine not exceeding E. ~ 15.
(3) The atbia dagnia shall cause a record to be kept which shall show:
(a) the name of the accused;
(b) the offence charged;
(c) a summary of the evidence;
(d) the opinion of the assessors;
(e) where the accused is convicted, the fine imposed.
Art. 224. - Appeal.
An appeal shall lie from the decision of an atbia dagnia given in accordance
with Art. 223 to the Woreda court exercising jurisdiction in such locality.

FIRST SCHEDULE

77

BACK

First Schedule
Article
Pellal Code

248
249
250

OFFENCE

Outrages against the Emperor or the Imperial Family

Outrages against the Dynasty

""

High Court
High Court

Outrages against constitution or constitutional autho-

rities
251
252
253
254
255
256
257
258
259
260
261
262
263
264
265
266
267
268
269
270
271
272
273
274
275
276
277
278
279
280
281

COllr,

.... .... .... .... .... .... ....

Obstruction of exercise of constitutional powers
Armedrisingandcivilwar
...
""

Attacks on integrity of the State
"""
Material preparation of subversiveacts

....
....
""

Violation of territorial or political sovereignty.
....
Injury to the Emperor or the constitutional authorities
Insults to national emblems .
""
Unlawful use of official emblems.
....
Attacks on the independence of the State ...
....
Impairment of the defensive power of the State.
....
High treason
Diplomatictreason
""
....

Economic treason
Collaboration
Espionage

.. .. .... .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
....
""
....

Indirect aid and encouragement..
Attempted participation
Provocation and preparation
Aggravations to the offence.

....

""
""

Hostile acts against a foreign State
""
Outrages against foreign heads of State
Violation

of foreign sovereignty..

Insults to foreign States

.

....

""

....

""

....

""

""

""
""

""

Insults to official emblems of foreign States
Insults to inter~state institutions...

""

""
""

Genocide. Crimes against humanity..

....

High Court
High Court
High Court
Hi~h Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High
High
High
High

Court
Court
Court
Court

High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court

High Court

78

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

BACK
282
283
284
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296

War crimes against civilian population

o...

'o..

""
War crimes against wounded, sick or shipwrecked
persons
War crimes against prisoners and interned persons..
Pillage, piracy and looting
'o.. o...
Provocation and preparation
o...
d'"
""
Dereliction of duty towalTds the enemy'
...

Use of illegal means of combat
Breach of armistice or peace treaty
Franc tireurs
Maltreatment

of wounded,

""

Court
Court
Court
Court
Court

High Court
High Court

""

sick or prisoners

High Court

''''

Hostile acts against international
humanitarian '''''''' organisations
.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..

-

High
High
High
High
Hi~h

High Court
High Court

""

Denial of justice

High Court

Abuse of international emblems and insignia
""
,Hostile acts against bearer of flag of truce ..
""
331 Military offences committed by members of Armed
Forces
o.""""""""..o

High Court
High Court
High Court

Military Courts

Offences of a military nature committed
by members of Police Forces:
300

Desertion:
ordinary case (Sub-art. (I)
aggravated case (Sub-art. (2) ..

30 I Absence withoutIeave

304
305
306
307
308
309
310

311

312
313
314
316

...

""
Abuse of authority..
""
Threats
................................
Infringement of regulations ...
''''
Inaccurate statements...
"" ""
Drunk on duty
Want of discipline...
""
Threats against superior:
ordinary case (Sub-art. (1) )
aggravated case (Sub-art. (2))
Insubordination:
ordinary case (S\1b-art. (I) )
aggravated case (Sub-art. (2) ) ..
Mutiny
o...
Conspiracy to raise mutiny
"o.
'"
Attempted participation
''''
Breaches of guard duty:
ordinary case (Sub-art. (I) )
""

""
""

....
""

....

""
""
""
....

""

''''
....
....

Woreda Court
Awradja Court

....
""
...,
""
''''
''''

""

Awradja Court
High Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court

....

Woreda Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court

o...

Worecia Court

....
....
....

FIRST

BACK

339

Disregard of military measures

340
341
342
343
344
345
346
347
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361
362
363
J64
365

79

aggravated case (Sub-art. (2), first paragraph)
318 Disclosure or alteration of instructions:
ordinary case (Sub-art. (I) )
....
aggravated case (Sub-art. (3»
............
319 Misuse of material:
ordinary case (Sub-art. (I))
aggravated case (Sub-art. (2»
............
)20 Malversation:
ordinary case (Sub-art. (I) )
....
aggravated case (Sub-art. (2) ) ...
321 Failure to report danger
....
322 Failure to take security measures
....
Compelling breach of duty...
....
Attack on member of Armed Forces on active duty...
Aggravated offences under Art. 332 and 333
"" "'-'
Breach of legal or contractual obligations...
Sabotage
....
Traffic in military material
....
Manufacture and tr~ffic in military uniforms and decorations
.... .... .. .. .... .. .. .. .. .. .. .... .
'"
Unauthorised wearing of military uniforms and decorarations
"" ....

332
333
334
335
336
337
338

348

SCHEDULE

-

''''

....

Incitement to disregard military measures...
....
Disregard of prohibitions protecting military zones ...
Falsification or suppression of orders or instructions
Failure to report crimes against Armed Forces..
""
Disclosure of military secrets
....
False or tendentious information
....
State of emergency: Aggravated puni3hment
....
353
Charges brought under special legislation ..
....

Penalties; kind and exteRt

""

""

Illicit traffic in gold, coins, currencies, etc...
....
Illicit traffic in precious metals and minerals
....
Dealings endangering the credit of the State
Unlawful refusal to pay public taxes or dues
Incitement to refusal to pay taxes..
....
Endangeriug sources Ofrevenue ..
Contraband
....
Offences against national economy and State monopolies
Aggravation to the offence ...
""
....

Awradja Court
Woreda Court
High Court
Woreda Court
High Court
Awradja Court
High Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
High Court
High Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
High Court
Awradja Court
High Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja
Awradja
Awradja
Awradja
Awradja
Awradja
Awradja
Awradja
Awradja

Court
Court
Court
Court
Court
Court
Court
Court
Court

CRIMINAL

80

PROCEDURE

CODE

BACK
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
376
377
378
379
380
381
382
383
384
385
386
387
388
389

390

Making of counterfeit currency...
Forging currency...
Debasingcurrency
Uttering counterfeit currency

... ... ... ... ...
....
....
''''

....

Importation, acquisition, etc. of counterfeit currency..
Falsification of seals of the Emperor or of the State ...
Falsification of other public seals
Falsification of official marks
....
Falsification of official stamps of value
....
Falsification of weights and measures
....
Importation, acquistion, etc. of false seals, stamps, etc.
Counterfeiting without intent to defraud...
....
Endangering currency, securities, bonds, seals, etc.
Machinery and means of falsification..
.... .. .. .. ..

Material forgery of instruments ...
....
Intangible forgery of instruments .
....
Specifiedcases
....
Use of forged instruments
..,.
....
Forgery of public or military documents
....
Suppression of instruments...
'''10
(I) Suppression of public or military documents
(2) Suppression by public servant
............
Falsification or suppression of commercial instruments
or negotiable securities
....

391
392 Falsification of and use of false public transport tickets
....
393 Forged certificates
394 Fraudulent procurement offalse official certification.
....
395 False medical certificates
396
397 False declaration or entries by landlords or employers
....
398 Instruments and means offalsification
....
399 Falsification and adulteration of goods
....
400 Uttering
401 Importation, acquisition aM storing... ....
402 Aggravation and collateral penalties ... ....
:$03
....
404 Breachesof military secrecy.
405 Breachesof officialsecrecy... .. .. .. .. .... .. .. .. ..

High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court

Awradja Court
Awradja Court
AwradjaCourt
Awradja Court
High Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Woreda
Woreda
Woreda
Woreda

Court
Court
Court
Court

Woreda
Woreda
Woreda
Woreda
Woreda
Woreda

Court
Court
Court
Court
Court
Co~rt

High Court
Awradja Court

FIRST SCHEDULE

81

BACK
406
407
408
409
410
411
412
413
4.l4
415
416
417
418
419

Breachesof professional secrecy...

....

Disclosure of scientific, industrial or trade secrets....

Breach of official duties
....
Disorganisation of service by striking.
....
Abuse of power
....
Abuse of the right of search or seizure.
....
Unlawful arrest or detention. ,""
....
Use of improper methods
....
Unlawful release and aiding to escape.
....
Release of prisoners of war, of military detainees and
aiding to escape,
....

420
421
422

Maladministration.. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
"" .. ..
Unlawful disposal of objects in charge.
....
Appropriation and misappropriation in the discharge

423
424
425
426
427
428

Acceptance of undue advantages.
....
Traffic in officialinfluence...
....
Corrupt practices
.... ....
Extortion
....
Contempt of official notices and proclamations.. ....
Infraction of the rules concerning compulsory registration
.. ,.., .. .. .. .. .
.. .. .. .. .. ..
....
'" officialdebates or
Breachof prohibition to publish
documents
....
Arbitrary action
....
Usurpation of powers ...
...I.~
....
Breakingof sealsand misappropriation of objects....
Resistingauthority
....
Violenceand coercion..
....

of duties

429
430
431
432
433
434
435
436
437
438
439
440
441
442
443

................................

Traffic in private influence..
Solicitingof corrupt practices
Failllreto inform the law
Harbouring and aiding.
Misleadingjustice.
....
False denunciation or accusation.
Refusal to aid justice
Contempt of court
',""

....

....
....
....
....
....
....

Awradja Court
Awradja Court

W oreda

COUl1

Woreda Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
High Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
AwradjaCourt
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
High Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda
Woreda
Woreda
Woreda
Woreda
Woreda

Court
Court
Court
Court
Court
Court

Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
AwradjaCourt
Awradja Court
Any Court

82

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

BACK
444
445
446
447
448
449
450
451
452
453

Breachof secrecyof proceedings .
Publication of inaccurate or forbidden reports of
ceedings
Falsestatementsby a party.
False testimony, opinion or translation
Provocation

and suborning.

Misrepresentation

.','.

46\
462
463
464
465
466
467
461\
469
470
471
472
473
474
475
476
477
478
479
480
481
482

A wradja

COUI [

....

A wradja Court
A wradja Court
High Court

....

High Court
A wradja Court

,I.,,"

in proceedings

Tendentious publications intended to pervert the course

....
....

of justice
Betrayal of interests

High Court
High Court

Non-ohservance of secondarypenalties and preventive

....

measures
454
455
456
457
458
459
460

....
pro....
....

Obstruction

of execution

of sentence

Escape of prisoner
Procuring of and aiding to escape

. ....
....

W oreda
W oreda
W oreda
Awradja

Court
Court
Court
Court

Mutiny of prisoners
....
Breaking of bounds
....
Disturbance and prevention of electoral meetings and
proceedings
....
Interference with the exercise of the right of election.
Corrupt electoral practices ...
....
Unfair practices
....
Fraudulent registration
.
Fraudulent elections
....

Awradja Court
W oreda Court

....

Awradja Court
Awradja Court

Breach of secrecy of the ballot

Removal or destruction of ballot papersor boxes

....

Dangerousvagrancy
Conspiracy
Harbouring and comforting evil-doers
Public provocation to or defenceof a crime

....
....

Prohibited

traffic in arms

Forbidden societiesand meetings
Secretsocietiesand armed bands.
Forbidden assemblies ..
Alarmingthepublic

.".

....

....

....
....
....
....

False rumours and incitement to breaches of the peace
Seditious demonstrations
....

Rioting

....

Awradja
Awradja
Awradja
Awradja
Awradja
Awradja

Court
Court
Court
Court
Court
Court

W oreda Court
Any Court
Woreda Court
W oreda Court
Woreda Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Awradja Court
Awradja COllrt

FIRST

SCHEDULE

83

BACK
483
484
485
486
487
488
489
490
491
492
493
494
495
496
497
498
499
500
501
502
503
504
505
506
507
508

Disturbances of meetings or assemblies
....
Disturbances resultin!! from acts committed in a state
of culpable irresponsibilit~
""""""''''''''
Outrage on religious peace and feeling.
....
Outra~ on the repose and dignity of the dead..
....
Arson
,..,
Provocation of natural disaster..
....
Damage to installations or protective works
Explosions
....
Offences resulting from negligence
....
Danger caused by the use of explosive, inflammable or
poisonous supstances
....
Illicit maKmg, acquisition, concealment or transport.
Culpable: infringement of building rules
....
Removal or culpable omission of protective apparatus
or devices. ... .. .. ....
.., .. .. , ... .. .. .. ..
""" of grave public danger
Culpable failure to give warning

High Court
High Court
High Court
Awradja Court
Woreda Court
Awradja Court

transport
Misuseof signalsand alarms

....
....

Awradja Court
Woreda Court

Irregular consignment of dangerous goods by public
transport.. .. .. .. .
.. .. ..., .. .. ,.., , .. . .. ..
'"
Spreading of human diseases
....
Spreading of epizootic diseases
....
Propagation of an agricultural or forest parasite
Contamination of water
...,
..., ....
Contamination of pastureland
....
Culpable infringement of preventive and protective
public health measures
...,
....

Woreda Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
High Court
Awradja Court

''''
''''

Creation of distress or famine

511

""
Manufacture, adulteration
and sale of injurious or damaged products or foodstuffs.
...,
Manufacture, adulteration and sale offodd~r and products injurious to Ii"vestock ..
""
'...

''''

....

Woreda Court
High Court

Production, making or distribution of poisonous or narcotic

513
514

Woreda COUl1
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court

Damage to services and installations of public interest
Grave endangering or sabotage of communications or

509
510

512

Awradja Court

substances..

""

""

Endangeri ng the health of another by alcoholic beverages or spirituous liquors
....................

Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court

Awradja Court

CRIMINAL

84

PROCEDURE

CODE

BACK
515
516
517
518
519
520
521
522
523
524
525
526
527
528
529
530
531

538
539
540
541
544
545
546
547
548
549
550
551
552
553
554
555
556
557
558
559
560
561

562

Endangering by mental means or practices
Endangering by philtres, spells or similar means
Aggravated cases
""
....
Unlawful exercise of the medical or public health pro....
fessions
""
Unlawful delivery of poisonous or dangerous substances
R.efusal to provide professional services
....

Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court

Aggravated homicide - homicide in the first degree
Homicide in the second degree
.. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
Extenuated homicide..
....
Instigating or aiding another to commit suicide. ....
Homicide by negligence
Infanticide
....

High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
-Awradja Court

Abortion procured by the pregnant woman
Abortion procured by another

-

537

.

Grave wilful injury
....
Common wilful injury
:...
''''
Consequences not intended by the offender

- 543

....
..

Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court

A wradja Court
Awradja Court

Awradja Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court

Deprivation of powers of decision

Woreda Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court

IIlegal restraint
....
Abduction
....
Abduction of an unconscious or defenceless woman.
Abduction of a minor..
....
Aggravation to an offence under Art. 552-554 ... ....
Aggravation to an offence under Art. 555 and 557 ....
Aggravation to an offence Art. 558-560
....
Failure to produce a chJld
....

Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja COurt
Awradja Court
Woreda Court
Awradja Court
High Court
Woreda Court

Assaults
Exposure of the life of another
....
Exposure or abandonment of another
Failure to lend aid to another
....
Maltreatment of minors
Brawls
Duels
Duelling: Challenge, incitement and aiding
Intimidation
....
Threat of accusation or disgrace. ...

....
....

....
....

Coercion.. .. .... .... .... ....

85

FIRST SCHEDULE

BACK
Ascendants: specialcase
....
Political abduction
....
Enslavement
....
Default of supervision or control. ...,
.. .. ....
Slavetrading: bands or associations
....
Restraint of the free exerciseof civilrights
....
Violation of the right of freedom of movement . ....
Violation of the right of freedom to work..
....
Violation of privacy of domicile. .."
..., ....
Aggravation to the offence..
....
Violation of the privacy, interception or appropriation
of correspondence or consignments
....
574 - 579
Defamation and calumny
....
580
581 - 582
Insulting behaviour and outrage.
583
584 . 585
....
586 Aggravation to the offence ..
587 . 588
.."
...
589 Rape
590 Sexualoutrages accompanied by violence.
591 Sexualoutrages on unconscious or deluded persons or
on persons incapable ofresisting
....
592
Sexualoutrages on persons in hospital, interned or under

563
564
565
566
567
568
569
570
571
572
573

detention
593
594
595
596
597
598
599
600
601
602
603
604
605
606
607

.w

Woreda Court
High Court
High Court
Woreda Court
High Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
W oreda Court
W oreda Court

Woreda Court
Woreda Court

HighCourt
High Court
High Court

... HighCourt

Taking advantage of the distress or dependence of a

woman
....
Sexual outrages on infants or young persons
....
Sexualoutrages on minors betweenfifteen and eighteen
years or age
.."
....
Seduction
.."
....

Awradja Court
Woreda Court

Aggravations to the offence..

High Court

Unnatural carnal offences
Aggrayation to the offence

Other unnatural acts

....

..

....
....

'

Habitual exploitation for pecuniary gain

..

Trafficin women,infantsandyoungpersons
Aggravations to the offence .. ...
Organization of traffic in persons

................

....

....

Awradja Court
High Court

Woreda Court
High Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
High Court
High Court
Awradja Court

CRIMINAL

86

BACK

608
609
610
611
612
613
614
615
616
617
618
619

647
648
649
650

Public indecencyand outrages against morals.. ....
Obsceneor indecent publications
..., ....
Obsceneor indecent performances
.... .... ....

Woreda Court
High Court
High Court

Indecent publicity and advertisements
Protection of infants or young persons
Fraud and deceit in marriage
Solemnization of an unlawful marriage
Bigamy
""

....
....
....
....

Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Awradja Court

....

Woreda Court

............

...,

Adultery

625
626
630
631
632
633
634
635
636
.637
638
639
640
641
642
643
644
645
646

CODE

- 620

621
622
623
624

627

PROCEDURE

-

Incest
....
Indecent behaviour between relatives
..
Omission to register the birth of an infant ..
....
False registration, supposition and substitution of
infants
....
Failure to maintain
....
Failure to bring up
..,.
....
629
Theft
...,
....
Abstracting power
....
Abstraction of t!!ings jointly owned
....
Abstraction to the detriment of deceased person
Petty abstraction
....
Aggravated theft
''''
Robbery
.,..
Aggravated robbery...
....
Looting
'''' ....
Piracy
....
Special cases
....
Breach of trust
Aggravated breach of trust
..., ...' ...'
Misappropriation
....
Unlawful use of the property of another....
Misappropriation of lost property
Misappropriation of things without owner or of natural

resources
""
Receiving
''''
Aggravated receiving

"..
""

Damage to property of another caused by herds or
Ilocks
....
Disturbance of possession..
....

High Court
High Court
Woreda Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Woreda Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court

Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Awradja Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court

BACK
651
652
653
654
655
656
657
658
659
660
661
662
663
664
665
666

,.,

FIRST SCHEDULF

Fraudulent misrepresentation
IJrawing of cheque without cover
Aggravated fraudulent misrepresentation
i\'1isrepresentation in insurance

.
....

....

Incitementof minors or persons legallyincapable to
carry out prejudicial assignmenls
... ....
Usury
....
Extortion
.."
....
Blackmail
....
Aggravated cases (of usury, extortion or blackmail)
Attack on another's credit
............
H armful

false information

.

.... .... .... .... ....

Unfair competition
....
Infringement of marks, declarations of origin, designs
or models

...

686
687
688

a Courtorder
....
....
Unjustifiablepreference
Purchaseof votes
".. .."
Fraudulentcomposition

-

Woreda Court
Woreda Court
High Court
High Court
Woreda Court
Woreda Court
High Court
High Court
Hiidl Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court

.." .."

685

680
68\
682
683
684

....

.... ....

Infringement of literfiry or artistic copyright
Forbidden performance or execution.
....
679 Fraudulent insolvency
Irregular bankruptcy
.."
Fraudulent bankruptcy
Fraud in execution
Misappropriation or destruction of property
pledge.or lien'
Misapproprialion or destruction of property

677

High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court

....

'

Incitementto speculation. ...

Woretla Court
Awradja Court

....

Fraudulent exploitation of public credulity
Petty fraud
Mismanagement of private interests..
....
Aggravated mismanagement

667
668
669
670
671
672
673
674
675
676

Woreda Court
WOnk'a Court

I)isturban'ce of another's holdings
....
I)isplacing and removal of boundary m~rks . .". ....
Intentional destruction, damage, depreciation or rendering useless the property of another.
....
Aggravated cases (damage to property)
....

.."
.."
.."

....
....
....
....
subject to

....
subject to

.."
....
....

...

High
High
High
High

Court
Court
Court
Court

High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court
High Court

88

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

BACK
689

690

733

- 732
-

820,exceptArt. 748,of Book VIII Special Part, Petty
offences
...
...:

Woreda Court

Offences under other 1(Jli's:
Where the penalty does not exceed 3 years simple imprisonment with or without fine..
;,..
....
Where the penalty does not exceed 5 years imprisonment with or without fine
....
Where the penalties are in excess of the above..
....

Woreda

COUl'l

A wradja COUll
High Court

SECOND SCHEDULE

89

BACK

Second Schedule
(under Art. III)
FORMS

OF

CHARGES

Homicide in the first degree
SW/ement ofoffence.
Homicide in the first degree contrary to Art. 522 Penal Code.
Particulars of offence.

A.B. (insert name of accused) on the
day of ..........................................
at
intentionally caused the death of C. D.
(insert name of deceased) .................................................................................
+ (a) in aggravating circumstances under Art. 81 org3 Penal Code:
+ (b) as a member of a band or gang organi8e(1 to carry out homicide or
armed robbery:
+ (c) to further or conceal another crime.
T

delete whichever is inapplicable and give details.

A lIempted homicide ill the first degree
Statement ofoffellce.
Attempted homicide contrary to Art. 27 and 522 Penal Code.
Particulars of offence.
A.B. (insert name of accused) on the
day of ..........................................
at
attempted to cause the death of C. D.

(insert name of victim)

,

...................................

+ (a) in aggravating circumstances under Art. 81 or 83 Penal Code;

(b) as a member of a band or gang organised to carry out homicide or
armed robbery:
(c)
to further or conceal another crime.
+
delete whichever is inapplicable and give details.
+

+

Homicide

by negligence

.""tatementof offence.
Homicide by negligence contrary to Art. 526 Penal Code.
Particulars of offence.
A.B. (insert name of accused) on the
day of ..........................................
at
caused the death of C.D. (insert name of

CRIMINAL

90

PROCEDURE

CODE

BACK
deceased) by criminal negligence +

+ insert details of negligence as defined in Art. 59 Penal Code.
Forgery
Statement

of offence.

Forgery contrary to Art. 383 Penal Code.
Particulars of offence.
A.B. (insert name of accused) on the
day of ..........................................
at
,
for:ged a Will purporting to be the Will of
C. D
of
""'.""""""""'"''''''''''

Making use of a forged instrument
Statementof offence.
.
Making use of a forged instrument contrary to Art. 390 Penal Code.
Particulars of offence.
A.B. (insert name of accused) on the
day of ..........................................
at
made use of a cheque forged by C.D. (insert
name offorger) knowing the same to be forged.

Perjury
Statement

of offence.

Perjury contrary to Art. 447 Penal Code.
Particulars of offence.
A.B. (insert name of accused) on the
day of ,.....................................
at
being a witness upon the trial of an action
in
Court in which C. D. was plaintitT and E. F. defendant, knowingly and falsely swore
,
(insert assignment
of perjury) and such evidence was a material evidence in the said proceedings.

Escape
Statement of offence.
Escape contrary to Art. 455 Penal Code.
Particulars of offence.
A.B. (insert name of accused) on the
day of
,................
at
escaped from
(insert
description of place where A.B. was in lawful custody) by using threats or
violence to persons or property (specify details).

SECOND SCHEDULE

91

BACK
Arson
Statement of offence.
A.-son contrary to Art. 488 Penal Code.
Particulars of offence.
A. B. (insert name of accused) on the
day of ..........................................
at
maliciously -t./ with the intention of causing
danger +/ set fire to his own +/ C. D's property + (specify property set rue to)
+

delete whichever is inapplicable.

Grave wilful injury
Statement of offence.
Grave wilful injury contrary to Art. 538 Penal Code.
Particulars of offence.

+

A.B. (insert name of accused) on the
day of ..........................................
at ..............................................
+ (a) intentionally wounded C. D. (insert name of victim) 10 U to endanger his life + / so as permanently to jeopardize his pbyaicIJor
mental health;
+ (b) intentionally maimed C. D's body +/ maimed one of C. D'I
essential limbs or organs + / gravely and conspicuously disf"1pINd
C.D.;
(c)
intentionally inflicted on C. D. an injury or disease of a 8eri0UI
+
nature.
delete whicheveris inapplicable and givedetails.

Rape,
Statement of offence..
Rape contrary to Art. 589Penal Code.
Particularsof offence.
A.b. (insert name of accused)on the..
,.. day of ..........................................
'at
compelledC. D.(insert name of'victim)
+ (a) by violence,
+ (b) by grave intimidation,
+ (c) by rendering her unconscious;
+ (d) by rendering her incapable of resistance,
to submit to sexual intercourse.
+ delete whicheveris inapplicable and givedetails.

92

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

BACK
Theft

Statement of offence.
Theft contrary to Art. 630 Penal Code.
Particulars of offence.
A.B. (insert name of accused) on the
day of ..........................................
at
abstracted
(describe article stolen) the property of C. D. (insert name of owner) with the intention of
obtaining an unlawful enrichment.

Robbery
Statement of offence.
Robbery contrary to Art. 636 Penal Code.
Particulars of offence.
A.B. (insert name of accused) on the
day of ............................................
at
with intent to commit then + / taken in the
act of committing theft +,
+ (a) used violence to C. D. (insert name of victim).
+ (b) used direct and grave intimidation towards C. D.,
(c) rendered C. D. incapable of resisting.
+
+
delete whichever is inapplicable and give details.
Receiving
Statement of offence.
Receiving contrary to Art. 647 Penal Code.
Particulars of offence.

A.B. (insert name of accused) on the

,

day of ..........................................

at
received (insert thing received and give details)
knowing or having reason to believe that the thing was the proceeds of an
offence committed against property.

Drawing of cheque without cover.
Statement of offence.
Drawing of cheque without cover contrary to Art. 657 Penal Code.
Particulars of offence.
A.B. (insert name of accused) on the
day of ..........................................
drew a cheque for E. S
,
knowing that the cheque would not be
covered or fully covered at the time of presentment.

SECOND

SCHEDULE

93

BACK
ALTERNA TIVE CHARGES
Breach of trust.
Statement of offence.
Breach of trust contrary to Art. 641 Penal Code.
Particulars of offence.
A.B. (insert name of accused) on the
day of ..........................................
at
with the intention of obtaining an unlawful
enrichment used for his own benefit a sum of E. S
entrusted
to him by C. D. (insert name of owner) for the purpose of ..................................

ALTERNATIVELY
Theft
Statement of offence.
Theft contrary to Art. 630 Penal Code.
Particulars of offence.
A.B. (insert name of accused) on the
day of ......................................
at
abstracted a sum of E. S
the
property of C. D. (insert name of owner) with the intention of obtaining
an unlawful enrichment.

CONCURRENT CHARGES
FIRST

COUNT
Theft.

Statement of offence.
Theft contrary to Art. 630 Penal Code.
Particulars of offence.
A.B. (insert name of accused) on the
day of
"""''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''
at
abstracted a car No. AA. 1111the property
of C. D. (insert name of owner) with the intention of obtaining an unlawful
enrichment.
SECOND COUNT
Homicide by negligence.
,""tatementof offence.
Homicide by negligence contrary to Art. 526 Penal Code.
Particulars of offence.
A.B. (insert name of accused) on the
day of .....................................
at
caused the death of C. D. (insert name of
deceased) by criminal negligencewhile driving car AA. 1111 in that seeing
C. D. on the road, he failed to reduce the speed and ran over him.

THIRD

SCHEDULE

9S

BACK

Third Schedule
FORMS
Form 1. - Bond
(Under Art. 28)
I
Police Station at

,'... of

".. being brought before the
under arrest to answer the charge

of

,.

do hereby bind myself to

attend at the Police Station at
/ in the .....................
Court of
"
at
on the .........
day of
next, and to continue so to attend until otherwise directed by the police/court; and, in case of my making default herein,
I bind myself to forfeit to the Imperial Ethiopian Government the sum of Eth.
dollars

Dated this
-t

,

""""'"

day of

,..,....

19............
Signature

Delete whichever is inapplicable.

To be filled in only where Police consider sureties necessary.
I + (or we) do hereby declare myself (or ourselves) surety (or sureties)
for the abovenamed
of ................................
that he shall attend before the Police Station at ....................................................
in the
Court of
at ........................
on the
"
day of
next, to anSWer the
charge on which he has been arrested, and that he shall continue so to attend
until otherwise directed by the police / court; and, in case of his making default
therein I + (or we) hereby bind myself (or ourselves, jointly and severally)
to forfeit to the Imperial Ethiopian Government the sum of Eth. dollars ..............
19..........
Dated this
day of ."
Delete
whichever
is
inapplicable.
+
.""ignature/s

Form 11. - Search Warrant
(Under Art. 32)
To the Chief Police Officer of the Taklay Guezat of ..................................
and other police officers (to be designated by name).
Whereas complaint has been made before me of the commission (or suspected commission) of the offence of
and
it has been made to appear to me that the production of the articles specified
in the Schedule below is essential to the inquiry now being. made (or about to be
made) into the said offence (or suspected offence):

96

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

This is to authorise and require you within the space of .................................
days from the date hereof to search for the said articles specified in the Schedule
below in the
(describe the house or place, or
part thereof, to which the search is to be confined), and, if found, to produce
the same forthwith before the court; returning this warrant with an endorsement
certifying what you have done under it, immediately upon its execution.
Given under my hand and the seal of the Court, this
day
of
,19.....................
Signature
SCHEDULE
(exact description of the articles to be seized)
Form III. -

Report of police Investigation
(Under Art. 37)

To the Public Prosecutor.
I. At
o'clock on the
day of
;. 19......
I received information by
from ........................................
that a
had taken place at
and
that
persons were concerned or suspected of being concerned
therein, + and that the total amount of property concerned in the report
was ES ...............................................
2. I proceeded thereupon to take action as detailed in the enclosed investigation
diaries.
3. I ascertained the following facts:
4. I examined the following witnesses whose statements accompany this report:
5. The following documents accompany this report in addition to the statements
of the witnesses:
Investigation Diary No. ............
6. I am of opinion that the offence of .................................................................
is disclosed and that the following persons were concerned therein:
7. I have reason to believe that the following persons apart from those accused
persons not yet arrested can throw light upon the case but I have been unable
to examine them for the reasons here stated:
8. The undermentioned articles have been secured or recovered and are to serve
as exhibits:
+ Delete where inapplicable.

Signature

THIRD SCHEDULE

~

Form IV. - Closure of
Police Investigation File
(Under Art. 39)
To the Investigating Police Officer
Police Station
Name of accused ..................................
Police investigation diary No. .............
This is to direct you to close this police investigation for the following
reasons :+ (a) The accused has died.
+ (b) The accused is under 9 years of age.
+ (c) The accused, cannot be prosecuted by reason of public international
law + or other special laws (give details).

Signature
Public Prosecutor
+ Delete whichever is inapplicable.
Copy to;
I) The Advocate General.
2) The private complainant.

Form V. - Form Qf refusal to
institute proceedings.
(Under Art. 42)
I, A, (insert name of public prosecutor) of 8 (insert place where public
prosecutor exercises jurisdiction) am unable to institute proceedings in the case
ofC (insert name of accused) for the following reasons:+ (a) I am of opinion that there is not sufficient evidence to justify a conviction
(State reasons showing clearly that there is insufficient evidence).
(b)
There
is no possibility of finding the accused and the case is one which
+
may not be tried in his absence. (State reasons why accused cannot be found
aQd Article of Criminal Procedure Code which prohibits of his being
tried in his absence).
+ (c) The prosecution is barred by limitation or the offence has been made
the subject of a pardon or amnesty. (State date of offence and Article
of Penal Code which shows that offence is barred by limitation or quote
pardon or amnesty which covers accused).
+ (d) I am instructed not to institute proceedings in the public interest by the
Minister by order under his hand. (Quote number and date of order
signed by Minister of Justice).
Signature
Public Prosecutor

91

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

Copy to:
I) The Advocate General.
2) The investigating police officer.
3) The person entitled under Art. 47 Criminal Procedure Code to conduct a
private prosecution.

Form VI. - Warrant of arrest
(Under Art. 65)
To the Chief police officer ofthe Taklay Guezat of

,..

and aU other police officers.

Whereas
of ................................................
stands charged with the offence of .......................................................................
you are hereby directed to arrest the same and to produce him before this court
at
..,..
,.
"
Dated this
day of
19..........
Judge
This warrant may in the discretion of the court be endorsed as follows:

" If the said

shall give bail in the sum of

,

Eth. dollars """"'''''''''.'..''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''.'
in the sum of Eth. dollars.

the court on the

day of

"

with one surety
to attend before

next and

to continue so to attend until otherwise directed by the court he may
be released.
Dated this
day of
19...........
Judge

I
brought before the

Form VII. - Bail Bond.
(Under Art. 71)
of

baing

Court of
,~.
under arrest to answer to a charge of .i.................................................................
do hereby bind myself to attend in the
Court of ......................
at
,
on the
: day of
next, t(,
answer the said charge and to continue so to attend until otherwise directe,
by the court; and, in case of my making default herein, I bind myself to forfeit
to the Imperial Ethiopian Government the sum ofEth. dollars
,
........................................................................
Dated this
day of
19...........
.""iglllllllre
"

THIRD SCHEDULE

99

To be filled in only where Court consider sureties necessary.
I + (or we) do hereby declare myself (or ourselves) surety (or sureties)
for the abovenamed
of
that he
shall attend before the
Courtof
"""'"''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''
at
on the
day of
next. h'
answer the charge on which he has been arrested, and shall continue so t<>
attend until otherwise directed by the court; and, in case of his making default
therein I (or we) hereby bind myself (or ourselves, jointly and severally) to
forfeit to the Imperial Ethiopian Government the sum of Eth. dollars ..................
,......................................
.Dated this
day of
19...............
Signaturl'ls.
+ Delete whichever is inapplicable.
Form VIII. - Witness Bond
(Under Art. 90)
I
of
" do hereby
bind myself to attend at the
Court of .........................
at
on such date as I shall be summoned and there to
give evidence in the matter of a charge of
against one
""''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''
A. B.; and in case of my making default herein, I bind myself to forfeit to the
Imperial Ethiopian Government the sum of Eth. dollars
,.....
Dated this
day of
19............
Signature

Form IX. -

Summons to appear Jor trial
(Under Art. 123)
To the Public Prosecutor at ..............................................
To the accused
of ...............................................
(insert name)
(insert address)
Whereas the
day of .........................................
has been fixed for the trial of ...............................................................................
(insert name of accused)
on a charge of
at the ....................
Court of
, this is to require you to be
present at
o'clock on the day abovementioned.
(Where the accused is in custody complete the following)
+ And this further requires you, the Superintendent of Prisons at ..............
(insert name of prison) to produce the abovementioned
accused at the beforementioned date place and time.

100

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE
Registrar of court.

+

If the accused is not in custody delete.

- Witness Summons
(Under Art. 124)
Criminal case No..........................
P. P. versus .................................
(insert name of accused)

Form X.

To ...........................................................
This is to command you to appear before this Court on the ..........................
at
o'clock
day of'
to give evidence on behalf of the prosecution/ accused, herein.
In the event of your failing to appear you will be liable to arrest.
Dated this
day of
.19...........
Registrar of court.

+

Delete whichever is inapplicable.

Form XI. -

Bench

Warrant

(Under Art. 125)
+ Whereas
an accused
person having been duly summoned and served has failed to appear in answer
to the summons:
+ Whereas
a witness
having been duly summoned and Served has failed to appear in answer to the
summons,
you
are directed to arrest
(in~rt name of police officer)
and to produce him befClrethis court without delay.
Judge

+ Delete whichever is inapplicable.
Form XII. - Appeal hearing Notice
(Under Art. 192)
Criminal Appeal No...........................
Appellant
(insert name)
,
Respondent
(insert name)
Appellant/ Respondent
This is to require Y01l
(insert name)

CRIMINAL

PROCEDURE

CODE

101

to attend the hearing of the abovementioned appeal at
Court
of
on the
day of ...........................
at
o'clock.
+ Should the appellant or his advocate fail to appear the appeal may be
dismissed.
+ Should the respondent or his advocate fail to appear the hearing of the
appeal may be proceeded witli.
Registrar Court. of Appeal.
+ Delete whichever is inapplicable.

Form XIII. - Warrant of commitment
after sentence of death
(Under Art. 204)
To the Superintendent of Prisons
,
at ...............................
Whereas
has been
(insert name of accused)

convicted of

and

""""'"''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

(insert offence of which he has been convicted)
has been sentenced to death, this is to authorise and require you to receive the

said

"'"''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

in your custody and to detain him

(insert name of convicted person)
until the pleasure of His Imperial Majesty be made known to you.
Dated this
day of

19 ...........
Presiding judge.

Form XIV. - Warrant of Commitment
after sentence of police arrest +/simple
imprisonment + /rigorous imprisonment
+ /intemment+ /
(Under Art. 205).
Criminal Case No. ...................
Name of prisoner ...................
To the Superintendent of Prisons/Superintendent of Police
"'"''''''''''''''''''''''
The abovenamed prisoner was convicted by this
Court
of
and sentenced to ......................
This is to order you to carry out the said sentence of police arrest/ simple
imprisonment/rigorous imprisonment/internment according to law.
Dated this.
day of
19 ............
Presiding judge.
+ Delete whichever is inapplicable.

CRIMINAL

102

PROCEDURE

CODE

Form XV. - Warrant of commitment
in respect of irresponsible person
(Under Art. 208).
Whereas

was found not fuIly
(insert name of accused person)
responsible for his acts, this is to authorise and require you the Superintendent

of

to re<:eivethe said person into

~

(in8ert name of institution)
custody and to give him treatment ......................................................................
(specify the rates of the treatment)
Presiding judge.

Form XVI. - Warrant in respect of flogging
(Under Art. 207)Criminal case No. ..................................
To the Superintendent of Prisons
Whereas
was convicted by this ..............................
.
(insert name of convictedperson)
Court of
and sentencedto flogging,
This is to order you to carry out the said sentence according to law.
The convicted person shall re<:eive ......................................................................
(insert number of lashes to be inflicted)
to be inflicted with ..........................................................
(specify instrument to be used)
The sentence shall be carried out by....................................................................
(specify person who will inflict the flogging)
at .........................................................................
(specify place where flogging will be inflicted)
on
, ;..............................
(specify date when flogging wiIl be inflicted)

Dated this

day of

19 ...........
Presiding judge.

