










































r f-)\"f lldb~Cf f}'})l 
ATIOL -AL BANK OF ETHIOPIA 

ADDIS ABABA 

T . "t . .p.. 5550/2048 4-h{) -r.'fc 0115 51 45 88 ()b\h 4l'1'C 0115 51 74 30 n.n 

Directive No. ONPSIOll2020 

OVERSIGHT OF THE NATIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEM 

Licensing and Authorization of Payment Instrument Issuers Directive No. ONPS/01l2020 

WHEREAS, it is important to promote the safety and efficiency.of the payment system; 

WHEREAS, innovative payment instruments are important to increase the use of financial services; 

WHEREAS, establishing clear and enabling regulatory requirements are necessary to protect the 

interest of users of payment instruments: 

. WHEREAS, oversight of payment instrument issuers is a key to mitigate associated risks and 

maintain reliability of payment instruments; 

NOW, THEREFORE, in accordance with Articles 4(2a)/2/, 4(2)/e/, 1 O( 1 )/c/. 10(5), 19(3),20(2) and 

37(2) of the ational Payment System Proclamation o. 718/2011, and article 2( I) and article (58) 

of Banking (amended) Business Proclamation, the National Bank of Ethiopia has issued this 

directive. 

PART I 

GENERAL PROVISIONS 

1. Short Title 

This directive may be cited as "Licensing and Authorization of Payment Instrument Issuers 

Directive No. ONPS/01l2020" 

2. Definition. 

For the purpose of this directive: 

ADDRESS- SUDh..· STRCET P.O.BOX 555012048 FAX. 0.0115514588 TEL. 0.011551 7430 ADDlS ABAB . ..,. 
:ELEGR:u>BIC D~ 33T! 0 'B A K ED rro 

. EO Bc-...·TLE'-"~ ~_d PHRASE A.B.C. 6 CODES-U:ED ';)E~ - L~'" • J - • 



11. 
Directive No. ONPSIOl12020 

1) "agent" means a person contracted by a financial institution to facilitate provision of agency 

business service in the name and on behalf of a financial institution in a manner specified in this 

Directive and other relevant other relevant laws; 

2) "bank" means a company licensed by the National Bank to undertake banking business or a 

bank owned by the Government; 

3 "ea h-in" means the process by which a user exchanges cash for electronic value and 

transactions resulting in an increase in the users' electronic money account balance; 

-l) "cash-out" means the process by which a user exchanges electronic money for cash and 

transactions resulting in a decrease in the users' electronic money account balance; 

5) "chief executive officer" means a person by whatever title that person may be referred to, who 

is primarily accountable and bears the responsibility for the day-to-day management of the 

affairs of the payment instrument issuer; 

6) "company" means a share company as defined in the Commercial Code of Ethiopia, in which 

the capital is: (a) fully owned by Ethiopian nationals or foreign nationals of Ethiopian origin or 

jointly owned by Ethiopian nationals and foreign nationals of Ethiopian origin; 

7) "customer due diligence" means policies and procedures used by payment instrument issuers 

to obtain customer information and assess the risks of money laundering and terrorist financing 

posed by a user, including detecting, monitoring and reporting suspicious activities; 

8) "director" means a person by whatever title that person may be referred to, who is member of 

the board of directors of a payment instrument issuer; 

9) "electronic money account" means an account held with a payment instrument issuer and 

which belongs to a user; 

10) "electronic money float" means the total outstanding value of electronic money issued by a 

payment instrument issuer that may also be reflected by a cash deposit in a bank or a 

government security or both; 

I I) "electronic money" means a monetary value represented by a claim on its Issuer. It has the 

following attributes: (i) issued upon receipt of Ethiopian Birr, (ii) it is accepted as a means of 

payment by persons other than the issuer, (iii) it has equal value with other electronic money 

issued in Ethiopian Birr, (iv) stored on an electronic device, like a chi , pre-paid card, mobile 

phone, tablet or any other computer system; 



Directive No. ONPS/01l2020 

, , 

12) "financial institution" means a bank or a micro-finance institution I icensed by the ational 

Bank. For the purpose of this directive, payment instrument issuers and postal services other 

than banks and microfinance institutions that provide electronic money related financial services 

using agents as per the relevant payment instrument issuer directive of the ational Bank shall be 

con idered a financial institution; 

13" ow Your Cu tomer" means a set of due diligence measures undertaken by a financial 

itution or a payment instrument issuer, including policies and procedures, to identify a user 

mo ivarion behind hi financial activities; 

payment in trument issuer" means a person, including a petroleum distributer, a 

regi tered and recognized by the ational Bank to issue payment 

ale to its main business' customers. 

per-on engaged in the trade of goods/or and services and possesses an 

the ational Bank of Ethiopia: 

- -0' r-the- ounter transaction" means a transaction that occurs when a sender or a receiver 

hi Iher 0 n electronic account instead he transacts in cash with an agent or a 

bran h who executes the transaction on his behalf; 

18 ··payment instrument" means any instrument whether tangible or intangible that enables a 

per on to make payments or transfer money and it includes electronic money; 

19 "payment instrument issuer" means a person authorized or licensed by the ational Bank to 

i ue pa ment instruments against receipt offunds in Ethiopian Birr as per this directive; 

_0) "person" means any natural or juridical person; 

I) .. enior executive officer" means a person by whatever title that person may be referred to, who 

is deputy to the chief executive officer or is directly reporting to the board of directors of a 

payment instrument issuer; 

22) "user" means a person who has an lectronic money account and uses the services of a payment 

instrument issuer; 

23) "walk-in-user" a person who uses services of a payment instrument issuer without having an 

electronic account. 

24) Any expression in the masculine gender includes the feminine. 



Directive No. ONPS/01l2020 

3. Scope of the Directive 

This Directive shall apply to payment instrument issuers authorized by the ational Bank. 

PART 11 

APPLICA TION AND APPROVAL PROCESS 

.t. Requirement for Authorization and Licensing 
All li en ed financial institutions shall submit duly completed application to the National Bank in 

ord r to get an authorization to issue a payment instrument. 

ownership or use of building. land. equipment. har 

profe ional ervi e: 

oft" are and 

A person other than licensed financial institution shall submit a complete application to the 

. .arional Bank to get a license to issue a payment instrument. 

An applicant intending to be licensed as a payment instrument issuer shall be established as: 

a. an enterprise owned fully by the Government and the following documents shall be 

attached: 

i) a regulation issued by the council of ministers that specifically allows 

engagement in the business of issuing payment instruments and related services 

as per this directive. 

ii) a certificate of registration for trade name from the relevant authority. or, 

b. a company which shall fulfill the following conditions: 

I. a signed minutes of meeting of shareholders along with attendance sheet; 

11. a certificate of registration for trade name from the relevant body; 

Ill. a signed minutes of meeting for subscribers along with attendance sheet; 

IV. a list of names, nationality, address, number and value of subscribed shares of 

shareholders to be published or notified on newspaper or any other media; 

v. a memorandum and articles of association written both in Amharic and English. 

The memorandum and articles of association shall be approved by the National 

Bank before registration with the appropriate government body; 

VI. an authenticated certificate and/or agreement (as the case may be) for 



.,.,. 
, T 

'( [' I. .", .• I, \' •.. I I I If \1' I .•. 1\. Directive No. ONPSIOll2020 
VII. a rrurumum paid-up capital of Ethiopian Birr 50,000,000 (fifty million birr) 

shall be contributed in cash and the amount shall be deposited in a blocked 

account with a bank in the name of the applicant payment instrument issuer; 

viii. no person, other than Government, may hold more than 20% (twenty percent) 

of the shares of a I icensed payment instrument issuer; and 

ix. a company other than a government enterprise shall have a minimum of 10 (ten) 

shareholders. 

4) Applicants shall pay a non-refundable investigation fee of Ethiopian Birr 5,000 and present proof 

of pa ment along with the appl ication. 

S) The application and accompanying documents shall provide adequate details and complement the 

ational Bank's evaluation and decision making process. 

6) In addition to requirements under sub-articles (I), (2) and (3) of this Article, the appl ication shall 

be a companied by the following: 

a. comprehensive document, which demonstrates applicant's ability to manage the 

s stem and allocate required resources. It includes at least: 

I. analysis on gaps identified between the domestic and global payment 

instruments market; 

11. business plan at least for five years; 

Ill. features and value proposition of the payment instrument to be issued, 

products and services; 

geographical area of the market to be covered initially and through time; 

initial agent distribution and expansion plan through time; 

I. additional sources of capital and finance (if any); 

ii. financial and budget forecast for the first five years of operations including 

balance sheet, income statement, cash flow statement and basic assumptions 

for the projections; and 

viii. governance, organizational structure and responsibilities of the board of 

directors and the management with respect to the payment instrument to be 

issued. 

Page 5 of 33 



1 I \ I. r. l I' 
P 11 • \ ,\ 

Directive No. ONPSIOll2020 

b. Operational policies and procedures which give further details about' products and 

services to be delivered initially as well as when new products are added: 

I. how the product/service fits into processes and systems; 

11. pricing and fees structure, sustainability and affordability; 

Ill. effective administrative and management function; 

IV. accounting process, procedure and reporting; 

v. process flow including in diagrams that must be fully transparent and be 

auditable; 

VI. transaction compliant with authentication methods that are 

national/international standards, I ike two factor authentication; 

VII. policy and procedure manual; 

VIII. participation in a national or international payment system; 

IX. procedures taken to safeguard funds of users of the payment instrument; 

x. proposed names for the instrument, product or services. Once accepted the 

names shall be registered with the pertinent authority; 

XI. internal control system; and 

XII. terms and conditions to be entered with agents, merchants, users of payment 

instrument and any other third parties. 

c. detailed document on the fulfillment of the following system related functions and 

technical conditions: 

I. capability to maintain and identify electronic money accounts and 

correspond ing detai Is; 

11. transaction processing and data flow within the system and timing; 

Ill. dependability of the core system; 

I. network infrastructure and security; 

capability to be linked with other systems, checkpoints and interoperability; 

I. security policies and procedures installed to maintain the integrity, 

authenticity and confidentiality of data and operation; 

Vll. data management - archiving, retrieval and destruction proced ires; 

viii. business continuity and disaster recovery arrangement; 

Page 6 of 33 



" 
.' ;.. I IIII I 

IIPI'" 1\,\ 
Directive No, ONPS/01l2020 

x. authenticity, non-reputability of communication channels and remote access 

capabilities; 

XI. system audit log file generation for all activities; 

XII. any adopted relevant international, national and/or industry level standards 

and guidelines from a reputable certification body; and 

xiii. outsourced institutions profile and contracts on service support agreements. 

d. risk management framework including but not only limited to risks such as 

operational, technology, communication, cyber security, third party, liquidity, 

reputational and legal; 

policy and procedure for Know Your Customers; 

f. policy and procedure for Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Financing of 

Terrorism; 

g. dispute resolution and case management mechanism or system; 

h. customer protection policy and procedure covering at least the following principles: 

I. equitable and fair treatment; 

11. transparency; 

Ill. confidentiality and disclosure of information; 

IV. rights and responsibilities of all involved parties; 

v. customer support arrangement; and 

VI. complaint handling and redress mechanism. 

7) any other relevant information as and when requested by the National Bank. 

8) an authorized or licensed payment instrument issuer interested to issue a new product or service 

shall fulfill requirements under sub-article 6 along with an application and a payment advice of 

Ethiopian Birr 3,000 being application processing fee; 

9) as part of the application process, the National Bank, may request for a preliminary meeting and 

demonstration of the intended payment instrument to be issued, its related services, products as 
.e 

well as operation. 

Page 7 of 33 



Directive No, ONPSIOll2020 

10) based on the complexity, newness and familiarity of related features of the payment' instrument to 

be issued, the National Bank may opt for the authorization or licensing process to follow two 

stages: primary approval- for piloting and final approval- for business/operation. 

11) the National Bank based on the proposal of the applicant may authorize a pilot period for the 

maximum of three month duration. 

12) an applicant who is granted the go-ahead for piloting the product or service shall submit detailed 

piloting plan and commence the pilot test within thirty calendar days after the date on which the 

notification is made. 

13) in relation with article 4.10, the applicant shall perform the pilot and submit a monthly detailed 

performance report and a final report showing the results of the pilot to the National Bank within 

thirty calendar days after the end of the pilot. 

14) based on a written request by applicant, the National Bank may extend the pilot test period for 

the maximum of one month. 

IS) the National Bank may reject an application for authorization or licensing on any of the following 

grounds: 

a. the applicant or its owners have been convicted of a cnrne involving a financial 

transaction; 

b. the application and its accompanying documents contain false information; 

c. the applicant fails to give any response to a request from the National Bank, within 

ten days; 

d. the submitted documents are incomplete, ambiguous or misleading; and 
~ 

e. the intended payment instrument to be issued or its related service poses risk on users 

or the national payment system. 

16) Where the National Bank rejects the application or any part thereof, the National Bank shall 

Page 8 of 33 



(. 1111 I 
III I , 

Directive No, ONPSIOll2020 

17) A payment instrument issuer whose appl ication has been rejected may be allowed to reapply, if 

the deficiencies that formed the basis for rejection of the initial application or subsequent review 

have been corrected or otherwise addressed, 

18) Any application submitted to the National Bank for issuance of a payment instrument or new 

product or service shall be accompanied by the approval minutes of meeting of the board of 

directors, 

19) The National Bank shall respond to the application submitted in accordance with sub-articles (2) 

and (3) of this article within 60 calendar days from the last date of fulfillment of all required 

cond itions. 

20) An applicant whose application has been rejected may appeal against the decision within seven 

working days from the date on which the refusal is communicated, 

21) An authorization or licensing to issue a payment instrument under this directive may be subject to 

specific conditions put by the National Bank, 

22) An authorized or licensed applicant shall commence operation within six months after the date 

authorization or license is made, 

23) An applicant shall pay an initial licensing fee of Ethiopian Birr 5,000, 

5. Directors and Executive Management 

I) The appointment of directors of a I icensed payment instrument issuer shall get prior written 

approval from the National Bank; 

2) The appointment of directors of a Government owned payment instrument Issuer shall be 

approved by the National Bank, according to the establishment regulation; 

3) The following requirements and conditions shall be fulfilled for approving the app intments gf 

Page 9 of 33 

directors of licensed payment instrument issuers: 



A'. 
11 \ I III \ I. \ h. l j I I .' , 

."... 11' 01' \1, \ ,\ Directive No. ONPSIOll2020 

a. a director shall have a minimum of first degree or equivalent from recognized higher 

learning institution; 

b. a director shall have adequate work experience to effectively oversee the business of 

the payment instrument issuer and shall have prior understanding about payment 

instruments; 

c. a director shall be at least thirty years old; and 

d. signed biography and curriculum vitae of directors shall be submitted to the National 

Bank, 

4) The appointment of Chief Executive Officer and Senior Executive Officers of a licensed payment 

instrument issuer shall get prior written approval from the National Bank, 

5) The following requirements and conditions shall be fulfilled for approval of the appointments of 

Chief Executive Officer and Senior Executive Officers of licensed payment instrument issuers: 

a. a chief executive officer shall have a minimum of first degree from a recognized 

higher learning institution; 

b. a chief executive officer shall have a minimum of ten years work experience 111 

finance and payment areas and of which, five years shall be in senior executive 

position; 

c. a signed biography and curriculum vitae of the chief executive officer shall be 

submitted to the National Bank. 

d. a senior executive officer shall have a minimum of first degree from a recognized 

higher learning institution; 

e. a senior executive officer shall have a minimum of eight years work experience and 

of which three years shall be in managerial position including at departmental level or 

equivalent; 

f. a signed biography and curriculum vitae of the chief executive officer or Senior 

Executive Officers shall be submitted to the National Bank; 

g. qualification testimonies and signed credentials of the Chief Executive Officer or 

senior executive officers from previous employers shall be submitted to the National 

Bank; and 

Page 10 of 33 



r 

~I'" ,11 
Directive No. ONPSIOJI2020 

h. meeting minutes of the directors wherein the appointment of the chief Executive 

officer and/or senior executive officers is made. 

6) Directors, Chief Executive Officer and Senior Executive Officers shall be honest, reputable and 

diligent. In determining these traits of the persons, all relevant factors shall be considered, 

including but not limited to: 

a. whether the person has a record for previous conduct and activities where he/she has 

been convicted for a criminal offence under any law designed to protect members of 

the public from dishonesty or fraud anywhere; and 

b. whether the person has a record of withholding information from public authorities, 

submission of incorrect financial or other statements and failure to comply with 

requirements of a regulator. 

7) The ational Bank may require a licensed payment instrument issuer for further documentation 

or explanation depending on the case. 

I) Based on requests made and written approval of the National Bank; a payment instrument issuer 

may be allowed to provide the following services: 

a. cash-in and cash-out; 

b. local money transfers including domestic remittances, load to card or bank account, 

transfer to card or bank account; 

c. domestic payments including purchase from physical merchants, bill payments; 

d. over-the-counter transactions; and 

e. inward international remittances. 

6. Permitted Products and Services 

i' 

2) Based on written approval of the National Bank, a I icensed payment instrument issuer under full 

responsibility of and written outsourcing agreement with a regulated financial institution and 

pension funds, may be allowed to provide the following: 

a. micro-saving products; 

b. micro-credit products; 

Page 11 of 33 



· , 11 I 
I' 1\ \ I \ \ 

Directive No. ONPSIOll2020 

c. micro-insurance products; or 

d. pension products. 

PART III 

ELECTRONIC ACCOUNT, LIMITS, DORMANT ACCOUNT AND ELECTRONIC 

FLOAT 

7. Electronic Account Management 

I) Electronic accounts and payment instruments shall be denominated only in Ethiopian Birr. 

2) Payment instrument issuers shall exchange funds for equal monetary value of electronic money 

or vice versa. 

3) All transactions made against an electronic account shall only be made electronically and in real 

time. 

4) To ensure maximum protection on transactions related to electronic account, all transactions shall 

have single factor authentication, like user created personal identification number; and two-factor 

authentication shall be applied for transaction amounts greater than Ethiopian Birr 1,000. 

5) A user shall be entitled to receive an electronic receipt for transactions related to its electronic 

account or a physical receipt shall be given to the user as a replacement in the case when it is 

difficult to provide an electronic receipt. 

6) The details of the receipt shall include at least: date. time. unique reference, amount, type of 

transaction, any fee and details of transacting counter party. 

8. Electronic Account and Limits 

I) A payment instrument issuer shall put in place systems and procedures to keep and identify at 

least three categories upon opening of an electronic money account. 

Page 12 of 33 



1 ' f.' I 1 I 

Directive No. ONPSIOJI2020 

a. Level 1 accounts shall be subject to a maximum account balance of Ethiopian Birr 

5,000, an aggregate daily transaction limit of Ethiopian Birr 1,000 and an aggregate 

monthly transaction limit of Ethiopian Birr 10,000. 

b. Level 2 accounts shall be subject to a maximum account balance of Ethiopian Birr 

20,000, an aggregate daily transaction limit of Ethiopian Birr 5,000 and an aggregate 

monthly transaction limit of Ethiopian Birr 40,000. 

c. Level 3 accounts shall be subject to a maximum account balance of Ethiopian Birr 

30,000, an aggregate daily transaction limit of Ethiopian Birr 8,000 and an aggregate 

monthly transaction limit of Ethiopian Birr 60,000. 

2) If a user has more than one account with a similar Level; the aggregate balance of all accounts 

shall not exceed the respective category limit where the account belongs. 

3) Ifa user has more than one electronic account with different Levels, the limit of the higher Level 

shall apply. 

4) A payment instrument issuer shall ensure that its system is capable of handling and managing the 

different Levels. 

5) Walk-in users shall be subject to a single maximum daily transaction limit of Ethiopian Birr 500. 

6) An electronic account belonging to an agent shall have no amount limit for transactions made in 

relation to users. 

7) A merchant electronic account is opened only for businesses and shall: 

a. fulfil! a proper Know Your Customer requirements; 

b. made payments to large number of users; 

c. receive payments for the prices of goods and services; 

Page 13 of 33 



1I \'" I I{ I 

11 1\. 
Directive No. ONPSIOJI2020 

d. have no limit on account balance and transactions; and 

e. not be allowed to make cash related transactions unless registered as an agent 

9. Dormant Account Handling 

I) A payment instrument issuer shall follow the following successive procedures while handling 

dormant accounts. 

a. an electronic account shall be classified as dormant, if it did not show any transaction for 

twelve consecutive months; 

b. a notification message shall be sent to the user on the sixth month and monthly thereafter 

informing the user to either activate the electronic account by making a transaction or to 

close the electronic account; 

c. if there is no change by the end of the twelve months period, the payment instrument 

issuer shall change the status of account to dormant until the user requests for reactivation 

either by making a cash-in or cash-out transaction or through a request call made with 

verifiable or pre-registered mobile number; 

d. if the dormant electronic account is not reactivated within the twelve months period, the 

electronic account shall be closed; 

e. a payment instrument issuer shall deposit the amount after deducting the necessary 

closure fees in closed electronic accounts to a single account opened for the purpose with 

a bank. 

f. the payment instrument Issuer shall maintain detai led information related to closed 

electronic account for ten years. The same information shall be shared with the bank 

mentioned under sub article (e) above and the National Bank; 

g. a claim made on the amount of a closed electronic account shall be submitted to the 

payment instrument issuer and the payment instrument issuer shall process the request 

with the bank; 

h. any refund made In relation with a closed electronic account shall be updated and 

reported quarterly to the National Bank by the payment instrument issuer; 

I. the National Bank may instruct further the payment instrument issuer on the procedures 

to follow on funds kept for more than ten years. 

Page 14 of 33 



( . \ . \ "j I I "1 I \ 
\ I J ,,\, \ 

Directive No. ONPSIOll2020 

2) For a mobile phone number that is directly related to electronic account, if the account did not 

show a movement for twelve consecutive months; the amount in such account shall be del inked 

from the mobile number that uniquely identifies the subscriber in the mobile network. 

10. Electronic Money Float Management 

I) A licensed payment instrument issuer shall keep the total amount of electronic money float in the 

form of cash deposited in a bank and/or invest in any other safe Government security as 

prescribed by the National Bank. 

2) Upon the request and written approval of the ational Bank, a licensed payment instrument 

issuer shall open an electronic money float cash deposit account with a bank. 

3) The amount of electronic money float will be represented by cash deposited in an account 

maintained with a bank and invested in Government securities. This amount belongs to the users 

and managed by the I icensed payment instrument issuer on behalf of the mentioned users. 

4) The amount in the electronic float cash account and Government securities shall reflect, at all 

times, the sum of all electronic accounts maintained by the issuer and owned by users. 

5) The outstanding balance in an electronic float cash account and Government securities shall be 

reconciled daily against the sum of individual electronic accounts maintained and the daily 

reconciliation summary report shall be sent to the National Bank by 10:00AM of the following 

day. 

6) otwithstanding sub-article 10(5) above, any identified discrepancy shall be rectified latest by 

12:00PM of the following day and the report shall be sent to the National Bank revealing details 

on discovery, amount, reason and rectifications made. 

7) The National Bank may investigate t any time the bank statement for electronic money float 

cash account and the payment instrument issuer's system report. 

8) A payment instrument issuer shall maintain at least 10 percent of the balances in th electronic 

money float cash account to facilitate clearing and settlement of payments. 

Page 15 of 33 



I I \ •.•• I, 

jI ,..... \ \ 

Directive No. ONPSIOll2020 

9) A payment instrument issuer shall transfer not less than eighty percent of any income derived 

from an electronic money float cash account as interest, net of any account management fee 

levied by the account holding bank, to electronic account holders and the remaining amount to be 

retained by the payment instrument issuer. 

10) otwithstanding sub-article 1 of this Article income derived from the investment activities on the 

balance in electronic money float cash account shall be kept in a separate account opened for the 

purpose with a bank. 

12) licensed payment instrument issuer shall segregate its own funds from that of users. 

11) A proposal for distribution of interest by a licensed payment instrument issuer shall get an 

approval by the National Bank. 

13) otwithstanding sub-article I O( I) of this directive a licensed payment instrument issuer shall not 

deposit more than 15% of the bank's capital in its electronic float cash account in that bank. 

14) A licensed payment instrument issuer shall not engage in any investment activities using the 

amount in the electronic float cash account other than the provisions made under sub-article I of 

this Article. 

Page 16 of 33 

1 -) Indi iduals' electronic account balances held against the electronic float cash account shall be 

eo ered by a deposit insurance scheme as and when the scheme becomes operational. 

PART V 

CUSTOMER DUE DILIGENCE, USER PROTECTION, OVERSIGHT 

11. Customer Due Diligence 

1) A payment instrument issuer shall define acceptable identification documents in line with this 

directive. 

2) A payment instrument Issuer shall comply with the mll111TIUm Customer Due Diligence 

requirements for the different levels of Know Your Customer while maintai ',g and operating 

electronic accounts. 



I' , \ I-,. l' 11 
I I .\ 

Directive No. ONPSIOll2020 

a. for Level I accounts name, date of birth, residential address, telephone number, recent 

photo of the user and the user shall be introduced by another person who already 

maintains an account with the payment instrument issuer. 

b. for Level 2 accounts name, date of birth, residential address, telephone number and recent 

photo and identity card of the user and shall be captu red in the system. 

c. for Level 3 accounts name, date of birth, residential/business address. telephone number. 

a photo and identification card of the account holder shall be captured in the system 

whichever is appropriate for individuals and entities. 

d. for merchants or agents, the payment instrument Issuer shall validate and capture 

credentials like memorandum and articles of associations (where applicable), business 

license, tax payer's identification certificate (where applicable) bank account 

information, (where applicable), the name of the owner, business address, owner contact 

information, and information of employees of the merchant. 

e. A walk-in user or a user without an electronic account shall be subject to Level 2 

Customer Due Diligence requirements as mentioned in this sub-article. 

3) A payment instrument issuer and its agents shall strictly comply, at all times, with the 

requirements of the proclamation issued for "Prevention and Suppression of Money Laundering 

and the Financing of Terrorism - Proclamation Number 780/20 I r, its subsequent amendments 
and related directives. 

12. Customer Protection 

I) Payment instrument issuers shall ensure maximum customer protection while carrying out their 

business; 

2) A payment instrument issuer upon opening of an account shall enter into an agreement \ ith the 

user. And such an agreement shall include at least: 

a. identifying the customer objectively; 

b. distinguishing easily the logo, products and services, agents: 

c. disclosing the price for products and services; 

d. making available standard transaction receipt with details; 

e. making available for viewing information on at least ten transactions online; 

f. stating the confidentiality of all users' information; 

Page 17 of 33 

-; 



It J ' '" • 
I H"'" : 

Directive No. ONPSIOll2020 

g. notifying easily the rights and responsibilities of users; 

h. informing the roles and responsibilities of the parties; 

I. ensuring arrangement of a customer call center and its contact details, working 

hours, procedures and response time; and 

J. giving announcement on service interruptions and changes. 

3) A payment instrument issuer shall make and share clear and standard terms and conditions 

applicable to all users in relation to the use of a payment instrument. 

4) otwithstanding sub-article 12 (3), issuance and any subsequent amendments made on terms 

and conditions shall get prior written approval from the National Bank. 

payment instrument issuer shall put in place a mechanism for customer support, complaint 

handling and dispute management with the necessary resources that includes at least: 

a. complaint lodgment shall be easy and accessible for extended hours longer than the 

normal \ orking hours that is from 8:00 AM to 5:00 PM; 

b. omplaints could be made in person, through writing, phone calls or any other 

tra eable means; 

each complaint shall be assigned with a specific reference and same shall be notified 

to the complainant within which the complaint is expected to be resolved; 

d. all complaints shall be registered; 

e. upon request adequate explanation shall be given to the complainant about reported 

complaint; 

f. complaint handling shall be free of any charge to the complainant: 

g. complaints shall be addressed within a maximum of three working days; 

h. a final decision shall be communicated to the complainant: 

I. the complainant shall be given the right to appeal. Such appeal shall be re iewed b 

a higher-level officer of the payment instrument issuer: and 

J. if a dispute arises among parties, the payment instrument issuer shall end to the 

National Bank detailed explanation of the dispute and all related document. 

6) A payment instrument issuer shall announce list of agents and their address; types of product 

and services; and applicable fees and charges on its website. 

Page 18 of 33 



II" I 

H'" d \ \ 
Directive No. ONPSIOJI2020 

7) A payment instrument issuer shall update and notify pertinent information· like address, 

complaint reporting and contact details on its website, its offices or branches(where applicable) 

and agent premises. 

13. Oversight 

I) The ational Bank shall oversee payment instrument Issuers, their systems, agents and 

outsourcing counter parties. 

Z) Pa ment instrument issuers shall keep a record and submit to the National Bank the following 

information both in hard and soft copies along with a covering letter signed by the Chief 

Executive Officer or his delegate within seven calendar days after the end of every quarter: 

a. account type, account level and account balance of users by group (like individual, 

merchant, agent), region, gender, 

b. number of accounts opened and closed during the reporting month by region and as 

individual (including gender), merchants, agents; 

c. the number of active and inactive accounts held by the payment instrument issuer by 

category, region, age and gender; 

d. total value and volume of transactions processed by the payment instrument issuer by 

indicating each type of transaction, such as cash-in, cash-out, over-the-counter, local 

money transfer, domestic payments and inward international remittance; 

e. number of active and inactive agents by region and administration; 

f. outstanding amount of electronic money held by the payment instrument issuer; 

g. number and amount of micro savings by gender and region; 

h. number and amount of micro credits by gender and region; 

I. number and amount of micro insurance policies by gender and region; 

J. number and amount of pension schemes by type, gender and region; 

k. balance in float account(s); 

I. number and value of dormant accounts by category and region; 

m. number. duration and reason for system interruption and subsequent measures taken 

to resolve the issue; 

n. number of reported customers' complaints by product/service type, agent location 

and their respective status as solved, not solved or in progress; 

o. any cyber security breach and data loss; 

Page 19 of 33 



,,'_ " IH 
\ 11 I I \ \ 

Directive No. ONPS/01l2020 

p. all actual and attempted frauds with amounts involved, 

I. detailed description of the incident including: dates, suspected fraudster, the 

occurrence, involved parties, agent location and subsequent measures taken; 

11. the description shall at least answer the questions of how, why, what, when, 

and the I ike; and 

Ill. fraud reports shall be sent to the National Bank within five working days 

after the incident. 

q. the ational Bank may request for additional information as and when deemed 

Page 20 of 33 

necessary. 

3) A payment instrument issuer shall prepare financial statements in accordance with International 

Financial Reporting Standard. 

4) A licensed payment instrument issuer shall audit its book of accounts annually by authorized 

independent external auditors and submit the report to the National Bank within sixty calendar 

days after the end of the fiscal year. 

5) The ational Bank may instruct the payment instrument issuer to submit assessment reports on 

different aspects of its system that is conducted by it-self or get assessed by another certified 

body. 

6) Any change or enhancement on systems, procedures, and mode of operation, product and service 

features and outsourcing arrangements shall be reported in writing to the National Bank to seek 

approval, thirty days ahead of the planned change or enhancement. 

7) Notwithstanding sub-article 13 (6), the user shall be notified about the relevant changes ahead of 

seven calendar days before the implementation ofthe change. 

PART VI 

MISCELLANEOUS 

14. Limited Use Payment Instrument Issuers 

1) A person may apply in writing to the National Bank in order to be registered and recogn ized as a 

Limited Use Payment Instrument Issuer. 



11 , 

1 ) , \ 
Directive No. ONPSIOll2020 

2) A limited use payment instrument issuer shall be subject to the following conditions: 

a. the applicant shall have a valid business license to operate in Ethiopia; 

b. the intended payment instrument shall be used entirely within the premises and 

branches of the issuer and for payment transactions related to the exchange of 

products and services of the issuer's main business. 

c. the maximum individual electronic money account balance shall not exceed 

Ethiopian Birr 5,000; 

d. at any time the total liabilities related to such electronic money shall not exceed 

Ethiopian Birr 5,000,000; and 

e. the limited use payment instrument shall be accepted as a means of payment in not 

less than fifty branches of the issuer. 

3) An application to the ational Bank shall be accompanied with all the necessary details and 

supporting documents about the planned limited use payment instrument to be issued, its system 

and operation process. 

4) Limited use payment instrument issuers shall put in place systems to maintain at least complete 

and accurate records of electron ic money accounts, the identity of users, all transactions, 

individual and aggregated balances held by users. 

5) The electronic money shall be exchanged at par with Ethiopian Birr only. 

6) Limited use payment instrument issuers shall not use agents. 

7) 0 interest or other financial return is paid to users. 

8) A person applying for issuance of limited use payment instrument shall pay an application fee of 

Ethiopian Birr 2,000. 

9) A registration made for a limited use payment instrument issuer shall be renewed every year 

within three months after June 30. An application for renewal shall be accompanied with valid 

business I icense of the appl icant. 

Page 21 of 33 



(, ••• 1 Ili I 
11 \ \ 

Directive No. ONPS/OIl2020 

10) The National Bank, through written notice to a limited use payment instrument issuer, may 

suspend or revoke a registration for such period as it may specify due to the following and other 

related reasons: 

a. if the I imited use payment instrument issuer ceases to operated, I iquidated, wound up 

or dissolved; 

b. if the limited use payment instrument issuer fails to comply with the provisions of 

this Article; and 

c. engagement of the limited use instrument Issuer 111 fraudulent, money laundering 

activities; 

d. engagement of the I irn ited use instrument issuer in proh ibited business and hand ling 

proceeds of crime and money laundering; and 

e. fai lure of the I im ited instrument issuer to keep proper customer and transactional 

records. 

11) A registered limited use payment instrument issuer shall submit to the National Bank the 

following information both in hard and soft copies along with a covering letter signed by the 

appropriate official within seven days after the end of each quarter: 

a. total number of accounts held; 

b. number of accounts opened and closed during the reporting period; 

c. total value and volume of transactions processed; 

d. total outstanding amount of electronic money held; 

e. frauds, fraud attempts and related incidents with amounts involved, brief description 

including the location and subsequent measures taken; 

f. any cyber security breach and data loss; and 

g. the National Bank may request additional information as and when deemed 

important. 

) n outstanding balance in the account of a limited payment instrument user shall be refunded in 

cash or transferred up on request. 

Page 22 of 33 



'If 

11 ' 
Directive No. ONPSIOJI2020 

14) A registered limited use payment instrument issuer shall comply with provisrons made under 

Article 14 of this directive only. 

15) The ational Bank may revise the conditions and requirements for limited use payment 

instrument issuers. 

15. Requirements, Permissions and Prohibitions 

I) Without prior written approval of the National Bank, no payment instrument issuer shall: 

a. issue a payment instrument and introduce related service or product; 

b. change or enhance its payment instrument, systems, procedures, mode of operation, 

product and service features; 

c. merge with or takeover the business of another person; 

d. enter into any arrangement that brings changes in its primary business; 

e. amend its articles and memorandum of association; and 

f. change its name meant to do the payment instrument issuing business. 

2) A licensed payment instrument issuer shall safeguard funds of a user of payment instrument by 

not making them commingled at any time with the funds of third parties and making them 

insulated against the claims of other creditors of the payment instrument issuer. 

3) A payment instrument issuer shall ensure that its core system at least possesses the following 

functional ities: 

a. maintain accounts, their balances and able to identify accountholders: 

b. process and able to trace transactions; 

c. effectively monitor the different procedures for Anti-Money Laundering and 

Combating Financing of Terrorism (AMLlCFT); and 

d. keep all records related to the business of payment instrument issuance in acceptable 

form for a period allowed by the relevant proclamation; 

The rmrumum paid-up capital of a licensed payment instrument Issuer shall mcrease by 5 

percent proportional to the increase in total electronic float amount. 
~) 

Page 23 of 33 

of payment obligations. 



I !J I 
I p, .... I, \ 

Directive No. ONPSIOll2020 

6) A licensed payment instrument issuer shall not engage in or enter into any agreement that is not 

related to its payment instrument issuing business. 

7) A person engaged in some other business and intending to be licensed payment instrument 

issuer must do so by establishing a separate entity exclusively for the purpose. 

8) In relation to the payment instrument issuing business, based on prior written request to the 

ational Bank and its subsequent approval, a payment instrument issuer may outsource its 

operational functions related to the recruitment, training and management of agents; 

pro isioning and maintenance of technology platform; as well as marketing and branding to 

third persons. 

9) pa ment instrument issuer shall ensure that outsourcing arrangement complies with this 

directi e. 

10) A detailed contractual agreement shall be put in place for all outsourcing arrangements and a 

copy of the contract and its subsequent amendments, if any, shall be sent to the ational Bank. 

11) Payment instrument issuers, at all time, shall comply with available interoperability 

requirements. 

16. Renewal, Suspension, Revocation, Transfer and Termination 

1) A license issued as per this directive shall be renewed every year. 

2) A written request for renewal shall be submitted to the National Bank along with evidence of 

renewal fee payment of Ethiopian Birr 5,000, tax clearance certificate and External Auditor's 

Report within ninety calendar days after the end of the fiscal year. 

3) The ational Bank through written notice to the payment instrument Issuer may suspend or 

re oke an authorization or license, if the payment instrument issuer: 

a. ceases to operate, is liquidated, wound up or dissolved; 

b. fails to comply with this directive and other related provisions; 

c. obtains the authorization or license on false or misleading information; and 

d. compromised public trust. 

) n authorization or a license given to a payment instrument issuer shall not be transferred to 

another person. 

5) A payment instrument issuer who intends to terminate or wind up its operatj n shall ensure the 

following. 

Page 24 of 33 



h f' I, I 

Directive No. ONPS/01l2020 

a. notify in a widely accessible communication media on the sequential steps to be 

followed by users to get their money, the address to submit a claim and the duration; 

b. notwithstanding sub-article 16 (5) - (a) users shall be given at lease a period of three 

months; 

c. the payment instrument issuer shall pay the outstanding amount in the users' account 

either in cash or transfer to another account as per the user's instruction at no charge. 

6) Once the period given under 16 (5) - (b) is elapsed, the licensed financial institution which 

manages and maintains the main electronic float cash account shall take the following action. 

a. keep the remaining amount and maintain details of the balance for fifteen consecutive 

years; 

b. after the fifteen-year period, transfer the unclaimed balance to the National Bank and 

keep detailed information related to the account. 

17. Penalties 

1) Any person who contravenes the provisions of this directive and subsequent amendments may 

be punishable in accordance with article 35 of the ational Payment System Proclamation o. 

718/2011. 

2) Without prejudice to sub-article (I) of this Article, the National Bank may also take its own 

administrative measures in accordance with article 34 of the National Payment Systems 

Proclamation umber 718/20 I I. 

3) A payment instrument issuer may appeal any decisions to the appropriate internal body of the 

ational Bank. 

18. Transitory Provision 

Any person engaged in the business of issuing payment instruments with a license or authorization 

gi en b the ational Bank before the coming into effect of this directive shall comply with the 

provisions of this directive within six months after this directive enters into effect. 

19. Repealed Directive 

1) Regulation of Mobile and Agent banking Services Directive No FIS/O I 120 12 issued for the 

regulation of mobile and agent banking is hereby repealed and replaced with this dir tive. 

Page 25 of 33 



\1 I 
Directive No. ONPSIOll2020 

" 

Page 26 of 33 

2) No directives, customary practices may insofar as they are inconsistent with the provisions of this 

directive, are applicable with respect to matters provided by this directive. 

20. Effective Date 

This directive shall enter into force I st day of April, 2020. 

Vin ger Dessie (PhD) 
Governor 



(I I IIII 

I I)' I \ , 
Directive No. ONPSIOll2020 

ANNEX I 
APPLICA TION FORM 

I NAME OF APPLICANT ( as it 
appears In the trade registration 
certi fi cate) 

2 CATEGORY OF LICENSING BEING I. LICENSE FOR PAYMENT 
APPLIED FOR (please put 'X' in the INSTRUMENT ISSUER I I 
box provided) 11. AUTHORIZATIONS FOR PAYMENT 

INSTRUMENT ISSUER (only for licensed 
financial institutions) I I ... 
AUTHORIZATIO FOR LIMITED USE Ill. 
INSTRUMENT ISSUER I I 

IV. APPROVAL FOR NEW PRODUCT AND 
SERVICES I I 

v. LICENSE RENEWAL I I 

3 APPLICANT'S ADRESS 

PHYSICAL 
ADRESS/SUB- 
CITY/WEREDA/HOUSE 
No. 
STREET /ROAD 

TOWN/CITY 

P. O. BOX 

PHONE: OFFICE 
MOBILE 

FAX NO. 

EMAIL 

CONTACT PERSON'S 
NAME ~ 
CONTACT DETAIL, 
PHO E NUMBER, 
EMAIL 

Page 27 of 33 



11' '. I 
,I> 

Directive No. ONPSIOll2020 

ANNEX II 
PARTICULARS OF SHARE HOLDERS 

S.N NAME OF NATIONALITY TELEPHONE OCCUPATION PERCENTAGE 
SHAREHOLDERS NUMBER/EMAIL OF SHARE 

ADDRESS HOLDING 
I 
2 
.., 
.) 

4 
5 
6 

Declaration 

I. --------------------------, Chairperson of the Board of Directors, aware that under sub article 2(d) 
0- Article 3 - of ational Payment System Proclamation No. 718/20 I 1 it is an offence to provide false or 
mi leading taternent 

ni~ that the information and 101' statement given above are complete and accurate to the best of my 
ledge. and that there are no other facts relevant to this application of which the National Bank 

J be aware. I also undertake to inform the National Bank of any changes made and material to the 
IOn. 

e _ 

[hrre _ 

Page 28 of 33 



lit' \ hI" 
1 11 ••• \ 

I ,-I 

Directive No. ONPSIOll2020 

ANNEX III 
FIT AND PROPER PERSON FORM /CONFIDENTIALI 

GENERAL INFORMATION (Influential shareholder, Director, Chief Executive officer or Senior 
Executive officer) 

I. ame of Payment instrument issuer (Applicant) 
Personal information 
a. Fullname: _ 
b. Date of birth: _ 
c. Place of birth : _ 
d. I ational ity: _ 
e. Identification card number and date of issue: _ 
f. Passport number and date of issue: _ 
g. Tax payer Identification Number: _ 
h. Address: City Sub- city Zone _ 

Woreda Kebele House No. P.O. Box No. 
Phone Number: Office: Residential: Mob: ------- 
Fax: Emai I : _ 

I. Educational qual ification: _ 
Field of Study., _ J. 

k. Name institution (University/ College): 
I. Summary of Work experience 
No. Name of Organization Position Immediate Duration /years of 

Supervisor work 

3. Please list financial institutions/payment instrument issuer/payment system operator In which you 
I ( f I' hi form) h I f II bl currently as 0 comp etmg t IS orm owns s ares In t le 0 owing ta e 

Name of Subscribe share shares owned Remark 
Company/Institutions Number Shares in the financial institution's 

total subscribed capital (%) 

4. De cnption of past and current business activities in Ethiopia and abroad (ifapplicable) 

a. Current shareholding or ownership in non- financial institutions /companies 
Name of the Date of incorporation Amount of Percentage from Remark 
company share/ownership (in the total capital 

ETB) of the company 

b. Past shareholding or ownership 111 a company ( shares you owned In the past but had been 
relinquished) including financial institutions 

Page 29 of 33 

Name of the Date of Amount 



I \ ~ I' 11 • 
Ildl . \', \ 

Directive No. ONPSIOJI2020 

company incorporation share/ownership total capital termination of 
(in ETB of the share holding 

company 

5. If juridical person (only for influential shareholders in the payment instrument issuer), please 
complete the following table the three recent financial years (please also attache audited financial 
statement) 
Year Liabilities Remark Asset Net worth : 

6. If you are shareholder of the payment Instrument Issuer or existmg shareholder planning to 
increase your shares in the payment instrument issuer, please provide details of the actual 
source(s) of fund that, you as a shareholder, would like to invest or use in the acquisition of 
shares in the payment instrument issuer. _ 

DECLARA TION 

. I, --------------------------------------, Chairperson of the Board of Directors, aware that under sub article 
2(d) of Article 35 of National Payment System Proclamation No.718/2011 it is an offence to provide false 
or misleading statement 

I certify that the information and /01' statement given above are complete and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge, and that there are no other facts relevant to this application of which the National Bank 
should be aware. I also undertake to inform the National Bank of any charges material to the applications. 

Name _ 

Page 30 of 33 

Signature ---=::;:-- _ -, 
Date _ 



~ , , " , 
I> ' 

Directive No. ONPSIOll2020 

ANNEX IV 

PROPRIETRY TEST QUESTIONNAIRE 

Please give Yes or No answers for the following questions and if your answer is "Yes" please give 
particulars. 

Full Name: 

(Influential shareholder, director, chief executi ve officer, senior executive officer) 

Name of Payment instrument issuer: _ 

1. Have you or the judicial person in which you were a director, chief executive officer, senior executive 
officer or owner been charged or convicted of any criminal offence, particularly an offence relating to 
dishonesty or fraud, under any law whether m Ethiopia or elsewhere? 
Yes I No I if yeas give particulars _ 

2. Have you or the juridical person in which you were a director, chief executive officer, senior 
executive officer or owner been imposed with corrective actions or interventions by public authority 
due to withholding information or submission of incorrect financial or other statements? 
Yes I I No I I ifyeas,giveparticulars _ 

3. Have you or the juridical person in which you were a director, chief executive officer, senior 
executive officer or owner been refused approval by any regulatory/supervisory body of field to 
comply with requirements of regulatory /supervisory body? 
Yes I I No I I if yeas, give particulars _ 

4. Have you ever been in dispute with previous employees concerning fulfillrnent of position or 
compliance with a code of conduct which has led to imposition of penalty under employment or ever 
been dismissed or requested to resign from any office of employment or disciplinary measures 
imposed by trade or professionals? 
Yes I No I I if yeas, give particulars _ 

~ 

5. Have you been refused, whether in Ethiopia or elsewhere, the right to carry on any trade, business or 
profession for which a specific license, registration or other authority is required? 
Yes I I No I I if yeas, give particulars _ 

6. Have you or the juridical person in which you were a director, chief executive officer, senior 
executive officer or owner been declared bankrupt whether in Ethiopia or elsewhere or have its asset 
sequestrated because of bankruptcy or foreclosed by a bank due to fai I ure to re y a loan? .' 

Page 31 of 33 
.'" 



I1 

I' I, 1 \.\ 
Directive No. ONPSIOll2020 

Yes No if yeas, give particulars _ 

7. Have you or the juridical person In which you were a director, chief executive officer, senior 
executive officer or owner been convicted of default on repayments of bank or other credits or tax 
payment 
Yes No if yeas, give particulars _ 

8. Have you or the juridical person in which you were a director, chief executive officer, senior 
executive officer or owner been carrying non-performing loan or account closed and not reinstated by 
any bank in line with relevant directives of the National Bank? 
Yes No if yeas, give particulars _ 

9. Has your purchase of shares in payment instrument issuer been funded or to be funded by another 
person or legal entity who is actually bankrupted or technically insolvent because of irresponsible or 
reckless management, fraud or illegal business practice? 
Yes I I No I I ifyeas,giveparticulars _ 

10. Has your minimum net worth at the time of acquisition of shares at least greater than the shares 
acquired or to be acquired from a financial institution? 
Yes I I No I I if yeas, give particulars _ 

11. Are you currently a member of board of directors or chief executive officer in any of the financial 
institutions or other business? 
Yes No if yeas, give particulars _ 

Declaration 

I am aware that under sub article 2(d) of Article 35 of National Payment System Proclamation 
NO.718/2011 it is an offence to provide false or misleading statement 

1 certify that the information and lor statement given above are complete and accurate to the best of my 
knowledge, and that there are no other facts relevant to this application of which the ational Bank 
should be aware. I also undertake to inform the National Bank of any charges material to the applications 

~ 

ignature _ 

ame _ 

Date _ 

Page 32 of 33 



" 
I '111 , 

Directive No. ONPSIOll2020 
11 

ANNEX V 
FEE SCHEDULE 

NO. SERVICE TYPE FEE 
I. Application processing fee ETB.5,000 
2. Licensing fee ETB.5,000 
" Renewal fee ETB.5,000 _). 
3. New product and services authorization fee ETB.3,000 
4. Application IRegistration fee Limited Use instrument ETB.2,000 

Page 33 of 33 


