02009L0136 — EN — 21.12.2020 — 001.001 — 1
This text is meant purely as a documentation tool and has no legal effect. The Union's institutions do not assume any liability
for its contents. The authentic versions of the relevant acts, including their preambles, are those published in the Official
Journal of the European Union and available in EUR-Lex. Those official texts are directly accessible through the links
embedded in this document

►B

DIRECTIVE 2009/136/EC OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL
of 25 November 2009
amending Directive 2002/22/EC on universal service and users’ rights relating to electronic
communications networks and services, Directive 2002/58/EC concerning the processing of
personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector and
Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the
enforcement of consumer protection laws
(Text with EEA relevance)

(OJ L 337, 18.12.2009, p. 11)

Amended by:
Official Journal
No
►M1

Directive (EU) 2018/1972 of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 11 December 2018

Corrected by:
►C1

Corrigendum, OJ L 241, 10.9.2013, p. 9 (2009/136/EC)

L 321

page
36

date
17.12.2018

02009L0136 — EN — 21.12.2020 — 001.001 — 2
▼B
DIRECTIVE 2009/136/EC OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT
AND OF THE COUNCIL
of 25 November 2009
amending Directive 2002/22/EC on universal service and users’
rights relating to electronic communications networks and
services, Directive 2002/58/EC concerning the processing of
personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic
communications sector and Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 on
cooperation between national authorities responsible for the
enforcement of consumer protection laws
(Text with EEA relevance)

▼M1

__________

▼B
Article 2
Amendments to Directive 2002/58/EC (Directive on privacy and
electronic communications)
Directive 2002/58/EC (Directive on privacy and electronic communi­
cations) is hereby amended as follows:
1) Article 1(1) shall be replaced by the following:
‘1.
This Directive provides for the harmonisation of the national
provisions required to ensure an equivalent level of protection of
fundamental rights and freedoms, and in particular the right to
privacy and confidentiality, with respect to the processing of
personal data in the electronic communication sector and to
ensure the free movement of such data and of electronic communi­
cation equipment and services in the Community.’;
2) Article 2 shall be amended as follows:
(a) point (c) shall be replaced by the following:
‘(c) “location data” means any data processed in an electronic
communications network or by an electronic communi­
cations service, indicating the geographic position of the
terminal equipment of a user of a publicly available elec­
tronic communications service;’;
(b) point (e) shall be deleted;
►C1 (c) the following point shall be added:
‘(i) “personal data breach” means ◄ a breach of security
leading to the accidental or unlawful destruction,
loss, alteration, unauthorised disclosure of, or
access to, personal data transmitted, stored or
otherwise processed in connection with the
provision of a publicly available electronic communi­
cations service in the Community.’;

02009L0136 — EN — 21.12.2020 — 001.001 — 3
▼B
3) Article 3 shall be replaced by the following:

‘Article 3
Services concerned
This Directive shall apply to the processing of personal data in
connection with the provision of publicly available electronic
communications services in public communications networks in
the Community, including public communications networks
supporting data collection and identification devices.’;

4) Article 4 shall be amended as follows:

(a) the title shall be replaced by the following:

‘Security of processing’;
(b) the following paragraph shall be inserted:

‘1a.
Without prejudice to Directive 95/46/EC, the measures
referred to in paragraph 1 shall at least:

— ensure that personal data can be accessed only by auth­
orised personnel for legally authorised purposes,

— protect personal data stored or transmitted against accidental
or unlawful destruction, accidental loss or alteration, and
unauthorised or unlawful storage, processing, access or
disclosure, and,

— ensure the implementation of a security policy with respect
to the processing of personal data,

Relevant national authorities shall be able to audit the measures
taken by providers of publicly available electronic communi­
cation services and to issue recommendations about best
practices concerning the level of security which those
measures should achieve.’;

(c) the following paragraphs shall be added:

02009L0136 — EN — 21.12.2020 — 001.001 — 4
▼B
‘3.
In the case of a personal data breach, the provider of
publicly available electronic communications services shall,
without undue delay, notify the personal data breach to the
competent national authority.

When the personal data breach is likely to adversely affect the
personal data or privacy of a subscriber or individual, the
provider shall also notify the subscriber or individual of the
breach without undue delay.

Notification of a personal data breach to a subscriber or indi­
vidual concerned shall not be required if the provider has
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the competent authority
that it has implemented appropriate technological protection
measures, and that those measures were applied to the data
concerned by the security breach. Such technological protection
measures shall render the data unintelligible to any person who
is not authorised to access it.

Without prejudice to the provider's obligation to notify
subscribers and individuals concerned, if the provider has not
already notified the subscriber or individual of the personal data
breach, the competent national authority, having considered the
likely adverse effects of the breach, may require it to do so.

The notification to the subscriber or individual shall at least
describe the nature of the personal data breach and the
contact points where more information can be obtained, and
shall recommend measures to mitigate the possible adverse
effects of the personal data breach. The notification to the
competent national authority shall, in addition, describe the
consequences of, and the measures proposed or taken by the
provider to address, the personal data breach.

4.
Subject to any technical implementing measures adopted
under paragraph 5, the competent national authorities may
adopt guidelines and, where necessary, issue instructions
concerning the circumstances in which providers are required
to notify personal data breaches, the format of such notification
and the manner in which the notification is to be made. They
shall also be able to audit whether providers have complied
with their notification obligations under this paragraph, and
shall impose appropriate sanctions in the event of a failure to
do so.

Providers shall maintain an inventory of personal data breaches
comprising the facts surrounding the breach, its effects and the
remedial action taken which shall be sufficient to enable the
competent national authorities to verify compliance with the
provisions of paragraph 3. The inventory shall only include
the information necessary for this purpose.

02009L0136 — EN — 21.12.2020 — 001.001 — 5
▼B
5.
In order to ensure consistency in implementation of the
measures referred to in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4, the Commission
may, following consultation with the European Network and
Information Security Agency (ENISA), the Working Party on
the Protection of Individuals with regard to the Processing of
Personal Data established by Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC
and the European Data Protection Supervisor, adopt technical
implementing measures concerning the circumstances, format
and procedures applicable to the information and notification
requirements referred to in this Article. When adopting such
measures, the Commission shall involve all relevant stake­
holders particularly in order to be informed of the best
available technical and economic means of implementation of
this Article.

Those measures, designed to amend non-essential elements of
this Directive by supplementing it, shall be adopted in
accordance with the regulatory procedure with scrutiny
referred to in Article 14a(2).’;

5) Article 5(3) shall be replaced by the following:

‘3.
Member States shall ensure that the storing of information, or
the gaining of access to information already stored, in the terminal
equipment of a subscriber or user is only allowed on condition that
the subscriber or user concerned has given his or her consent,
having been provided with clear and comprehensive information,
in accordance with Directive 95/46/EC, inter alia, about the
purposes of the processing. This shall not prevent any technical
storage or access for the sole purpose of carrying out the trans­
mission of a communication over an electronic communications
network, or as strictly necessary in order for the provider of an
information society service explicitly requested by the subscriber
or user to provide the service.’;

6) Article 6(3) shall be replaced by the following:

‘3.
For the purpose of marketing electronic communications
services or for the provision of value added services, the provider
of a publicly available electronic communications service may
process the data referred to in paragraph 1 to the extent and for
the duration necessary for such services or marketing, if the
subscriber or user to whom the data relate has given his or her
prior consent. Users or subscribers shall be given the possibility to
withdraw their consent for the processing of traffic data at any
time.’;

7) Article 13 shall be replaced by the following:

‘Article 13
Unsolicited communications
1.
The use of automated calling and communication systems
without human intervention (automatic calling machines), facsimile

02009L0136 — EN — 21.12.2020 — 001.001 — 6
▼B
machines (fax) or electronic mail for the purposes of direct marketing
may be allowed only in respect of subscribers or users who have given
their prior consent.

2.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, where a natural or legal person
obtains from its customers their electronic contact details for elec­
tronic mail, in the context of the sale of a product or a service, in
accordance with Directive 95/46/EC, the same natural or legal
person may use these electronic contact details for direct
marketing of its own similar products or services provided that
customers clearly and distinctly are given the opportunity to
object, free of charge and in an easy manner, to such use of elec­
tronic contact details at the time of their collection and on the
occasion of each message in case the customer has not initially
refused such use.

3.
Member States shall take appropriate measures to ensure that
unsolicited communications for the purposes of direct marketing, in
cases other than those referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, are not
allowed either without the consent of the subscribers or users
concerned or in respect of subscribers or users who do not wish
to receive these communications, the choice between these options
to be determined by national legislation, taking into account that
both options must be free of charge for the subscriber or user.

4.
In any event, the practice of sending electronic mail for the
purposes of direct marketing which disguise or conceal the identity
of the sender on whose behalf the communication is made, which
contravene Article 6 of Directive 2000/31/EC, which do not have a
valid address to which the recipient may send a request that such
communications cease or which encourage recipients to visit
websites that contravene that Article shall be prohibited.

5.
Paragraphs 1 and 3 shall apply to subscribers who are natural
persons. Member States shall also ensure, in the framework of
Community law and applicable national legislation, that the
legitimate interests of subscribers other than natural persons with
regard to unsolicited communications are sufficiently protected.

6.
Without prejudice to any administrative remedy for which
provision may be made, inter alia, under Article 15a(2), Member
States shall ensure that any natural or legal person adversely
affected by infringements of national provisions adopted pursuant
to this Article and therefore having a legitimate interest in the
cessation or prohibition of such infringements, including an elec­
tronic communications service provider protecting its legitimate
business interests, may bring legal proceedings in respect of such
infringements. Member States may also lay down specific rules on
penalties applicable to providers of electronic communications
services which by their negligence contribute to infringements of
national provisions adopted pursuant to this Article.’;

02009L0136 — EN — 21.12.2020 — 001.001 — 7
▼B
8) the following Article shall be inserted:

‘Article 14a
Committee procedure
1.
The Commission shall be assisted by the Communications
Committee established by Article 22 of Directive 2002/21/EC
(Framework Directive).

2.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 5a(1) to (4)
and Article 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply, having regard
to the provisions of Article 8 thereof.

3.
Where reference is made to this paragraph, Article 5a(1), (2),
(4) and (6) and Article 7 of Decision 1999/468/EC shall apply,
having regard to the provisions of Article 8 thereof.’;

9) in Article 15, the following paragraph shall be inserted:

‘1b.
Providers shall establish internal procedures for responding
to requests for access to users' personal data based on national
provisions adopted pursuant to paragraph 1. They shall provide
the competent national authority, on demand, with information
about those procedures, the number of requests received, the legal
justification invoked and their response.’;

10) the following Article shall be inserted:

‘Article 15a
Implementation and enforcement
1.
Member States shall lay down the rules on penalties,
including criminal sanctions where appropriate, applicable to
infringements of the national provisions adopted pursuant to this
Directive and shall take all measures necessary to ensure that they
are implemented. The penalties provided for must be effective,
proportionate and dissuasive and may be applied to cover the
period of any breach, even where the breach has subsequently
been rectified. The Member States shall notify those provisions to
the Commission by 25 May 2011, and shall notify it without delay
of any subsequent amendment affecting them.

2.
Without prejudice to any judicial remedy which might be
available, Member States shall ensure that the competent national
authority and, where relevant, other national bodies have the power
to order the cessation of the infringements referred to in
paragraph 1.

3.
Member States shall ensure that the competent national
authority and, where relevant, other national bodies have the
necessary investigative powers and resources, including the power
to obtain any relevant information they might need to monitor and
enforce national provisions adopted pursuant to this Directive.

02009L0136 — EN — 21.12.2020 — 001.001 — 8
▼B
4.
The relevant national regulatory authorities may adopt
measures to ensure effective cross-border cooperation in the en­
forcement of the national laws adopted pursuant to this Directive
and to create harmonised conditions for the provision of services
involving cross-border data flows.

The national regulatory authorities shall provide the Commission, in
good time before adopting any such measures, with a summary of
the grounds for action, the envisaged measures and the proposed
course of action. The Commission may, having examined such
information and consulted ENISA and the Working Party on the
Protection of Individuals with regard to the Processing of Personal
Data established by Article 29 of Directive 95/46/EC, make
comments or recommendations thereupon, in particular to ensure
that the envisaged measures do not adversely affect the functioning
of the internal market. National regulatory authorities shall take the
utmost account of the Commission's comments or recommendations
when deciding on the measures.’.

Article 3
Amendment to Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004
In the Annex to Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 (the Regulation on
consumer protection cooperation), the following point shall be added:

‘17. Directive 2002/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 12 July 2002 concerning the processing of personal
data and the protection of privacy in the electronic communi­
cations sector (Directive on privacy and electronic communi­
cations): Article 13 (OJ L 201, 31.7.2002, p. 37).’.

Article 4
Transposition
1.
Member States shall adopt and publish by 25 May 2011 the laws,
regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this
Directive. They shall forthwith communicate to the Commission the text
of those measures.

When Member States adopt those measures, they shall contain a
reference to this Directive or be accompanied by such a reference on
the occasion of their official publication. The methods of making such
reference shall be laid down by the Member States.

2.
Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of
the main provisions of national law which they adopt in the field
covered by this Directive.

02009L0136 — EN — 21.12.2020 — 001.001 — 9
▼B
Article 5
Entry into force
This Directive shall enter into force on the day following its publication
in the Official Journal of the European Union.
Article 6
Addressees
This Directive is addressed to the Member States.

02009L0136 — EN — 21.12.2020 — 001.001 — 10
▼M1
__________
▼B
ANNEX II
‘ANNEX VI
INTEROPERABILITY OF DIGITAL CONSUMER
REFERRED TO IN ARTICLE 24

EQUIPMENT

1. Common scrambling algorithm and free-to-air reception
All consumer equipment intended for the reception of conventional digital
television signals (i.e. broadcasting via terrestrial, cable or satellite trans­
mission which is primarily intended for fixed reception, such as DVB-T,
DVB-C or DVB-S), for sale or rent or otherwise made available in the
Community, capable of descrambling digital television signals, is to
possess the capability to:
— allow the descrambling of such signals according to a common European
scrambling algorithm as administered by a recognised European standards
organisation, currently ETSI,
— display signals that have been transmitted in the clear provided that, in
the event that such equipment is rented, the renter is in compliance with
the relevant rental agreement.
2. Interoperability for analogue and digital television sets
Any analogue television set with an integral screen of visible diagonal
greater than 42 cm which is put on the market for sale or rent in the
Community is to be fitted with at least one open interface socket, as stan­
dardised by a recognised European standards organisation, e.g. as given in
the Cenelec EN 50 049-1:1997 standard, permitting simple connection of
peripherals, especially additional decoders and digital receivers.
Any digital television set with an integral screen of visible diagonal greater
than 30 cm which is put on the market for sale or rent in the Community is
to be fitted with at least one open interface socket (either standardised by, or
conforming to a standard adopted by, a recognised European standards
organisation, or conforming to an industry-wide specification) e.g. the
DVB common interface connector, permitting simple connection of periph­
erals, and able to pass all the elements of a digital television signal, including
information relating to interactive and conditionally accessed services.’

