EU-U.S. PRIVACY SHIELD FRAMEWORK PRINCIPLES
ISSUED BY THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

I.

OVERVIEW
1.

While the United States and the European Union share the goal of enhancing
privacy protection, the United States takes a different approach to privacy from that
taken by the European Union. The United States uses a sectoral approach that relies
on a mix of legislation, regulation, and self-regulation. Given those differences and
to provide organizations in the United States with a reliable mechanism for personal
data transfers to the United States from the European Union while ensuring that EU
data subjects continue to benefit from effective safeguards and protection as
required by European legislation with respect to the processing of their personal
data when they have been transferred to non-EU countries, the Department of
Commerce is issuing these Privacy Shield Principles, including the Supplemental
Principles (collectively “the Principles”) under its statutory authority to foster,
promote, and develop international commerce (15 U.S.C. § 1512). The Principles
were developed in consultation with the European Commission, and with industry
and other stakeholders, to facilitate trade and commerce between the United States
and European Union. They are intended for use solely by organizations in the
United States receiving personal data from the European Union for the purpose of
qualifying for the Privacy Shield and thus benefitting from the European
Commission’s adequacy decision1. The Principles do not affect the application of
national provisions implementing Directive 95/46/EC (“the Directive”) that apply
to the processing of personal data in the Member States. Nor do the Principles limit
privacy obligations that otherwise apply under U.S. law.

2.

In order to rely on the Privacy Shield to effectuate transfers of personal data from
the EU, an organization must self-certify its adherence to the Principles to the
Department of Commerce (or its designee) (“the Department”). While decisions
by organizations to thus enter the Privacy Shield are entirely voluntary, effective
compliance is compulsory: organizations that self-certify to the Department and
publicly declare their commitment to adhere to the Principles must comply fully
with the Principles. In order to enter the Privacy Shield, an organization must (a)
be subject to the investigatory and enforcement powers of the Federal Trade
Commission (the “FTC”), the Department of Transportation or another statutory
body that will effectively ensure compliance with the Principles (other U.S.
statutory bodies recognized by the EU may be included as an annex in the future);
(b) publicly declare its commitment to comply with the Principles; (c) publicly

Provided that the Commission Decision on the adequacy of the protection provided by the EU-U.S.
Privacy Shield applies to Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway, the Privacy Shield Package will cover both
the European Union, as well as these three countries. Consequently, references to the EU and its Member
States will be read as including Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway.
1

disclose its privacy policies in line with these Principles; and (d) fully implement
them. An organization’s failure to comply is enforceable under Section 5 of the
Federal Trade Commission Act prohibiting unfair and deceptive acts in or affecting
commerce (15 U.S.C. § 45(a)) or other laws or regulations prohibiting such acts.
3.

The Department of Commerce will maintain and make available to the public an
authoritative list of U.S. organizations that have self-certified to the Department
and declared their commitment to adhere to the Principles (“the Privacy Shield
List”). Privacy Shield benefits are assured from the date that the Department places
the organization on the Privacy Shield List. The Department will remove an
organization from the Privacy Shield List if it voluntarily withdraws from the
Privacy Shield or if it fails to complete its annual re-certification to the Department.
An organization’s removal from the Privacy Shield List means it may no longer
benefit from the European Commission’s adequacy decision to receive personal
information from the EU. The organization must continue to apply the Principles
to the personal information it received while it participated in the Privacy Shield,
and affirm to the Department on an annual basis its commitment to do so, for as
long as it retains such information; otherwise, the organization must return or delete
the information or provide “adequate” protection for the information by another
authorized means. The Department will also remove from the Privacy Shield List
those organizations that have persistently failed to comply with the Principles; these
organizations do not qualify for Privacy Shield benefits and must return or delete
the personal information they received under the Privacy Shield.

4.

The Department will also maintain and make available to the public an authoritative
record of U.S. organizations that had previously self-certified to the Department,
but that have been removed from the Privacy Shield List. The Department will
provide a clear warning that these organizations are not participants in the Privacy
Shield; that removal from the Privacy Shield List means that such organizations
cannot claim to be Privacy Shield compliant and must avoid any statements or
misleading practices implying that they participate in the Privacy Shield; and that
such organizations are no longer entitled to benefit from the European
Commission’s adequacy decision that would enable those organizations to receive
personal information from the EU. An organization that continues to claim
participation in the Privacy Shield or makes other Privacy Shield-related
misrepresentations after it has been removed from the Privacy Shield List may be
subject to enforcement action by the FTC, the Department of Transportation, or
other enforcement authorities.

5.

Adherence to these Principles may be limited: (a) to the extent necessary to meet
national security, public interest, or law enforcement requirements; (b) by statute,
government regulation, or case law that creates conflicting obligations or explicit
authorizations, provided that, in exercising any such authorization, an organization
can demonstrate that its non-compliance with the Principles is limited to the extent

necessary to meet the overriding legitimate interests furthered by such
authorization; or (c) if the effect of the Directive or Member State law is to allow
exceptions or derogations, provided such exceptions or derogations are applied in
comparable contexts. Consistent with the goal of enhancing privacy protection,
organizations should strive to implement these Principles fully and transparently,
including indicating in their privacy policies where exceptions to the Principles
permitted by (b) above will apply on a regular basis. For the same reason, where
the option is allowable under the Principles and/or U.S. law, organizations are
expected to opt for the higher protection where possible.
6.

Organizations are obligated to apply the Principles to all personal data transferred
in reliance on the Privacy Shield after they enter the Privacy Shield. An
organization that chooses to extend Privacy Shield benefits to human resources
personal information transferred from the EU for use in the context of an
employment relationship must indicate this when it self-certifies to the Department
and conform to the requirements set forth in the Supplemental Principle on SelfCertification.

7.

U.S. law will apply to questions of interpretation and compliance with the
Principles and relevant privacy policies by Privacy Shield organizations, except
where such organizations have committed to cooperate with European data
protection authorities (“DPAs”). Unless otherwise stated, all provisions of the
Principles apply where they are relevant.

8.

Definitions:

9.

a.

“Personal data” and “personal information” are data about an identified or
identifiable individual that are within the scope of the Directive, received
by an organization in the United States from the European Union, and
recorded in any form.

b.

“Processing” of personal data means any operation or set of operations
which is performed upon personal data, whether or not by automated means,
such as collection, recording, organization, storage, adaptation or alteration,
retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure or dissemination, and erasure or
destruction.

c.

“Controller” means a person or organization which, alone or jointly with
others, determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal
data.

The effective date of the Principles is the date of final approval of the European
Commission’s adequacy determination.

II.

PRINCIPLES
1.

NOTICE
a.

An organization must inform individuals about:
i.

its participation in the Privacy Shield and provide a link
to, or the web address for, the Privacy Shield List,

ii.

the types of personal data collected and, where applicable,
the entities or subsidiaries of the organization also
adhering to the Principles,

iii.

its commitment to subject to the Principles all personal
data received from the EU in reliance on the Privacy
Shield,

iv.

the purposes for which it collects and uses personal
information about them,

v.

how to contact the organization with any inquiries or
complaints, including any relevant establishment in the
EU that can respond to such inquiries or complaints,

vi.

the type or identity of third parties to which it discloses
personal information, and the purposes for which it does
so,

vii.

the right of individuals to access their personal data,

viii.

the choices and means the organization offers individuals
for limiting the use and disclosure of their personal data,

ix.

the independent dispute resolution body designated to
address complaints and provide appropriate recourse free
of charge to the individual, and whether it is: (1) the panel
established by DPAs, (2) an alternative dispute resolution
provider based in the EU, or (3) an alternative dispute
resolution provider based in the United States,

x.

being subject to the investigatory and enforcement powers
of the FTC, the Department of Transportation or any other
U.S. authorized statutory body,

xi.

the possibility, under certain conditions, for the individual
to invoke binding arbitration,

xii.

the requirement to disclose personal information in
response to lawful requests by public authorities,
including to meet national security or law enforcement
requirements, and

xiii.

its liability in cases of onward transfers to third parties.

b.

2.

3.

This notice must be provided in clear and conspicuous language when
individuals are first asked to provide personal information to the
organization or as soon thereafter as is practicable, but in any event before
the organization uses such information for a purpose other than that for
which it was originally collected or processed by the transferring
organization or discloses it for the first time to a third party.

CHOICE
a.

An organization must offer individuals the opportunity to choose (opt out)
whether their personal information is (i) to be disclosed to a third party or
(ii) to be used for a purpose that is materially different from the purpose(s)
for which it was originally collected or subsequently authorized by the
individuals. Individuals must be provided with clear, conspicuous, and
readily available mechanisms to exercise choice.

b.

By derogation to the previous paragraph, it is not necessary to provide
choice when disclosure is made to a third party that is acting as an agent to
perform task(s) on behalf of and under the instructions of the organization.
However, an organization shall always enter into a contract with the agent.

c.

For sensitive information (i.e., personal information specifying medical or
health conditions, racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or
philosophical beliefs, trade union membership or information specifying the
sex life of the individual), organizations must obtain affirmative express
consent (opt in) from individuals if such information is to be (i) disclosed
to a third party or (ii) used for a purpose other than those for which it was
originally collected or subsequently authorized by the individuals through
the exercise of opt-in choice. In addition, an organization should treat as
sensitive any personal information received from a third party where the
third party identifies and treats it as sensitive.

ACCOUNTABILITY FOR ONWARD TRANSFER
a.

To transfer personal information to a third party acting as a controller,
organizations must comply with the Notice and Choice Principles.
Organizations must also enter into a contract with the third-party controller
that provides that such data may only be processed for limited and specified
purposes consistent with the consent provided by the individual and that the
recipient will provide the same level of protection as the Principles and will
notify the organization if it makes a determination that it can no longer meet
this obligation. The contract shall provide that when such a determination
is made the third party controller ceases processing or takes other reasonable
and appropriate steps to remediate.

b.

To transfer personal data to a third party acting as an agent, organizations
must: (i) transfer such data only for limited and specified purposes; (ii)

ascertain that the agent is obligated to provide at least the same level of
privacy protection as is required by the Principles; (iii) take reasonable and
appropriate steps to ensure that the agent effectively processes the personal
information transferred in a manner consistent with the organization’s
obligations under the Principles; (iv) require the agent to notify the
organization if it makes a determination that it can no longer meet its
obligation to provide the same level of protection as is required by the
Principles; (v) upon notice, including under (iv), take reasonable and
appropriate steps to stop and remediate unauthorized processing; and (vi)
provide a summary or a representative copy of the relevant privacy
provisions of its contract with that agent to the Department upon request.
4.

SECURITY
a.

5.

Organizations creating, maintaining, using or disseminating personal
information must take reasonable and appropriate measures to protect it
from loss, misuse and unauthorized access, disclosure, alteration and
destruction, taking into due account the risks involved in the processing and
the nature of the personal data.

DATA INTEGRITY AND PURPOSE LIMITATION
a.

Consistent with the Principles, personal information must be limited to the
information that is relevant for the purposes of processing.2 An
organization may not process personal information in a way that is
incompatible with the purposes for which it has been collected or
subsequently authorized by the individual. To the extent necessary for those
purposes, an organization must take reasonable steps to ensure that personal
data is reliable for its intended use, accurate, complete, and current. An
organization must adhere to the Principles for as long as it retains such
information.

b.

Information may be retained in a form identifying or making identifiable3
the individual only for as long as it serves a purpose of processing within
the meaning of 5a. This obligation does not prevent organizations from
processing personal information for longer periods for the time and to the

Depending on the circumstances, examples of compatible processing purposes may include
those that reasonably serve customer relations, compliance and legal considerations, auditing,
security and fraud prevention, preserving or defending the organization’s legal rights, or other
purposes consistent with the expectations of a reasonable person given the context of the
collection.
3
In this context, if, given the means of identification reasonably likely to be used (considering,
among other things, the costs of and the amount of time required for identification and the
available technology at the time of the processing) and the form in which the data is retained, an
individual could reasonably be identified by the organization, or a third party if it would have
access to the data, then the individual is "identifiable."
2

extent such processing reasonably serves the purposes of archiving in the
public interest, journalism, literature and art, scientific or historical
research, and statistical analysis. In these cases, such processing shall be
subject to the other Principles and provisions of the Framework.
Organizations should take reasonable and appropriate measures in
complying with this provision.
6.

ACCESS
a.

7.

Individuals must have access to personal information about them that an
organization holds and be able to correct, amend, or delete that information
where it is inaccurate, or has been processed in violation of the Principles,
except where the burden or expense of providing access would be
disproportionate to the risks to the individual’s privacy in the case in
question, or where the rights of persons other than the individual would be
violated.

RECOURSE, ENFORCEMENT AND LIABILITY
a.

b.

Effective privacy protection must include robust mechanisms for assuring
compliance with the Principles, recourse for individuals who are affected
by non-compliance with the Principles, and consequences for the
organization when the Principles are not followed. At a minimum such
mechanisms must include:
i.

readily available independent recourse mechanisms by which each
individual’s complaints and disputes are investigated and
expeditiously resolved at no cost to the individual and by reference
to the Principles, and damages awarded where the applicable law or
private-sector initiatives so provide;

ii.

follow-up procedures for verifying that the attestations and
assertions organizations make about their privacy practices are true
and that privacy practices have been implemented as presented and,
in particular, with regard to cases of non-compliance; and

iii.

obligations to remedy problems arising out of failure to comply with
the Principles by organizations announcing their adherence to them
and consequences for such organizations. Sanctions must be
sufficiently rigorous to ensure compliance by organizations.

Organizations and their selected independent recourse mechanisms will
respond promptly to inquiries and requests by the Department for
information relating to the Privacy Shield. All organizations must respond
expeditiously to complaints regarding compliance with the Principles
referred by EU Member State authorities through the Department.
Organizations that have chosen to cooperate with DPAs, including
organizations that process human resources data, must respond directly to

such authorities with regard to the investigation and resolution of
complaints.
c.

Organizations are obligated to arbitrate claims and follow the terms as set
forth in Annex I, provided that an individual has invoked binding arbitration
by delivering notice to the organization at issue and following the
procedures and subject to conditions set forth in Annex I.

d.

In the context of an onward transfer, a Privacy Shield organization has
responsibility for the processing of personal information it receives under
the Privacy Shield and subsequently transfers to a third party acting as an
agent on its behalf. The Privacy Shield organization shall remain liable
under the Principles if its agent processes such personal information in a
manner inconsistent with the Principles, unless the organization proves that
it is not responsible for the event giving rise to the damage.

e. When an organization becomes subject to an FTC or court order based on noncompliance, the organization shall make public any relevant Privacy Shield-related
sections of any compliance or assessment report submitted to the FTC, to the extent
consistent with confidentiality requirements. The Department has established a
dedicated point of contact for DPAs for any problems of compliance by Privacy Shield
organizations. The FTC will give priority consideration to referrals of non-compliance
with the Principles from the Department and EU Member State authorities, and will
exchange information regarding referrals with the referring state authorities on a timely
basis, subject to existing confidentiality restrictions.

III.

SUPPLEMENTAL PRINCIPLES
1.

Sensitive Data
a.

2.

3.

An organization is not required to obtain affirmative express consent (opt
in) with respect to sensitive data where the processing is:
i.

in the vital interests of the data subject or another person;

ii.

necessary for the establishment of legal claims or defenses;

iii.

required to provide medical care or diagnosis;

iv.

carried out in the course of legitimate activities by a foundation,
association or any other non-profit body with a political,
philosophical, religious or trade-union aim and on condition that the
processing relates solely to the members of the body or to the
persons who have regular contact with it in connection with its
purposes and that the data are not disclosed to a third party without
the consent of the data subjects;

v.

necessary to carry out the organization’s obligations in the field of
employment law; or

vi.

related to data that are manifestly made public by the individual.

Journalistic Exceptions
a.

Given U.S. constitutional protections for freedom of the press and the
Directive’s exemption for journalistic material, where the rights of a free
press embodied in the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution intersect
with privacy protection interests, the First Amendment must govern the
balancing of these interests with regard to the activities of U.S. persons or
organizations.

b.

Personal information that is gathered for publication, broadcast, or other
forms of public communication of journalistic material, whether used or
not, as well as information found in previously published material
disseminated from media archives, is not subject to the requirements of the
Privacy Shield Principles.

Secondary Liability
a.

Internet Service Providers (“ISPs”), telecommunications carriers, and other
organizations are not liable under the Privacy Shield Principles when on
behalf of another organization they merely transmit, route, switch, or cache
information. As is the case with the Directive itself, the Privacy Shield does
not create secondary liability. To the extent that an organization is acting
as a mere conduit for data transmitted by third parties and does not

determine the purposes and means of processing those personal data, it
would not be liable.
4.

5.

Performing Due Diligence and Conducting Audits
a.

The activities of auditors and investment bankers may involve processing
personal data without the consent or knowledge of the individual. This is
permitted by the Notice, Choice, and Access Principles under the
circumstances described below.

b.

Public stock corporations and closely held companies, including Privacy
Shield organizations, are regularly subject to audits. Such audits,
particularly those looking into potential wrongdoing, may be jeopardized if
disclosed prematurely. Similarly, a Privacy Shield organization involved in
a potential merger or takeover will need to perform, or be the subject of, a
“due diligence” review. This will often entail the collection and processing
of personal data, such as information on senior executives and other key
personnel. Premature disclosure could impede the transaction or even
violate applicable securities regulation. Investment bankers and attorneys
engaged in due diligence, or auditors conducting an audit, may process
information without knowledge of the individual only to the extent and for
the period necessary to meet statutory or public interest requirements and in
other circumstances in which the application of these Principles would
prejudice the legitimate interests of the organization. These legitimate
interests include the monitoring of organizations’ compliance with their
legal obligations and legitimate accounting activities, and the need for
confidentiality connected with possible acquisitions, mergers, joint
ventures, or other similar transactions carried out by investment bankers or
auditors.

The Role of the Data Protection Authorities
a.

Organizations will implement their commitment to cooperate with
European Union data protection authorities (“DPAs”) as described below.
Under the Privacy Shield, U.S. organizations receiving personal data from
the EU must commit to employ effective mechanisms for assuring
compliance with the Privacy Shield Principles. More specifically as set out
in the Recourse, Enforcement and Liability Principle, participating
organizations must provide: (a)(i) recourse for individuals to whom the
data relate; (a)(ii) follow up procedures for verifying that the attestations
and assertions they have made about their privacy practices are true; and
(a)(iii) obligations to remedy problems arising out of failure to comply with
the Principles and consequences for such organizations. An organization
may satisfy points (a)(i) and (a)(iii) of the Recourse, Enforcement and
Liability Principle if it adheres to the requirements set forth here for
cooperating with the DPAs.

b.

c.

An organization commits to cooperate with the DPAs by declaring in its
Privacy Shield self-certification submission to the Department of
Commerce (see Supplemental Principle on Self-Certification) that the
organization:
i.

elects to satisfy the requirement in points (a)(i) and (a)(iii) of the
Privacy Shield Recourse, Enforcement and Liability Principle by
committing to cooperate with the DPAs;

ii.

will cooperate with the DPAs in the investigation and resolution of
complaints brought under the Privacy Shield; and

iii.

will comply with any advice given by the DPAs where the DPAs
take the view that the organization needs to take specific action to
comply with the Privacy Shield Principles, including remedial or
compensatory measures for the benefit of individuals affected by
any non-compliance with the Principles, and will provide the DPAs
with written confirmation that such action has been taken.

Operation of DPA Panels
i.

The cooperation of the DPAs will be provided in the form of
information and advice in the following way:
1.

The advice of the DPAs will be delivered through an
informal panel of DPAs established at the European Union
level, which will inter alia help ensure a harmonized and
coherent approach.

2.

The panel will provide advice to the U.S. organizations
concerned on unresolved complaints from individuals about
the handling of personal information that has been
transferred from the EU under the Privacy Shield. This
advice will be designed to ensure that the Privacy Shield
Principles are being correctly applied and will include any
remedies for the individual(s) concerned that the DPAs
consider appropriate.

3.

The panel will provide such advice in response to referrals
from the organizations concerned and/or to complaints
received directly from individuals against organizations
which have committed to cooperate with DPAs for Privacy
Shield purposes, while encouraging and if necessary helping
such individuals in the first instance to use the in-house
complaint handling arrangements that the organization may
offer.

4.

Advice will be issued only after both sides in a dispute have
had a reasonable opportunity to comment and to provide any
evidence they wish. The panel will seek to deliver advice as
quickly as this requirement for due process allows. As a

general rule, the panel will aim to provide advice within 60
days after receiving a complaint or referral and more quickly
where possible.

ii.

6.

5.

The panel will make public the results of its consideration of
complaints submitted to it, if it sees fit.

6.

The delivery of advice through the panel will not give rise
to any liability for the panel or for individual DPAs.

As noted above, organizations choosing this option for dispute
resolution must undertake to comply with the advice of the DPAs.
If an organization fails to comply within 25 days of the delivery of
the advice and has offered no satisfactory explanation for the delay,
the panel will give notice of its intention either to refer the matter to
the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Transportation,
or other U.S. federal or state body with statutory powers to take
enforcement action in cases of deception or misrepresentation, or to
conclude that the agreement to cooperate has been seriously
breached and must therefore be considered null and void. In the
latter case, the panel will inform the Department of Commerce so
that the Privacy Shield List can be duly amended. Any failure to
fulfill the undertaking to cooperate with the DPAs, as well as
failures to comply with the Privacy Shield Principles, will be
actionable as a deceptive practice under Section 5 of the FTC Act
or other similar statute.

d.

An organization that wishes its Privacy Shield benefits to cover human
resources data transferred from the EU in the context of the employment
relationship must commit to cooperate with the DPAs with regard to such
data (see Supplemental Principle on Human Resources Data).

e.

Organizations choosing this option will be required to pay an annual fee
which will be designed to cover the operating costs of the panel, and they
may additionally be asked to meet any necessary translation expenses
arising out of the panel’s consideration of referrals or complaints against
them. The annual fee will not exceed USD 500 and will be less for smaller
companies.

Self-Certification
a.

Privacy Shield benefits are assured from the date on which the Department
has placed the organization’s self-certification submission on the Privacy
Shield List after having determined that the submission is complete.

b.

To self-certify for the Privacy Shield, an organization must provide to the
Department a self-certification submission, signed by a corporate officer on
behalf of the organization that is joining the Privacy Shield, that contains at
least the following information:

i.

name of organization, mailing address, e-mail address, telephone,
and fax numbers;

ii.

description of the activities of the organization with respect to
personal information received from the EU; and

iii.

description of the organization’s privacy policy for such personal
information, including:
1.

if the organization has a public website, the relevant web
address where the privacy policy is available, or if the
organization does not have a public website, where the
privacy policy is available for viewing by the public;

2.

its effective date of implementation;

3.

a contact office for the handling of complaints, access
requests, and any other issues arising under the Privacy
Shield;

4.

the specific statutory body that has jurisdiction to hear any
claims against the organization regarding possible unfair or
deceptive practices and violations of laws or regulations
governing privacy (and that is listed in the Principles or a
future annex to the Principles);

5.

name of any privacy program in which the organization is a
member;

6.

method of verification (e.g., in-house, third party) (see
Supplemental Principle on Verification; and

7.

the independent recourse mechanism that is available to
investigate unresolved complaints.

c.

Where the organization wishes its Privacy Shield benefits to cover human
resources information transferred from the EU for use in the context of the
employment relationship, it may do so where a statutory body listed in the
Principles or a future annex to the Principles has jurisdiction to hear claims
against the organization arising out of the processing of human resources
information. In addition, the organization must indicate this in its selfcertification submission and declare its commitment to cooperate with the
EU authority or authorities concerned in conformity with the Supplemental
Principles on Human Resources Data and the Role of the Data Protection
Authorities as applicable and that it will comply with the advice given by
such authorities. The organization must also provide the Department with
a copy of its human resources privacy policy and provide information where
the privacy policy is available for viewing by its affected employees.

d.

The Department will maintain the Privacy Shield List of organizations that
file completed self-certification submissions, thereby assuring the

availability of Privacy Shield benefits, and will update such list on the basis
of annual self-recertification submissions and notifications received
pursuant to the Supplemental Principle on Dispute Resolution and
Enforcement. Such self-certification submissions must be provided not less
than annually; otherwise the organization will be removed from the Privacy
Shield List and Privacy Shield benefits will no longer be assured. Both the
Privacy Shield List and the self-certification submissions by the
organizations will be made publicly available. All organizations that are
placed on the Privacy Shield List by the Department must also state in their
relevant published privacy policy statements that they adhere to the Privacy
Shield Principles. If available online, an organization’s privacy policy must
include a hyperlink to the Department’s Privacy Shield website and a
hyperlink to the website or complaint submission form of the independent
recourse mechanism that is available to investigate unresolved complaints.
e.

The Privacy Principles apply immediately upon certification. Recognizing
that the Principles will impact commercial relationships with third parties,
organizations that certify to the Privacy Shield Framework in the first two
months following the Framework’s effective date shall bring existing
commercial relationships with third parties into conformity with the
Accountability for Onward Transfer Principle as soon as possible, and in
any event no later than nine months from the date upon which they certify
to the Privacy Shield. During that interim period, where organizations
transfer data to a third party, they shall (i) apply the Notice and Choice
Principles, and (ii) where personal data is transferred to a third party acting
as an agent, ascertain that the agent is obligated to provide at least the same
level of protection as is required by the Principles.

f.

An organization must subject to the Privacy Shield Principles all personal
data received from the EU in reliance upon the Privacy Shield. The
undertaking to adhere to the Privacy Shield Principles is not time-limited in
respect of personal data received during the period in which the
organization enjoys the benefits of the Privacy Shield. Its undertaking
means that it will continue to apply the Principles to such data for as long
as the organization stores, uses or discloses them, even if it subsequently
leaves the Privacy Shield for any reason. An organization that withdraws
from the Privacy Shield but wants to retain such data must affirm to the
Department on an annual basis its commitment to continue to apply the
Principles or provide “adequate” protection for the information by another
authorized means (for example, using a contract that fully reflects the
requirements of the relevant standard contractual clauses adopted by the
European Commission); otherwise, the organization must return or delete
the information. An organization that withdraws from the Privacy Shield
must remove from any relevant privacy policy any references to the Privacy
Shield that imply that the organization continues to actively participate in
the Privacy Shield and is entitled to its benefits.

7.

g.

An organization that will cease to exist as a separate legal entity as a result
of a merger or a takeover must notify the Department of this in advance.
The notification should also indicate whether the acquiring entity or the
entity resulting from the merger will (i) continue to be bound by the Privacy
Shield Principles by the operation of law governing the takeover or merger
or (ii) elect to self-certify its adherence to the Privacy Shield Principles or
put in place other safeguards, such as a written agreement that will ensure
adherence to the Privacy Shield Principles. Where neither (i) nor (ii)
applies, any personal data that has been acquired under the Privacy Shield
must be promptly deleted.

h.

When an organization leaves the Privacy Shield for any reason, it must
remove all statements implying that the organization continues to
participate in the Privacy Shield or is entitled to the benefits of the Privacy
Shield. The EU-U.S. Privacy Shield certification mark, if used, must also
be removed. Any misrepresentation to the general public concerning an
organization’s adherence to the Privacy Shield Principles may be actionable
by the FTC or other relevant government body. Misrepresentations to the
Department may be actionable under the False Statements Act (18 U.S.C.
§ 1001).

Verification
a.

Organizations must provide follow up procedures for verifying that the
attestations and assertions they make about their Privacy Shield privacy
practices are true and those privacy practices have been implemented as
represented and in accordance with the Privacy Shield Principles.

b.

To meet the verification requirements of the Recourse, Enforcement and
Liability Principle, an organization must verify such attestations and
assertions either through self-assessment or outside compliance reviews.

c.

Under the self-assessment approach, such verification must indicate that an
organization’s published privacy policy regarding personal information
received from the EU is accurate, comprehensive, prominently displayed,
completely implemented and accessible. It must also indicate that its
privacy policy conforms to the Privacy Shield Principles; that individuals
are informed of any in-house arrangements for handling complaints and of
the independent mechanisms through which they may pursue complaints;
that it has in place procedures for training employees in its implementation,
and disciplining them for failure to follow it; and that it has in place internal
procedures for periodically conducting objective reviews of compliance
with the above. A statement verifying the self-assessment must be signed
by a corporate officer or other authorized representative of the organization
at least once a year and made available upon request by individuals or in
the context of an investigation or a complaint about non-compliance.

d.

Where the organization has chosen outside compliance review, such a
review must demonstrate that its privacy policy regarding personal

information received from the EU conforms to the Privacy Shield
Principles, that it is being complied with, and that individuals are informed
of the mechanisms through which they may pursue complaints. The
methods of review may include, without limitation, auditing, random
reviews, use of “decoys”, or use of technology tools as appropriate. A
statement verifying that an outside compliance review has been
successfully completed must be signed either by the reviewer or by the
corporate officer or other authorized representative of the organization at
least once a year and made available upon request by individuals or in the
context of an investigation or a complaint about compliance.
e.

8.

Organizations must retain their records on the implementation of their
Privacy Shield privacy practices and make them available upon request in
the context of an investigation or a complaint about non-compliance to the
independent body responsible for investigating complaints or to the agency
with unfair and deceptive practices jurisdiction. Organizations must also
respond promptly to inquiries and other requests for information from the
Department relating to the organization’s adherence to the Principles.

Access
a.

The Access Principle in Practice
i.

ii.

Under the Privacy Shield Principles, the right of access is
fundamental to privacy protection. In particular, it allows
individuals to verify the accuracy of information held about them.
The Access Principle means that individuals have the right to:
1.

obtain from an organization confirmation of whether or not
the organization is processing personal data relating to
them;4

2.

have communicated to them such data so that they could
verify its accuracy and the lawfulness of the processing; and

3.

have the data corrected, amended or deleted where it is
inaccurate or processed in violation of the Principles.

Individuals do not have to justify requests for access to their
personal data. In responding to individuals’ access requests,
organizations should first be guided by the concern(s) that led to the
requests in the first place. For example, if an access request is vague
or broad in scope, an organization may engage the individual in a
dialogue so as to better understand the motivation for the request
and to locate responsive information. The organization might

The organization should answer requests from an individual concerning the purposes of the
processing, the categories of personal data concerned, and the recipients or categories of
recipients to whom the personal data is disclosed.
4

inquire about which part(s) of the organization the individual
interacted with or about the nature of the information or its use that
is the subject of the access request.
iii.

b.

c.

Consistent with the fundamental nature of access, organizations
should always make good faith efforts to provide access. For
example, where certain information needs to be protected and can
be readily separated from other personal information subject to an
access request, the organization should redact the protected
information and make available the other information. If an
organization determines that access should be restricted in any
particular instance, it should provide the individual requesting
access with an explanation of why it has made that determination
and a contact point for any further inquiries.

Burden or Expense of Providing Access
i.

The right of access to personal data may be restricted in exceptional
circumstances where the legitimate rights of persons other than the
individual would be violated or where the burden or expense of
providing access would be disproportionate to the risks to the
individual’s privacy in the case in question. Expense and burden
are important factors and should be taken into account but they are
not controlling factors in determining whether providing access is
reasonable.

ii.

For example, if the personal information is used for decisions that
will significantly affect the individual (e.g., the denial or grant of
important benefits, such as insurance, a mortgage, or a job), then
consistent with the other provisions of these Supplemental
Principles, the organization would have to disclose that information
even if it is relatively difficult or expensive to provide. If the
personal information requested is not sensitive or not used for
decisions that will significantly affect the individual, but is readily
available and inexpensive to provide, an organization would have
to provide access to such information.

Confidential Commercial Information
i.

Confidential commercial information is information that an
organization has taken steps to protect from disclosure, where
disclosure would help a competitor in the market. Organizations
may deny or limit access to the extent that granting full access
would reveal its own confidential commercial information, such as
marketing inferences or classifications generated by the
organization, or the confidential commercial information of another
that is subject to a contractual obligation of confidentiality.

ii.

d.

e.

Where confidential commercial information can be readily
separated from other personal information subject to an access
request, the organization should redact the confidential commercial
information and make available the non-confidential information.

Organization of Data Bases
i.

Access can be provided in the form of disclosure of the relevant
personal information by an organization to the individual and does
not require access by the individual to an organization’s data base.

ii.

Access needs to be provided only to the extent that an organization
stores the personal information. The Access Principle does not
itself create any obligation to retain, maintain, reorganize, or
restructure personal information files.

When Access May be Restricted
i.

ii.

As organizations must always make good faith efforts to provide
individuals with access to their personal data, the circumstances in
which organizations may restrict such access are limited, and any
reasons for restricting access must be specific. As under the
Directive, an organization can restrict access to information to the
extent that disclosure is likely to interfere with the safeguarding of
important countervailing public interests, such as national security;
defense; or public security. In addition, where personal information
is processed solely for research or statistical purposes, access may
be denied. Other reasons for denying or limiting access are:
1.

interference with the execution or enforcement of the law or
with private causes of action, including the prevention,
investigation or detection of offenses or the right to a fair
trial;

2.

disclosure where the legitimate rights or important interests
of others would be violated;

3.

breaching a legal or other professional privilege or
obligation;

4.

prejudicing employee security investigations or grievance
proceedings or in connection with employee succession
planning and corporate re-organizations; or

5.

prejudicing the confidentiality necessary in monitoring,
inspection or regulatory functions connected with sound
management, or in future or ongoing negotiations involving
the organization.

An organization which claims an exception has the burden of
demonstrating its necessity, and the reasons for restricting access

and a contact point for further inquiries should be given to
individuals.
f.

Right to Obtain Confirmation and Charging a Fee to Cover the Costs for
Providing Access
i.

An individual has the right to obtain confirmation of whether or not
this organization has personal data relating to him or her. An
individual also has the right to have communicated to him or her
personal data relating to him or her. An organization may charge a
fee that is not excessive.

ii.

Charging a fee may be justified, for example, where requests for
access are manifestly excessive, in particular because of their
repetitive character.

iii.

Access may not be refused on cost grounds if the individual offers
to pay the costs.

g.

Repetitious or Vexatious Requests for Access
i.

h.

Fraudulent Requests for Access
i.

i.

An organization is not required to provide access unless it is
supplied with sufficient information to allow it to confirm the
identity of the person making the request.

Timeframe for Responses
i.

9.

An organization may set reasonable limits on the number of times
within a given period that access requests from a particular
individual will be met. In setting such limitations, an organization
should consider such factors as the frequency with which
information is updated, the purpose for which the data are used, and
the nature of the information.

Organizations should respond to access requests within a reasonable
time period, in a reasonable manner, and in a form that is readily
intelligible to the individual. An organization that provides
information to data subjects at regular intervals may satisfy an
individual access request with its regular disclosure if it would not
constitute an excessive delay.

Human Resources Data
a.

Coverage by the Privacy Shield
i.

Where an organization in the EU transfers personal information
about its employees (past or present) collected in the context of the
employment relationship, to a parent, affiliate, or unaffiliated
service provider in the United States participating in the Privacy
Shield, the transfer enjoys the benefits of the Privacy Shield. In

such cases, the collection of the information and its processing prior
to transfer will have been subject to the national laws of the EU
country where it was collected, and any conditions for or restrictions
on its transfer according to those laws will have to be respected.
ii.

b.

c.

The Privacy Shield Principles are relevant only when individually
identified or identifiable records are transferred or accessed.
Statistical reporting relying on aggregate employment data and
containing no personal data or the use of anonymized data does not
raise privacy concerns.

Application of the Notice and Choice Principles
i.

A U.S. organization that has received employee information from
the EU under the Privacy Shield may disclose it to third parties or
use it for different purposes only in accordance with the Notice and
Choice Principles. For example, where an organization intends to
use personal information collected through the employment
relationship for non-employment-related purposes, such as
marketing communications, the U.S. organization must provide the
affected individuals with the requisite choice before doing so, unless
they have already authorized the use of the information for such
purposes. Such use must not be incompatible with the purposes for
which the personal information has been collected or subsequently
authorised by the individual. Moreover, such choices must not be
used to restrict employment opportunities or take any punitive
action against such employees.

ii.

It should be noted that certain generally applicable conditions for
transfer from some EU Member States may preclude other uses of
such information even after transfer outside the EU and such
conditions will have to be respected.

iii.

In addition, employers should make reasonable efforts to
accommodate employee privacy preferences. This could include,
for example, restricting access to the personal data, anonymizing
certain data, or assigning codes or pseudonyms when the actual
names are not required for the management purpose at hand.

iv.

To the extent and for the period necessary to avoid prejudicing the
ability of the organization in making promotions, appointments, or
other similar employment decisions, an organization does not need
to offer notice and choice.

Application of the Access Principle
i.

The Supplemental Principle on Access provides guidance on
reasons which may justify denying or limiting access on request in
the human resources context. Of course, employers in the European
Union must comply with local regulations and ensure that European

Union employees have access to such information as is required by
law in their home countries, regardless of the location of data
processing and storage. The Privacy Shield requires that an
organization processing such data in the United States will
cooperate in providing such access either directly or through the EU
employer.
d.

e.

Enforcement
i.

In so far as personal information is used only in the context of the
employment relationship, primary responsibility for the data vis-àvis the employee remains with the organization in the EU. It follows
that, where European employees make complaints about violations
of their data protection rights and are not satisfied with the results
of internal review, complaint, and appeal procedures (or any
applicable grievance procedures under a contract with a trade
union), they should be directed to the state or national data
protection or labor authority in the jurisdiction where the employees
work. This includes cases where the alleged mishandling of their
personal information is the responsibility of the U.S. organization
that has received the information from the employer and thus
involves an alleged breach of the Privacy Shield Principles. This
will be the most efficient way to address the often overlapping rights
and obligations imposed by local labor law and labor agreements as
well as data protection law.

ii.

A U.S. organization participating in the Privacy Shield that uses EU
human resources data transferred from the European Union in the
context of the employment relationship and that wishes such
transfers to be covered by the Privacy Shield must therefore commit
to cooperate in investigations by and to comply with the advice of
competent EU authorities in such cases.

Application of the Accountability for Onward Transfer Principle
i.

10.

For occasional employment-related operational needs of the Privacy
Shield organization with respect to personal data transferred under
the Privacy Shield, such as the booking of a flight, hotel room, or
insurance coverage, transfers of personal data of a small number of
employees can take place to controllers without application of the
Access Principle or entering into a contract with the third-party
controller, as otherwise required under the Accountability for
Onward Transfer Principle, provided that the Privacy Shield
organization has complied with the Notice and Choice Principles.

Obligatory Contracts for Onward Transfers
a.

Data Processing Contracts

i.

When personal data is transferred from the EU to the United States
only for processing purposes, a contract will be required, regardless
of participation by the processor in the Privacy Shield.

ii.

Data controllers in the European Union are always required to enter
into a contract when a transfer for mere processing is made, whether
the processing operation is carried out inside or outside the EU, and
whether or not the processor participates in the Privacy Shield. The
purpose of the contract is to make sure that the processor:

iii.

b.

acts only on instructions from the controller;

2.

provides appropriate technical and organizational measures
to protect personal data against accidental or unlawful
destruction or accidental loss, alternation, unauthorized
disclosure or access, and understands whether onward
transfer is allowed; and

3.

taking into account the nature of the processing, assists the
controller in responding to individuals exercising their rights
under the Principles.

Because adequate protection is provided by Privacy Shield
participants, contracts with Privacy Shield participants for mere
processing do not require prior authorization (or such authorization
will be granted automatically by the EU Member States), as would
be required for contracts with recipients not participating in the
Privacy Shield or otherwise not providing adequate protection.

Transfers within a Controlled Group of Corporations or Entities
i.

c.

1.

When personal information is transferred between two controllers
within a controlled group of corporations or entities, a contract is
not always required under the Accountability for Onward Transfer
Principle.
Data controllers within a controlled group of
corporations or entities may base such transfers on other
instruments, such as EU Binding Corporate Rules or other intragroup instruments (e.g., compliance and control programs),
ensuring the continuity of protection of personal information under
the Principles. In case of such transfers, the Privacy Shield
organization remains responsible for compliance with the
Principles.

Transfers between Controllers
i.

For transfers between controllers, the recipient controller need not
be a Privacy Shield organization or have an independent recourse
mechanism. The Privacy Shield organization must enter into a
contract with the recipient third-party controller that provides for
the same level of protection as is available under the Privacy Shield,

not including the requirement that the third party controller be a
Privacy Shield organization or have an independent recourse
mechanism, provided it makes available an equivalent mechanism.
11.

Dispute Resolution and Enforcement
a.

The Recourse, Enforcement and Liability Principle sets out the
requirements for Privacy Shield enforcement.
How to meet the
requirements of point (a)(ii) of the Principle is set out in the Supplemental
Principle on Verification. This Supplemental Principle addresses points
(a)(i) and (a)(iii), both of which require independent recourse mechanisms.
These mechanisms may take different forms, but they must meet the
Recourse, Enforcement and Liability Principle’s requirements.
Organizations satisfy the requirements through the following: (i)
compliance with private sector developed privacy programs that
incorporate the Privacy Shield Principles into their rules and that include
effective enforcement mechanisms of the type described in the Recourse,
Enforcement and Liability Principle; (ii) compliance with legal or
regulatory supervisory authorities that provide for handling of individual
complaints and dispute resolution; or (iii) commitment to cooperate with
data protection authorities located in the European Union or their
authorized representatives.

b.

This list is intended to be illustrative and not limiting. The private sector
may design additional mechanisms to provide enforcement, so long as they
meet the requirements of the Recourse, Enforcement and Liability Principle
and the Supplemental Principles. Please note that the Recourse,
Enforcement and Liability Principle’s requirements are additional to the
requirement that self-regulatory efforts must be enforceable under Section
5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, which prohibits unfair and
deceptive acts, or another law or regulation prohibiting such acts.

c.

In order to help ensure compliance with their Privacy Shield commitments
and to support the administration of the program, organizations, as well as
their independent recourse mechanisms, must provide information relating
to the Privacy Shield when requested by the Department. In addition,
organizations must respond expeditiously to complaints regarding their
compliance with the Principles referred through the Department by DPAs.
The response should address whether the complaint has merit and, if so,
how the organization will rectify the problem. The Department will protect
the confidentiality of information it receives in accordance with U.S. law.

d.

Recourse Mechanisms
i.

Consumers should be encouraged to raise any complaints they may
have with the relevant organization before proceeding to
independent recourse mechanisms. Organizations must respond to
a consumer within 45 days of receiving a complaint. Whether a
recourse mechanism is independent is a factual question that can be

demonstrated notably by impartiality, transparent composition and
financing, and a proven track record. As required by the Recourse,
Enforcement and Liability Principle, the recourse available to
individuals must be readily available and free of charge to
individuals. Dispute resolution bodies should look into each
complaint received from individuals unless they are obviously
unfounded or frivolous. This does not preclude the establishment
of eligibility requirements by the organization operating the
recourse mechanism, but such requirements should be transparent
and justified (for example, to exclude complaints that fall outside
the scope of the program or are for consideration in another forum),
and should not have the effect of undermining the commitment to
look into legitimate complaints. In addition, recourse mechanisms
should provide individuals with full and readily available
information about how the dispute resolution procedure works when
they file a complaint. Such information should include notice about
the mechanism’s privacy practices, in conformity with the Privacy
Shield Principles. They should also cooperate in the development
of tools such as standard complaint forms to facilitate the complaint
resolution process.
ii.

Independent recourse mechanisms must include on their public
websites information regarding the Privacy Shield Principles and
the services that they provide under the Privacy Shield. This
information must include: (1) information on or a link to the Privacy
Shield Principles’ requirements for independent recourse
mechanisms; (2) a link to the Department’s Privacy Shield website;
(3) an explanation that their dispute resolution services under the
Privacy Shield are free of charge to individuals; (4) a description of
how a Privacy Shield-related complaint can be filed; (5) the
timeframe in which Privacy Shield-related complaints are
processed; and (6) a description of the range of potential remedies.

iii.

Independent recourse mechanisms must publish an annual report
providing aggregate statistics regarding their dispute resolution
services. The annual report must include: (1) the total number of
Privacy Shield-related complaints received during the reporting
year; (2) the types of complaints received; (3) dispute resolution
quality measures, such as the length of time taken to process
complaints; and (4) the outcomes of the complaints received,
notably the number and types of remedies or sanctions imposed.

iv.

As set forth in Annex I, an arbitration option is available to an
individual to determine, for residual claims, whether a Privacy
Shield organization has violated its obligations under the Principles
as to that individual, and whether any such violation remains fully
or partially unremedied. This option is available only for these
purposes. This option is not available, for example, with respect to

the exceptions to the Principles5 or with respect to an allegation
about the adequacy of the Privacy Shield. Under this arbitration
option, the Privacy Shield Panel (consisting of one or three
arbitrators, as agreed by the parties) has the authority to impose
individual-specific, non-monetary equitable relief (such as access,
correction, deletion, or return of the individual’s data in question)
necessary to remedy the violation of the Principles only with respect
to the individual. Individuals and Privacy Shield organizations will
be able to seek judicial review and enforcement of the arbitral
decisions pursuant to U.S. law under the Federal Arbitration Act.
e.

Remedies and Sanctions
i.

f.

FTC Action
ii.

5

The result of any remedies provided by the dispute resolution body
should be that the effects of non-compliance are reversed or
corrected by the organization, insofar as feasible, and that future
processing by the organization will be in conformity with the
Principles and, where appropriate, that processing of the personal
data of the individual who brought the complaint will cease.
Sanctions need to be rigorous enough to ensure compliance by the
organization with the Principles. A range of sanctions of varying
degrees of severity will allow dispute resolution bodies to respond
appropriately to varying degrees of non-compliance. Sanctions
should include both publicity for findings of non-compliance and
the requirement to delete data in certain circumstances.6 Other
sanctions could include suspension and removal of a seal,
compensation for individuals for losses incurred as a result of noncompliance and injunctive awards. Private sector dispute resolution
bodies and self-regulatory bodies must notify failures of Privacy
Shield organizations to comply with their rulings to the
governmental body with applicable jurisdiction or to the courts, as
appropriate, and to notify the Department.
The FTC has committed to reviewing on a priority basis referrals
alleging non-compliance with the Principles received from: (i)
privacy self-regulatory organizations and other independent dispute
resolution bodies; (ii) EU Member States; and (iii) the Department,
to determine whether Section 5 of the FTC Act prohibiting unfair or
deceptive acts or practices in commerce has been violated. If the
FTC concludes that it has reason to believe Section 5 has been

Section I.5 of the Principles.
Dispute resolution bodies have discretion about the circumstances in which they use these
sanctions. The sensitivity of the data concerned is one factor to be taken into consideration in
deciding whether deletion of data should be required, as is whether an organization has collected,
used, or disclosed information in blatant contravention of the Privacy Shield Principles.
6

violated, it may resolve the matter by seeking an administrative
cease and desist order prohibiting the challenged practices or by
filing a complaint in a federal district court, which if successful
could result in a federal court order to same effect. This includes
false claims of adherence to the Privacy Shield Principles or
participation in the Privacy Shield by organizations, which either
are no longer on the Privacy Shield List or have never self-certified
to the Department. The FTC may obtain civil penalties for
violations of an administrative cease and desist order and may
pursue civil or criminal contempt for violation of a federal court
order. The FTC will notify the Department of any such actions it
takes. The Department encourages other government bodies to
notify it of the final disposition of any such referrals or other rulings
determining adherence to the Privacy Shield Principles.
g.

Persistent Failure to Comply
i.

If an organization persistently fails to comply with the Principles, it
is no longer entitled to benefit from the Privacy Shield.
Organizations that have persistently failed to comply with the
Principles will be removed from the Privacy Shield List by the
Department and must return or delete the personal information they
received under the Privacy Shield.

ii.

Persistent failure to comply arises where an organization that has
self-certified to the Department refuses to comply with a final
determination by any privacy self-regulatory, independent dispute
resolution, or government body, or where such a body determines
that an organization frequently fails to comply with the Principles
to the point where its claim to comply is no longer credible. In these
cases, the organization must promptly notify the Department of such
facts. Failure to do so may be actionable under the False Statements
Act (18 U.S.C. § 1001). An organization’s withdrawal from a
private-sector privacy self-regulatory program or independent
dispute resolution mechanism does not relieve it of its obligation to
comply with the Principles and would constitute a persistent failure
to comply.

iii.

The Department will remove an organization from the Privacy
Shield List in response to any notification it receives of persistent
failure to comply, whether it is received from the organization itself,
from a privacy self-regulatory body or another independent dispute
resolution body, or from a government body, but only after first
providing 30 days’ notice and an opportunity to respond to the
organization that has failed to comply. Accordingly, the Privacy
Shield List maintained by the Department will make clear which
organizations are assured and which organizations are no longer
assured of Privacy Shield benefits.

iv.

12.

13.

An organization applying to participate in a self-regulatory body for
the purposes of requalifying for the Privacy Shield must provide that
body with full information about its prior participation in the Privacy
Shield.

Choice – Timing of Opt Out
a.

Generally, the purpose of the Choice Principle is to ensure that personal
information is used and disclosed in ways that are consistent with the
individual’s expectations and choices. Accordingly, an individual should
be able to exercise “opt out” choice of having personal information used for
direct marketing at any time subject to reasonable limits established by the
organization, such as giving the organization time to make the opt out
effective. An organization may also require sufficient information to
confirm the identity of the individual requesting the “opt out.” In the United
States, individuals may be able to exercise this option through the use of a
central “opt out” program such as the Direct Marketing Association’s Mail
Preference Service. Organizations that participate in the Direct Marketing
Association’s Mail Preference Service should promote its availability to
consumers who do not wish to receive commercial information. In any
event, an individual should be given a readily available and affordable
mechanism to exercise this option.

b.

Similarly, an organization may use information for certain direct marketing
purposes when it is impracticable to provide the individual with an
opportunity to opt out before using the information, if the organization
promptly gives the individual such opportunity at the same time (and upon
request at any time) to decline (at no cost to the individual) to receive any
further direct marketing communications and the organization complies
with the individual’s wishes.

Travel Information
a.

Airline passenger reservation and other travel information, such as frequent
flyer or hotel reservation information and special handling needs, such as
meals to meet religious requirements or physical assistance, may be
transferred to organizations located outside the EU in several different
circumstances. Under Article 26 of the Directive, personal data may be
transferred “to a third country which does not ensure an adequate level of
protection within the meaning of Article 25(2)” on the condition that it (i)
is necessary to provide the services requested by the consumer or to fulfill
the terms of an agreement, such as a “frequent flyer” agreement; or (ii) has
been unambiguously consented to by the consumer. U.S. organizations
subscribing to the Privacy Shield provide adequate protection for personal
data and may therefore receive data transfers from the EU without meeting
these conditions or other conditions set out in Article 26 of the Directive.
Since the Privacy Shield includes specific rules for sensitive information,
such information (which may need to be collected, for example, in

connection with customers’ needs for physical assistance) may be included
in transfers to Privacy Shield participants. In all cases, however, the
organization transferring the information has to respect the law in the EU
Member State in which it is operating, which may inter alia impose special
conditions for the handling of sensitive data.
14.

Pharmaceutical and Medical Products
a.

Application of EU Member State Laws or the Privacy Shield Principles
i.

b.

c.

Future Scientific Research
i.

Personal data developed in specific medical or pharmaceutical
research studies often play a valuable role in future scientific
research. Where personal data collected for one research study are
transferred to a U.S. organization in the Privacy Shield, the
organization may use the data for a new scientific research activity
if appropriate notice and choice have been provided in the first
instance. Such notice should provide information about any future
specific uses of the data, such as periodic follow-up, related studies,
or marketing.

ii.

It is understood that not all future uses of the data can be specified,
since a new research use could arise from new insights on the
original data, new medical discoveries and advances, and public
health and regulatory developments. Where appropriate, the notice
should therefore include an explanation that personal data may be
used in future medical and pharmaceutical research activities that
are unanticipated. If the use is not consistent with the general
research purpose(s) for which the personal data were originally
collected, or to which the individual has consented subsequently,
new consent must be obtained.

Withdrawal from a Clinical Trial
i.

d.

EU Member State law applies to the collection of the personal data
and to any processing that takes place prior to the transfer to the
United States. The Privacy Shield Principles apply to the data once
they have been transferred to the United States. Data used for
pharmaceutical research and other purposes should be anonymized
when appropriate.

Participants may decide or be asked to withdraw from a clinical trial
at any time. Any personal data collected previous to withdrawal
may still be processed along with other data collected as part of the
clinical trial, however, if this was made clear to the participant in
the notice at the time he or she agreed to participate.

Transfers for Regulatory and Supervision Purposes

i.

e.

f.

“Blinded” Studies
i.

To ensure objectivity in many clinical trials, participants, and often
investigators as well, cannot be given access to information about
which treatment each participant may be receiving. Doing so would
jeopardize the validity of the research study and results.
Participants in such clinical trials (referred to as “blinded” studies)
do not have to be provided access to the data on their treatment
during the trial if this restriction has been explained when the
participant entered the trial and the disclosure of such information
would jeopardize the integrity of the research effort.

ii.

Agreement to participate in the trial under these conditions is a
reasonable forgoing of the right of access. Following the conclusion
of the trial and analysis of the results, participants should have
access to their data if they request it. They should seek it primarily
from the physician or other health care provider from whom they
received treatment within the clinical trial, or secondarily from the
sponsoring organization.

Product Safety and Efficacy Monitoring
i.

g.

Pharmaceutical and medical device companies are allowed to
provide personal data from clinical trials conducted in the EU to
regulators in the United States for regulatory and supervision
purposes. Similar transfers are allowed to parties other than
regulators, such as company locations and other researchers,
consistent with the Principles of Notice and Choice.

A pharmaceutical or medical device company does not have to
apply the Privacy Shield Principles with respect to the Notice,
Choice, Accountability for Onward Transfer, and Access Principles
in its product safety and efficacy monitoring activities, including the
reporting of adverse events and the tracking of patients/subjects
using certain medicines or medical devices, to the extent that
adherence to the Principles interferes with compliance with
regulatory requirements. This is true both with respect to reports
by, for example, health care providers to pharmaceutical and
medical device companies, and with respect to reports by
pharmaceutical and medical device companies to government
agencies like the Food and Drug Administration.

Key-coded Data
i.

Invariably, research data are uniquely key-coded at their origin by
the principal investigator so as not to reveal the identity of individual
data subjects. Pharmaceutical companies sponsoring such research
do not receive the key. The unique key code is held only by the
researcher, so that he or she can identify the research subject under
special circumstances (e.g., if follow-up medical attention is

required). A transfer from the EU to the United States of data coded
in this way would not constitute a transfer of personal data that
would be subject to the Privacy Shield Principles.
15.

16.

Public Record and Publicly Available Information
a.

An organization must apply the Privacy Shield Principles of Security, Data
Integrity and Purpose Limitation, and Recourse, Enforcement and Liability
to personal data from publicly available sources. These Principles shall
apply also to personal data collected from public records, i.e., those records
kept by government agencies or entities at any level that are open to
consultation by the public in general.

b.

It is not necessary to apply the Notice, Choice, or Accountability for
Onward Transfer Principles to public record information, as long as it is not
combined with non-public record information, and any conditions for
consultation established by the relevant jurisdiction are respected. Also, it
is generally not necessary to apply the Notice, Choice, or Accountability
for Onward Transfer Principles to publicly available information unless the
European transferor indicates that such information is subject to restrictions
that require application of those Principles by the organization for the uses
it intends. Organizations will have no liability for how such information is
used by those obtaining such information from published materials.

c.

Where an organization is found to have intentionally made personal
information public in contravention of the Principles so that it or others may
benefit from these exceptions, it will cease to qualify for the benefits of the
Privacy Shield.

d.

It is not necessary to apply the Access Principle to public record
information as long as it is not combined with other personal information
(apart from small amounts used to index or organize the public record
information); however, any conditions for consultation established by the
relevant jurisdiction are to be respected. In contrast, where public record
information is combined with other non-public record information (other
than as specifically noted above), an organization must provide access to
all such information, assuming it is not subject to other permitted
exceptions.

e.

As with public record information, it is not necessary to provide access to
information that is already publicly available to the public at large, as long
as it is not combined with non-publicly available information.
Organizations that are in the business of selling publicly available
information may charge the organization’s customary fee in responding to
requests for access. Alternatively, individuals may seek access to their
information from the organization that originally compiled the data.

Access Requests by Public Authorities

a.

In order to provide transparency in respect of lawful requests by public
authorities to access personal information, Privacy Shield organizations
may voluntarily issue periodic transparency reports on the number of
requests for personal information they receive by public authorities for law
enforcement or national security reasons, to the extent such disclosures are
permissible under applicable law.

b.

The information provided by the Privacy Shield organizations in these
reports together with information that has been released by the intelligence
community, along with other information, can be used to inform the annual
joint review of the functioning of the Privacy Shield in accordance with the
Principles.

c.

Absence of notice in accordance with point (a)(xii) of the Notice Principle
shall not prevent or impair an organization’s ability to respond to any lawful
request.

ANNEX I:
Arbitral Model

ANNEX I
This Annex I provides the terms under which Privacy Shield organizations are obligated to
arbitrate claims, pursuant to the Recourse, Enforcement and Liability Principle. The binding
arbitration option described below applies to certain “residual” claims as to data covered by the
EU-U.S. Privacy Shield. The purpose of this option is to provide a prompt, independent, and fair
mechanism, at the option of individuals, for resolution of claimed violations of the Principles not
resolved by any of the other Privacy Shield mechanisms, if any.
A.

Scope

This arbitration option is available to an individual to determine, for residual claims, whether a
Privacy Shield organization has violated its obligations under the Principles as to that individual,
and whether any such violation remains fully or partially unremedied. This option is available
only for these purposes. This option is not available, for example, with respect to the exceptions
to the Principles1 or with respect to an allegation about the adequacy of the Privacy Shield.
B.

Available Remedies

Under this arbitration option, the Privacy Shield Panel (consisting of one or three arbitrators, as
agreed by the parties) has the authority to impose individual-specific, non-monetary equitable
relief (such as access, correction, deletion, or return of the individual’s data in question)
necessary to remedy the violation of the Principles only with respect to the individual. These are
the only powers of the arbitration panel with respect to remedies. In considering remedies, the
arbitration panel is required to consider other remedies that already have been imposed by other
mechanisms under the Privacy Shield. No damages, costs, fees, or other remedies are available.
Each party bears its own attorney’s fees.
C.

Pre-Arbitration Requirements

An individual who decides to invoke this arbitration option must take the following steps prior to
initiating an arbitration claim: (1) raise the claimed violation directly with the organization and
afford the organization an opportunity to resolve the issue within the timeframe set forth in
Section III.11(d)(i) of the Principles; (2) make use of the independent recourse mechanism under
the Principles, which is at no cost to the individual; and (3) raise the issue through their Data
Protection Authority to the Department of Commerce and afford the Department of Commerce
an opportunity to use best efforts to resolve the issue within the timeframes set forth in the Letter
from the International Trade Administration of the Department of Commerce, at no cost to the
individual.
This arbitration option may not be invoked if the individual’s same claimed violation of the
Principles (1) has previously been subject to binding arbitration; (2) was the subject of a final
judgment entered in a court action to which the individual was a party; or (3) was previously
settled by the parties. In addition, this option may not be invoked if an EU Data Protection

1

Section I.5 of the Principles.

Authority (1) has authority under Sections III.5 or III.9 of the Principles; or (2) has the authority
to resolve the claimed violation directly with the organization. A DPA’s authority to resolve the
same claim against an EU data controller does not alone preclude invocation of this arbitration
option against a different legal entity not bound by the DPA authority.
D.

Binding Nature of Decisions

An individual’s decision to invoke this binding arbitration option is entirely voluntary. Arbitral
decisions will be binding on all parties to the arbitration. Once invoked, the individual forgoes
the option to seek relief for the same claimed violation in another forum, except that if nonmonetary equitable relief does not fully remedy the claimed violation, the individual’s invocation
of arbitration will not preclude a claim for damages that is otherwise available in the courts.
E.

Review and Enforcement

Individuals and Privacy Shield organizations will be able to seek judicial review and
enforcement of the arbitral decisions pursuant to U.S. law under the Federal Arbitration Act.2
Any such cases must be brought in the federal district court whose territorial coverage includes
the primary place of business of the Privacy Shield organization.

2

Chapter 2 of the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) provides that “[a]n arbitration agreement or arbitral
award arising out of a legal relationship, whether contractual or not, which is considered as commercial,
including a transaction, contract, or agreement described in [section 2 of the FAA], falls under the
Convention [on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards of June 10, 1958, 21 U.S.T.
2519, T.I.A.S. No. 6997 (“New York Convention”)].” 9 U.S.C. § 202. The FAA further provides that
“[a]n agreement or award arising out of such a relationship which is entirely between citizens of the
United States shall be deemed not to fall under the [New York] Convention unless that relationship
involves property located abroad, envisages performance or enforcement abroad, or has some other
reasonable relation with one or more foreign states.” Id. Under Chapter 2, “any party to the arbitration
may apply to any court having jurisdiction under this chapter for an order confirming the award as against
any other party to the arbitration. The court shall confirm the award unless it finds one of the grounds for
refusal or deferral of recognition or enforcement of the award specified in the said [New York]
Convention.” Id. § 207. Chapter 2 further provides that “[t]he district courts of the United States . . .
shall have original jurisdiction over . . . an action or proceeding [under the New York Convention],
regardless of the amount in controversy.” Id. § 203.
Chapter 2 also provides that “Chapter 1 applies to actions and proceedings brought under this chapter to
the extent that chapter is not in conflict with this chapter or the [New York] Convention as ratified by the
United States.” Id. § 208. Chapter 1, in turn, provides that “[a] written provision in . . . a contract
evidencing a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising out
of such contract or transaction, or the refusal to perform the whole or any part thereof, or an agreement in
writing to submit to arbitration an existing controversy arising out of such a contract, transaction, or
refusal, shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity
for the revocation of any contract.” Id. § 2. Chapter 1 further provides that “any party to the arbitration
may apply to the court so specified for an order confirming the award, and thereupon the court must grant
such an order unless the award is vacated, modified, or corrected as prescribed in sections 10 and 11 of
[the FAA].” Id. § 9.

This arbitration option is intended to resolve individual disputes, and arbitral decisions are not
intended to function as persuasive or binding precedent in matters involving other parties,
including in future arbitrations or in EU or U.S. courts, or FTC proceedings.
F.

The Arbitration Panel

The parties will select the arbitrators from the list of arbitrators discussed below.
Consistent with applicable law, the U.S. Department of Commerce and the European
Commission will develop a list of at least 20 arbitrators, chosen on the basis of independence,
integrity, and expertise. The following shall apply in connection with this process:
Arbitrators:
(1) will remain on the list for a period of 3 years, absent exceptional circumstances or for cause,
renewable for one additional period of 3 years;
(2) shall not be subject to any instructions from, or be affiliated with, either party, or any Privacy
Shield organization, or the U.S., EU, or any EU Member State or any other governmental
authority, public authority, or enforcement authority; and
(3) must be admitted to practice law in the U.S. and be experts in U.S. privacy law, with
expertise in EU data protection law.
G.

Arbitration Procedures

Consistent with applicable law, within 6 months from the adoption of the adequacy decision, the
Department of Commerce and the European Commission will agree to adopt an existing, wellestablished set of U.S. arbitral procedures (such as AAA or JAMS) to govern proceedings before
the Privacy Shield Panel, subject to each of the following considerations:
1. An individual may initiate binding arbitration, subject to the pre-arbitration requirements
provision above, by delivering a “Notice” to the organization. The Notice shall contain a
summary of steps taken under Paragraph C to resolve the claim, a description of the alleged
violation, and, at the choice of the individual, any supporting documents and materials and/or
a discussion of law relating to the alleged claim.
2. Procedures will be developed to ensure that an individual’s same claimed violation does not
receive duplicative remedies or procedures.
3. FTC action may proceed in parallel with arbitration.
4. No representative of the U.S., EU, or any EU Member State or any other governmental
authority, public authority, or enforcement authority may participate in these arbitrations,
provided, that at the request of an EU individual, EU DPAs may provide assistance in the
preparation only of the Notice but EU DPAs may not have access to discovery or any other
materials related to these arbitrations.
5. The location of the arbitration will be the United States, and the individual may choose video
or telephone participation, which will be provided at no cost to the individual. In-person
participation will not be required.

6. The language of the arbitration will be English unless otherwise agreed by the parties. Upon
a reasoned request, and taking into account whether the individual is represented by an
attorney, interpretation at the arbitral hearing as well as translation of arbitral materials will
be provided at no cost to the individual, unless the panel finds that, under the circumstances
of the specific arbitration, this would lead to unjustified or disproportionate costs.
7. Materials submitted to arbitrators will be treated confidentially and will only be used in
connection with the arbitration.
8. Individual-specific discovery may be permitted if necessary, and such discovery will be
treated confidentially by the parties and will only be used in connection with the arbitration.
9. Arbitrations should be completed within 90 days of the delivery of the Notice to the
organization at issue, unless otherwise agreed to by the parties.
H.

Costs

Arbitrators should take reasonable steps to minimize the costs or fees of the arbitrations.
Subject to applicable law, the Department of Commerce will facilitate the establishment of a
fund, into which Privacy Shield organizations will be required to pay an annual contribution,
based in part on the size of the organization, which will cover the arbitral cost, including
arbitrator fees, up to maximum amounts (“caps”), in consultation with the European
Commission. The fund will be managed by a third party, which will report regularly on the
operations of the fund. At the annual review, the Department of Commerce and European
Commission will review the operation of the fund, including the need to adjust the amount of the
contributions or of the caps, and will consider, among other things, the number of arbitrations
and the costs and timing of the arbitrations, with the mutual understanding that there will be no
excessive financial burden imposed on Privacy Shield organizations. Attorney’s fees are not
covered by this provision or any fund under this provision.

