Whistleblower Act, 2006

Act 720

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
Section
Information the disclosure of which is protected
1. Disclosure of impropriety
2. Person who qualifies to make disclosure of impropriety
3. Person to whom or institution to which disclosure of impropriety may be
made
Procedures for disclosure of impropriety and related action
4. Procedures for making a disclosure
5. Reduction of disclosure into writing
6. Action by person who receives disclosure of impropriety
7. Submission of copy of written disclosure to the Attorney-General
8. Investigation
9. Application to court for assistance
10. Submission of report of investigation to the Attorney-General
11. Action by the Attorney-General
Protection for making disclosure of impropriety

12. Protection of whistleblower
13. Report to Commission on Human Rights and Administrative Justice
14. Action by the Commission and enforcement of its orders
15. Right of action for victimization
16. Legal assistance
17. Police protection
18. Protection against civil and criminal action
19. Void employment contracts
Whistleblower Reward Fund

20. Establishment of Whistle blower Reward Fund
21. Sources of money for the Fund
22. Object of the Fund
23. Reward on conviction
24. Reward on recovery of money
25. Bank account of the Fund
26. Management of the Fund
27. Disbursement of Fund

1

Act 720

Whistleblower Act, 2006
Miscellaneous provisions

28. Accounts and audit
29. Annua1report
30. Regulations
31. Modification of existing laws
32. Interpretation

2

Act 720

THE SEVEN HUNDRED AND TWENTIETH

ACT
OF THE PARLIAMENT OF THE REPUBLIC
OF GHANA ENTITLED THE
WHISTLEBLOWER ACT, 2006
AN ACT to provide for the manner in which individuals may in the public interest
disclose information that relates to unlawful or other illegal conduct or
corrupt practices of others; to provide for the protection against victimisation
of persons who make these disclosures; to provide for a Fund to reward
individuals who make the disclosures and to provide for related matters.
DATE OF ASSENT: 16th October, 2006. ENACTED by the
President and Parliament:
Information the disclosure of which is protected
Disclosure of impropriety
1. (1) A person may make a disclosure of information where that person has
reasonable cause to believe that the information tends to show
(a) an economic crime has been committed, is about to be committed or
is likely to be committed;
(b) another person has not complied with a law or is in the process of
breaking a law or is likely to break a law which imposes an
obligation on that person;
(c) a miscarriage of justice has occurred, is occurring or is likely to

occur;

3

Act 720

Whistleblower Act, 2006

(d) in a public institution there has been, there is or there is likely to be
waste, misappropriation or mismanagement of public resources;
(e) the environment has been degraded, is being degraded or is likely to
be degraded; or
(f) the health or safety of an individual or a community is endangered,
has been endangered or is likely to be endangered.
(2) A conduct which falls within any of the matters specified in subsection (1),
is in this Act referred to as an "impropriety".
(3) A person who makes a disclosure of impropriety is in this Act referred to
as a "whistleblower".
(4) Despite any other law to the contrary, a disclosure of an impropriety is
protected if
(a) the disclosure is made in good faith,
(b) the whistleblower has reasonable cause to believe that the information disclosed and an allegation of impropriety contained in it are

substantially true, and

.

(c) the disclosure is made to one or more of the persons or institutions
specified in section 3.
Person who qualifies to make disclosure of impropriety
2. Disclosure of impropriety may be made
(a) by an employee in respect of an employer,
(b) by an employee in respect of another employee, or
(c) by a person in respect of another person, or an institution.

Person to whom or institution to which disclosure of impropriety may be made
3. (1) Disclosure of impropriety may be made to anyone or more of the
following:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)

an employer of the whistleblower;
a police officer;
the Attorney-General;
the Auditor-General;
a staff of the Intelligence Agencies;
a member of Parliament;

(j)

OJ the

the Serious Fraud Office;
(h) the Commission on Human Rights and Administrative
Justice;
(i) the National Media Commission;
Narcotic Control Board;

4

Whistleblower Act, 2006

Act 720

(k) a chief;
(l) the head or an elder of the family of the whistleblower;
(m) a head of a recognised religious body;
(n) a member of a District Assembly;
(o) a Minister of State;
(p) the Office of the President;
(q) the Revenue Agencies Governing Board; or
(r) a District Chief Executive.
(s)
(2) A whistleblower may take into account
(a) a reasonable belief or fear on the part of the whistleblower that
the whistleblower may be subjected to dismissal, suspension,
harassment, discrimination or intimidation;
(b)a reasonable belief or fear that evidence relevant to the
impropriety may be concealed or destroyed;
(c) that the person to whom the disclosure is made will not
frustrate the objective;
(d) that the impropriety is of an exceptionally serious nature and
that expeditious action must be taken to deal with it;
(e)the place where and the prevailing circumstances under which
the whistleblower lives; in determining to whom the
disclosure may be made.
Procedures for disclosure of impropriety and related action
Procedures for making a disclosure
4. (1) A disclosure may be made in writing or orally.
(2) The disclosure shall contain as far as practicable
(a) the full name, address and occupation of the whistleblower;
(b) the nature of the impropriety in respect of which the disclosure
is made;
(c) the person alleged to have committed, who is committing or is
about to commit the impropriety;
(d) the time and place where the alleged impropriety is taking
place, took place or is likely to take place;
(e) the full name, address and description of a person who
witnessed the commission of the impropriety if there is such a
person;
(f) whether the whistleblower has made a disclosure of the same
or of some other impropriety on a previous occasion and if so,
about whom and to whom the' disclosure was made; and

5

Act 720

Whistleblower Act, 2006

(g) if the person is an employee making a disclosure about that person's employer or a
fellow employee, whether the whistleblower remains in the same employment.
Reduction of disclosure into writing
5. (1) Where a whistleblower makes a disclosure orally, the person to whom the
disclosure is made shall cause the disclosure to be reduced into writing containing
the same particulars as are specified in subsection (2) of section 4.
(2) Where the whistleblower is illiterate, the writing required to be made
under subsection (1) shall be read over, interpreted and explained to the
whistleblower in a language the whistleblower understands and the whistleblower
shall approve of it before making a mark to it and a certificate to this effect shall be
attached to the writing.
(3) In the case of a person who is blind or with some other physical disability,
but literate, a certificate as required in subsection (2) shall be made with the
necessary modification.
Action by person who receives disclosure of impropriety
6. (1) When a disclosure of impropriety is made to a person specified in section 3,
the person shall
(a) make a record of the time and place where the disclosure is made,
(b) give to the whistleblower an acknowledgment in writing of receipt
of the disclosure, and
(c) keep the writing in which the disclosure is made confidential and in
safe custody pending investigation of the impropriety.
(2) Where the disclosure is made to a chief, head of a recognised religious
body or a head or an elder of a family, the chief, head or elder may instead of
recording the disclosure as required under subsection (1), assist the whistleblower to
make the disclosure to the police or to some other authority specified in section 3.
(3) Where a person to whom the disclosure is made fails to keep confidential
the disclosure, the person commits an offence and is liable on summary conviction
to a fine of not less than five hundred penalty units and not more than one thousand
penalty units or to a term of imprisonment of not less than two years and not more
than four years or to both.
Submission of copy of written disclosure to the Attorney-General
7. Where a disclosure is made to a person specified under section 3, other than
the Attorney-General, the person shall submit a copy of the written disclosure to the
Attorney-General within seven working days after receipt of the disclosure.

6

Whistleblower Act, 2006

Act 720

Investigation
8. (1) Where a disclosure is made to a person specified under section 3,
the person shall investigate the matter except that where the person to whom
the disclosure is made does not have the capability to undertake the
investigation, the person shall refer the disclosure as recorded to the
Attorney-General or another body as directed by the Attorney-General for
investigation within seven working days after receipt of the disclosure.
(2) Despite subsection (1), the Attorney-General may on receipt of a
copy of a written disclosure under section 7, cause investigation to be
conducted into the disclosure.
(3) Investigation undertaken in respect of impropriety shall be carried
out as expeditiously as possible and shall in any event be completed within
sixty days of receipt of the disclosure or directives to undertake the
investigation.
(4) A person who undertakes an investigation in respect of an
impropriety and in the cause of that investigation conceals or suppresses
evidence, commits an offence and is liable on summary conviction to a term
of imprisonment of not less than two years and not more than five years.
Application to court for assistance
9. Where in the course of an investigation under section 8, it appears to the
investigator,
(a) that evidence or documents relevant to the investigation are likely to
be destroyed, concealed, tampered with or,
(b) that a person willing to provide information relevant to the investiga
tion is being subjected to pressure, inducement or intimidation to
withhold the information, the investigator may apply to the court for
an order to preserve the evidence or documents or to restrain the intimidation of the
person willing to provide, the information.
Submission of report of investigation to the Attorney-General
10. (1) A report on investigation conducted under section 8 shall be submitted
to the Attorney-General for directives immediately the investigation is completed.
(2) Where the completion of the investigation is delayed beyond the sixty
day period specified in subsection (3) of section 8, a report shall be submitted to the
Attorney-General stating
(a) the reasons for the delay;
(b) measures that are proposed to expedite the investigation, and
(c) any further assistance required to complete the investigation.

7

Act 720

Whistleblower Act, 2006

(3) A report of an investigation which is submitted to the Attorney
General shall contain particulars of
(a) the manner in which the investigation was conducted,
(b) the names and particulars of persons who provided information
in the course of the investigation,
(c) facts obtained which either confirm or dispute the truth or
accuracy of the information contained in the disclosure and the
person who provided the facts,
(d) an obstacle encountered in the course of the investigation and
the nature of the obstacle, and
(e) the recommendations of the investigator.
Action by the Attorney-General
11. The Attorney-General may on receipt of a report under subsection (3) of
section 10, take the following steps:
(a) accept the recommendations contained in the report and act on it,
(b) ask for further investigations by the same person or institution that
conducted the investigations or by some other person or institution, or
(c) reject the report and the recommendations for stated reasons which
shall be communicated to the investigator.
Protection for making disclosure of impropriety
Protection of Whistle blowers
12. (1) A whistleblower shall not be subjected to victimisation by the employer
of the whistleblower or by a fellow employee or by another person because a
disclosure has been made.
(2) A whistleblower shall be considered as having been subjected to
victimisation if because of making the disclosure,
(a) the whistleblower, being an employee, is
(i) dismissed,
(ii) suspended,
(iii) declared redundant,
(iv) denied promotion,
(v) transferred against the whistleblower's will,
(vi) harassed,
(vii) intimidated,
(viii) threatened with any of the matters set out in subparagraph (i)
to (vii), or

8

Whistleblower Act, 2006

Act 720

(ix) subjected to a discriminatory or other adverse measure
by the employer or a fellow employee, or
(b) not being an employee, the whistleblower is subjected to discrimina
tion, intimidation or harassment by a person or an institution.
(3) A whistleblower shall not be considered as having been subjected to
victimisation if the person against whom the complaint is directed has the right in
law to take the action complained of and the action taken is shown to be unrelated
to the disclosure made.
Report to Commission on Human Rights and Administrative Justice
13. (1) A whistleblower who honestly and reasonably believes that that
whistleblower has been subjected to victimisation or learns of a likely subjection to
victimisation because a disclosure has been made, may in the first instance make a
complaint to the Commission.
(2) A complaint made under subsection (1) shall contain the following particulars;

(a) the name, description and address of the whistleblower,
(b) the name, description and address of the whistleblower's
employer
or of any other person who the whistleblower claims has
subjected the whistleblower to victimisation or might subject
the whistleblower to victimisation, and
(c) the specific acts complained of as constituting victimisation.
Action by the Commission and enforcement of its orders
14. (1) The Commission shall, on receipt of a complaint, conduct an enquiry
. into the complaint at which the whistleblower and the person against whom
the complaint is made shall be heard.
(2) The Commission in the course of conducting an enquiry under subsection
(1) may make an interim order that it considers fit.
(3) After hearing the parties and other persons considered necessary by
the Commission, the Commission shall make an order considered just in the
circumstances including an order for
(a) reinstatement,
(b) reversal of a transfer, or
(c) transfer of the whistleblower to another establishment where
applicable.
(4) The Commission may, where it considers it just in the
circumstances of the case, make an order for payment of reward from the
Fund established under section 20.

9

Act 720

Whistleblower Act, 2006

(5) An order of the Commission under this section shall be of the
same effect as a judgment or an order of the High Court and is enforceable
in the same manner as a judgment or an order of the High Court.
(6) The powers conferred on the Commission under this Act are in
addition to the powers exercisable by the Commission under the
Commission on Human Rights and Administrative Justice Act, 1993 (Act
456).
Right of action for victimisation
15. A whistleblower who has been subjected to victimisation may bring
an action in the High Court to claim damages for breach of contract or for
another relief or remedy to which the whistleblower may be entitled, except
that an action shall not be commenced in a court unless the complaint has
first been submitted to the Commission under section 13.
Legal assistance
16. Where the Commission in the course of an inquiry or hearing before
it under section 14, is of the opinion that the whistleblower is in need of
legal assistance, the Commission shall issue a certificate to the
whistleblower to obtain legal aid from the Legal Aid Board or another
institution that the Commission may specify in the certificate.
Police protection
17. (1) A whistleblower who makes a disclosure and who has reasonable
cause
to believe that
(a) the whistleblower's life or property, or
(b) the life or property of a member of the whistleblower's family
is endangered or likely to be endangered as a result of the disclosure, may
request police protection and the police shall provide the protection
considered adequate.
(2) Despite subsection (1), the Commission or the Attorney-General
as appropriate may in relation to a disclosure of impropriety made or about
to be made direct that the person who has made or is about to make the
disclosure and the person's family be given police protection.
(3) "Family" for the purposes of this section means spouse, father,
mother, child, grandchild, brother and sister.
Protection against civil and criminal action
18. A whistleblower is not liable to civil or criminal proceedings in
respect of the disclosure unless it is proved that that whistleblower knew
that the information contained in the disclosure is false and the disclosure
was made with malicious intent.

10

Whistleblower Act, 2006

Act 720

Void employment contracts
19. (1) A provision in a contract of employment or other agreement between
an employer and an employee is void if it
(a) seeks to prevent the employee from making a disclosure,
(b) has the effect of discouraging an employee from making a
disclosure, (c) precludes the employee from making a complaint in
respect of
victimisation, or
(d) prevents an employee from bringing an action in court or before an
institution to claim relief or remedy in respect of victimisation.
(2) Subsection (1) also applies to a contract of employment or agreement
in existence on the commencement of this Act.

Whistleblower Reward Fund
Establishment of Whistle blower Reward Fund
20. There is established by this Act a Whistleblower Reward Fund.
Sources of money for the Fund
21. The moneys for the Fund consists of
(a) voluntary contributions to the Fund, and
(b) other moneys that may be allocated by Parliament to the
Fund.
Object of the Fund
22. The object of the Fund is to provide funds for payment of monetary
rewards to whistleblowers.
Reward on conviction
23. A whistleb10wer who makes a disclosure that leads to the arrest and
conviction of an accused person shall be rewarded with money from the
Fund.
Reward on recovery of money
24. A whistleblower whose disclosure results in the recovery of an amount
of money shall be rewarded from the Fund with
(a) ten percent of the amount of money recovered, or
(b) the amount of money that the Attorney-General shall, in
consultation with the Inspector-General of Police, determine.
Bank account of the Fund
25. Moneys for the Fund shall, on the directions of the Legal Service
Board established under section 8 of the Legal Service Law, 1993 (PNDCL
320), be paid into a bank account opened for the purpose by the Board with
the approval of the Accountant -General.

11

GOVERNMENT PRINTER, ASSEMBLY PRESS, ACCRA GPC/A532/350/8/2006

12

