2000-17

Gibraltar Regulatory Authority

GIBRALTAR REGULATORY AUTHORITY
ACT 2000
Principal Act
Act. No. 2000-17

Amending
enactments

Commencement
Assent

Relevant current
provisions

Act. 2013-05 Long title, ss. 2, 3(2), (3), (4), (5), (6),
(7), (8), 4(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), 5, 6, 7,
8, 9(1), (2), (5), 10, 11(5), (6), 12(1),
(2), (2)(b), (d), (e) & (f), (3), 13, 14,
15(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), 16, 17(1), (2),
(3), (4), 18, 19, 20, 21(1)(c), (d), (e) &
(f), 22, 23, 24

English sources
None cited

12.10.2000
12.10.2000

Commencement
date

28.2.2013

2000-17

Gibraltar Regulatory Authority

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
Section
1.
Title and commencement.
2.
Interpretation.
3.
The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority.
4.
The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority to be a body corporate.
5.
Meetings and proceedings.
6.
Appointment of the Chief Executive Officer.
7.
Appointment of the Deputy Chief Executive Officer.
8.
Functions of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority.
9.
Delegation of functions, etc.
10.
Salaries, expenses, etc.
11.
Eligibility and independence.
12.
Powers of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority.
13.
The revenues of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority.
14.
Establishment and operation of general fund.
15.
Accounts and auditing.
16.
Preparation of estimates.
17.
Immunity from suit.
18.
Restriction on execution.
19.
Reporting requirement.
20.
Exemption from Income Tax.
21.
Confidentiality.
22.
Regulations.
23.
Petitioning the court for winding up.
24.
Deregistration of Part IX companies.

Gibraltar Regulatory Authority
AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISION FOR THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A
REGULATORY AUTHORITY IN GIBRALTAR FOR THE PURPOSE
OF PERFORMING FUNCTIONS ASSIGNED TO OR CONFERRED ON
IT, TO APPOINT A PERSON TO BE THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE
OFFICER OF THAT AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT THE AFFAIRS,
EXERCISE THE POWERS, DISCHARGE THE DUTIES AND
PERFORM THE FUNCTIONS OF THAT AUTHORITY AND A
PERSON TO BE THE DEPUTY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF
THAT AUTHORITY, TO GRANT POWERS TO THAT AUTHORITY,
TO PROVIDE FOR THE DELEGATION OF FUNCTIONS BY THAT
AUTHORITY, THE MEETING OF ITS EXPENSES AND FOR ITS
ACCOUNTING AND FOR PURPOSES CONNECTED THEREWITH.

Title and commencement.
1. This Act may be cited as the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority Act 2000.
Interpretation.
2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires–
“business” means a business or activity for which an authorisation,
licence, notification or registration is required under an Act and
which comes within the ambit of the functions of assigned to or
conferred on the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority by this or any other
Act;
“Chairman” means the Chairman of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority;
“Chief Executive Officer” means the person appointed under section 6;
“Deputy Chief Executive Officer” means the person appointed under
section 7;
“the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority” means the body established under
section 3(1);
“Gibraltar Regulatory Authority member” means an individual appointed
to be a Gibraltar Regulatory Authority member under this Act;
“institution” means any person, company or partnership;
“in writing” shall include by electronic means; and
“Minister” means the Chief Minister of the Government.

2000-17

2000-17

Gibraltar Regulatory Authority
The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority.
3.(1)
(2)

The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority is established.
The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall consist of–
(a)

the Chief Executive Officer;

(b)

the Deputy Chief Executive Officer;

(c)

a minimum of two and a maximum of three other persons who
shall be appointed by the Minister;

The Chief Executive Officer shall be the Chairman of the Gibraltar
Regulatory Authority.
(3) The period and term of an appointment referred to in paragraph (c)
of subsection (2) shall be established by the Minister at the time of the
appointment.
(4) A person appointed under paragraphs (a) or (c) of subsection (2) may
at any time resign that appointment by notice in writing addressed to the
Minister and the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority.
(5) Without prejudice to section 11, if the Minister is satisfied that any
member of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority–
(a)

has been absent from three consecutive meetings of the
Gibraltar Regulatory Authority without the permission of the
Chairman;

(b)

has become bankrupt;

(c)

has been convicted of a criminal offence punishable by a term of
the imprisonment of 3 months or more;

(d)

is incapacitated by physical or mental illness;

(e)

is in material breach of the terms under which he was
appointed; or

(f)

is otherwise unable or unfit to discharge the functions of a
member;

the Minister may, after consultation with the other members of the Gibraltar
Regulatory Authority, declare that person’s office as a member of the
Gibraltar Regulatory Authority to be vacant and thereupon such office shall

2000-17

Gibraltar Regulatory Authority
become vacant and such decision shall become effective by publication in the
Gazette.
(6) A member appointed under subsection (2) whose term
appointment has terminated is eligible for re-appointment except where
appointment has terminated by virtue of subsection (5) or where
appointment would have terminated under that paragraph but for
resignation.

of
the
the
his

(7) The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall designate an officer or
member of staff of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority to be the secretary to
the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority.
(8)

Omitted.

The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority to be a body corporate.
4.(1) The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall be a body corporate with
perpetual succession under the name of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority
and shall have a common seal which shall be officially and judicially noted.
(2) The common seal of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority may only be
affixed to an instrument in the presence of–
(a)

the Chairman and at least one other Gibraltar Regulatory
Authority member; or

(b)

any three or more Gibraltar Regulatory Authority members.

(3) Such instruments as are referred to in subsection (2) of this section
shall be signed by the persons so present as witnesses to the sealing and the
acts of sealing and witnessing shall be recorded in a register to be kept for
the purpose.
(4) The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority may sue and, subject to section
17, be sued in its corporate name. Service of any process or notice on the
Gibraltar Regulatory Authority may be effected by leaving it at, or sending it
by registered post to, the principal office of the Gibraltar Regulatory
Authority;
(5) The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall not be treated for any
purposes as a body exercising functions on behalf of the Crown and,
accordingly, no person shall be treated as a servant of the Crown by reason
only of his membership of, or employment or being taken on secondment by,
the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority.
Meetings and proceedings.

2000-17

Gibraltar Regulatory Authority
5.(1) The quorum at all meetings of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall
be three members.
(2) The Chairman shall preside at every meeting of the Gibraltar
Regulatory Authority at which he is present and, in his absence, the members
of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall elect one of the members present
to act as Chairman.
(3) All meetings of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall be called by
the secretary to the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority at the request of the
Chairman and shall, save as provided under sub-section (7), take place in
Gibraltar.
(4) Any matters arising at a meeting of the Gibraltar Regulatory
Authority shall be decided by a majority of the members present and voting
thereon at the meeting and, in the case of an equality of votes, the Chairman
shall have a second or casting vote.
(5) All orders and directions of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall
be given under the hand of the Chief Executive Officer.
(6) The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall keep proper minutes of its
proceedings.
(7) The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority may, if the Chairman so
approves, transact any business by the circulation of papers to all Gibraltar
Regulatory Authority members, and a resolution in writing approved by a
majority of Gibraltar Regulatory Authority members shall be as valid and
effectual as if passed at a meeting of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority by
the votes of the members of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority so approving
the resolution.
Appointment of the Chief Executive Officer.
6.(1) The Minister shall appoint a person to be the Chief Executive Officer
of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority.
(2) The Chief Executive Officer shall be appointed for a term of five
years, and may be re-appointed for such additional period(s) as the Minister
may determine.
(3) The Chief Executive Officer shall perform such functions, and
exercise such powers as are from time to time conferred upon him by this or
any other Act or regulation or are delegated to him by the Gibraltar
Regulatory Authority.

Gibraltar Regulatory Authority
(4) The Chief Executive Officer shall, with the approval of the Gibraltar
Regulatory Authority, additionally be responsible for drawing up and
implementing codes for regulating the terms of service, discipline and
training of all persons employed by the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority.
(5) In the event of the absence from Gibraltar of the Chief Executive
Officer for a period in excess of fourteen days, the Gibraltar Regulatory
Authority shall appoint the Deputy Chief Executive Officer to act as Chief
Executive Officer for a period of time not exceeding one month.
Appointment of the Deputy Chief Executive Officer.
7.(1) The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall, upon the recommendation of
the Chief Executive Officer, appoint a person to be the Deputy Chief
Executive Officer of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority.
(2) The Deputy Chief Executive Officer shall be appointed from the
officers employed or taken on secondment by the Gibraltar Regulatory
Authority under and in accordance with paragraph (d) of section 12(2).
(3) In the event of the absence from Gibraltar of the Deputy Chief
Executive Officer for a period in excess of fourteen days, the Chief
Executive Officer shall appoint another officer of the Gibraltar Regulatory
Authority to act as Deputy Chief Executive Officer for a period of time not
exceeding one month.
Functions of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority.
8.(1) The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall perform the functions
assigned to or conferred on it by this and any other Act.
(2) In subsection (1) a function may be conferred on the Gibraltar
Regulatory Authority pursuant to a power of appointment under any other
Act and “conferred” shall be construed accordingly.
Delegation of functions, etc.
9.(1) Save for the delegation referred to in section 6(3), the giving of the
approval referred to in section 6(4), the appointment referred to in section
6(5) the appointment referred to in section 7(1), anything authorised or
required by or under this or any other Act to be done by the Gibraltar
Regulatory Authority may be done by any officer or member of the staff of
the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority who is authorised, generally or specially
in that behalf by the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority.
(2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), the Gibraltar Regulatory
Authority may delegate in writing, to such an extent, for such a period and

2000-17

2000-17

Gibraltar Regulatory Authority
on such terms and conditions as it shall generally or specially authorise, the
discharge of any of the functions referred to in section 8 to any suitably
qualified or competent person or agency.
(3) The delegation by the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority of any of the
functions referred to in section 8 shall not affect the exercise by the Gibraltar
Regulatory Authority of those functions.
(4) A delegation of the nature referred to in subsection (2) shall be made
only on terms which allow the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority to revoke the
delegation –
(a)

in its absolute discretion; or

(b)

upon the direction of the Minister,

and without any liability upon the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority or the
Minister or both.
(5) Any officer or member of staff authorised under and in accordance
with subsection (1) shall, upon there being so authorised, be furnished by the
Gibraltar Regulatory Authority with a certificate of his authorisation and
when exercising a power shall, if requested by any person thereby affected,
produce such certificate to that person for inspection.
Salaries, expenses, etc.
10. The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall pay−
(a)

(b)

to a person appointed under paragraphs (a) or (b) of section
3(2),−
(i)

such salary, pension, gratuity, compensation, expenses
and allowances as may be set out in the instrument
appointing that person; and

(ii)

such other expenses and allowances as the Gibraltar
Regulatory Authority may determine;

to such persons as the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority may
employ or take on secondment under paragraph (d) of section
12(2),−
(i)

such salaries, pensions, gratuities, compensation,
expenses and allowances as may be set out in the terms
and conditions of their employment or secondment as the
case may be; and

Gibraltar Regulatory Authority
(ii)

such other expenses and allowances as the Gibraltar
Regulatory Authority may determine;

(c)

to a person or agency to whom functions have been delegated
under section 9(2), such sums (if any) as the Gibraltar
Regulatory Authority may be liable to pay as a result of such
delegation; and

(d)

such other sums as the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority may be
liable to pay as a result of the exercise of any one or more of the
powers referred to in section 12.

Eligibility and independence.
11.(1) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (2),–
(a)

(b)

a Member of, or the Speaker of, the Gibraltar Parliament shall
be disqualified–
(i)

for appointment under section 3(2); and

(ii)

as a person to whom functions can be delegated under
section 9; and

if a person–
(i)

appointed under section 3(2); or

(ii)

to whom functions have been delegated under section 9,

becomes a Member of, or the Speaker of, the Gibraltar
Parliament, his appointment or delegation, as the case may be,
shall thereupon terminate.
(2) A person –
(a)

appointed under section 3(3) or 4(1); or

(b)

to whom functions have been delegated under section 9,

shall not hold a position which is incompatible with the performance in an
independent and impartial manner of such functions as he may have to
discharge as a result of an appointment under section 3(2) or a delegation
under section 9 as the case may be.

2000-17

2000-17

Gibraltar Regulatory Authority
(3) The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall act with complete
independence when exercising its functions and shall only take into
account public policy to the extent that it is lawful to do so.
(4) Without prejudice to subsections (1) and (2), a member of the
Gibraltar Regulatory Authority who has any direct or indirect personal,
professional, business or pecuniary interest in any matter coming before the
Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall on each and every occasion on which
the matter comes before the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority declare his
interest and thereafter, unless the Chairman directs that a conflict of interest
thereby arising is insufficiently significant to require the withdrawal of that
member, shall withdraw from the meeting, take no further part in the
proceedings of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority in relation to such matter
nor vote on such matter and the quorum necessary for that meeting shall be
reduced by the number of members withdrawing under this section.
(5) A declaration, withdrawal or direction referred to in subsection (4) of
this section shall be recorded.
(6) Unless the Chairman shall otherwise direct, any decision reached by
the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority on a matter in which a member has
declared an interest in accordance with subsection (4) shall be recorded in
the normal way save that proceedings of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority
on such a matter prior to the making of a decision shall be recorded
separately and that record shall be provided only to those members of the
Gibraltar Regulatory Authority who were present at those proceedings.
Powers of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority.
12.(1) Subject to this or any other Act, the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority
shall have power, to do all things necessary for or ancillary or reasonably
incidental to the carrying out of the functions referred to in section 8.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), the Gibraltar
Regulatory Authority may, –
(a)

purchase, lease or otherwise acquire and hold any property (real
or personal) required for the purposes of the Gibraltar
Regulatory Authority and dispose of any such property no
longer required for such purposes;

(b)

contract with any person for the supply to, or by, the Gibraltar
Regulatory Authority of any goods or services or personnel;

(c)

pay expenses properly incurred by the Gibraltar Regulatory
Authority;

Gibraltar Regulatory Authority
(d)

employ or take on secondment any persons as the Gibraltar
Regulatory Authority may determine are necessary or
convenient for the purpose of performing the functions referred
to in section 8;

(e)

establish and maintain schemes or make such other
arrangements as it thinks fit for the payment of pensions or
other benefits to its employees;

(f)

compile, prepare, print, publish, issue, circulate and distribute
whether for payment or otherwise, such papers, leaflets,
magazines, periodicals, books and other literary matter as may
be conducive to the performance of the functions referred to in
section 8.

(3) The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall establish the period, terms
and conditions of employment of such persons as may be employed or taken
on secondment under paragraph (d) of subsection (2).
The revenues of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority.
13.(1) The revenues of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall be−
(a)

such fees and charges as may be payable to the Gibraltar
Regulatory Authority under any Act;

(b)

such funds as may from time to time be voted by the Gibraltar
Parliament;

(c)

such funds as may properly accrue to the Gibraltar Regulatory
Authority from any other source.

(2) The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority may invest any of its funds not
required for immediate use by depositing the same in one or more banks or
building societies in Gibraltar or otherwise.
Establishment and operation of general fund.
14.(1) The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall establish a general fund into
which all monies received by the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall be paid
and out of which all payments made by the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority
shall be made.
(2) The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall be responsible for the
management of the general fund.

2000-17

2000-17

Gibraltar Regulatory Authority
(3) The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority may borrow such sums as the
Gibraltar Regulatory Authority may require to enable it to discharge its
functions and for the purposes of meeting expenditure of a capital nature.
(4) The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority may borrow the sums referred to
in subsection (3) either without security or secured by mortgage, charge,
pledge or any other security whatsoever on all or any of the assets present or
future of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority.
Accounts and auditing.
15.(1) The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall keep proper accounting
records of its income and other receipts and expenditures during each
financial year and shall also cause a statement of its accounts for each
financial year to be prepared within three months after the end of that year.
(2) The financial statements of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority for
each financial year shall be audited and certified within four months after the
end of that year by an auditor to be appointed annually by the Gibraltar
Regulatory Authority.
(3) The auditor of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall be a person
or firm registered or authorised to act as such in Gibraltar.
(4) The auditor of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall, with
reference to the accounts of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority, report
whether–
(a)

he has obtained all the information and explanations which to
the best of his knowledge and belief were necessary for the
purposes of the audit;

(b)

in his opinion, proper accounting records have been kept by the
Gibraltar Regulatory Authority;

(c)

the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority’s balance sheet and accounts
dealt with by the report are in agreement with the accounting
records;

(d)

in his opinion, and to the best of his information and according
to the explanations given to him, the accounts give a true and
fair view, in the case of the balance sheet of the Gibraltar
Regulatory Authority’s finances, as at the end of the financial
year and, in the case of the income and expenditure account, of
the surplus or deficit for that financial year; and

Gibraltar Regulatory Authority
(e)

in his opinion, the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority has
discharged with diligence its obligations in relation to the
collection of its revenues.

(5) In this section “financial year” means a period of twelve months
beginning with 1 April in any year.
Preparation of estimates.
16. The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall prepare and furnish to the
Minister annual estimates of income and expenditure, including capital
expenditure, not later than 3 months prior to the commencement of each
financial year, and such additional information and explanations as the
Minister may require.
Immunity from suit.
17. (1) The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority, any one or more Gibraltar
Regulatory Authority members, any employees, officers or servants of the
Gibraltar Regulatory Authority, and any person to whom the powers of the
Gibraltar Regulatory Authority have been delegated, shall be immune from
suit in respect of any act or omission in the performance of the functions
conferred on the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority by this or any other Act
unless the act or omission is shown to have been in bad faith.
(2) Subsection (1) shall not apply to the discharge or purported
discharge by the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority of the powers and functions
conferred on it by paragraphs (a) to (e) of section 12(2).
(3) The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall (unless bad faith is
definitively found to have existed) indemnify any of its existing and former
members, officers or servants for the costs of defending any action brought
by a third party in respect of anything they are alleged to have done or
omitted in the discharge or purported discharge of any powers or functions
conferred on the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority or any of its members by
this or any other Act.
(4)

This section is without prejudice to section 21.

Restriction on execution.
18. No execution by attachment of property or process in the nature thereof
shall be issued against the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority.
Reporting requirement.

2000-17

2000-17

Gibraltar Regulatory Authority
19.(1) The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall prepare, within three
months after the end of each financial year, a report on its activities during
that year and shall submit each such report to the Minister within two weeks
after it has been finalised.
(2) The Minister shall lay before the Parliament each report referred to in
subsection (1).
Exemption from Income Tax.
20. The income of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority shall be exempt from
income tax under the Income Tax Act.
Confidentiality.
21.(1) A person who is or has been–
(a)

employed by the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority;

(b)

seconded to the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority;

(c)

appointed under section 3(2);

(d)

delegated functions under section 9;

(e)

contracted under paragraph (b) of section 12(2),

shall not disclose any information referred to in subsection (2).
(2) The information referred to in subsection (1) which is not to be
disclosed is any information which–
(a)

has been obtained by, or furnished to, the Gibraltar Regulatory
Authority under or for the purposes of this Act;

(b)

relates to an identified or identifiable individual or business; and

(c)

is not at the time of the disclosure, and has not previously been,
available to the public from other sources,

unless the disclosure is made with lawful authority.
(3) For the purposes of subsection (2) a disclosure of information is
made with lawful authority only if, and to the extent that–

Gibraltar Regulatory Authority
(a)

the disclosure is made with the consent of the individual
concerned or of the person for the time being carrying on the
business concerned;

(b)

the information was provided for the purpose of its being made
available to the public (in whatever manner) under a provision
of this Act;

(c)

the disclosure is made for the purposes of, and is necessary for,
the discharge of–
(i)

any functions under this Act; or

(ii)

any Community obligation;

(d)

the disclosure is made under an order made by the Minister
which provides for co-operation by the Gibraltar Regulatory
Authority with any one or more (and in connection with their
respective duties) of such persons, bodies or authorities as the
Minister shall consider appropriate;

(e)

the disclosure is made for the purposes of any legal
proceedings, whether criminal or civil and whether arising
under, or by virtue of, this Act or otherwise;

(f)

having regard to the rights and freedoms or legitimate interests
of any person, the disclosure is necessary in the public interest;
or

(g)

the disclosure is permitted under the Act which grants the
powers and assigns or confers the function pursuant to which
the information is obtained.

(4) A person who knowingly or recklessly discloses information in
contravention of subsection (1) is guilty of an offence and liable–
(a)

on conviction on indictment, to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding two years, or to a fine, or to both;

(b)

on summary conviction, to a fine of up to level 5 on the
standard scale.

Regulations.

2000-17

2000-17

Gibraltar Regulatory Authority
22.(1) The Minister may by regulation prescribe such matters as appear to
him to be reasonably necessary for, or consequential, supplementary or
incidental to, this Act.
(2) Regulations made under this Act may contain such transitional
provisions as appear to the Minister to be expedient for the purposes of this
Act.
(3) Any power conferred by this Act to make regulations includes power,
by subsequent regulations, to vary or revoke any regulations so made.
Petitioning the court for winding up.
23.(1) The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority (with the consent of the Minister)
may petition the Supreme Court for the winding up of a company
incorporated in Gibraltar which–
(a)

appears to the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority to be undertaking
business without an authorisation, licence, notification or
registration required for undertaking the business being carried
out; or

(b)

has had its licence, authorisation, recognition or registration
cancelled or suspended under the provision of any Act.

(2) The Gibraltar Regulatory Authority may not present a petition if the
Court is already winding up the company.
(3) Notwithstanding any provision in the Companies Act, the Court shall
wind up the company if it appears to the Court that the company has
undertaken or is undertaking business without an authorisation, licence,
notification or registration required for undertaking the business being or that
has been carried out.
Deregistration of Part IX companies.
24. The Minister may, at the request of the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority
direct the Registrar of Companies to deregister any Part IX companies
which–
(a)

appears to the Gibraltar Regulatory Authority to be undertaking
business without an authorisation, licence, notification or
registration covering the business being undertaken; or

(b)

has had its licence cancelled or suspended under the provision
of any Act.

