[

II- खÖड 3(i)]

ğ:

MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
(Department of Information Technology)
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, the 11th April, 2011
G.S.R. 313(E).—In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (ob) of subsection (2) of section 87 read with section 43A of the Information Technology Act,
2000 (21 of 2000), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules,
namely.-1. Short title and commencement — (1) These rules may be called the
Information Technology (Reasonable security practices and procedures and
sensitive personal data or information) Rules, 2011.
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official
Gazette.
2. Definitions — (1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,-(a) "Act" means the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000);
(b) "Biometrics" means the technologies that measure and analyse human body
characteristics, such as 'fingerprints', 'eye retinas and irises', 'voice patterns',
"facial patterns', 'hand measurements' and 'DNA' for authentication
purposes;
(c) "Body corporate" means the body corporate as defined in clause (i) of
explanation to section 43A of the Act;
(d) "Cyber incidents" means any real or suspected adverse event in relation to
cyber security that violates an explicitly or implicitly applicable security policy
resulting in

unauthorised

access,

denial

of

service

or

disruption,

unauthorised use of a computer resource for processing or storage of
information or changes to data, information without authorisation;
(e)

"Data" means data as defined in clause (o) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of
the Act;

(f)

"Information" means information as defined in clause (v) of sub-section (1) of
section 2 of the Act;

(g) "Intermediary" means an intermediary as defined in clause (w) of sub-section
(1) of section 2 of the Act;

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY
[ PART II-SEC. 3(i)]
(h) "Password" means a secret word or phrase or code or passphrase or secret key,

or encryption or decryption keys that one uses to gain admittance or access to
information;
(i)

"Personal information" means any information that relates to a natural person,
which, either directly or indirectly, in combination with other information available or
likely to be available with a body corporate, is capable of identifying such person.

(2) All other words and expressions used and not defined in these rules but defined in the
Act shall have the meanings respectively assigned to them in the Act.
3. Sensitive personal data or information.— Sensitive personal data or information of
a person means such personal information which consists of information relating to;—
(i)
password;
(ii)
financial information such as Bank account or credit card or debit card or
other payment instrument details ;
(iii)
physical, physiological and mental health condition;
(iv)
sexual orientation;
(v)
medical records and history;
(vi)
Biometric information;
(vii)
any detail relating to the above clauses as provided to body corporate for
providing service; and
(viii) any of the information received under above clauses by body corporate for
processing, stored or processed under lawful contract or otherwise:
provided that, any information that is freely available or accessible in public domain
or furnished under the Right to Information Act, 2005 or any other law for the time being in
force shall not be regarded as sensitive personal data or information for the purposes of
these rules.
4. Body corporate to provide policy for privacy and disclosure of information.— (1)
The body corporate or any person who on behalf of body corporate collects, receives,
possess, stores, deals or handle information of provider of information, shall provide a
privacy policy for handling of or dealing in personal information including sensitive
personal data or information and ensure that the same are available for view by such
providers of information who has provided such information under lawful contract. Such
policy shall be published on website of body corporate or any person on its behalf and
shall provide for—
(i) Clear and easily accessible statements of its practices and policies;
(ii) type of personal or sensitive personal data or information collected under rule 3;

II- खÖड 3(i)]

[

(iii)
(iv)
(v)

ğ :

purpose of collection and usage of such information;
disclosure of information including sensitive personal data or information as
provided in rule 6;
reasonable security practices and procedures as provided under rule 8.

5. Collection of information.— (1) Body corporate or any person on its behalf shall
obtain consent in writing through letter or Fax or email from the provider of the sensitive
personal data or information regarding purpose of usage before collection of such
information.
(2) Body corporate or any person on its behalf shall not collect sensitive
personal data or information unless —
(a) the information is collected for a lawful purpose connected with a function or
activity of the body corporate or any person on its behalf; and
(b) the collection of the sensitive personal data or information is considered
necessary for that purpose.
(3) While collecting information directly from the person concerned, the body
corporate or any person on its behalf snail take such steps as are, in the
circumstances, reasonable to ensure that the person concerned is having the
knowledge of —
(a) the fact that the information is being collected;
(b) the purpose for which the information is being collected;
(c) the intended recipients of the information; and
(d) the name and address of —
(i) the agency that is collecting the information; and
(ii) the agency that will retain the information.
(4) Body corporate or any person on its behalf holding sensitive personal data
or information shall not retain that information for longer than is required for the
purposes for which the information may lawfully be used or is otherwise required under
any other law for the time being in force..
(5) The information collected shall be used for the purpose for which it has
been collected.
(6) Body corporate or any person on its behalf permit the providers of
information, as and when requested by them, to review the information they had
provided and ensure that any personal information or sensitive personal data or
information found to be inaccurate or deficient shall be corrected or amended as
feasible:
Provided that a body corporate shall not be responsible for the authenticity of the
personal information or sensitive personal data or information supplied by
1330 GI/11-2A

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY

[ PART II-SEC. 3(i)]

the provider of information to such boy corporate or any other person acting on
behalf of such body corporate.
(7) Body corporate or any person on its behalf shall, prior to the collection of
information including sensitive personal data or information, provide an option to the
provider of the information to not to provide the data or information sought to be
collected. The provider of information shall, at any time while availing the services or
otherwise, also have an option to withdraw its consent given earlier to the body
corporate. Such withdrawal of the consent shall be sent in writing to the body
corporate. In the case of provider of information not providing or later on withdrawing
his consent, the body corporate shall have the option not to provide goods or
services for which the said information was sought.
(8) Body corporate or any person on its behalf shall keep the information secure
as provided in rule 8.
(9) Body corporate shall address any discrepancies and grievances of their
provider of the information with respect to processing of information in a time bound
manner. For this purpose, the body corporate shall designate a Grievance Officer and
publish his name and contact details on its website. The Grievance Officer shall redress
the grievances or provider of information expeditiously but within one month ' from the
date of receipt of grievance.
6. Disclosure of information.— (1) Disclosure of sensitive personal data or information
by body corporate to any third party shall require prior permission from the provider of
such information, who has provided such information under lawful contract or otherwise,
unless such disclosure has been agreed to in the contract between the body corporate
and provider of information, or where the disclosure is necessary for compliance of a
legal obligation:
Provided that the information shall be shared, without obtaining prior
consent from provider of information, with Government agencies mandated under the
law to obtain information including sensitive personal data or information for the
purpose of verification of identity, or for prevention, detection, investigation including
cyber incidents, prosecution, and punishment of offences. The Government agency
shall send a request in writing to the body corporate possessing the sensitive personal
data or information stating clearly the purpose of seeking such information. The
Government agency shall also state that the information so obtained shall not be
published or shared with any other person.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contain in sub-rule (1), any sensitive personal
data on Information shall be disclosed to any third party by an order under the law for
the time being in force.
1330 GI/11-2B

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY

[ PART II-SEC. 3(i)]

(3) The body corporate or any person on its behalf shall not publish the
sensitive personal data or information.
(4) The third party receiving the sensitive personal data or information from body
corporate or any person on its behalf under sub-rule (1) shall not disclose it further.
7. Transfer of information.-A body corporate or any person on its behalf may transfer
sensitive personal data or information including any information, to any other body corporate or a
person in India, or located in any other country, that ensures the same level of data protection that
is adhered to by the body corporate as provided for under these Rules. The transfer may be
allowed only if it is necessary for the performance of the lawful contract between the body
corporate or any person on its behalf and provider of information or where such person has
consented to data transfer.
8. Reasonable Security Practices and Procedures.— (1) A body corporate or a person on its
behalf shall be considered to have complied with reasonable security practices and procedures, if
they have implemented such security practices and standards and have a comprehensive
documented information security programme and information security policies that contain
managerial, technical, operational and physical security control measures that are commensurate
with the information assets being protected with the nature of business. In the event of an
information security breach, the body corporate or a person on its behalf shall be required to
demonstrate, as and when called upon to do so by the agency mandated under the law, that
they have implemented security control measures as per their documented information security
programme and information security policies.
(2) The international Standard IS/ISO/IEC 27001 on "Information Technology - Security
Techniques - Information Security Management System - Requirements" is one such standard
referred to in sub-rule (1).
(3) Any industry association or an entity formed by such an association, whose members are selfregulating by following other than IS/ISO/IEC codes of best practices for data protection as per
sub-rule(1), shall get its codes of best practices duly approved and notified by the Central
Government for effective implementation.
(4) The body corporate or a person on its behalf who have implemented either IS/ISO/IEC
27001 standard or the codes of best practices for data protection as approved and notified under
sub-rule (3) shall be deemed to have complied with reasonable security practices and
procedures provided that such standard or the codes of best practices have been certified or
audited on a regular basis by entities through independent auditor, duly approved by the Central
Government. The audit of reasonable security practices and procedures shall be carried cut by an
auditor at least once a year or as and when the body corporate or a person on its behalf undertake
significant upgradation of its process and computer resource.
[F. No. 11(3)/2011-CLFE]
N. RAVI SHANKER, Jt. Secy.

Printed by the Manager, Government of India Press, Ring Road. Mayapuri. New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-1 I0054

