STS 251/88
MINISTRY OF JUSTICE - Statutory Notice

THE PENAL-CODE
WITH AMENDMENTS

THIRD EDITION

1

NO (111) 1969
PENAL CODE
In the name of the people
The Presidency
Based on the provisions of the fiftieth article of the
temporary constitution and derived from the submissions. of the
minister of Justice and what has been approved by the council of
ministers and ratified by the Revolutionary Command Council.
The Code attests the following:
PART ONE
General Principles
CHAPTER ONE
Penal Legislation
SECTION ONE
The Legality of crime and punishment
Paragraph 1 - There is only punishment of an act or
omission based on a law which stipulates that it is a criminal
offence at the time it is committed. No penalty or precautionary
measure that is not prescribed by law may be imposed.
SECTION TWO
Extent of the application of the Penal Code
SUB-SECTION ONE
Application of the law in respect of time
Paragraph 2 - (1) The occurrence and consequences of an
offence are determined in accordance with the law in force-at
the time of its commission and the time of commission is
determined by reference to the time at which the criminal act
occurs and not by reference to the time when the consequence of
the offence is realized:
(2) However, if one or more laws are enacted after an
offence has been committed and before final judgment is given,
then the law that is most favorable to the convicted person is
applied.
(3) If a law is enacted after final judgment is given and
that law decriminalizes the act or omission for which the
defendant has been convicted, the sentence shall be quashed and

2

the penal consequences of the sentence shall become void. This
does not under any circumstances prejudice any sentence
previously served as long as the new law does not stipulate to
the contrary. The court that originally imposed the sentence
must order that the sentence be quashed at the request of the
convicted person or the public prosecutor.
(4) If the new law merely reduces the severity of the
punishment, the court which originally passed the sentence may,
on the application of the convicted person or the public
prosecutor, review the sentence imposed in the light of the
provisions of the new law.
Paragraph 3 - If a law is enacted which criminalizes an
act, or increases the severity of the penalty prescribed for
that act for a specified period, then the expiry of that period
will not prevent the sentence from being carried out nor will it
prevent an action being brought in respect of offences committed
during that period.
Paragraph 4 - The new law applies to continuous or
consecutive offences committed before it is enacted or to
habitual offences which continue to be committed after that law
is enacted and, if the provisions of the new law dealing with
reoffending or multiple offences are amended then it will apply
to any offence by which the defendant becomes a reoffender or
multiple offender even though they are in respect of offences
carried out before the law is enacted.
Paragraph 5 - Precautionary measures are only imposed in
the circumstances and under the conditions that` are stipulated
by law.. Provisions relating to penalties apply to precautionary
measures because they are not retroactive and because the law
that is most favorable to the defendant is applied.

SUB-SECTION TWO
Application of the law in respect of place
1. Territorial jurisdiction
Paragraph 6 - The provisions of this Code are enforceable
in respect of offences committed in Iraq. An offence is
considered to have been committed in Iraq if a criminal act is
committed there or if the consequence of that act is realized or
is intended to be realized there. In all circumstances, the law
applies to all parties to the offence of which all or part
occurs in Iraq even though any of those parties are abroad at

3

the time and regardless of whether he is a principal or
accessory to the offence.
Paragraph 7 - Iraq's regional jurisdiction includes the
territory of the Republic of Iraq and all areas under its
control including its coastal waters and airspace as well as any
foreign territory occupied by the Iraqi army in so far as any
offence affects the security or interests of the army.
Iraqi ships and aircraft are subject to the territorial
jurisdiction of the Republic of Iraq wherever they may be.
Paragraph 8 - This Code is not applicable to offences
committed on foreign ships in Iraqi ports or coastal waters
unless the offence affects the security of the region or the
offender or victim is Iraqi or if assistance is requested from
the Iraqi authorities. The Code is not applicable to offences
committed on board foreign aircraft in Iraqi airspace unless the
aircraft lands in Iraq after the offence has been committed or
unless it affects the security of Iraq or the offender or victim
is an Iraqi or assistance is requested from the Iraqi
authorities.
2.

Material Jurisdiction

Paragraph 9 - This Code is applicable to any person who
commits the following offences outside Iraq:
(1) An offence that affects the internal or external
security of the State or that is against the Republican regime
or its legally issued bonds or stamps or the forging of official
banknotes.
(2) The forging, counterfeiting or imitation of notes or
coins that are in circulation legally or through common use in
Iraq or abroad.
3. Personal jurisdiction
Paragraph 10 - Any Iraqi citizen who commits an act abroad
and does so as principal or accessory to an offence that is
considered a felony or misdemeanor under the provision of this
code is punishable in accordance with its provisions if he is
now in Iraq and if the offence is punishable under the laws of
the land in which it is committed.
This provision is applicable whether or not the offender
has obtained Iraqi citizenship after the commission of the
offence or whether he had Iraqi citizenship after the offence
was committed and subsequently lost that citizenship.

4

Paragraph 11 - This Code is not applicable to offences that
are committed in Iraq by persons who benefit from statutory
protection under the terms of international agreements or
international or domestic law.
Paragraph 12 - (1) This Code is applicable to any public
official or agent of the Republic of Iraq who commits abroad a
felony or misdemeanor stipulated by this Code in the course of
his duty or as a consequence thereof.
(2) It is also applicable to Iraqi diplomats who commit
abroad a felony or misdemeanor stipulated by this Code while
enjoying the protection conferred upon them in accordance with
international law.
4. Universal jurisdiction
Paragraph 13 - In circumstances other than those stipulated
in paragraphs 9, 10 and 11, the provisions of this Code are
applicable to all those who enter Iraq subsequent to committing
an offence abroad whether as principals or accessories to the
following offences:
Destroying or causing damage to international means of
communications or trading in women, children, slaves or drugs.
Paragraph 14 - (1) No legal proceedings may be brought
against any person who commits an offence outside Iraq except by
permission of the Minister of Justice. Such person cannot be
tried if a final judgment to acquit or convict him has already
been given by a foreign court and any sentence imposed on him as
a result of that trial has been served in full or if the
relevant proceedings or such sentence has been annulled or
quashed in accordance with applicable law and the final sentence
or annulment of his trial or quashing of his sentence falls
within the jurisdiction of the law of the land in which the
judgment was given.
(2) If the penalty imposed is not served in full or if a
verdict of not guilty is given in respect of an offence
stipulated in Paragraphs 9 and 12 arising from the fact that the
offence is not punishable under the law of that land, then legal
proceedings may be brought against the accused in Iraqi courts.
Paragraph 15 - When the sentence imposed on the convicted
person has been served, the length of time he has spent in
detention or prison abroad for the offence for which he was
convicted, will be taken into consideration.

5

CHAPTER TWO
General Principles and definitions
Paragraph 16 - (1) The provisions in PART ONE of this Code
are applicable in respect of offences prescribed in other penal
laws and regulations unless stipulated to the contrary.
(2) By final judgment is meant in this code all judgments
in respect of which all statutory aspects of an appeal have been
exhausted or the time limits for an appeal against that judgment
have expired.
Paragraph 17 - The provisions of this Code do not apply to
liabilities for damages or compensation.
Paragraph 18 - The prescribed periods in this Code are
calculated in accordance with the Gregorian Calendar.
Paragraph 19 - In applying the provisions of this Code or
any other penal code, the following definitions are used, unless
stipulated to the contrary:
(1) A citizen - is a subject of the Republic of Iraq and,
if he has no nationality, he is considered to be a citizen if he
is resident in Iraq.
(2) A public official is any official, employee or worker
who is entrusted with a public task in the service of the
government or its official or semi-official agencies or agencies
belonging to it or placed under its control.. This includes the
Prime Minister, his deputies and ministers and the members of
representative, administrative and municipal councils. It also
includes arbitrators, experts, creditors’ agents (corporate
representatives), official. receivers, sequestrators, members of
boards of directors, directors and employees of foundations,
companies, corporations, organizations and institutions .in
which the government or any of its official or semi-official
agencies has a financial interest in any capacity whatsoever. In
general, he is any person who works in the public service either
paid or unpaid.
When a criminal act is committed by a public official in
any of the capacities set out in this Sub-Paragraph, then the
fact that he is no longer carrying out his employment, service
or work does not prevent the provision of this Code being
applied in respect of that public official.
(3) Publication - methods of publication are considered to
be:
(a) acts, gestures or movements if they occur on a public
highway, during a public gathering or in a place that
is open to the public and much frequented and exposed

6

(b)

(c)
(d)

to the public view or if they occur so that they can
be witnessed by any person in such place or if they
are transmitted by some mechanical. means.
A spoken or shouted remark if it is announced or
repeated in any of those places mentioned or if it is
announced or repeated in such a way that it can be
heard by any person in such places or if it is
broadcast by mechanical or other means so that. it can
be heard by any person who is not connected in any way
with the remark.
Newspapers and other printed matter as well as other
means of propaganda and publication.
A writing, drawing, picture, sign or film or anything
similar if it is displayed in one of the places
mentioned or if it is distributed or sold to more than
one person or offered for sale anywhere.

(4) An act is any criminal behavior prohibited by law
whether or not it is positive or negative such as negligence or
omission, unless stipulated to the contrary.

CHAPTER THREE
The Criminal Offence
SECTION ONE
The nature of criminal offences
Paragraph 20 – The nature of criminal offences is either
ordinary or political.
Paragraph 21 – (1) A political offence is one which is
committed with a political motive or which violates the
political rights either of the public or of the individual. All
other offences are considered to be ordinary.
However, the following offences are not considered to be
political even though they are committed with a political
motive:
(a) Offences that are committed with a selfish or base
motive.
(b) Offences affecting the external security of the State.
(c) Murder and attempted murder.
(d) Attempts on the life of the Head of State.
(e) Terrorist offences.
(f) Dishonorable offences such as theft, embezzlement,
forgery, breach of trust, fraud, bribery and rape.

7

(2) If the court considers the offence to be political, it
must show that in its judgment.
Paragraph 22 - (1) Life imprisonment replaces the death
sentence for political offences.
(2) On conviction for a political offence, any penalty
imposed for a previous political offence is not taken into
consideration nor is there a subsequent toss of civil rights or
privileges nor is the convicted person prevented from managing
and disposing of his assets.

SECTION TWO
The categories of criminal offences
Paragraph 23 - There are three categories of criminal
offence: felony, misdemeanor and infraction. The type of offence
determines the severity of the penalty prescribed by the Code.
If the penalty for any offence involves both detention and a
fine, then the category of that offence will determine the
extent of the period of detention prescribed by the Code.
Paragraph 24 - The category of the offence is not altered
if the Court substitutes the prescribed penalty for the penalty
for a lesser type of offence whether or not it is due to a
mitigating excuse or an extenuating legal circumstance, unless
otherwise stipulated by law.
Paragraph 25 - A felony is an offence punishable by one of
the following penalties:
(1) Death.
(2) Life imprisonment.
(3) 5 to 15 years imprisonment (i 1 )
Paragraph 26 - A misdemeanor is an offence punishable by
one of the following penalties:
(1) Detention with hard labor or ordinary detention for a
period of between 3 months and 5 years.
(2) A fine.
Paragraph 27 - An infraction is an offence punishable by
one of the following penalties:
(1) Detention for a period of between 24 hours and 3
months.
(i) As amended in accordance with Paragraph 1 of Law No 207
(1970) published in Al-Waqai’ Al-Iraqiya.

8

(2) A fine not exceeding 30 dinars.

SECTION THREE
Elements of a crime
SUB-SECTION 1
The physical element
1.

Basic principles

Paragraph 28 - The physical element of an offence is the
criminal behavior involved in the commission of a criminal act
stipulated by the Code or failure to carry out an act stipulated
by the Code.
Paragraph 29 - (1) A person is not responsible for an
offence that did not result from his criminal behavior but he is
responsible for that offence if, together with his criminal
behavior, some other prior, contemporaneous or subsequent cause,
even though he was unaware of it, played a part in its
commission.
(2) However, if that cause alone is sufficient to effect
the consequence of the offence, then the offender in this case
is only responsible for the act that he has committed.
2. An attempt to commit an offence
Paragraph 30 - This is the initiation of an act with intent
to commit a felony or misdemeanor which is prevented or
frustrated for reasons unrelated to the intentions of the
offender.
An attempt to commit an offence is considered to include
all acts that are impossible to carry out and which are
attempted with intent to commit a felony or misdemeanor whether
or not it is for a reason relating to the object of the offence
or to the means by which it is committed as long as the offender
does not believe as a .result of misconception or total
ignorance that it is within his power to achieve the result of
the offence. Merely the intention to commit an offence or
preparations to do so are not considered an attempt unless
otherwise stipulated by law.
Paragraph 31 - Attempted felonies or misdemeanors are
punishable by the following penalties unless otherwise
stipulated by law.
(1) Life imprisonment if the prescribed penalty for the

9

offence is death.
(2) Imprisonment for a term not exceeding 15 years if the
prescribed penalty for the offence is life imprisonment.
(3) Imprisonment for a term not exceeding half the maximum
penalty prescribed for the offence if the penalty is
imprisonment for a term of years. If half the maximum penalty
is 5 years or less, then the penalty in that case shall be a
period not exceeding half the maximum penalty prescribed for the
offence.
(4) A period of detention or n fine not exceeding half the
maximum penalty prescribed for the offence.
Paragraph 32 - Provisions relating to incidental or
supplemental penalties and precautionary measures prescribed for
offences committed are applicable to attempted offences.

SUB-SECTION TWO
The Mental Element
Criminal intent and mistake
Paragraph 33 - (1) Criminal intent is the existence in the
mind of the offender of an intention to commit the criminal act
with a view to realizing the consequence of the offence that has
occurred or any other criminal consequence.
(2) Intent maybe simple or premeditated.
(3) Premeditation is the resolute contemplation of the
commission of an offence before it is committed and is far
removed from an outburst of jealous rage or mental turmoil.
(4) Premeditation can be established whether or not the
intent of the offender is directed towards a specific person or
merely a person he has met ox encountered or whether the intent
is dependant on something happening or on some condition.
Paragraph 34 - An offence is premeditated if the offender
has, criminal intent. An offence is therefore considered to be
premeditated if:
(1) It is prohibited by law or by an agreement binding upon
a person and he fails to act in accordance with that law or
agreement, intending to commit the offence that results directly
from such omission.
(2) If the offender foresees the criminal consequence of
his action and embarks on that course of action, accepting the
risk involved.

10

Paragraph 35 - An offence is not premeditated if the
criminal consequence occurs as a result of a mistake on the part
of the offender whether or not such mistake is due to
negligence, thoughtlessness, lack of due care and attention or
lack of consideration for any law, rule or regulation.
Paragraph 36 - If the offender is unaware of the existence
of an aggravating circumstance which changes the nature of the
offence, then he is not responsible for it but can benefit from
that excuse even though he is unaware of it.
Paragraph 37 - (1) No person can plead ignorance of the
provisions of this Code or any other penal code as long as it
was not possible by reason of an act of God for him to be aware
of the code under which the offence is punishable.
(2) The Court has the right to exempt an alien from the
penalty for an offence that he commits within a maximum of 7
days following the date of his arrival in Iraq if his ignorance
of the Code is established and if the offence is not punishable
by law in his country of residence.
Paragraph 38 The motive for the commission of an offence
is not taken into consideration unless otherwise stipulated by
law.

SECTION FOUR
Justification
1.

Performance of a duty

Paragraph 39 - There is no crime if the act occurs in
performance of a duty prescribed by the Code.
Paragraph 40 - There is no crime if the act is committed by
a public official or agent in the following circumstances:
(1) If he commits the act in good faith in the performance
of his legal duty or if he considers that carrying it out is
within his jurisdiction.
(2) If he commits the act in performance of an order from a
superior which he is obliged to obey or which he feels he is
obliged to obey. It must be established in these circumstances
that the belief of the offender in the legitimacy of the act is
reasonable and that he committed the act only after taking
suitable precautions. Moreover, there is no penalty in the
second instance if the Code does not afford the official an
opportunity to question the order issued to him.

11

2. Exercising a legal right
Paragraph 41 - There is no crime if the act is committed
while exercising a legal right. The following are considered to
be in exercise of a legal right:
(1) The punishment of a wife by her husband, the
disciplining by parents and teachers of children under their
authority within certain limits prescribed by law or by custom.
(2) A surgical operation or professional treatment when it
is carried out with the consent of the patient or his legal
representative or without their consent in cases of emergency.
(3) An act of violence during the course of a sporting
event when the rules of that sport have been complied with:
(4) An act of violence committed against any person caught
in the act of committing a felony or misdemeanor with a view to
apprehending him.
3. The right of legal defense
Paragraph 42 - There is no crime if the act is committed
while exercising a right of legal defense.
This right exists if the following conditions apply:
(1) If a person defends himself and his property against
the . threat of a criminal act or reasonably believes that such
threat exists.
(2) If he is unable to take refuge with the public
authorities in order to protect himself from such threat at the
appropriate time.
(3) If he has no other means with which to ward off such
threat. In exercising this right, it makes no difference that
the threat of danger is directed towards the life and property
of the person concerned or towards the life and property of
others.
Paragraph 43 - The right of legal self-defense does not
permit murder unless it is intended that one of the following
situations is to be avoided:
(1)An act as a result of which it is reasonably feared that
death or serious injury may occur.
(2) Rape or buggery of a man or woman against his or her
will.
(3) Kidnapping.

12

Paragraph 44 - The right of legal defense of property does
not permit murder unless it is intended that one of the
following situations is to be avoided:
(1) Arson.
(2) Theft.
(3) Entering at night a residential building or part
thereof.
(4) An act as a result of which it is reasonably feared
that death or injury may occur.
Paragraph 45 - The right of legal defense does not permit
the infliction of greater harm than is necessary and if the
person concerned oversteps the limits of that right either
deliberately or negligently or if he mistakenly thinks that he
is' in a situation of legal defense, then he will be responsible
for the offence he. commits. In this case, the court is only
permitted to impose the penalty for a misdemeanor rather than
that prescribed for a felony and the penalty for an infraction
rather than that prescribed for a misdemeanor.
Paragraph 46 - The right of legal defense does not permit
any person to resist a member of the public authorities in the
execution of his duties even though he has overstepped the
bounds of that duty while acting in good faith, unless it is
reasonably feared that death or serious injury will result.

SECTION FIVE
Parties to a crime
1. The principal and accessory
Paragraph 47 - The following are considered to be
principals to an offence:
(1) Any person who commits an offence by himself or with
others.
(2) Any person who participates in the commission of an
offence that consists of a number of acts and who willfully
carries out one of those acts during the commission of that
offence.
(3) Any person who incites another in any way to commit an
act contributing to an offence if that person is not in any way
criminally liable for the offence.
Paragraph 48 - The following are considered to be
accessories to an offence:

13

(1) Any person who incites another to commit an offence and
that offence is committed on the basis of such incitement.
(2) Any person who conspires with others to commit an
offence and that offence is committed on the basis of such
conspiracy.
(3) Any person who knowingly supplies the principal to an
offence with a weapon, instrument or anything else to commit an
offence or deliberately assists him in any other way to carry
out those acts for which he has received assistance.
Paragraph 49 - An accessory is considered to be a principal
to an offence under the provisions of Paragraph 48, if he is
present during the commission of that offence or any act
contributing to that offence.
Paragraph 50 - (1) Any person who participates in the
commission of an offence as principal or accessory is punishable
by the penalty prescribed for that offence unless otherwise
stipulated by law. .
(2) An accessory is punishable by the penalty prescribed by
law, even though the principal is not punishable due to lack of
criminal intent on his part or for other circumstances in
respect of him.
Paragraph 51 - If there exists material circumstances in
the offence that would by their nature increase or decrease the
penalty, then they will affect all parties to the offence,
principal or accessory, whether they are aware of those
circumstances or not.
If there are personal aggravating circumstances which
facilitated the commission of the offence, then they will not
affect any person other than the person concerned, unless that
other person is aware of them.
Any other circumstance will not affect the person
concerned, whether or not it is aggravating or extenuating.
Paragraph 52 - If there exists any personal defenses which
absolve one of the parties to an offence, whether as principal
or accessory, from the penalty or which reduce that penalty,
than it affects only the person concerned.
Any material defense that absolves a party to an offence
from the penalty or reduces that penalty will apply in respect
of all parties to the offence.

14

Paragraph 53 - A party to an offence, whether as principal
or accessory, is only punishable by the penalty for the offence
that has actually been committed even though he did not intend
to commit the offence, as long as the offence that is committed
is the probable consequence of his participation in it.
Paragraph 54 - If the intent of a party to an offence,
whether as principal or accessory, or if his knowledge of the
offence differs from the intent of the other parties to that
offence or the extent of their knowledge of it, then they will
each be punishable according to their intent or the extent of
their knowledge of the offence.
2.

Criminal Conspiracy

Paragraph 55 - A criminal conspiracy is considered to be an
agreement between two or more people to commit a felony or
misdemeanor such as theft, fraud or forgery, whether or not it
is a specified offence or arises out of acts that are aided and
abetted, even though that agreement is in the initial planning
stages or has been in existence only for a short time.
The agreement is considered to be a criminal one whether
the final objective is to commit an offence or to achieve a
legitimate aim by the commission of that offence.
Paragraph 56 - (1) Any member of a criminal conspiracy,
even though he did not attempt to commit the planned offence, is
punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years if
the planned offence is a felony or by a period of detention not
exceeding 2 years or a fine not exceeding 150 dinars if the
offence is a misdemeanor. This is as long as the law does not
stipulate a specific penalty for conspiracy.
(2) If the aim of the conspiracy is to commit a specified
offence for which the penalty is less than that stipulated in
the preceding Sub-Paragraph, then the penalty will not be
greater than one quarter of the maximum limit prescribed for
that offence.
Paragraph 57 - (1) Any person who attempts to set up a
criminal conspiracy or who plays a major part in it is
punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 10 years if
that offence is a felony and by a period of detention not
exceeding 3 years or a fine or both if the offence is a
misdemeanor.
(2) If the aim of the conspiracy is to commit a specified
offence and the penalty for that offence is less than that

15

stipulated in the previous Sub-Paragraph, then the penalty will
not be greater than one quarter of the maximum limit prescribed
for that offence.
Paragraph 58 - Any person who gives assistance to a
conspirator or facilitates the meetings of a group of
conspirators or gives them shelter or helps them in any way
knowing the aim of the conspiracy is punishable by the penalty
prescribed in Paragraph 56.
Paragraph 59 - Any person is exempted from the penalties
prescribed in Paragraphs 56, 57 and 58 if he promptly notifies
the public authorities of the existence of a criminal conspiracy
and of the participants before any offence is committed as a
result of that conspiracy and before those authorities have
begun to investigate the conspirators.
If the authorities are notified after they have begun their
investigations, then he is not exempted from the penalty unless
the information leads to the arrest of the conspirators.

CHAPTER FOUR
The Criminal.
SECTION ONE
Criminal liability and exemptions from it
1.

Loss of reason and volition .

Paragraph 60 - Any person who, at the time of the
commission of the offence, is suffering from a loss of reason or
volition due to insanity or infirmity of mind or because he is
in a state of intoxication or under the influence of drugs
resulting from the consumption of intoxicating or narcotic
substances given to him against his will or without his
knowledge or due to any other reason which leads one to believe
that he has lost his reason or volition is not criminally
liable. However, if he is not suffering from any infirmity of
mind nor is under the influence of intoxicating, narcotic or
other substances but only from a defect of reason or volition at
the time of the commission of the offence, then it is considered
a mitigating circumstance.

16

Paragraph 61 (i 2 ) If the offender is suffering from a loss
of reason or volition induced by intoxicating or narcotic
substances acquired knowingly and of his own free will, he is
punishable for the offence that is committed if there is a
specific intent and if that offence would have been committed
without the use of intoxicating or narcotic substances. If the
alcohol or drugs are acquired knowingly with a view to
committing that offence, then it is considered on aggravating
circumstance.
2.

Compulsion

Paragraph 62 - Any person who is compelled to commit an
offence by force or under threat so that he is unable to resist
is not criminally liable.
3.

Necessity

Paragraph 63 - Any person who commits an offence out of the
necessity to protect himself or others or his property or the
property of others from a significant or imminent danger and who
had not himself deliberately caused that danger and has no power
to prevent it by any other means is not criminally liable
provided that the act contributing to the offence is
proportionate to the danger from which he is protecting himself.
Any person who is required by law to confront that danger is not
considered to be acting out of necessity.
4. Age
Paragraph 64 Criminal proceedings can not be brought
against any person who is under 7 years of age at the time of
committing an offence.
Paragraph 65 The age of a person should be officially
recorded but the chief investigator or the court may ignore that
official record if it is not in keeping with the juvenile's
appearance. They may also submit him to a medical examination in
order to establish his age by radiative, laboratory or other
scientific means.

(i) Decision No 1477 of the RCC issued on 15 September 1980 and
published in Al Waqai' A1'Iraqiya. No 2799 on 29 September 1980 (see
page 254) states that, if the offender, who his obtained alcoholic
liquor of his own free will, commits an offence, it is not considered
a mitigating circumstance that calls for leniency.

17

5.

The liability of juveniles (i 3 )

Paragraph 66 A juvenile is considered to be any person who
commits an offence while between the ages of 7 and 18.
If the juvenile is under the age of 15 at the time of
committing the offence, he is considered to be a child but, if
he is between the ages of 15 and 18, he is considered to be a
young person.
Paragraph 67 If a juvenile commits an infraction, he
should be cautioned in court rather than punished in accordance
with the law or he should be handed over to one of his parents,
legal guardians or foster parents with a warning to the latter
to insure the juvenile's good behavior or he should be fined
whatever the penalty prescribed by law for an infraction may be.
Paragraph 68 - If a child commits a misdemeanor, he should,
instead of being punished in accordance with the law, be handed
over to one of those people mentioned in Paragraph 67, if he
undertakes in writing to insure the child's good behavior. The
period for this should not be less than 6 months and should not
exceed 3 years from the date of the ruling. He may also be
confined in a reform school for a period of not less than 6
months and not exceeding 3 years or he may be fined whatever the
penalty prescribed by law may be.
Paragraph 69 - If a young person commits a misdemeanor, he
should, instead of being punished in accordance with the law, be
ordered to undergo one of those measures set out in Paragraph 68
or be confined in a school for young offenders for a period of
not more than 3 years or fined, whatever the penalty prescribed
by law for that misdemeanor may be.
Paragraph 70 - If a juvenile commits a felony or
misdemeanor during the period when he is in the care of .one of
the persons mentioned in Paragraph 68, that person who has
undertaken to insure the juvenile's good behavior, should stand
bail for a sum not exceeding 50 dinars if the offence is a
misdemeanor.
Paragraph 71 - The provision ceases to apply when the,
juvenile reaches the age of 18.

(i) Paragraph 70 of the Juveniles' Code No 64 (1,962) states that:
"Provisions relating to juveniles referred to in the Penal Code and
the Code of Penal Procedure which conflict with the provisions of this
Code are not enforceable in such places where they apply."

18

Paragraph 72 - If a child commits a felony, he shall be
sentenced to confinement in a reform school for a period of not
less than 2 years but not exceeding 5 years if the felony is
punishable by the death sentence or life imprisonment and a
period of not less than 1 year but not exceeding 4 years if the
felony is punishable by imprisonment for a term of years.
Paragraph 73 - (1) If a young person commits a felony, he.
shall be confined in a school for young offenders, for a period
of not less than 2 years but not exceeding 15 years if that
felony is punishable by the death sentence or life imprisonment.
(2) He shall be confined in a school for young offenders
for a period of not less than 1 year but not exceeding half the
maximum penalty prescribed for that felony if the penalty is
imprisonment for a term of years. The Court may sentence a young
person to confinement in a reform school for a period of not
less than 1 year but not exceeding half the maximum penalty
prescribed by law for that felony if the penalty for that felony
is less than 10 years. However, the period of confinement in
such reform school will not, under any circumstances, exceed 5
years.
Paragraph 74 - (1) The age of a juvenile at the time of the
commission of an offence should be the basis for establishing
his liability.
(2) If a child commits an offence and, at the time of
sentencing, has become a young person, then he will be sentenced
for the offence as if he was a child. The Court may also
substitute a period of confinement in a reform school for the
prescribed period of confinement in a school for young
offenders.
(3) If a juvenile commits an offence and he has reached the
age of 18 at the time of sentencing, he will receive the penalty
prescribed for that offence as if he was a juvenile but the
court may substitute a period of confinement in a reform school,
as with the case of a child, for a period of confinement in a
school for offenders. A period of confinement in a school for
young offenders may also be substituted for a term of
imprisonment if the offence committed is a felony, or detention,
if the offence committed is a misdemeanor, for a period equal to
that which can be imposed for the commission of that offence.
Other penalties prescribed by law may be substituted for a fine
not exceeding 5o dinars.
(4) If a child confined in a reform school reaches the age
of 18, he must be transferred from there to a school for young
offenders to serve the rest of his sentence. If any person who
is held in a school for young offenders reaches the age of 30,

19

he must be transferred to a prison to serve the rest of his
sentence.
Paragraph 75 - if a juvenile is accused of the commission
of more than one offence, he may be tried for all those offences
at one time, for which one sentence may he passed. However, the
court should take into consideration the offence that carries
the severest penalty and pass sentence accordingly.
Paragraph 76 - (1) The sentencing of a juvenile to a period
of confinement in a reform school or a school for young
offenders, does not prevent him from being sentenced for a
second time.
(2) If the sentence includes more than one period of
confinement then the total period must not exceed 5 years in a
reform school or 15 years in a school for young offenders.
Paragraph 77 - (1) If a juvenile, who has been sentenced to
a period of confinement in a reform school or a school for young
offenders, has completed two thirds of his sentence, the court
that has passed that sentence may, on the application of the
juvenile, one of his parents, legal guardians or foster parents
and after examining a report from the director of the school in
which he is confined or on the application of the public
prosecutor, order the release of that juvenile, if it is clear
that his behavior has improved. However, he must be placed in
the care of one of the above mentioned persons after they have
undertaken to abide by the provisions of Paragraphs 67 if the
juvenile has not yet reached the age of 18. If he has reached
the age of 18, he must undertake to be on good behavior for the
rest of the period of his sentence.
(2) If the juvenile commits a premeditated felony or
misdemeanor during the remainder of his sentence, a court may
decide to return him to a reform school or school for young
offenders to complete the rest of his sentence but the period he
has spent at liberty will not, in this circumstance, be taken
into consideration.
(3) If the juvenile completes the rest of his sentence
without committing a premeditated felony or misdemeanor, he will
be released at the end of that period.
Paragraph 78 - The provisions relating to reoffending are
not applicable to a juvenile nor is he subject to incidental or
supplemental penalties or precautionary measures other than
confiscation, closure of business or disbarment. If a juvenile
is fined, then a period of detention is not permitted in
discharge of that fine but the fine must be paid by him or, if

20

that is not possible, it must be settled out of what he
possesses.
Paragraph 79 - No person between the ages of 18 and 20 at
the time of committing an offence can be sentenced to death. In
such a case, he will receive life imprisonment instead of the
death sentence.

SECTION TWO
The liability of corporate bodies
Paragraph 80 - Corporate bodies other than the government
and its official and semiofficial agencies are criminally liable
for offences committed by their employees, directors or agents
working for them or on their behalf. Such bodies may only be
sentenced to a fine, confiscation or such precautionary measures
as are prescribed by law for that offence. However, if the law
prescribes a specific penalty for that offence other than a
fine, then it maybe substituted for a fine but that does not
prevent the offender himself from being punished by the
penalties prescribed by law for that offence.

SECTION THREE
Liability in offences of publication
Paragraph 81 - Without prejudice to the. criminal liability
of an author or illustrator of a book or other means of
expression, the editor in chief of a newspaper is punishable in
his capacity as. principal to an offence committed by means of
that newspaper. if there is no editor in chief, then the editor
in charge of the department responsible for the publication is
liable. However, either of them may be absolved from the penalty
if he can establish, during the investigation that the
publication, had occurred without his knowledge and if he
provides all the information and documentation available to him
that will assist in the identification of the person
responsible.
Paragraph 82 - If the writing or drawing or other form of
expression used in the commission of an offence is produced or
published outside Iraq or if it is impossible to identify the
offender then the importer or printer of such material is
punishable as principal to the offence. If that is not possible,
then the purveyor, distributor or billposter is punishable as
long as it is clear from the circumstances of the case that he

21

was in a position to know the content of the writing, drawing
or. other form of expression.
Paragraph 83 - No person is absolved from the criminal
liability of publication offences even though the writing,
drawing or other form of expression is a quotation from or
translation of publications that are issued in Iraq or abroad or
if they are merely rumors or stories propagated by others. This
provision is not applicable if the publication quotes official
government publications.
Paragraph 84 - If a felony or misdemeanor is committed by
any section of the media, the chief investigator or the court,
before which the case is heard, may, on the application of the
public prosecutor, order the seizure of all writings, drawings
or other forms of expression which have been prepared for sale,
distribution or display or which have already been sold,
distributed or displayed, including originals posters, tapes,
films or anything else. The court may, when a conviction has
been obtained in the case, order the confiscation of the
materials that have been seized. It may also order the verdict
or a summary of the verdict to be printed in a newspaper or, at
most, two newspapers at the expense of the convicted party.
The court may also, if the offence has been committed by
means of a publication in a newspaper, order, on the application
of the public prosecutor or the aggrieved party, that the
verdict or a summary of the verdict be printed in the same part
of that newspaper a period to be fixed by the court. If this is
not done, then the editor in chief or whoever is responsible for
publication in the absence of the editor in chief is punishable
by a fine not exceeding 100 dinars. If a conviction is obtained
for a felony committed by means of a newspaper, the court may
close down that newspaper for a period not exceeding 3 months.

CHAPTER FIVE
The penalty
SECTION ONE
Primary penalties'
Paragraph 85 - The primary penalties are:
1.
2.
3.
4.

Death penalty
Life imprisonment
Imprisonment for a term of years
Penal servitude

22

5.
6.
7.
8.

Detention
A fine
Confinement in a school for young offenders
Confinement in a reform school.

Paragraph 86 - The death penalty is the hanging of the
condemned person by the neck until he is dead.
Paragraph 87 - Imprisonment is the confinement of the
convicted person in a penal institution set up by law for that
purpose for a period of 20 years if for life imprisonment or for
such periods as are prescribed by the sentence if for
imprisonment for a term of years. Imprisonment for a term of
years is more than 5 years but less than 15 years unless
otherwise stipulated by law. The total period of deprivation of
liberty may not exceed 25 years under any circumstances and if
the code stipulates imprisonment then it is to be considered as
imprisonment for a term of years.
Any person sentenced to life imprisonment or imprisonment
for a term of years may be put to work in accordance with the
Penal Institutions Code (i 4 ).
Paragraph 88 - Penal servitude is the confinement of the
convicted person in a penal institution set up by law for that
purpose for a period stipulated by the sentence. This period
should not be less than 3 months and should not exceed 5 years
unless otherwise stipulated by law. The court must pass a
sentence of penal servitude. whenever that period of detention
is more than 1 year. Any person sentenced to penal servitude is
to be put to work as stipulated by law in respect of penal
institutions.
Paragraph 89 - Detention is the confinement of the
convicted person to a penal institution set up by law for that
purpose for the period stipulated by the sentence. This period
should not be less than 24 hours and should not exceed 1 year
unless otherwise stipulated by law. The convicted person should
not be put to work in any way.
Paragraph 90 - The period during which a person is deprived
of his liberty runs from the day on which the convicted person
is confined in a prison to serve his prescribed sentence but the
period which he spends in detention following the offence .for
which he is later convicted is deducted from the period of his
sentence.
(i) As amended by Paragraph 3 of Law No 207 (1970).

23

Paragraph 91 - A fine is the compulsion of the convicted
person to pay to the Public Treasury a sum of money prescribed
by the sentence. The court should take into account, while
considering the amount of the fine, the financial and social
circumstances of the convicted person, what he gained or
expected to gain from the offence, the circumstances of the
offence and the condition of the victim. The amount of the fine
should not be less than half a dinar and should not exceed 500
dinars unless otherwise stipulated by law.
Paragraph 92 - (1) If a fine is imposed on a number of
convicted persons for the commission of a single offence whether
they are principals or accessories, then the fine is imposed on
each of them individually unless the fine is apportioned among
them.
(2) A proportionate fine is imposed in addition to a
primary penalty according to the damage inflicted as a result of
the offence or the benefit realized or intended to be realized
by the offender. If there is a number of persons convicted for a
single offence, then they are jointly liable for that fine
whether they are principals or accessories unless otherwise
stipulated by law.
Paragraph 93 - (1) If a fine is imposed on a convicted
person whether or not in conjunction with a period of detention,
then the court may order a period of detention for nonpayment of
the fine for a specific period not exceeding half the maximum
limit prescribed for that offence if it is punishable by
detention plus a fine.
(2) If the offence is punishable only by a fine then the
period of detention that the court may order for nonpayment is
one day for each half dinar of the fine. The period of detention
may not, however, exceed 2 years under any circumstances.
Paragraph 94 - Confinement in a school for young offenders
is the commitment of a young person to an institution set aside
for his training and correction for the period prescribed by the
sentence. Confinement in a reform school is the commitment of a
child to an institution set aside for his training and
correction for the period prescribed by the sentence.

24

SECTION TWO
Incidental penalties
Paragraph 95 - Incidental penalties are those imposed. on a
convicted person in accordance with the law without the need for
them to be specifically stated in the sentence.
1.

The withdrawal of certain rights and privileges

Paragraph 96(i 5 ) A sentence to life imprisonment or to
imprisonment for a term of years means that, in accordance with
the law, the convicted person is deprived of the following
rights and privileges from the day he is sentenced until such
time as he is released from prison:
(1) All offices or positions held by him
(2) He may neither vote for nor be elected to any
representative council.
(3) He may not be a member of an administrative or
municipal council nor a member or director of a
company'.
(4) He may not act as guardian, executor or trustee.
(5) He may not own or publish a newspaper nor be its
editor in chief.
Paragraph 97 - A sentence to life imprisonment or
imprisonment for a term of years imposed on the convicted person
means that, from the day it is imposed to the date of completion
of the penalty or its termination for any other reason, he is,
in accordance with the law, deprived of his right to administer
or dispose of his assets without the appointment of an executor
or to make endowments except, according to the circumstances, by
permission of a canonical or personalty court, which has
jurisdiction in the area where he is resident. The Court may, on
the application of the convicted person or the public prosecutor
or anyone else who has an interest, appoint an executor to
administer his assets and may require such executor to give a
guarantee. The court may also stipulate a fee for him and that
he be subject to the authority and supervision of the court in
everything that relates to his executorship.
Any transaction, administration or disposal in respect of
the convicted person's assets carried out without regard to the
above is subject to the permission of the court mentioned in the
preceding Sub-Paragraph.

(i) As amended by RCC Decision No 997 published in Al-Waqai' Al'Iraqiya No 2667 on 7.8.78.

25

The assets of the convicted person are returned to him on
completion of the term of the penalty or following its
termination for any other reason and the executor may charge him
for his administrative duties.
Paragraph 98 - Any death sentence imposed on the condemned
person means that, from the day it is imposed until the sentence
is carried out, the condemned person is, in accordance with the
law, deprived of the rights and privileges prescribed in the
preceding 2 Paragraphs. Any disposal or administrative
transaction undertaken by him during the above period other than
making a will or endowment are void. A legal or personalty court
will, according to the circumstances and on the application of
the public prosecutor or any person who has an interest, an
executor for the condemned person.
2.

Police supervision

Paragraph 99 - (1) Any person sentenced to imprisonment for
a felony relating to the internal or external security of the
State, the counterfeiting or imitation of currency, the forgery
of stamps, government bonds or official records or bribery,
embezzlement, theft or premeditated murder in aggravating
circumstances will, following the completion of his sentence, be
placed in accordance with the law under the supervision of the
police according to the provisions of Paragraph 108 of this Code
for a period equal to that of the original sentence but this
period may not exceed 5 years.. However, the court may reduce in
its sentence the period of supervision or may absolve the
convicted person from such supervision or reduce the constraints
of that supervision.
(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of police
supervision is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding
1 year plus a fine not exceeding 100 dinars.

SECTION THREE
Supplemental penalties
1.

The withdrawal of certain rights and privileges

Paragraph 100(i 6 ) - (1) The court may, when sentencing a
person to life imprisonment or imprisonment for a term of years
or to a period of detention exceeding 1 year, order that he be
(i)As amended by RCC Decision No 977 published in Al-Waqai' Al'Iraqiya No 2667 on 7.8.78.

26

deprived of one or more of the rights listed below for a period
of not more than 2 years from the date of the completion of his
sentence or its termination for any other reason:
(a) The holding of certain public offices and positions
but any office or position of which he is to be
deprived should be specified in the sentence and any
decision to that effect should be justifiable.
(b) The wearing of national or foreign medals.
(c) The carrying of arms.
(d) All or some of the rights and privileges listed in
Sub-Paragraph 2 of the Decision.
(2) A penalty depriving the convicted person of similar
rights and privileges may also be imposed on him and he should
therefore serve the longest penalty following his release from
prison.
(3) If the convicted person is released on a conditional
discharge then the period of deprivation prescribed by the court
will begin on the day he is released from prison. If a decision
to cancel the conditional discharge is issued and the convicted
person is required to serve the remainder of his sentence, then
the period of deprivation begins on the day he completes the
period of his sentence.
(4) The public prosecutor or the convicted person may,
after a period of not less than 6 months from the date of his
release from. prison, submit to the High Court in the area where
the convicted person is resident an application for the
reduction or cancellation of the remainder of the period of
deprivation prescribed by the sentence. The High Court must,
after making the necessary inquiries, issue its decision, which
must be both justified and final. The public prosecutor or the
convicted person may, if the application is rejected either
wholly or partially, submit a further application after a period
of 3 months from the date when the initial application was
rejected.
2.

Confiscation

Paragraph 101 - In circumstances other than those in which
the law requires a confiscation order, the court may, on the
conviction of a person for a felony or misdemeanor, order the
confiscation of particular items that were acquired as a result
of the offence and that were subsequently seized or that were
intended to be used in the commission of the offence. This is
without prejudice to the rights of others who have acted in good
faith.

27

The court must, in all circumstances, order the
confiscation of particular items that are used to create funds
for the commission of an offence.
3.

Publication of the sentence

Paragraph 102 - A court may, of its. own accord or on a
application of the public prosecutor, order the publication of
the sentence imposed on a person convicted of a felony and may,
on the application of the victim, order the publication of
sentences imposed on persons convicted for offences of slander,'
libel or insult committed by means of those methods of
publication mentioned in Paragraph 19, Sub-Paragraphs 3c and 3d.
Publication will be in one or more newspapers at the convicted
person's expense but, if an offence of slander, libel or insult
has been committed by means of publication in a newspaper, the
court will order the publication of the sentence in that
newspaper and in the same place in which the offending items
appeared. The publication is confined to the sentence only
unless the court orders the publication of the charges in
addition to the sentence. If any newspaper specified in the
publication order refuses or is slow to publish the sentence
without reasonable justification, then its editor in chief is
punishable by a fine not exceeding 50 dinars.

SECTION FOUR
Precautionary measures
SUB-SECTION ONE
General Provisions
Paragraph 103 - (1) No precautionary measure prescribed by
law may be imposed on a person unless an act considered by law
to be an offence has actually been committed and the condition
of the offender is such that it is considered to constitute a
danger to the public welfare. The condition of the offender
constitutes a danger to the public welfare if it is clear from
his past and present behavior and from the circumstances of the
offence and the motive for committing the offence that there is
a distinct possibility that he might commit a further offence.
(2) No precautionary measures may be imposed except in such
circumstances and under such conditions as are prescribed by
law.

28

Paragraph 104 - Precautionary measures either deprive a
person of his liberty or restrict his liberty or withdraw his
enjoyment of certain rights or property.

SUB-SECTION TWO
Precautionary measures deprivation and restriction of liberty
1.

Confinement in a therapy unit

Paragraph 105 - The convicted person shall be confined in a
therapy unit of a hospital or sanatorium or any other place set
aside for that purpose by the government for care and treatment
in accordance with the conditions stipulated by law for a period
of not less than 6 months. Those in charge of the unit must
submit to the sentencing court reports on the convicted person's
condition at intervals of not more than 6 months. The court may,
after taking specialist medical advice, decide to release the
convicted party or, as his condition requires, hand him over to
one of his parents or relatives to take care of him and ensure
his compliance with the conditions laid down by the court. The
'court may also, on the application of the public prosecutor or
any other interested party and after taking specialist medical
advice, return him to the unit if circumstances require that he
should be returned.
2.

Disbarment

Paragraph 106 - (1) Disbarment forbids the convicted person
to consume intoxicating liquor in a bar or any other place set
aside for that purpose for the period prescribed by the
sentence.
(2) If any person is convicted more than once for the
commission of an offence while under the influence of alcohol or
for the commission of some other felony or misdemeanor while
under such influence, the court may, at the time of conviction,
restrict the convicted person from frequenting bars or other
such places for a period not exceeding 3 years.
3. Restriction of residence
Paragraph 107 - (1) Restriction of residence is the
prevention of the convicted person, after he has completed his
sentence, from visiting a particular place or places for a
period of not less than 1 year but not exceeding the period of
his original sentence. The period may not, under any
circumstances, exceed 5 years. The court should take into

29

consideration in such a case the convicted persons medical,
personal and social circumstances.
(2) The court may impose a restriction of residence on
anyone: convicted for a habitual felony or misdemeanor of an
indecent nature and may, at any time, order, on the application
of the convicted person or the public prosecutor, that he be
absolved from all or part of the period prescribed for
restriction or that the stipulation of the place or places to
which the order applies be modified.
4.

Police supervision

Paragraph 108 - Police supervision is the supervision of
the convicted person's behavior once he has been discharged from
prison in order to establish the extent to which he has been
reformed or rehabilitated. It requires that he abide by all or
some of the following restrictions prescribed by the court:
(1) Not to reside in a particular place or places but it
should not affect the nature of the person's employment or his
social or medical condition.
(2) Not to take up residence in any place unless it is
specified by the sentencing court on the application of the
public prosecutor.
(3) Not to change his residence except by permission of the
court in whose jurisdiction his present residence is located and
not to leave his residence after dark except by permission of
the police department.
(4) Not to frequent bars and other such places as are
specified by the sentence.
Paragraph 109 - In addition to the special conditions.
prescribed by the code, the court may order the convicted person
to be detained for a year or more under police supervision and,
after; he has completed his original sentence, for a period of
not less than 1 year and not exceeding the period of the
original sentence. The period may not, under any circumstances,
exceed 5 years. This provision applies in the following
circumstances:
(1) If the sentence is imposed for a habitual felony or
theft or for handling stolen goods or fraud or blackmail or
hiding escaped convicts.
(2) If the sentence is imposed for a misdemeanor and the
convicted person is a habitual offender or it is reasonably
believed by the court that he will commit a further felony or
misdemeanor.

30

Paragraph 110 - (1) The period of supervision begins on the
day specified by the sentence and the date specified for the
termination of that supervision may not be postponed if such
supervision can not be carried out because the convicted person
is serving a period of detention or is absent for some reason
from the place in which he is to be under supervision.
(2) The court may, at any time and, on the application of
the convicted person or the public prosecutor, absolve the
convicted person from the period of supervision or from some of
the restrictions if it considers such action to be .appropriate.

SUB-SECTION THREE
Precautionary measures deprivation of rights
1.

Prevention from acting as guardian, executor or trustee

Paragraph 111 - Prevention from acting as guardian,
executor or trustee precludes the convicted party from
exercising this authority over others unless it concerns life or
property.
Paragraph 112 - If a guardian, executor or trustee is
convicted for the commission of a misdemeanor which violates the
conditions of his position of authority or for the commission of
any other offence, the circumstances of which demonstrate his
unsuitability as a guardian or executor, the court may order
that he be prevented from acting in any of those capacities.
2. Prevention from carrying out one's employment
Paragraph 113 - Prevention from carrying out one's
employment deprives a person of his right to pursue a profession
or business or an industrial, commercial or technical activity,
the pursuit of which is dependent on permission from a legally
appointed authority.
Paragraph 114 - If any person commits a felony or
misdemeanor which violates the conditions of his profession,
business or activity and, as a result, receives a sentence that
deprives him of his freedom for a period of not less than 6
months, the court may, at the time of conviction, prevent him
from carrying out his employment for a period not exceeding 1
year and, if he reoffends within the 5 years following the
prevention order, the court may order that he be prevented from
carrying out his employment for a period not exceeding 3 years.

31

3.

Disqualification from driving

Paragraph 115 - Disqualification from driving invalidates
the driving license of the convicted person and precludes him
from obtaining a new license for the period prescribed by the
sentence.
Paragraph 116 - Any person who is convicted of an offence
committed by means of a motorized conveyance in contravention of
the law, the court may, at the time of conviction, order the
withdrawal of his driving license for a period of not less than
3 months.

SUB-SECTION FOUR
Substantive precautionary measures
1.

Confiscation

Paragraph 117 - An order for the confiscation of goods of
which the manufacture, possession, acquisition, use, sale or
advertisement for sale is considered an offence in itself must
be issued even though they do not belong to the accused or the
accused has not been convicted. If these goods have not actually
been seized at the time of the trial but have been sufficiently
identified, the court should order their confiscation when they
are seized.
2.

Undertaking to be on good behavior

Paragraph 118 - (1) An undertaking to be on good behavior
means that the convicted person, when sentenced, should
undertake to be on good behavior for a period of not less than 1
year and not exceeding the period of the prescribed penalty.
However, the period should not, under any circumstances, exceed
5 years from the date of the completion of the sentence or its
termination for any other reason. The convicted person must pay
to the court a sum of money or something of equivalent value
considered by the court to be compatible with his financial
position. However, this amount should not be less than 20 dinars
and should not exceed 200 dinars. Another person may pay the
prescribed amount.
(2) The court should stipulate in its sentence a time limit
for payment of the sum or something of equivalent value not
exceeding 1 month from the date of the completion of the
sentence or its termination for any other reason. If it is not
paid within this period, the court may decide to place the

32

convicted person under police supervision for a period of not
less than 1 year and not exceeding the prescribed period for his
undertaking to be on good behavior. The court may also order any
other precautionary measure that is compatible with his position
and may absolve him from that at any time if he pays the sum or
the equivalent of that sum. The court may, on the application of
the convicted person, decide to reduce the sum or the period of
his undertaking to be on good behavior, if there is reasonable
cause for doing so.
Paragraph 119 - The court may, when sentencing any person
for the commission of a felony or misdemeanor that endangers
life or, property or violates the public morality, require the
convicted person at the time of his conviction to undertake to
be on good behavior.
Paragraph 120 - If the convicted person does not commit a
felony or misdemeanor during the period of his undertaking, the
court will order the refund of the sum specified in respect of
his undertaking or the goods of equivalent value to whomever
provided them. If he is finally convicted o! a premeditated
felony or misdemeanor committed during such period, the sum of
money is paid to the Public Treasury. If goods have been
submitted instead of money, the equivalent amount of money is
taken in settlement.
3.

Closure of business premises

Paragraph 121 - Notwithstanding the special conditions
stipulated by law concerning the closure of business premises,
the court may, when sentencing a person for a felony or
misdemeanor, order the closure of business premises used in the
commission of the offence for a period of not less than 1 month
and not exceeding 1 year.
Closure means the prevention from pursuing a business or
commercial or industrial activity in those premises whether or
not such activity is carried on by the convicted person or a
member of his family or any other person to whom the convicted
person has rented or given the premises following the commission
of the offence. Such prevention will not affect the owner of the
premises or any other person who has a material interest in the
premises as long as he is .not involved in the commission of the
offence.

4.

Suspension and winding up of a body corporate

33

Paragraph 122 - The suspension of a body corporate follows
the prevention of that body corporate from pursuing the affairs
that it is entitled to administer even though it is on behalf of
or under the control of another. The winding up of a body
corporate follows the liquidation of its assets or the
termination of the employment of its directors and
representatives.
Paragraph 123 - The court may order the. suspension of a
body corporate for a period of not less than 3 months and not
exceeding 3 years if a felony or misdemeanor is committed by one
of its representatives or by an agent working on its behalf or
at its expense and he is penalized as a result by a deprivation
of freedom for a period of 6 months or more.
If the felony or misdemeanor is committed on more than one
occasion, the court may order the body corporate to be wound up.

SUB-SECTION FIVE
General Provisions
Paragraph 124 - Notwithstanding the conditions stipulated
in Paragraphs 105, 111 and 117, any violation of the provisions
of a precautionary measure is punishable by a period of
detention not exceeding 1 year or by a fine not exceeding 100
dinars.
Paragraph 125 - The discharge of any person from a penalty
does not mean a discharge from a precautionary measure unless
otherwise stipulated by law or the court rules to the contrary.
Paragraph 126 - If the period, during which the penalty is
discharged, ends without an order being made to cancel that
discharge, the precautionary measure will lapse whether that
measure was operative in conjunction with the penalty or not and
the sentence imposed is considered not to have been passed.
Paragraph 127 - Notwithstanding the measures concerning
confiscation and the winding up of a corporate body, the court
may, on the application of the person concerned, cancel any
measure prescribed in the preceding Paragraphs that is imposed
on him or modify the extent to which it is applicable.
If the person refuses to make such a request, he may not do
so again, for at least a year and the court may, on the
application of the public prosecutor, withdraw at any time its

34

order to cancel the measure if it considers such action to be
appropriate.

SECTION FIVE
Legal excuse and legally extenuating circumstances
Paragraph 128 - (1) Legal excuse either discharges a person
from a penalty or reduces that penalty. Excuse only exists under
conditions that are specified by law. Notwithstanding these
conditions, the commission of an offence with honorable motives
or in response to the unjustified and serious provocation of a
victim of an offence is considered a mitigating excuse.
(2) The court must identify in its decision the excuse that
discharges a person from a penalty.
Paragraph 129 - An excuse that discharges a person from a
penalty precludes the imposition on such person of a sentence to
a primary, incidental or supplemental penalty.
Paragraph 130 - If there exists a mitigating excuse for a
felony for which the penalty is death, the penalty shall be
reduced to life imprisonment or imprisonment for a term of years
or detention for a period of not less than 1 year. If the
penalty is life imprisonment or imprisonment for a term of
years; the penalty shall be reduced to a period of detention of
not less than 6 months unless otherwise stipulated by law.
Paragraph 131 - If there exists a mitigating excuse for a
misdemeanor, the reduction of the penalty shall be as follows:
(1) If the penalty has a minimum limit, the court will not.
be bound by that in its assessment of the penalty.
(2) If the penalty is detention plus a fine, the court will
rule for only one of those penalties.
(3) If the penalty is detention without a minimum limit,
the court will rule for a fine instead.
Paragraph 132 - If the court considers that the
circumstances of a felony or of the offender call for leniency,
it may substitute a lesser penalty for the penalty prescribed
for the offence, as follows:
(1) Life imprisonment or imprisonment for a term of years
not less than 15 years may be substituted for the death penalty,
(2) Imprisonment for a term of years may be substituted for
life imprisonment.

35

(3) A period of detention of not less than 6 months may be
substituted for imprisonment for a term of years.(i 7 )
Paragraph 133 - If the court considers that the
circumstances of a misdemeanor call for leniency, it may apply
the provisions of Paragraph 131.
Paragraph 134 - If the court reduces a .penalty in
accordance with Paragraphs 130, 131, 132 and 133, it must
identify in its decision the excuse and circumstances which call
for a reduction in the sentence.

SECTION SIX
Aggravating circumstances
General aggravating circumstances
Paragraph 135 - Without prejudice to the special conditions
prescribed by law for an increase in the penalty, the following
are 'considered to be aggravating circumstances:
(1) The commission of an offence with a base motive.
(2) The commission of an offence while taking advantage of
a defect in the victim's reason or his inability to resist or in
circumstances in which others are unable to come to his aid.
(3) The use of brutal methods in the commission of an
offence or the harsh treatment of the victim.
(4) The use by the offender in the commission of an offence
of his position of employment or the abuse of any authority or
influence deriving from such position.
Paragraph 136 - If there exists any aggravating
circumstances in the commission of an offence, the court may
rule as follows:
(1) If the penalty prescribed for the offence is life
imprisonment, the death penalty may be imposed.
(2) If the penalty is imprisonment for a term of years or
detention, the sentence may be greater than the maximum limit
for the penalty prescribed for the offence provided that the
increase in the penalty does not exceed half the maximum limit.
The term of imprisonment, however, may not, under any
circumstances, exceed 25 years and the period of detention may
nest exceed 10 years.
(i) RCC Decision No 59 issued on 12/1/82 and published in Al-Waqai'
Al-‘Iraqiya No 2868 on 25/1/82 states that the relinquishment by the
victim's relatives of their personal right to compensation is not
considered a legally extenuating circumstance.

36

(3) If the prescribed penalty for the offence is a fine,
the sentence may be a period of detention which may amount to
half the period that can be imposed in accordance with the rate
of conversion prescribed in Sub-Paragraph 2 of Paragraph 93. The
period, however, may not, under any circumstances, exceed 4
years.
Paragraph 137 - If there exists any aggravating
circumstances in conjunction with mitigating excuses or
circumstances which call for leniency, the court shall take into
consideration firstly the aggravating circumstances, then the
mitigating excuses and finally those circumstances which call
for leniency., If the aggravating circumstances, the mitigating
excuses and the circumstances that call for leniency offset one
another, the court may consider them all to be irrelevant and
prescribe the original penalty for the offence. If, however,
these conflicting circumstances and excuses overlap the court
may, in the interests of justice, give precedence to those
circumstances that carry the greatest weight.
Paragraph 138 - If an offence is committed with intent to
realize an illegal gain and the law prescribes a penalty other
than a fine, then the sentence may, in addition to the
prescribed penalty, include a fine not exceeding the value of
the gain realized or intended to be realized by the offender
unless otherwise stipulated by law.
Paragraph 139 - The following persons are considered to be
reoffenders:
(1) Any person against whom a final judgment of felony is
made and who, before the expiry of any legally prescribed period
at the end of which any conviction becomes spent, commits a
felony or misdemeanor.
(2) Any person against whom a final judgment of misdemeanor
is made and who, before the expiry of any legally prescribed
period at the end of which any conviction is spent, commits a
felony or misdemeanor similar to the first misdemeanor.
The offences stipulated in any of the following SubParagraphs are considered to be similar to the first misdemeanor
for the purposes of applying the provisions of this SubParagraph:
(a) embezzlement, theft, fraud, breach of trust, illegal
appropriation of property or bonds, extortion,
concealment or illegal possession of goods acquired as
a result of such offences.
(b) slander, libel, insult or disclosure of secret
information.

37

(c) offences against the public decency or morality.
(d) manslaughter and malicious wounding.
(e) premeditated offences included in this Code.
(3) The judgment of. a foreign court is not relevant in the
application of the provisions of this Paragraph unless it is
issued for offences of counterfeiting or forgery of Iraqi or
foreign currency.
Paragraph 140 - The court may, in the event of a further'
offence as stipulated in the preceding Paragraph, impose a
sentence greater than the maximum penalty prescribed by law
provided that the increase in the penalty does not exceed half
the maximum penalty. However, a term of imprisonment should not,
under any circumstances, exceed 25 years and a period of
detention should not exceed 10 years but:
(1) If the penalty prescribed for the offence is
imprisonment for a 'term of years without qualification, the
court may impose a sentence of life imprisonment.
(2) If the penalty prescribed for the offence is a fine,
the court may impose a period of detention.

SECTION SEVEN
The multiplicity of offences and its effect on punishment
Paragraph 141 - If one act constitutes a number of
offences, the offence carrying the greatest penalty must be
taken into consideration and the prescribed penalty must be
imposed. If the penalties are similar then one of them should be
imposed.
Paragraph 142 - If a number of offences are committed as a
result of a number of acts and they are inextricably linked and
have a common purpose, the penalty prescribed for each one of
those offences must be imposed and an order to serve the
greatest penalty only must be issued. This does not prevent the
convicted person from serving any incidental or supplemental
penalties or precautionary measures prescribed by law or imposed
in respect of the other offences.
If the convicted person is sentenced for the offence
carrying the least severe penalty, he may later be tried for the
offence carrying the greatest penalty. In this case, the court
will order him to serve the penalty prescribed for the second
sentence with an order to subtract the portion of the previous
sentence actually served.

38

Paragraph 143 - (1) If a person commits a number of
unrelated offences without a common purpose, he will, instead of
being sentenced for one of those offences, be sentenced to the
prescribed penalty for each of them and they will be served
consecutively but. the total period of imprisonment or detention
imposed on him or the total combined period of imprisonment and
detention should .not exceed 25 years.
(2) If a person is sentenced for an offence committed after
he has been sentenced for some other offence, the two sentences
will be served consecutively (i 8 ).
(3) The period of imprisonment must be as much as the
period of detention imposed for an offence committed before the
imposition of the sentence to imprisonment.
(4) All fines should be paid and all incidental or
supplemental penalties and precautionary measures should be
discharged, however many there are but the total period of
police supervision should not exceed 5 years.

SECTION EIGHT
Suspension of sentence
Paragraph 144 - The court may, when passing a sentence of
detention for a felony or misdemeanor for a period not exceeding
1 year,, order in the sentence itself a suspension of that
sentence if the convicted person has not previously committed a
premeditated offence and if it sees from his character, his
past, his age and the circumstances of his offence any reason to
believe that he will not commit a further offence. The court may
confine the suspension of sentence to the primary penalty or
make it apply to incidental or ' supplemental penalties or
precautionary measures. If the sentence is to both detention and
a fine, the court may confine the suspension of sentence to the
period of detention only. The court must indicate in its
judgment its reasons for suspending the sentence.
Paragraph 145 - The court may, when ruling for a suspension
of sentence, require the convicted person to undertake to be on
good behavior during the period of the suspended sentence in
accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 118 or require that
he make restitution in whole or in part or that he fulfils both
of these provisions..

(i) The phrase "whatever the sum total of the two periods shall be”
has been deleted in accordance with Paragraph 5 of Law No 207 1970) .

39

Paragraph 146 - The period of a suspended sentence may be 3
years following the date of sentencing.
Paragraph 147 - (1) A decision to reinstate a suspended
sentence may be issued in any of the following circumstances:
(a) If the convicted person does not fulfill the
conditions imposed on him in accordance with Paragraph
145.
(b) If the convicted person commits during the period of
suspension defined in the preceding Paragraph a
premeditated felony or misdemeanor for which he is
sentenced to a penalty that deprives him of his
freedom for more than 3 months, whether or not he is
convicted during this period or after it has expired.
(c) If it appears during the period of suspension that a
final judgment was made against the convicted person
in respect of the circumstance mentioned in the
preceding Sub-Paragraph for a premeditated felony or
misdemeanor and the court was unaware of it at the
time it ruled for a suspension of sentence.
(2) The ruling for reinstatement is given on the
application of the public prosecutor to the court that imposes
the penalty for the offence as a result of which the suspended
sentence is reinstated or the reason for the reinstatement is
established. This is without prejudice to any right of appeal or
to the stage of the proceedings.
Paragraph 148 - The primary penalty and the incidental and
supplemental penalties that have been suspended will be served
as a result of the reinstatement of the sentence. An order may
be made for the payment of a surety that will discharge in whole
or in part the convicted person's undertaking to be on good
behavior.
Paragraph 149 - If the period of suspension comes to an end
without a ruling for the reinstatement of the suspended sentence
in. accordance with Paragraph 147, then the sentence is
considered to have been served and the surety referred to in
Paragraph 145 is annulled.

CHAPTER SIX
The limitation of offences and penalties
SECTION ONE
General provisions

40

Paragraph 150 - An offence lapses for the following
reasons:(1) the death of the accused (2) a general amnesty (3)
the dropping of charges by the victim in such circumstances as
are prescribed by law.
Paragraph 151 - A sentence imposing a penalty or
precautionary measure lapses with a general amnesty or
rehabilitation or with the dropping of charges by the victim in
such circumstances as are prescribed by law or, in the event of
a suspension of sentence and without anything that would call
for the reinstatement of the suspended sentence occurring during
the period of suspension, by the termination of that period of
suspension.
Primary, incidental and supplemental penalties as well as
precautionary measures lapse with the quashing of the sentence
for any of the reasons referred to in the preceding SubParagraph or by the death of the convicted person or by special
amnesty but. This must be in deference to the provisions of the
following Paragraphs.

SECTION TWO
Specific provisions
1.

Death of the accused

Paragraph 152 - If the accused dies before the judgment
becomes final, the offence lapses and all consequences of that
judgment are removed. The victim of the offence, however, has
the right to bring an action in the appropriate civil court.
If he dies after the judgment becomes final, the prescribed
penalty and precautionary measures lapse with the exception of
financial penalties such as a fine or restitution or
precautionary measure in respect of property such as
confiscation or closure of business which will be settled out of
the accused's estate in priority to his inheritors.

2. General and special amnesty
A. General amnesty
Paragraph 153 - (1) A general amnesty is issued in
accordance with the law and results in the termination of legal
proceedings and the quashing of any conviction obtained by means

41

of those proceedings as well as the lapse of all primary,
incidental or supplemental penalties and precautionary measures.
A general amnesty, has no effect on any penalty previously
served unless otherwise stipulated by the law of amnesty.
(2) If a law issues a general amnesty for only part of a
prescribed penalty, then it is considered to be a special
amnesty and the provisions for that apply.
(3) A general amnesty does not affect the personal rights
of others.
B. Special amnesty
Paragraph 154 - (1) A special amnesty is issued by
Republican decree and the prescribed penalty lapses in whole or
in part as a result or is substituted for a lesser penalty
prescribed by law.
(2) A special amnesty does not result in the lapse of
incidental or supplemental or any other penalty or precautionary
measure nor does it affect any sentence previously served unless
otherwise stipulated by the law of amnesty.
(3) Dropping of charges, rehabilitation and suspension of
an operative sentence
Paragraph 155 - The Code of Penal Procedure sets out the
provisions for the dropping of charges, rehabilitation and the
suspension of sentence.

PART TWO
Offences against the public welfare
CHAPTER ONE
Offences affecting the external security of the state
Paragraph 156 - Any person who willfully commits an act
with intent to. violate the independence of the country or its
unity or the security of its territory and that act, by its
nature, leads to such violation is punishable by death.
Paragraph 157 - (1) Any Iraq citizen who associates himself
in any way with an enemy or the armed forces of any country at
war with Iraq is punishable by death. Any Iraqi citizen who
takes up arms against Iraq from outside the country is
punishable by the .same penalty.
Any Iraqi citizen who associates himself with a group
opposed to the Republic of Iraq but which is not described as

42

being at war with Iraq is punishable by death or by life
imprisonment.
(2) Any person who dissociates himself from an enemy or the
armed forces of any country at war with Iraq or the armed forces
of a group opposed to the Republic of Iraq before any hostile
act is committed against Iraq is punishable by life imprisonment
or by imprisonment for a term of years.
Paragraph 158 - Any person who, in a foreign country or in
association with it or with a person who is working on its
behalf, attempts to commit hostile acts against Iraq that may
lead to the outbreak of war or the severing of diplomatic
relations or who provides it with the means to that end is
punishable by death or life imprisonment.
Paragraph 159 - Any person who, in a hostile foreign
country or in association with it or with a person who is
working on its behalf, attempts to assist it in its hostile
operations against Iraq or impede the military operations of the
Republic of Iraq and any person who provides that country with
the means to that end or assists it in any way to succeed in its
hostile operations is punishable by death.
Paragraph 160 - Any person who assists an enemy to enter
the country or stir up sedition among the people or lower the
morale of the armed forces or induce members of the armed forces
to join the enemy or surrender to it or who undermines their
loyalty to the country or their confidence in their ability to
defend it and any person who delivers a member of the armed
forces into the hands of the enemy is punishable by death.
Paragraph 161 - (1) Any person who incites members of the
armed forces to defect to a foreign country in time of war or
assists their defection is punishable by life imprisonment.
(2) Any person who willfully involves himself in any way
with the mobilization of troops and personnel or the collection
.of funds, supplies or equipment for any country at war with
Iraq or for a hostile group even though that group is not
described as being at war.
Paragraph 162 - Any person who assists an enemy to enter
the country or who surrenders to it any part of Iraqi territory
or port or stronghold or military position or ship or aircraft
or weapon or ammunition or equipment or supplies or foodstuffs
or war materiel or means of communication or factory or
establishment or anything else set aside for the defense of the
country or that is used for such purpose or anything that

43

provides the country with troops, personnel, funds or manpower
or that supplies the country with intelligence or that gives it
a sense of purpose is punishable by death.
Paragraph 163 - The following persons are punishable by
life imprisonment or imprisonment for a term of years:
(1) Any person who willfully sabotages, destroys or renders
faulty or inoperative a military position, base or establishment
or factory or ship or aircraft or means of communication or mode
of transport or oil pipeline or installation or weapon or
equipment or supplies or drugs and material for war use or
anything else that is for use by the armed forces or for the
defense of Iraq or which is used for that purpose..
(2) Any person who conceals the items mentioned in the
previous Sub-Paragraph or appropriates them or allows them to
fall into the hands of an enemy or who knowingly introduces a
fault during their manufacture or repair car knowingly commits
an act which, by its nature, renders them unusable, even
temporarily, for the purpose for which they were designed and
from which damage results.
(3) Any person who endangers military plans or plans for
the defense of the country.
The penalty will be death if the offence occurs during time
of war.
Paragraph 164 - The following persons are punishable by
death(i 9 ):
(1) Any person who, with a foreign power or a person who
works on its behalf or by negotiation with either of them,
attempts to damage Iraq's military, political or economic
administration.
(2) Any person who willfully destroys, conceals, steals or
forges banknotes or documents knowing them to be instrumental in
upholding the rights of Iraq in the face of a foreign country or
knowing them to relate to the external security of the state or
to some other national interest.
Paragraph 165 - Any person who, without authorization from
the government, mobilizes a military force against a foreign
country or takes up arms against it or joins forces in any way
with the armed forces of another country in a time of war with
that country or commits any other hostile act against it is
punishable by imprisonment.

(i) As amended in accordance with Law No 77 (1984) issued on
23/8/84 and published under No 3009 on 3/9/84.

44

The penalty is life imprisonment or imprisonment for a term
of years if the offence is committed against an Arab State.
Paragraph 166 - Any person entrusted with negotiating with
a foreign government, international organization or foreign
company regarding affairs of state who willfully negotiates
contrary to the interests of the state is punishable by life
imprisonment or imprisonment.
Paragraph 167 - (1) Any person who seeks for himself or for
another or receives or takes money or any other gain or a
promise thereof even though it is through a foreign country or a
person who works on its behalf with intent to commit an act,
which he ,knows will, by its nature, damage the national
interest is punishable by imprisonment plus a fine of not less
than 1,000 dinars but not exceeding the amount he sought or was
given or promised.
(2) The penalty will be life imprisonment plus a fine of
not less than 1,000 dinars but not exceeding the amount he
sought or was given or promised if the offender is a public
official or if the offence is committed during time of war.
The same penalty is applicable to the following persons:
(a)

(b)

Any person who gives, promises or offers money or some
other gain with intent to commit an act that is harmful
to the national interest even though his gift, promise or
offer is not accepted.
Any person who acts as an intermediary in the commission
of any of the offences mentioned in this Paragraph. In
all of the above circumstances,. if the request,
acceptance, offer or mediation occurs in written form
then there is only an offence when it is delivered.

Paragraph 168 - Any person who renders a service to enemy
forces for gain, profit or a promise thereof for himself or for
a person specified by him whether directly or indirectly and
whether or not that gain or profit is material is punishable by
life imprisonment or imprisonment for a term of years. .
Paragraph 169 - Any person who willfully assists an enemy
in any way other than those mentioned in the preceding
Paragraphs is punishable by imprisonment.
Paragraph 170 - Any person who incites the commission of an
offence referred to in Paragraphs 156 to 169 even though such
incitement produces no effect is punishable by a term of
imprisonment not exceeding 10 years.

45

Paragraph 171 - Any person who causes through negligence,
thoughtlessness, inattention or lack of care for any law or
regulation an offence referred to in Paragraphs 156 to 169 is
punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 5 years plus a
fine not exceeding 500 dinars or by one of those penalties.
If this occurs in time of war, he may receive a penalty not
exceeding twice the maximum limit for the penalty prescribed in
this Paragraph.
Paragraph 172 - The following persons are punishable by a
term of imprisonment not exceeding 10 years plus a fine of not
less than 500 dinars but not exceeding 10,000 dinars or by one
of those penalties:
(1) Any person who exports directly or through another
country goods, produce or any other resource to a hostile
country or imports such goods, produce or resources from that
country in time of war.
(2) Any person who, in time of war, expedites on his own
behalf or through another a commercial transaction other than
those specified in the preceding Sub-Paragraph with a resident
of a hostile country or any citizen, representative, agent or
organization of that country.
In all cases, confiscation of the goods involved in the
offence will be ordered and, if such goods are not seized, the
offender will be ordered to pay an additional fine equivalent to
the value of those goods.
Paragraph 173 - Any person who participates in the
donation, lending or contribution of funds for the benefit of a
hostile country or assists the financial position of that
country is punishable by imprisonment or by detention plus a
fine not exceeding 10,000 dinars.The same penalty applies if the participat
the assistance is in respect of the affairs of such institution
or organization. In all cases, confiscation of the goods
involved in the offence will be ordered and, if such goods are
not seized, the offender will be ordered to pay an additional
fine equivalent to the value of those goods.
Paragraph 174 - (1) Any person who, in time of war or
during military maneuvers in the field, willfully fails to
fulfill all or some of the obligations imposed on him by the
conclusion of a contract or agreement with the government to
transfer or supply goods to it or to fulfill or carry out any
obligation or public works for the government or any of its
general establishments for the requirements of the armed forces

46

or the civilian population is punishable by a term of
imprisonment not exceeding 10 years.
(2) Any person who, in time of war, knowingly commits an
act of fraud while fulfilling any contract mentioned in the
preceding Sub-Paragraph is punishable by imprisonment.
(3) If such omission or act of fraud is committed with
intent to disrupt the defense of the State or the operations of
the armed forces then the penalty is death.
(4) The preceding provisions are, according to the
circumstances, applicable to subcontractors, agents and
intermediaries if the omission or act of fraud committed during
the fulfillment of the contract can be attributed to them.
Paragraph 175 - (1) Any person who participates in an
illegal pact with intent to commit such offences as are
stipulated in Paragraphs 156 to 174 or who exploits such a pact
in order to achieve that end is punishable by life imprisonment
or imprisonment for a term of years.
(2) Any person who attempts to set up such a pact or who
plays a major part in it is punishable by death or life
imprisonment.
(3) If, by such a pact, it is intended to commit a
specified offence or to make use of it as a means to that end
and the penalty for that offence is less than that prescribed in
the preceding two Sub-Paragraphs, then a greater penalty than
that prescribed for the offence w will not be imposed.
(4) Any person who invites another to participate in such a
pact and that invitation is not accepted is punishable by
detention.
Paragraph 176 - If the omission occurs while fulfilling all
or part of such obligations as are referred to in Paragraph 174
as a result of negligence or inattention, the penalty shall be
detention plus a fine not exceeding 3,000 dinars or by one of
those penalties.
Paragraph 177 - The following persons are punishable by
life imprisonment:
(1) Any person who obtains by any means anything that is
considered to be secret in respect of the defense of the State
with intent to disrupt the defense of the State to the advantage
of a. foreign country or disclose such secret to that foreign
country or. to a person working on its behalf.
(2) Any person who hands over or discloses such secrets to
a foreign country or to a person working on its behalf.
(3) Any person who, for the benefit of a foreign country,
destroys a document or anything considered to be secret in

47

respect of the defense of the State or renders the defense of
the State untenable.
The penalty will be death if the offender is a public
official or if the offence is committed in time of war or if the
foreign country is hostile.
Paragraph 178 - The following persons are punishable by a
term of imprisonment not exceeding to years:
,
(1) Any person who obtains by illegal means any secrets in
respect of the defense of the State without intending to hand
them over or disclose them to a foreign country or to a person
working on its behalf.
(2) Any person who broadcasts or discloses in any way
secrets in respect of the defense of the State.
(3) Any person who sets up or uses any means of
communication in order to obtain secrets in respect of the
defense of the State or to hand them over or broadcast them.
The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not exceeding 15
years if the offence is committed in time of war or if the
offender is a public official.
Paragraph 179 - (1) Any person who willfully broadcasts in
time of war false or biased information, statements or rumors or
disseminates subversive propaganda which, by their nature, will
disrupt any military preparations for the defense of the State
or any military operations of the armed forces or spread panic
among the population or lower its morale is punishable by a term
of imprisonment not exceeding 10 years.
(2) The penalty will be imprisonment for a term of years if
the offence is committed as a result of any communication with a
foreign country. If that country is hostile, then the penalty
will be life imprisonment.
Paragraph 180 - Any citizen who willfully broadcasts abroad
false or biased information, statements or rumors concerning the
internal situation in Iraq which undermine financial confidence
in the State or prejudice its international standing and
reputation or who acts in any way that is detrimental to the
national interest is punishable by detention plus a fine not
exceeding 500 dinars or by one of those penalties.
The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not exceeding 7
years if the offence is committed in time of war.
Paragraph 181 - (1) The following persons are punishable by
a term of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years or by detention
plus a fine.

48

(a)

Any person who flies through Iraqi airspace in
violation of a prohibition from doing so issued by the
competent authorities.
(b) Any person who photographs, sketches or draws a map of
any area or place in violation of a prohibition from
doing so issued by the competent authorities.
(c) Establishment or military encampment or place where
members of the armed forces are encamped or stationed
or who boards a warship or commercial vessel or
aircraft or military vehicle or who enters any
restricted location or factory engaged in work of
importance to the national defense.
(d) Any person who is found in a location or area
restricted by order of the military authorities.
(2) If the offence occurs in time of war or is committed
with the use of any kind of deceit, fraud, disguise or
dissimulation in respect of identity, nationality, profession or
occupation, the penalty will be a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 15 years and, in the event of both these circumstances
existing, the penalty will be life imprisonment or imprisonment
for a term of years.
Paragraph 182 - (1) Any person who publishes or broadcasts
in any way or form or by any means intelligence, information,
correspondence, documents, maps, sketches, pictures or anything
relating to government departments or agencies or general
establishments, the publication or broadcast of which is
prohibited by the competent authority, is punishable by
detention plus a fine not exceeding 500 dinars or by one of
those penalties.
(2) Any person who hands over to a foreign country or to a
person working on its behalf in any way or form or by any means
any of the things referred to in the previous Sub-Paragraph is
punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 10 years.
Paragraph 183 - (1) The following persons are punishable as
accessories to the offences stipulated in this Chapter :
(a) Any person who is aware of the offender's intentions
and affords him assistance, sustenance, shelter or a
place to hold meetings or any other form of help and
any person who delivers messages on his behalf or
assists him in planning the offence or conceals,
transmits or communicates that plan while being aware
of the offender's intentions even though that person
does not intend to participate in the commission of
the offence.

49

(b)

Any person who willfully destroys, steals, conceals or
alters a document or anything else that will
facilitate the discovery of the offence or evidence
thereof or the punishment of the offenders.
(2) The spouse of the offender as well as his ancestor,
descendant, brother or sister are exempt from any punishment in
the event of their giving the offender assistance, sustenance or
shelter. The court may apply a reduced penalty to these persons
in circumstances other than those described in Sub-Paragraphs
(a) and (b).
Paragraph 184 - The following persons are punishable by
life imprisonment or imprisonment for a term of years:
(1) Any person who knowingly offers shelter to enemy spies
or military personnel or gives them food, clothing or other form
of assistance.
(2) Any person who knowingly facilitates the escape of a
POW or enemy detainee.
Paragraph 185 - Any person who, by giving financial,
material or moral support, incites the commission of those
offences stipulated in the preceding Paragraphs of this chapter
without intending to be a party to them is punishable by a term
of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years or by detention plus ,a
fine not exceeding 500 dinars.
Paragraph 186 - Any person who is aware of the commission
of an offence stipulated in, this Chapter and does not notify
the public authorities is punishable by detention plus a fine
not exceeding 500 dinars or by one of those penalties. This
Paragraph does not apply to the spouse of the offender nor to
his ancestor, descendant, brother or sister.
Paragraph 187 - An offender who notifies the authorities of
everything he knows about the offence before it is committed and
prior to any investigation into that offence will be exempt from
the penalties prescribed for the offences stipulated in this
chapter. The Court may exempt such a person from the penalty, if
such information is forthcoming after the commission of the
offence but before any investigation takes place.
The court may reduce the penalty or grant an exemption if
the offender, during the investigation or legal proceedings,
assists the authorities in apprehending any of the other parties
to the offence.

50

Paragraph 188 - The following are considered to be defense
secrets:
(1) Any military, political, economic or industrial
information which, by its nature, is known only by those persons
who are entrusted with such information and the interests of
national defense require that it remain secret to all others.
(2) Any correspondence, record, document, sketch, map,
plan, picture or anything else, the disclosure of which will
lead to the dissemination of the information referred to in the
preceding Sub-Paragraph and the interests of national defense
require such things to remain secret to those who are not
entrusted with the knowledge or use of such information.
(3) Any intelligence or information relating to the armed
forces, their order of battle, movements, equipment, supply or
anything else that involves military matters and plans for war
unless written permission from a competent authority has been
given for the publication or broadcast of such information.
(4) Any intelligence or information relating to the
measures and procedures used in the discovery and apprehension
of the parties to the offences stipulated in this Chapter and
any intelligence or information arising during the course of the
investigation and legal proceedings if the authority in charge
of such investigation or legal proceedings has prohibited its
broadcast.
Paragraph 189 - The following definitions are used in the
provisions of this Chapter:
(1) An 'enemy' is a state which is at war with Iraq and
includes a citizen of that state. A political group that is not
recognized by Iraq is considered to be a state if it behaves in
a hostile manner. The definition of an enemy also includes armed
rebels.
(2) 'A state of war' is a state of actual fighting whether
or not there has been a prior declaration of war or an
announcement of a ceasefire.
(3) 'The State' is the territories of the Republic of Iraq
and any territory that submits to its sovereignty including its
territorial waters and airspace, its ships and aircraft as well
as any foreign territory occupied by the Iraqi army.
(4) The provisions of this Chapter may, by a decision of
the Council of Ministers or by Republican decree published in an
official newspaper, include in whole or in part such acts as are
set out in that decision or decree when they are committed
against an Arab state that is an ally of the Republic of Iraq.
In this case, the stipulations of the decree are applicable to
any act committed after the publication of such decree in an
official newspaper.

51

CHAPTER TWO
Offences against the internal security of the State
Paragraph 190 - Any person who attempts to overthrow by
force or with the use of violence the constitutionally appointed
Republican regime or change the constitution o the State or the
formation of the government is punishable by life imprisonment
or imprisonment for a term of years. If the offence is committed
by a group using bombs, dynamite or other explosives or
firearms, the penalty will be death or life imprisonment. The
penalty will be death if the offence results in any fatalities.
Paragraph 191 - Any person who, with criminal intent, takes
command of part of the armed forces or a military post or port
or town without authorization from the government is punishable
by death or life imprisonment. The same penalty applies to any
person who remains in a position of military command in
contravention of the orders given to him by the government and
to any commander who maintains his units under arms or mobilized
after the government has ordered their demobilization or
disbandment.
Paragraph 192 (1) Any person who attempts to incite armed
rebellion against the constitutionally appointed authorities or
who is a member of a conspiracy or group aspiring to that end is
punishable by imprisonment.
(2) If such rebellion actually occurs, then the penalty is
life imprisonment.
(3) If such rebellion results in an armed confrontation
with the armed forces of the State or in fatalities or if the
offender is the commander in charge of an armed force, the
penalty will be death.
Paragraph 193 - Any person who is entitled to command units
of the armed forces and who asks or instructs those units to
obstruct the execution of the government's orders is punishable
by life imprisonment or imprisonment for a term of years if he
has criminal intent. If such an act does result in the
obstruction of the government's orders, he is punishable by
death or life imprisonment and any commander who obeys that
person's orders is punishable by life imprisonment or
imprisonment for a term of years.
Paragraph 194 - Any person who organizes, directs or
assumes command of an armed group that attacks any sector of the

52

population or has, as its objective, the prevention of the rule
of law, the invasion of territory or the appropriation by force
of property belonging to the State or a group of people or who
resists with the use of arms members of the public authorities
is punishable by death. However, any person who joins such a
group without participating in its formation or assuming control
of it is punishable by life imprisonment or imprisonment for a
term of years.
Paragraph 195 - Any person who has as his objective
incitement to civil war or sectarian fighting by arming the
population or by encouraging one section of the population to
arm itself against another or by urging them to fight is
punishable by life imprisonment. The penalty will be death if
the objective is realized.
Paragraph 196 - Any person who attempts to occupy with the
use of force or menaces any public property or building or
building belonging to a government agency or departments or
public utility or general establishment or to take control in
any way of such property or prevent it from being used for the
purpose for which it was intended.
If the offence is committed by an armed group, the penalty
will be life imprisonment or imprisonment for a term of years
for its members or death or life imprisonment for the person who
formed the group or assumed the leadership or command of that
group.
Paragraph 197 - (1) Any person who willfully destroys,
demolishes, spoils or seriously damages a public building or
property or property belonging to a government agency or
department or public utility or general establishment or
property belonging to associations considered by law to be for
the public welfare or oil installation or any other state
industrial installation or hydroelectric power station or means
of communication or bridge or dam or public waterway or place
set aside for public use or recreation or any public property of
significant importance to the national economy with intent to
overthrow the constitutionally appointed regime is punishable by
death or life imprisonment.
(2) The penalty is death if the offender uses explosives in
the commission of the offence or if that offence leads to the
death of any person found in such place.
(3) The penalty is life imprisonment or imprisonment for a
term of years if the offence is committed in time of civil
unrest or riot or with intent to spread panic among the

53

population or create anarchy but without the offender intending
to overthrow the constitutionally appointed regime.
(4) The penalty is imprisonment for a term of years for any
person who willfully contributes to the destruction of anything
mentioned in Sub-Paragraph 1 or to the obstruction of the normal
course of its operation.
(5) The offender will in all cases be ordered to pay for
such damage or destruction.
Paragraph 198 - (1) The following persons are punishable by
a term of imprisonment not exceeding 10 years:
(a) Any person who incites the commission of an offence
stipulated in Paragraphs 190 to 197 and nothing
results from such incitement.
(b) Any person who invites the commission of such offences
by providing material or financial assistance without
intending to participate in their commission.
(2) If such incitement or encouragement is directed at a
member of the armed forces, the penalty is life imprisonment.
Paragraph 199 - Any person who incites a member of the
armed forces to disobey an order or to deviate from the
execution of his duties even though no offence is committed is
punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years plus
a fine not exceeding 500 dinars. The same penalty applies to any
person who assists a member of the armed forces to desert or
knowingly shelters a deserter or provides him with shelter.
A deserter's wife, ancestor, descendant, brother or sister
are exempt from the penalty prescribed for the offence of
sheltering or providing shelter for a deserter.
Paragraph 200 - (1) The following persons are punishable by
death:
(a) Any person who is a member of the Arab Socialist
Ba'ath Party and who willfully conceals any previous
party or political membership or affiliation.
(b) (i 10 ) Any person who is or has been a member of the
Arab-Socialist Ba'ath Party and who is found to have
links during his commitment to the Party with any
other political or party organization or to be working
for such organization or on its behalf.
(i) Sub-Paragraphs (a) and (b) have been added
in accordance with Law No 107 (1974) published
A1'Iraqiya No 2290 on 22/8/74. Sub-Paragraph 1
be part of Paragraph and Sub-Paragraph 2 to be
paragraph.

to Paragraph 200
in Al-Waqai'
was considered to
the original

54

.(ii 11 ) Any person why is or has been a member of the
Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party and who is found to be,
following the termination of his relationship with the
Party, a member of any other political or party
organization or to be working for such organization or
on its behalf.
(d) (iii 12 ) Any person who recruits to a political or party
organization another person who is affiliated to the
Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party or recruits such person in
any way to that organization following the termination
of his affiliation with the Party while being. aware
of that affiliation.
(2) Any person who promotes or acclaims any movement that
seeks to change the fundamental principles of the constitution
or the basic laws of society or in order to raise one section of
society over another or to oppress a particular section of
society or to overthrow the basic social and economic laws of
the State or the fundamental laws of society and the use of
force, terror or any other illegal method is perceived in such
action is punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 7
years or by detention.
The same penalty applies to any person
who incites the overthrow of the appointed regime in Iraq or
hatred of or scorn for such regime or acclaims or promotes
anything that stirs up factional or sectarian chauvinism or
encourages conflict between factions and classes or stirs up
feelings of hatred and contempt among the population.
(c)

Paragraph 201 (i 13 ) - Any person who promotes or acclaims
Zionist principles including freemasonry or who associates
himself with, Zionist organizations or assists them by giving
material or moral support or works in any way towards the
realization of Zionist objectives is punishable by death.
Paragraph 202 - Any person who publicly insults the Arab
community or the Iraqi people or any section of the population
or the national flag or the State emblem is punishable by a term
of imprisonment not exceeding 10 years or by detention.

(ii) Sub-Paragraph (c) has been added to the end of Paragraph
200 in accordance with Law No 145 (1974) published in Al-Waqai'
A1'Iraqiya No 2561 on 6/12/76.
(iii) Sub-Paragraph (d) has been added to the end of Paragraph
200 in accordance with Law No 111 (1978) published in Al-Waqai’
A1'Iraqiya No 2659 on 19/6/78.
(i) As amended by Paragraph 1 of Law No 130 (1975) published in
Al-Waqai' A1'Iraqiya No 2486 on 25/8/75.

55

Paragraph 203 - Any person who, by giving financial,
material or moral support, incites the commission of an offence
stipulated in the preceding Paragraphs of this Chapter without
intending to participate in such offence is punishable by a term
of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years or by detention plus a
fine not exceeding 500 dinars.
Paragraph 204 - (1) The following persons are punishable by
a term of imprisonment not exceeding 15 years plus a fine not
exceeding 1,000 dinars:
(a) Any person who sets up, establishes, organizes or
administers an association, club or organization in
Iraq with intent to commit any act referred to in
Paragraphs 200 to 202.
(b) Any person who sets up, establishes, organizes or
administers a branch of such association, club or
organization in Iraq even though its head office is
outside the country.
(c) Any foreigner resident in Iraq and any Iraqi citizen
even though he is resident abroad who sets up,
establishes or administers outside the country a
branch of such association, club or organization.
(2) The following persons are punishable by a term of
imprisonment not exceeding 10 years:
(a) Any person who joins any such association, club,
organization or branch or participates in any way in
it while being aware of its objectives.
(b) Any person who himself or through another communicates
with such association, club or organization or branch
for illegal purposes or who encourages or assists
another to do so.
Paragraph 205 - (1) Any person who sets up a secret
association in circumstances other than those prescribed in the
preceding Paragraphs or who assumes control of such association
or any principle office belonging to such association is
punishable by detention.
(2) Any member of a secret association is punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not
exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties.
(3) A secret association is considered to be any
association that conducts its affairs secretly in whole or in
part and whose objectives are contrary to the law or which
conceals those objectives by giving the competent authorities
false or incomplete statements about its objectives or about its
organization or modus operandi or the names of its members or
officials or the minutes of its meetings.

56

Paragraph 206 - (1) Any person who sets up, establishes,
organizes or administers in Iraq an association, club or
organization of any kind having international status or branch.
thereof which is not referred to in the preceding Paragraphs
without authorization from the competent authorities or with
such authorization obtained by false statements is punishable by
a period of detention not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not
exceeding 150 dinars or by one of those penalties.
(2)Any person who joins any such unauthorized association,
club or organization or joins it while being aware that
authorization was obtained by false statements is punishable by
a period of detention not exceeding 6 months plus a fine not
exceeding 75 dinars or by one of those penalties.
(3) Any citizen resident in Iraq who joins in any capacity
and without authorization from the competent authority such
organization with a head office abroad. [sic]
Paragraph 207 - (1) The court must, in the circumstances
described in Paragraph 204, order the dissolution of the
association, club, organization or branch mentioned in that
Paragraph.
(2) The court must rule in all cases for the confiscation
of funds, property, documents, records, printed matter or
anything else that is used or intended for use in the commission
of the offence.
(3) The court may order the closure of any place where an
offence stipulated in this chapter is committed.
(4) The court may, in all circumstances described in the
preceding Sub-Paragraphs, order the confiscation of funds or
property found in places set aside for meetings of the members
of such clubs, organizations or branches as we I as any property
belonging to the convicted person if there is evidence to
suggest that such property was, in fact, a source of finance
from which the association, club, organization or branch was
funded.
Paragraph 208 - The following persons are punishable by a
term of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years plus a fine not
exceeding 500 dinars or by one of those penalties:
(1) Any person who maliciously obtains or steals any
register, printed matter or record that promotes, acclaims or
incites anything stipulated in Paragraphs 200 to 202 if it is
intended that it should be distributed, published or
communicated to others. .
(2) Any person who obtains any means of printing, recording
or publication with a view to printing, recording or

57

broadcasting appeals, anthems or propaganda on behalf of a
faction, association, club or organization whose objectives are
set out in the preceding Paragraphs.
Paragraph 209 - Any person who obtains in any way directly
or through another funds or benefits of any kind from a person
or organization in Iraq or abroad with intent to promote the
offences stipulated in Paragraphs 200 to 202 is punishable by a
term of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years or by detention plus
a fine not exceeding 500 dings.
Paragraph 210 - Any person who willfully broadcasts false
or biased information, statements or rumors or disseminates
propaganda which, by its nature, endangers the public security,
spreads panic among the population and disturbs the public peace
is punishable by detention plus a fine not exceeding 300 dinars
or by one of those penalties.
The same penalty applies to any person who maliciously
obtains or steals any register, printed matter or record that
contains anything mentioned in the preceding Sub-Paragraph with
intent to distribute, publish or communicate it to others or who
obtains any means of printing, recording or publication in order
to' print, record or publish such material.
Paragraph 211 - Any person who publishes by any means false
information or fake or forged documents or documents falsely
attributed to others which, by their nature, endanger the public
security or disturb the public peace is punishable by detention
plus a fine. not exceeding 300 dinars or by one of those
penalties.
Paragraph 212 - Any person who incites by any means of
publication the commission of the offences of manslaughter,
theft, destruction or arson or any other felony, which, by their
nature, endanger the public security even though such incitement
has no effect is punishable by detention.
Paragraph 213 - Any person who incites by any means of
publication noncompliance with the law or promotes an act
considered to be a felony or misdemeanor is punishable by
detention plus a fine not exceeding 300 dinars or by one of
those penalties.
Paragraph 214 - Any person who incites a riot by shouting
or singing is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding
1 year plus a fine not exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those
penalties.

58

Paragraph 215 - Any person who produces, imports, exports
or obtains a picture, written material or sign with intent to
trade, distribute, display or exhibit such material, which, by
its nature, endangers the public security or brings the country
into disrepute unless he was acting in good faith is punishable
by detention plus a fine not exceeding 300 dinars or by one of
those penalties.
Paragraph 216 - (1) Any person who participates in a
criminal conspiracy, the objective of which is to commit an
offence stipulated in Paragraphs 190. to 193 and 195 to 197 or
to use that offence as a means to achieve the intended objective
is punishable by life imprisonment. or imprisonment for a term
of years.
(2) Any person who attempts to set up that conspiracy or
who plays a major part in setting it up is punishable by lifeimprisonment.
(3) If the objective of such conspiracy is to commit a
specified offence or to use that offence as a means to achieve
the intended objective and the penalty for that offence is less
than that prescribed in the preceding two Sub-Paragraphs, the
penalty will not be greater than that prescribed for the
offence.
(4) Any person who invites another to participate in the
conspiracy and his invitation is declined is punishable by
detention.
Paragraph 217 - Any person who participates in a criminal
conspiracy or in a gang, association, club, organization or
branch described in this Chapter and who is neither an employee
nor in a position of leadership and who dissociates himself from
it on first being instructed to do so by the official
authorities is exempt from any penalty. He may, in such a case,
be punished for other offences he has already committed himself.
Paragraph 218 - Any person who notifies the public
authorities prior to committing an offence and before the
initiation of an investigation into such offence is exempt from
the penalties prescribed in the preceding Paragraphs of this
Chapter. The court may exempt him from the penalty if such
notification is made after the commission of the offence but
before the initiation of the investigation.
The court may also exempt that person from the penalty if
he assists the authorities during the investigation to apprehend
the other parties to the offence.

59

Paragraph 219 - Any person who is aware of the commission
of an offence stipulated in this Chapter and does not notify the
public authorities of that fact is punishable by detention plus
a fine or by one of those penalties. This Paragraph does not
apply to that person's spouse, ancestor, descendant, brother or
sister.
Paragraph 220 - If five or more people are assembled in a
public place, thereby endangering the public security and the
public authorities order them to disperse, any person who is
given that order and refuses to comply with it is punishable by
a period of detention not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not
exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties.
Paragraph 221 - Any person who calls for a gathering in a
public place or who organizes such a gathering or participates
in it while being aware of any ban on such gatherings by the
public authorities is punishable by a period of detention not
exceeding 1 year plus a fine not exceeding 100 dinars or by one
of those penalties.
The same penalty applies to any person who publicly incites
a gathering even though such incitement has no effect.
Paragraph 222 - (1) If the intent of the gathering is to
commit a felony or misdemeanor or to prevent the implementation
of laws, regulations or decisions or to influence the affairs of
the public authorities or to deprive another of his freedom of
action with the use of force or menaces, then any person who
calls for such a gathering or organizes it or who participates
in it while being aware of its objective or any person who
remains at it after having become aware of the objective is
punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 2 years plus a
fine not exceeding 200 dinars or by one of those penalties.
(2) If any of the participants in a gathering uses force or
menaces or overtly carries a weapon or' implement, the use of
which may result in fatalities, the person who called for that
gathering ' or organized it and any person who participated in
it while being aware of its intended objective are punishable by
detention plus a fine not exceeding 300 dinars or by one of
those penalties.
(3) If any of the participants in the gathering commits an
offence while pursuing the intended objective, every person who
is present at the gathering at the time the offence is committed
is punishable by the penalty prescribed by law if they were
aware of the objective of the gathering. Any person who calls
for the gathering or organizes it is punishable by the penalty

60

prescribed by law for that offence even though he is not present
at the gathering at the time the offence is committed.
(4) The provisions of this Paragraph do not prejudice any
greater penalty prescribed by law.

CHAPTER THREE
Offences against the public authorities
SECTION ONE
Offences affecting the constitution
Paragraph 223 - (1) Any person who murders the President is
punishable by death.
(2) Any person who assaults the President or attempts to do
so but not to the extent of murdering him is punishable by
imprisonment.
(3) The same penalties apply, according to the
circumstances, if the offence is committed against a foreign
Head of state while he is in Iraq or on an official visit.
Paragraph 224 - Any person who resorts to the use of
violence, menaces or any other illegal method in order to force
the President or his representative to perform a duty assigned
to him by law or to refrain from doing so is punishable by life
imprisonment or imprisonment for a term of years.
The penalty will be imprisonment for a term of years if the
act is committed against the Prime Minister or his deputy or a
minister or member of the National Assembly.
Paragraph 225 - Any person who publicly insults the
President or his representative is punishable by a term of
imprisonment not exceeding .7 years or by detention.
Paragraph 226 Any person who publicly insults the National
Assembly or the government or the courts or the armed forces or
any other constitutional body or the public authorities or
official or 1 semiofficial agencies or departments is punishable
by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years or detention or
a fine.
Paragraph 227 - Any person who publicly insults a foreign
state or any international organization having an office in Iraq
or that country's Head of State or its representative in Iraq or
its flag or national emblem when it is displayed in accordance
with Iraqi law, is punishable by a period of detention not
exceeding 2 years plus a fine not exceeding 200 dinars.

61

Legal proceedings may only be brought in respect of this
offence by written permission from the Minister of Justice.
Paragraph 228 - Any person who publishes the proceedings of
the secret sessions of the National Assembly or publishes the
proceedings of any public sessions of the National Assembly
maliciously or inaccurately is punishable by detention or by a
fine not exceeding 200 dinars.

SECTION TWO
Offences against officials and other public agents
Paragraph 229 - Any person who insults or threatens an
official or other public employee or council or official body in
the execution of their duties or as a consequence of those
duties is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 2
years or by a fine not exceeding 200 dinars.
The penalty will be a period of detention not exceeding 3
years plus a fine or by one of those penalties if such insult or
threat is directed at a judge or legal or administrative court
or council carrying out a legal function in the execution of
their duties or as a consequence of those duties.
Paragraph 230 - Any person who assaults an official or
other public employee or who makes an attack upon a council or
official body during the execution of their duties or as a
consequence of those duties is punishable by a period of
detention not exceeding 3 years or by a fine not exceeding 300
dinars.
The penalty will be detention or a fine if injury or harm
occurs as a result of that assault or while resisting such
assault.
The penalty will be detention plus a fine or by one of
those penalties if injury or harm is caused to a judge in the
execution of his duty or as a consequence of that duty. This
paragraph does not prejudice any greater penalty prescribed by
law for injuring or harming.
Paragraph 231 - Any person who willfully prevents an
official or public employee from carrying out his duties is
punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 3 years plus a
fine or by one of those penalties.
Paragraph 232 - The following are considered to be
aggravating circumstances in the commission of any offence
stipulated in Paragraphs 229 to 231:

62

(1)
(2)
(3)
carrying

If the offence is premeditated
If the offence is committed by five or more persons
If the offence is committed by a person who is openly
a weapon.

CHAPTER FOUR
Offences prejudicial to the court of Justice
SECTION ONE
Offences affecting the due process of law
Paragraph 233 - Any official or public employee who
intercedes with a judge, magistrate or court either on behalf of
the accused or against him is punishable by a period of
detention not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not exceeding 100
dinars or by one of those penalties.
Paragraph 234 - Any judge or magistrate who issues a
judgment that is found to be unjust and the result of prior
intercession with him is punishable by detention plus a fine or
by one of those penalties.
Paragraph 235 - Any person who publishes any matter, which,
by its nature, will influence a judge or magistrate entrusted
with the judgment of cases brought before a legal authority or
legal or other official in charge of investigations or
specialist, arbitrator or witness, who is required to give
evidence at a trial or investigation or any person who publishes
any matter, which, by its nature, will prevent another from
passing information to the appropriate authority is punishable
by a period of detention not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not
exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties.
If the publication is intended to produce such influence or
if the matter published is false, the penalty will be a period
of detention not exceeding 2 years plus a fine not exceeding 200
dinars or by one of those penalties.
Paragraph 236 - Any person who publishes the following
information is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding
2 years plus a fine not exceeding 200 dinars or by one of those
penalties:
(1) Information about a trial which is required by law to
be kept secret or the publication of which is prohibited by the
court or information concerning any sub judice investigation
into a felony or misdemeanor or any document relating to that

63

investigation if the investigating authorities have prohibited
such publication.
(2) Information concerning the investigations or
proceedings of cases of genealogy, marriage, inheritance or
adultery.
(3) The deliberations of courts.
(4) Inaccurate and malicious accounts of the proceedings of
public sessions of the courts.
(5) The names or photographs of the victims of rape or
sexual" assault or the names or photographs of juvenile
defendants.
(6) The proceedings of civil or criminal cases which the
courts, rule should be heard in camera or the proceedings of
investigations or hearings relating to offences of slander,
abuse or the disclosure of classified information. There is no
penalty merely for the publication of the judgment if it is done
with the authorization of the competent court.
Paragraph 237 - Any person who is under a legal restraining
order and who lays his hands on property or another person
without legal justification is punishable by a period of
detention not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not exceeding 100
dinars or by one of those penalties. The penalty may be doubled
if force is used in the commission of the offence.
Paragraph 238 - Any person who is obliged by law to appear
either in person or by proxy at a time or in a place specified
in a notice, order or statement issued by a court, legal
authority or by a public official or agent authorized to issue
such notices, orders or statements and who willfully refrains
from doing so at the prescribed time or place or leaves the
prescribed place before he is permitted to do so is punishable
by a period of detention not exceeding 6 months plus a fine not
exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties.
Paragraph 239 - Any person who willfully removes, tears or
destroys an announcement or notice posted by order of a court,
legal authority or public official or agent is punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 6 months plus a fine not
exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties.
Paragraph 240 - Any person who contravenes an order issued
by a public official or agent, municipal council or official or
semiofficial body in accordance with their legal authority or
who disobeys an order issued by those entities in accordance
with their legal authorities is punishable by a period of
detention not exceeding 6 months or by a fine not exceeding 100

64

dinars. This is without prejudice to any greater penalty
stipulated by law.
Paragraph 241 - Any person who disobeys an order from an
investigating or other legal authority or police officer to
leave a place where an investigation, examination or any other
legal procedure relating to an investigation or the collection
of evidence is in progress is punishable by a period of
detention not exceeding month plus a fine not exceeding 20
dinars or by one of those penalties.
Paragraph 242 - Any person who refrains without
justification from fulfilling his obligation to assist a court,
judge or investigator in execution of his legal duties or public
official or agent in execution of his duties after being
requested to do so is punishable by a period of detention not
exceeding 6 months plus a fine not exceeding 100 dinars or by
one of those penalties.

SECTION TWO
Giving false information, withholding information and deception
1.

Giving false information and withholding information

Paragraph 243 - Any person who falsely notifies a legal or
administrative authority of an offence that he knows not to have
occurred or maliciously notifies any of those authorities of the
commission of an offence while knowing that information to be
false or concocts material evidence to suggest that an offence
has been committed by another or who is instrumental in bringing
legal proceedings against another while being aware of that
person's innocence or notifies the competent authorities of
certain matters concerning an offence that has occurred knowing
them to be false is punishable by detention plus a fine or by
one of those penalties if the offence is a felony or by a period
of detention not exceeding 3 years plus a fine not exceeding 300
dinars or by one of those penalties if the offence is a
misdemeanor or infraction.
Paragraph 244 - Any person who notifies in anyway a legal
or administrative authority or public agent of a disaster,
accident or danger knowing that such an event has not occurred
is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 1 year plus
a fine riot t exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties.

65

Paragraph 245 - Any person who is obliged by law to notify
a public agent in his official capacity of a certain matter but
informs him of matters that he knows to be false or who notifies
a public agent in his official capacity of a certain matter that
he knows to be false with intent to compel such agent to carry
out an act that is contrary to his official duties if such agent
is aware of the truth of the matter is punishable by a period of
detention not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not exceeding 100
dinars or by one of those penalties.
Paragraph 246 - There is no offence if a person notifies in
all sincerity or without malice a legal or administrative
authority of a matter deserving of punishment.
Paragraph 247 - Any person who is obliged by law to notify
a public agent of a matter or matters known to him and who
willfully refrains from doing so in the prescribed manner or at
the time stipulated by law is punishable by detention or a fine.
The same penalty applies to any public agent in charge of the
investigation or prevention of an offence who neglects to report
an offence that is brought to his attention. This is unless an
action is brought as a result of a complaint or the offender is
the spouse, ancestor, descendant, brother or sister of that
public agent or his spouse's ancestor, descendant, brother or
sister or any relative by marriage of such persons.
2.

Deception

Paragraph 248 - Any person who, with intent to deceive,
alters the condition of a person, place or thing or who conceals
the evidence of an offence or makes false statements in respect
of that offence knowing then to be untrue is punishable by
detention plus a fine or by one of those penalties.
Paragraph 249 - Any person who is asked to identify himself
by a court, investigating authority or police officer and who
gives a name or identity other than his own is punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 3 years plus a fine not
exceeding 300 dinars or by one of those penalties but, if he
gives the name of another person, then the penalty will be
detention plus a fine or one of those penalties.
Paragraph 250 - Any person who, with intent to deceive,
steals, conceals, destroys or alters a document, piece of
evidence or object used in the commission of an offence that is
submitted before a court investigating authority is punishable
by detention plus a fine or by one of those penalties.

66

The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not exceeding 7
years if the offender is a public official or agent to whom such
articles are entrusted or assigned by virtue of his official
capacity.

SECTION THREE
False testimony
Paragraph 251 - False testimony is the intent of a witness,
who has taken the legal oath before a civil, administrative or
disciplinary court or special court or investigating authority,
to make false statements, deny the truth or conceal in whole or
in part what he knows of the events that he has witnessed.
Paragraph 252 - Any person who falsely testifies for or
against an accused is punishable by detention plus a fine or by
one of those penalties.
If the accused is subsequently convicted as a result of
that testimony, such person is punishable by the penalty for the
offence for which the accused was convicted.
Any person who falsely testifies during civil,
administrative, disciplinary or canonical proceedings or before
an official authority entrusted with the investigation of civil
offences is punishable by detention plus a fine or by one of
those penalties.
Paragraph 253 - Any person who seeks, takes or receives a
gift or promise thereof to give false testimony is punishable by
the greater of the penalties prescribed for bribery or false
testimony as is the person who offered such gift or promise
thereof or who acted as intermediary in that respect.
Paragraph 254 - The following persons are punishable by the
penalty prescribed for false testimony:
(1) Any person who forces or induces by any means a witness
not to testify or to give false testimony even though his
objective is not achieved.
(2) Any person who refrains from testifying as a result of
receiving a gift or promise thereof or some other inducement.
Paragraph 255 - The following persons are punishable by the
penalty prescribed for false testimony:
(1) Any person who is entrusted by a court or authority
mentioned in Paragraph 251 with carrying out tasks requiring
specialist or translating skills and who willfully makes
alterations of any kind from the original.

67

(2) Any person who falsifies a translation or document that
could be used in evidence.
(3) Any person who gives or signs a false statement in
anticipation of legal proceedings and that statement is required
by law to be given or signed or relates to some matter that
admits the use of that statement as evidence.
(4) Any person who, during legal proceedings or during an
investigation, uses in evidence a false statement, account,
translation, paper, document or anything else he knows to be
false.
(5) Any person who, during legal proceedings or during an
investigation or in anticipation of such proceedings, creates
any situation or records any false information in a register or
other record which can be used in evidence and which, by its
nature, leads the court to form an incorrect opinion and which
affects the outcome of the proceedings.
Paragraph 256 - The following circumstances are considered
to be mitigating excuses:
(1) A retraction by the witness of his false statement and,
during legal proceedings, an undertaking by him to tell the
truth before any judgment is made in the case or, during an
investigation before a report on the matter is submitted by the
investigating authority. If the investigation is in respect of
an offence then such undertaking should be given before a
decision is made not to proceed with the trial.
(2) If the statement of the truth exposes a witness or his
spouse, ancestor, descendant, brother or sister to a significant
danger that affects his freedom or dignity.
Paragraph 257 - The provisions concerning false testimony
do not apply to any person who is not obliged to appear as a
witness or who is obliged by law to refrain from giving
testimony.

SECTION FOUR.
Perjury
Paragraph 258 - Any litigant who is obliged to take an oath
during civil proceedings and who then perjures himself is
punishable by detention.
Any person who then tells the truth having once perjured
himself and before a judgment is issued in the case is exempt
from any penalty.

68

Paragraph 259 - The following persons are punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 6 months plus a fine not
exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties:
(1) Any person who refrains without legal justification
from taking a legal oath to tell the truth after being required
to do so y a judge, investigator or public official or legal
capacity.
(2) Any person who refrains without legal justification
from answering questions put to him by any person mentioned in
the preceding Sub-Paragraph.
(3) Any person who refrains from providing any document or
from making available anything he has been ordered to make
available by any person mentioned in Sub-Paragraph 1 even though
he is obliged to do so by law.

SECTION FIVE
Assumption of official positions and impersonation
Paragraph 260 - Any person who assumes a public position or
interferes with the affairs of an official position or public
service, whether civil or military, or who unlawfully conducts
its affairs or administers its requirements unofficially or
without authorization from a competent authority is punishable
by a period of detention not exceeding 3 years plus a fine not
exceeding 300 dinars or by one of those penalties.
The same penalty applies to any public official or agent
who is officially discharged, dismissed or removed from his
position and he continues to carry out the duties of such
position or service.
Paragraph 261 - Any person who wear's in public an official
uniform or uniform that is associated in law with a particular
group of people or uniform associated with a higher rank than
his own to which he is not entitled or any person who wears a
medal, decoration, badge or insignia of office or who assumes an
academic or university title or officially recognized religious
title or military rank or representative capacity is punishable
by a period of detention not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not
exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties.
This provision applies if such uniform, decoration or other
thing mentioned in this Paragraph belongs to a foreign country.
Paragraph 262 - The court may, in respect of offences
stipulated in this section, order that the judgment or summary
of the judgment be published in one or more newspapers.

69

SECTION SIX
Breaking of seals, theft, destruction of documents
and other such offences
Paragraph 263 - (1) Any person who breaks, removes or
destroys a seal placed on a building, document or other such
thing by order of a legal or administrative authority or
competent official authority or any person who defeats in any
way the object of affixing such seal is punishable by a period
of detention not exceeding 3 years plus a fine not exceeding 300
dinars or by one of those penalties.
(2) The penalty will be a period of detention if the
offence is committed with the use of violence against others.
Paragraph 264 - (1) Any person who steals, appropriates,
removes or destroys a document, object, paper, record or
register pertaining to the state or public authorities or
records of legal proceedings that have been deposited in places
set aside for their safekeeping or placed in the custody of a
person entrusted even, temporarily with their safekeeping is
punishable by imprisonment not exceeding 7 years or by
detention.
(2) The penalty will be a term of imprisonment if the
offence is committed with the use of violence against others.
Paragraph 265 - If any person who commits an offence
stipulated in Sub-Paragraph 1 of the preceding two Paragraphs is
a custodian, guardian or keeper of such objects mentioned
therein, he is punishable by a term of imprisonment not
exceeding,10 years.
Paragraph 266 – A custodian, guardian or keeper of such
objects is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 1
year plus a fine not exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those
penalties if he causes, through negligence, the commission of an
offence stipulated in Paragraphs 263 and 264.

SECTION SEVEN
Escape and sheltering of prisoners and detainees
1.

Escape of prisoners and detainees

Paragraph 267 - Any person who escapes following his
seizure, arrest, detention or imprisonment in accordance with

70

the law is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 2
years plus a Fine not exceeding 200 dinars.
The penalty will be a period of detention if the offence is
committed by two or more persons or with the use of menaces or
violence against people or property. The penalty will be a term
of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years if the commission of the
offence involves the use of arms or the threat of such use.
Paragraph 268 - Any person who enables a condemned prisoner
to escape or helps or assists him to do so is punishable by a
term of imprisonment not exceeding 10 years.
The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not exceeding 7
years if the escaped prisoner has been sentenced to life
imprisonment or imprisonment for a term of years.
The penalty will be detention or a fine in all other
circumstances but it will not exceed the original penalty,
imposed on the escaped prisoner:
The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not exceeding 15
years or if the offence is committed by more than two persons or
with the use of violence or menaces or the use of arms or the
threat of such use.
Paragraph 269 - Any person who enables another who has been
seized, arrested or detained in accordance with the law to
escape or helps or assists him to do so and such other person is
accused of an offence for which the penalty is death is
punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 7 years.
In all other circumstances, the penalty will be a period of
detention not exceeding 3 years plus a fine not exceeding 300
dinars or by one of those penalties but the penalty will not
exceed the penalty prescribed by law for the offence of which
the escapee is accused. The penalty will be a term of
imprisonment not exceeding 10 years or detention plus a fine if
the offence is committed by two or more persons or with the use
of violence or menaces or with the use of arms or the threat of
such use.
Paragraph 270 - Any person who provides another who has
been seized, arrested, detained or imprisoned with a weapon,
implement or tool by which such other person is helped to escape
or who assists him to do so in any way is punishable by a term
of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years or by detention.
The penalty will be imprisonment if the offence is
committed by a person assigned to guard, escort or transfer a
detainee.

71

Paragraph 271 - Any public official or agent who is
entrusted with the arrest of a person or with guarding a person
under arrest, detainee or prisoner or with escorting or
transferring such person and who subsequently enables him to
escape or is negligent in respect of that person or is lax while
carrying out the necessary procedures of the arrest with intent
to assist him to escape is punishable by a term of imprisonment
not exceeding 10 years if the escapee has already been sentenced
to life imprisonment or imprisonment for a term of years or if
he is .accused of an offence for which the penalty is death.
In all other circumstances, the penalty will be detention.
Paragraph 272 - Any person who is entrusted with guarding
another person under arrest, detainee or prisoner or with
escorting. or transferring such person and who causes through
negligence the escape of that person is punishable by detention
or a fine.
2.

Sheltering of prisoners and detainees

Paragraph 273 - (1) Any person who, himself or through
another, knowingly conceals or shelters another person who runs
away following his arrest or the issue of a warrant for his
arrest or who is accused or has been convicted of a felony or
misdemeanor is punishable by the following penalties:
(a) A term of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years if the
person concealed or given shelter has been sentenced
to death or life imprisonment or imprisonment for a
term of years or is accused of an offence for which
the penalty is death.
(b) Detention plus a fine or by one of those penalties in
all other circumstances.
(2) The penalty may not under any circumstance exceed the
maximum limit of the penalty prescribed for that offence.
(3) The provision of this Paragraph does not apply to the
spouse, ancestor, descendant, brother or sister of the runaway.

CHAPTER FIVE
Offences against the public confidence
SECTION ONE
Counterfeiting and forgery of seals and stamps
Paragraph 274 - Counterfeiting is the creation of something
false so that it resembles the genuine article.

72

Paragraph 275 - Any person who himself or through another
counterfeits or forges the state seal or the seal or signature
of the President or the seal or insignia of the government or of
any official or semiofficial agency or government official or
his signature(i 14 ) or any legally prescribed gold or silver
hallmark is punishable by imprisonment.
The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not exceeding 10
years if the offence involves the seal or insignia of a foreign
state or the seal or insignia of a bank, institution, company,
association, organization or establishment in which the state
has a financial interest or the seal or insignia of a jointstock company, cooperative society or corporation set up in
accordance with legally prescribed regulations or association or
institution considered by law to be for the public good.
The same penalty applies, according to the circumstances,
to any person who makes use of such seals or insignia or who
brings them into the country knowing them to be counterfeit or
forged.
Paragraph 276 - Any person who unlawfully makes use of the
state seal or the seal of the President or the seal or insignia
of the government or of any official or semiofficial agency or
government official or any legally prescribed gold or silver
hallmark is punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding
10 years
The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not exceeding 7
years or detention if the offence involves the seal or insignia
of a foreign state or the seal or insignia of a bank,
institution, company, association, organization or establishment
in which the state has a financial interest or the seal or
insignia of a joint-stock company, cooperative society or
corporation set up in accordance with legally prescribed
regulations or association or institution considered by law to
be for the public good.
Paragraph 277 - (1) Any person who counterfeits or forges
the financial stamps of Iraq or of a foreign country or the
insignia, postage stamps or cable or wireless communications of
Iraq or of a foreign country that is a member of the
International Postal Union or franked correspondence with intent
to make unlawful use of such things or who disseminates such
things while being aware of their nature is punishable by a term
of imprisonment not exceeding 10 years.
(i) The phrase 'or his signature' has been inserted after
'government official' in accordance with Paragraph 6 of Law No
207 (1970).

73

The penalty will be detention if the offence involves the
stamps of officially recognized nongovernmental organizations.
(2) Any person who makes use of a counterfeit or forged
stamp ,of the kind mentioned in the preceding Sub-Paragraph or
uses a genuine stamp that has previously been used or who
introduces such stamps into the country with intent to use them
unlawfully or disseminate them while being aware that they have
been forged or previously used is punishable by detention.
Paragraph 278 - Any person who produces in any way or
obtains prints or specimens which, to all intents and purposes,
resemble the insignia, postage stamps or cable or wireless
communications of Iraq or a member country of the International
Postal Union or franked correspondence to such an extent that
they are accepted as readily as the genuine article with intent
to sell, distribute or offer such prints or specimens for sale
is punishable by detention or by a fine not exceeding 200
dinars.
The coupons of the International Postal Union are
considered to be in the same category as stamps and insignia.
Paragraph 279 - Any person who simulates or falsifies road
or other signs that fulfill and implement the laws, regulations
and instructions relating to transport or traffic is punishable
by a period of detention not exceeding 1 year or by a fine not
exceeding 100 dinars.
The same penalty applies to any person who makes use of
such signs knowing them to be simulated or falsified and who
makes use of any genuine sign which he is not entitled to use.

SECTION TWO
Counterfeiting of currency, banknotes and financial bonds
Paragraph 280 - Any person who himself or through another
counterfeits or forges gold or silver currency in circulation in
Iraq or some other country by law or by common usage or who.
introduces forged or counterfeit currency or disseminates such
currency in Iraq or some other country or trades with it or
obtains it with intent to disseminate it or trade with it while
being aware of its nature is punishable by imprisonment.
The reduction of the weight of a coin or its
regalvanization in order to make it resemble a coin of greater
value is considered tantamount to the counterfeiting of coins.
The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not exceeding 10
years if such counterfeiting is of coins that are not of gold or
silver.

74

Paragraph 281 - Any person who himself or through another
counterfeits or forges a legally recognized Iraqi or foreign
financial bond(i 15 ) or banknote with intent to circulate or issue
it inside Iraq or some other country or trade with it while
being aware of its nature is punishable by imprisonment.
Paragraph 282 - If an offence stipulated in the preceding
Paragraphs results in a devaluation of the national currency or
government bonds or undermines confidence in the domestic or
foreign markets or is committed by a group of more than three
persons, the penalty will be life imprisonment.
Paragraph 283 - Any person who knowingly circulates or
introduces worthless coins or banknotes is punishable by
detention plus a fine or by one of those penalties.
Paragraph 284 - Any person who takes a counterfeit coin or
forged banknote in good faith and then trades with it after
having discovered its true nature is punishable by detention.
Paragraph 285 - (1) Any person who produces, sells,
distributes, disseminates, offers, transfers or obtains coins or
notes with intent to sell or distribute them for cultural,
scientific, industrial or commercial reasons and without due
authorization from the competent financial authorities and in
contravention of such restrictions as are in force and those
coins or notes resemble to all intents and purposes the legally
issued currency in circulation in Iraq and such resemblance
causes confusion among the population is punishable by a period
of detention not exceeding 6 months or by a fine not exceeding
100 dinars. (i 16 )The same penalty applies to any person who
commits such an act in respect of gold coins legally in
circulation or in common use in Iraq or in a foreign country or
obtains the means for counterfeiting such coins.
(2) The same penalty applies to any person who, for reasons
set out in the preceding Sub-Paragraph and without due
authorization from the competent financial authorities, prints,
publishes or makes use of a likeness of the face or part thereof
of legally issued currency in circulation in Iraq if such
likeness causes confusion among the population.

(i) The phrase 'financial bond or' has been inserted in
accordance with Paragraph 7 of Law No 207 (1970).
(i) From here to the end of Paragraph 285 has been inserted in
(---unclear---).

75

(3) Legally issued foreign banknotes are considered to be
paper currency in the application of the provision of the
preceding two Paragraphs.

SECTION THREE
Falsification of written documents
SUB-SECTION ONE
Definition of falsification and its types
Paragraph 286 - Falsification is the alteration as to
substance or meaning as stipulated by the Code with intent to
deceive of a deed, certificate or other document thereby causing
harm to the public welfare or to others.
Paragraph 287 - (1) Falsification as to substance falls
into the following categories:
(a) the use of a falsified signature, thumb print or seal
or the falsification of a genuine signature, thumb
print or seal.
(b) the procurement of the signature, thumb print or seal
of any person who is unaware of the true content of
the document by surprising or deceiving such person.
(c) the completion of a blank document that has been
signed, thumb printed or sealed without the consent of
the person who signed, thumb printed or sealed such
document. This includes the misuse of such signature,
thumb print or seal.
(d) the addition to, deletion, amendment or other
alteration of the text of a written document or of a
number, picture, sign or other thing contained
therein.
(e) the fabrication or forgery of a written document.
(2) Falsification as to meaning falls into the following
categories:
(a) the alteration of the basic premise, the documentation
of which is the object of producing the written
document.
(b) knowingly making a simulated incident appear as a
genuine one.
(c) making an unauthorized incident, appear authorized.
(d) the assumption or substitution or false description of
a person's identity and, in general terms, the
distortion of the truth in a written document or the
omission from it at the time of writing of a statement
considered to be for inclusion in it.

76

SUB-SECTION TWO
Falsification of official documents
Paragraph 288 - An official document is one in which a
public official or agent records that which occurs under his
auspices or which is received from competent persons in
accordance with legal provision and within the bounds of his
authority and jurisdiction or which impinges upon its
documentation in any way or by affording it official status.
Paragraph 289 - In circumstances other than those in which
the law stipulates a special sentence, any person who falsifies
an official document is punishable by a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 15 years.
Paragraph 290 - Any person who compels a public official or
agent while that official is making a report in the line of duty
either by assuming the name of another or an identity that is
not his own or by reporting fictitious information or by any
other means to record or register fictitious information in
respect of a matter which by its nature should be recorded is
punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 15 years.

SUB-SECTION THREE
Special instances of falsification of official documents
Paragraph 291 - Fabrication is the creation of a document
that has not previously existed and its attribution to another
record without the need for there to be intent to falsify the do
itself or the handwriting of person.
Paragraph 292 - Any person who manages by assuming a false
name or identity to obtain any official permit, identity card,
poll card, driving or transport license or permit to move within
the country is punishable by detention plus a fine not exceeding
300 dinars or by one of those penalties.
The same penalty applies to any person who forges or
falsifies such document.
Paragraph 293 - Any public official or agent who issues a
document referred to in the preceding Paragraph while being
aware that the person to whom it is issued has assumed a false
name or identity is punishable by detention.

77

Paragraph 294 - Any person who, before an authority
presiding over an investigation into the circumstances of a
death or bequest, makes false statements concerning the facts
under investigation and a document is issued on the basis of
such statements is punishable by detention plus a fine or by one
of those penalties. The same penalty applies to any person who
makes false statements or registers with or submits to any such
person a document containing false information with intent to
register the fact that either of the parties in the marriage
contract has reached the legally required age in order to
authenticate such marriage `contract or to conclude a marriage
contract to which there exists a legal impediment and a marriage
certificate is issued on the basis of such statements or
documents.
The same penalty applies to any public official or agent
who issues a certificate pertaining to the death of a person or
a bequest or attests a marriage contract while being aware of
the false nature of those statements or documents on which that
certificate or marriage contract is based:

SUB-SECTION FOUR
Falsification ordinary documents
Paragraph 295 - (1) Any person who falsifies an ordinary
document which establishes a debt or disposes of property or
discharges a person from a debt or settles a debt or any
ordinary document which can be used to establish rights of
ownership is punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding
7 years or by detention.
(2) The penalty will be detention if it is the
falsification of any other ordinary document.
Paragraph 296 - Any person who is entrusted by law to seize
ledgers or documents subject to supervision by the public
authorities and makes a false entry in them or neglects to make
a legitimate entry thereby deceiving such authorities and
causing them to commit an error is punishable by a period of
detention not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not exceeding 100
dinars or by one of those penalties.
Paragraph 297 - (1) Any doctor or. midwife who issues a
certificate in respect of a pregnancy, childbirth, illness,
disability, death or anything concerned with his or her
profession knowing it to be false in any way is punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 2 years or by a fine not

78

exceeding 200 dinars. If the certificate is due for submission
to a legal authority or in order to justify an exemption from
any public service the penalty will be detention or a fine not
exceeding 300 dinars.
(2) If the doctor or midwife has sought, received or taken
a gift or promise thereof to issue that certificate or if he or
she has already issued it as a result of receiving advice or due
to any intervention by another, he or she and whoever offered,
gave, promised or put forward such advice or who intervened is
punishable by detention plus a fine or by one of those
penalties.
(3) The same penalty :applies, according to the
circumstances, to any person who himself or through another
falsifies. or fabricates a certificate of the type mentioned in
Sub-Paragraph 1.
SUB-SECTION FIVE
The use of falsified documents
Paragraph 298 - Any person who makes use of a falsified
document knowing it to be so is, according to the circumstances
punishable by the penalty prescribed for the offence of
falsification.

SUB-SECTION SIX
Unlawful use of documents issued for use by another
Paragraph 299 - Any person who unlawfully makes use of or
benefits from a genuine document issued for the use or benefit
of another is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding
2 years plus a fine not exceeding 200 dinars or by one of those
penalties.

SUB-SECTION 7
Destruction of documents
Paragraph 300 - (1) Any person who maliciously destroys,
distorts, spoils or nullifies a document which establishes a
debt, disposes of property, discharges a person from a debt or
settles a debt or any document that could be used to establish
rights of ownership is punishable by a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 7 years or by detention.
(2) The penalty will be detention if such act is committed
in respect of a document not mentioned in the preceding SubParagraph.

79

Paragraph 301 - Any employee in a relevant business who,
with intent to deceive, destroys, distorts, spoils, nullifies or
makes a false entry or neglects to make a significant entry in
the ledgers, documentation or records of such business is
punishable by detention plus a fine or by one of those
penalties.

SECTION FOUR
Collective Provisions
Paragraph 302 - (1) Any person who manufactures or obtains
a tool, instrument or anything that can be used to imitate or
counterfeit seals, bonds or stamps or falsifies any document
with _ intent to make use of it for the purpose mentioned above
is punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years.
(2) The same penalty applies to any person who manufactures
or obtains a mint, tool, instrument or anything that can be used
to imitate, forge or counterfeit coins, bank notes or financial
bonds.
Paragraph 303 - Any person who commits an offence of
forgery or counterfeiting of seals, bonds or stamps or mints
coins or counterfeits bank notes, financial bonds or official
documents is exempt from the prescribed penalty if he notifies
the public authorities before the offence is committed and
before the authorities begin to investigate or make inquiries
into the offender and identify the other parties to the offence.
If such notification is given after the authorities have
begun their investigation, he is not exempt from the penalty
unless that notification assists in the apprehension of such
parties to the offence.
In addition, any person who commits an offence of
imitation, counterfeiting or forgery stipulated in this chapter
is exempt from the penalty if he destroys the materials for. use
in the offence before they are used and before the initiation of
an investigation into the offenders.

SECTION FIVE
Offences affecting the national economy and confidence
in the State's finances
Paragraph 304 - Any person who publicly and knowingly
broadcasts fictitious evidence or false allegations thereby
causing a reduction in the value of national banknotes or

80

undermining confidence in the currency of the State or its bonds
or any other security connected to the national economy or
public confidence in state finances is punishable by a period of
detention not exceeding 2 years plus a fine not exceeding 200
dinars or by one of those penalties.
The penalty will be detention plus a fine or one of those
penalties if such a situation arises or if the offence is
committed by a public official or agent connected with the
circulation of such currency or bonds.
If both such aggravating circumstances occur simultaneously
the penalty for a public official or agent will be a term of
imprisonment not exceeding 7 years.
Paragraph 305 - Any person who publicly incites others to
withdraw capital deposited with banks or public funds or to sell
state bonds or other government securities or to refrain from
purchasing such securities is punishable by a period of
detention not exceeding 2 years plus a fine not exceeding 200
dinars or by one of those penalties.
The penalty will be detention plus a fine or one of those
penalties if the offence is committed by a public official or
agent connected with the circulation of such currency or bonds.
Paragraph 306 - Any person who does not accept the legally
issued national currency, whether coins or notes, at its nominal
value is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 1
year or by a fine not exceeding 200 dinars.
The penalty will be a period of detention not exceeding 2
years plus a fine not exceeding 200 dinars or one of those
penalties if the offence is committed by a public official or
agent connected with the circulation of such currency.

CHAPTER SIX
Offences in breach of the duties of office
Paragraph 307 - (1) Any public official or agent who seeks
or accepts for himself or for another a gift, benefit, honor or
promise thereof to carry out any duty of his employment or to
refrain from doing so or to contravene such duty is punishable
by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 10 years or by detention
plus a fine which should not be less than the amount he sought,
was given, or was promised but should not, under any
circumstances, exceed 500 dinars.
(2) The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 7 years or detention if such request, acceptance or
receipt occurs with intent to receive remuneration after such

81

duty is or is not carried out or following the contravention of
such duty.
Paragraph 308 - Any public official or agent who seeks or
receives for himself or for another a gift, benefit, privilege
or promise thereof to carry out or refrain from carrying out an
act that does not fall within the duties of his office but he
claims or considers that such act was carried out in error is
punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years or by
detention plus a fine of not less than the amount he sought, was
given or was promised. The fine should not, under any
circumstances, exceed 500 dinars.
Paragraph 309 - The provisions of the preceding two
Paragraphs apply even though that public official or agent
intended not to carry out such act or refrain from doing so or
contravene the duties of his office.
Paragraph 310 - Any person who gives, offers or promises a
public official or agent anything stipulated in Paragraph 308 is
considered to be offering a bribe.
Any person who mediates for a person who offers or accepts
a bribe in order to offer, seek, accept, receive or promise such
bribe, is considered to be an intermediary.
The person who offers a bribe as well as the intermediary
is punishable by the penalty prescribed by law for a person who
accepts such bribes.
Paragraph 311 - A person who offers a bribe as well as the
intermediary is exempt from the penalty if he undertakes to
notify the legal or administrative authorities or confesses to
the offence before an action is brought. It is considered a
mitigating excuse if such notification or confession occurs
after an action is brought but before the end of the
proceedings.
Paragraph 312 - The following persons are punishable by
detention:
(1) Any person who seeks or. receives a gift, benefit or
privilege believing it to be a bribe for a public official or
agent with intent to keep it for himself.
(2) Any person who receives or accepts such gift, benefit
or privilege while being aware of its purpose even though the
public official or agent to be bribed has not already specified
or become aware of it, as long as he is not an intermediary in
the act of bribery.

82

Paragraph 313 - Any person who offers a bribe to a public
official or agent and he does not accept it is punishable by
detention or by a fine.
Paragraph 314 - In addition to the penalties stipulated in
the Paragraphs of this Section, an order for the confiscation of
the gift received by or offered to the public official or agent
will be issued.

SECTION TWO
Embezzlement
Paragraph 315 - Any public official or agent who embezzles
or conceals funds, goods, documents establishing legal rights or
other things that come into his possession is punishable by
imprisonment.
The penalty will be life imprisonment or imprisonment for a tern
of years if the public official or agent is a tax collector or
his. deputy or deposit trustee or money changer or if he
embezzles anything surrendered to him in his capacity as such.
Paragraph 316 - Any public official or agent who exploits
his position in order to obtain funds, goods or documents
establishing legal rights or other things to which he is not
entitled and which belong to the State or to an establishment or
organization in which the state has a financial interest is
punishable by imprisonment.
The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not exceeding 10
years if such funds, goods, documents or other thing belong to
some entity other than those mentioned in the preceding SubParagraph.
Paragraph 317 - If the value of any thing involved in an
offence stipulated in Paragraphs 315 and 316 is less than 5
dinars, the Court may sentence the offender to detention instead
of the penalty prescribed in those Paragraphs.
Paragraph 318 - Any public official or agent who is
entrusted with the supervision of a department belonging to an
authority in which he is working or a transaction or case and
who then maliciously harms or causes harm to that department in
order to obtain some benefit for himself or for another is
punishable by imprisonment.
Paragraph 319 – Any public official or agent who benefits
directly or through the mediation of another from a transaction,

83

contract or agreement, the preparation, assignment,
implementation or supervision of which is in the a hands of such
public official or agent is punishable by a term of imprisonment
not exceeding 10 years or by detention. The same penalty applies
if he receives for himself or for another a commission in
respect of such activity.
Paragraph 320 - Any public official or agent who employs
others to carry out the activities relating to his position and
who retains for himself in whole or in part the wages or other
recompense due to his employees or who employs slave labor and
takes their wages for himself or who enters in a government
register the names of fictitious or genuine persons who have not
been engaged in those activities and retains their wages for
himself or who pays such employees their wages at the
government's expense is punishable by a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 10 years or by detention.
Paragraph 321 - In addition to the penalties stipulated in
the Paragraphs of this Section, the offender shall be ordered to
make restitution for the funds he has embezzled or appropriated
for himself or for the value of the benefit or gain which he has
obtained.

SECTION THREE
Officials who overstep the bounds of their duty
Paragraph 322 - Any public official or agent who arrests,
imprisons or detains a person in circumstances other than those
stipulated by law is punishable by a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 7 years or by detention.
The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not exceeding to
years or detention if the offence is committed by a person
wearing an official uniform to which he is not entitled or who
uses a false identity or makes use of a counterfeit order
claiming it to have been issued by an authority that is entitled
to issue such orders.
Paragraph 323 - Any public official or agent who, while
being aware of the violation of his duty to the law, punishes a
convicted person or orders him to be punished by a penalty
greater than that imposed on him by law or by a penalty to which
he has not been sentenced is punishable by detention.
Paragraph 324 - Any public official or agent who is
entrusted with the administration or supervision of a center,

84

prison or other institution set aside for the discharging of a
penalty or precautionary measure and who admits a person without
an order to do so from a competent authority or refrains from
implementing an order issued for the release of such person or
for his continued detention following the period prescribed for
his custody, detention or imprisonment is punishable by
detention.
Paragraph 325 - Any public official or agent who engages
slave labor in activities unconnected with the legally or
constitutionally recognized public interest or activities other
than those that are prompted by necessity or who obliges a
person to engage in activities or circumstances other than those
in which the law sanctions such activity is punishable by
detention. This is in addition to an order that he pay any wages
due to those people he has unlawfully employed.
Paragraph 326 - Any public official or agent who, in the
course of his official ,duty, enters the house of a ,person or
any part thereof without the consent of that person or causes
another to enter the house in circumstances other than those in
which the law sanctions such entry or without due care to the
procedures laid down fox making such entry is punishable by
detention plus a fine or by one of those penalties.
The same penalty applies to any public official or agent
who carries out a search of a person, house or location without
the consent of the owner or causes another to carry out the
search in circumstances other than those in which the law
sanctions such search or without due care to the procedures laid
down for such search.
Paragraph 327 - Any public official or agent who knowingly
reveals information that has come to his knowledge in the course
of his duty to a person to whom he is required to withhold such
information is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding
3 years plus a fine not exceeding 300 dinars or by one of those
penalties. The penalty will be imprisonment if, as a result of
that revelation, the interests of the state are harmed. The same
penalty applies to any person associated with the government or
his deputy or any person working on his behalf who is involved
in the conclusion of a contract or transaction and who reveals
information that he has received in the course of concluding
such contract or transaction and which he is obliged to
withhold.
Paragraph 328 - Any official or employee in a postal or
telecommunications agency as well as any public official or

85

agent who opens, destroys or conceals a letter or telex
entrusted or consigned to such agency or who assists another to
do so or reveals secrets contained therein is punishable by a
term of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years or by detention. The
same penalty applies to any of those persons who reveal the
contents of a telephone conversation or assist another to do so.
Paragraph 329 - (1) Any public official or agent who
exploits the authority of his office and who prevents or hinders
the execution of an order issued by the government or legal
provision or regulation or judgment or order issued by a court
or competent public authority or who delays the collection of
revenues, taxes or such thing that is regulated by law is
punishable by detention plus fine or by one of those penalties.
(2) The same penalty applies to any public official or
agent who refrains from executing a decision or order of a court
or competent public authority within 8 days of his official
notification to do so and the execution of such decision or
order falls within his jurisdiction.
Paragraph 330 - Any public official or agent who unlawfully
refrains from executing the duties of his office or willfully
fails to fulfill his duties in response to a request or
instruction or to mediation by another or for any unlawful
reason is punishable by detention.
Paragraph 331 - Any public official or agent who willfully
commits an act in breach of the duties of his office or refrains
from executing the affairs of that office with intent to harm
the welfare Of an individual or to benefit one person at the
expense of another or at the expense of the state is punishable
by detention plus a fine or by one of those penalties.
Paragraph 332 - Any public official or agent who cruelly
treats a person in the course of his duties thereby causing him
to suffer a loss of esteem or dignity or physical pain is
punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 1 year plus a
fine not exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties but
without prejudice to any greater penalty stipulated by law.
Paragraph 333 - Any public official or agent who tortures
or orders the torture of an accused, witness or informant in
order to compel him to confess to the commission of an offence
or to make a statement or provide information about such offence
or to withhold information or to give a particular opinion in
respect of it is punishable by imprisonment or by detention.
Torture shall include the use of force or menaces.

86

Paragraph 334 - Any public official 'or agent who uses the
authority of his office to purchase forcibly any moveable or
immoveable property from its owner or unlawfully take possession
of such property or a benefit or title belonging to another or
who compels the owner to make any disposals of such property to
him or to another or to enable him to benefit from such property
in any way is punishable by detention plus a fine or by one of
those penalties. He shall be ordered to make restitution for the
property that he has appropriated or its value if it has no
substance in addition to the compensation if necessary of any
parson who has suffered harm as a result of the offence.
Paragraph 335 - Any public official or agent who unlawfully
uses his position to take possession of property, goods or title
documents or other such things in his possession as a
consequence of his position or assists another to do so and
without intent to take legal possession is punishable by a term
of imprisonment not exceeding 10 years or by detention.
Paragraph 336 - (1) Any public official or agent who, by
deception or any other illegal means, violates the freedom or
integrity of auctions or invitations to tender by the government
or by an establishment or company in which the government has a
financial interest or those of an official or semiofficial
agency is punishable by detention plus a fine or by one of those
penalties.
(2) The same penalty applies to any person other than a
public official or agent who commits an act stipulated in the
preceding Sub-Paragraph.
(3) Such a person shall be ordered to make restitution for
the loss arising from an act stipulated in this Paragraph.
Paragraph 337 - Any official prohibited by reason of his
position from engaging in commerce who trades without profit or
gain with his own private property or the property of his
ancestor, descendant, brother, sister, spouse or any person in
his custody or care is punishable by a period of detention not
exceeding 1 year plus a fine not exceeding 200 dinars or by one
of those penalties.
Paragraph 338 - Any official or employee in an official or
semiofficial agency who uses the authority of his position to
acquire for himself or for another from a person without his
consent anything of little or no value is punishable by a period
of detention not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not exceeding 200
dinars or by one of those penalties in addition to an order that

87

he return those items that he has acquired or pay their value in
full if they are no longer in their original state.
Paragraph 339 - Any public official or agent who is
involved in the collection of a tax, revenue, fine or other such
thing or who is responsible for the payment of fees, wages or
such things and who knowingly seeks or acquires or orders the
collection of that to which he has no right or which exceeds
that which is due is punishable by a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 7 years or by detention. Sums unlawfully collected
shall be ordered to be refunded.
Paragraph 340 - Any public official or agent who willfully
inflicts damage on the property or interests of the authority
for which he works or to which he is associated by virtue of his
position or on another's property that has been entrusted to him
is punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years or
by detention.
Paragraph 341 - Any public official or agent who causes by
a serious error on his part the infliction of grave damage on
the property or interests of an authority for which he works or
with which he is associated by virtue of his position or on
another's property or interests that have been entrusted to him
is punishable by detention if it is as a consequence of gross
negligence in the performance of his duty or the abuse of his
authority or a serious breach of the duties of his office.

CHAPTER SEVEN
Offences that endanger the public
SECTION ONE
Fire and explosives
Paragraph 342 - (1) Any person who willfully sets on fire
moveable or immoveable property even though he is the owner of
such property is punishable by a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 5 years if he thereby endangers the life or property
of others.
(2) The penalty will be life imprisonment or imprisonment
for a term of years if the following places are set on fire:
(a) An ordnance or weapons factory or depot or part
thereof or military equipment store.
(b) An oil rig or well.
(c) A fuel dump or store of inflammable substances or
explosives.

88

(d)
(e)

An electricity, water or nuclear power station.
A railway station or engine or vehicle or railway
carriage that is occupied by others or airport or
aircraft or shipyard or ship.
(f) A residential building or place inhabited by a group
of people.
(g) A building used by an official or semi-official agency
or general establishment or institution working in the
public interest.
(3) The penalty will be life imprisonment if the offence
aims to facilitate the commission of a felony or misdemeanor or
destroy the evidence of such offence or if the offender renders
ineffective any fire fighting equipment or means of fighting
fires or if the fire leads to permanent disability or is started
with the use of explosives.
(4) The penalty will be death or life imprisonment if the
fire results in the death of others.
Paragraph 343 - (1) Any person who accidentally causes to
be set on fire moveable or immoveable property is punishable by
detention plus a fine or by one of those penalties if he thereby
endangers the life and property of others.
(2) The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 7 years or detention if the fire leads to the
destruction of a public utility or causes extensive damage to
property.
(3) The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 10 years if the offence results in the death of
others.
Paragraph 344 - Any person who manufactures, imports,
obtains or acquires explosives without authorization or for a
purpose other than that stipulated in such authorization is
punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years or by
detention plus a fine. Explosives are considered to include all
substances used in their manufacture which. are defined by a
decision of the competent Minister published in an official
newspaper as well as the tools and equipment used in their
manufacture or detonation.
Paragraph 345 - Any person who uses or attempts to use
explosives thereby endangering the 1ife of others is punishable
by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 5 years. If the use of
such explosives causes serious injury or death to others, the
penalty will be life imprisonment or imprisonment for a term of
years.

89

Paragraph 346 - Any person who willfully uses or attempts
to use explosives thereby endangering the property of others is
punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 10 years. The
penalty will be imprisonment if the explosion causes serious
damage to such property.
Paragraph 347 - Any person who uses explosives in order to
achieve an illegal purpose or in circumstances other than those
mentioned above is punishable by a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 10 years.
Paragraph 348 - Any person who conveys or attempts to
convey explosives or inflammable substances by any mode of land,
sea or air transport or by letter or parcel in contravention of
accepted rules and regulations is punishable by detention plus a
fine or by one of those penalties.

SECTION TWO
Offences of flooding and those involving a public utility
Paragraph 349 - Any person who willfully causes or attempts
to cause flooding which endangers the life or property of others
is punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 15 years.
The penalty will be death or life imprisonment if such flooding
results in the death of others or life imprisonment or
imprisonment for a term of years if such flooding results in
serious damage to property.
Paragraph 350 - (1) Any person who accidentally causes
flooding is punishable by detention plus a fine or by one of
those penalties if it endangers the life or property of others.
(2) The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 7 years or detention if such flooding results in the
destruction of a public utility or causes extensive damage to
property.
(3) The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not
exceeding l0 years if the offence leads to the death of others.
Paragraph 351 - (1) Any person who willfully endangers the
life or safety of others by contaminating with substances,
bacteria or other such material which cause death or serious
harm to the public health, a well, water store, public storage
depot or other such thing set aside for use by the public is
punishable by life imprisonment or imprisonment for a term of
years. The penalty will be death if such contamination results
in the death of others.

90

(2) Any person who accidentally causes the commission of an
offence stipulated in Sub-Paragraph 1 is punishable by detention
plus a fine or by one of those penalties. The penalty will be a
term of imprisonment not exceeding 10 years if the offence
results in the death of others.
Paragraph 352 - Any person who contaminates the water of a
public well or storage tank or reservoir or other such thing
that is provided for use by the public by rendering it less
suitable for the purpose for which it is used or accidentally
causes such contamination is punishable by a period of detention
not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not exceeding 100 dinars or by
one of those penalties.
Paragraph 353 - (1) Any person who breaks, destroys or
causes other such damage to the appliances, pipes or equipment
of a water, electricity or oil installation or any other public
utility is punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 7
years or by detention if such damage could lead to the closure
of that installation.
The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not exceeding 10
years or detention if it actually causes the closure of such
installation.
(2) Any person who wrecks, demolishes, destroys or damages
a permanent health center or mobile medical unit or instrument
or materials contained therein or impairs such things or renders
them unsuitable for use is punishable by a term of imprisonment
not exceeding 7 years or by detention.
(3) Any person who accidentally causes the commission of an
offence stipulated in Sub-Paragraph 1 is punishable by a period
of detention not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not exceeding 100
dinars or by one of those penalties.

SECTION THREE
Offences affecting the safety of transport and
public conveyances
Paragraph 354 - Any person who willfully endangers in any
way safety of navigation in the air or at sea or the safety of a
train, chip, aircraft or other mode of public transport is
punishable by imprisonment.
The penalty will be life imprisonment if such act results
in a train disaster or accident involving any of the modes of
transport mentioned above. The penalty will be death or life
imprisonment if it results in the death of others.

91

Paragraph 355 - (1) Any person who willfully causes damage
to or sabotages a public highway or airport or bridge. or dam or
railway or navigable channel or river is punishable by detention
plus a fine or by one of those penalties.
(2) The penalty will be life imprisonment or imprisonment
for a term of years if the offender uses explosives in the
commission of the offence.
(3) The penalty will be death or life imprisonment if the
offence results in a disaster or the death of others.
Paragraph 356 - Any person who accidentally causes an
accident involving public transport on land, at sea or in the
air which impairs its operation or endangers the passengers is
punishable by detention plus a fine or by one of those
penalties. .The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 7 years if the offence results in a disaster or the
death of others.
Paragraph 357 - Any person who willfully throws stones or
projectiles at a train, ship, aircraft or other mode of public
transport in such a way that it could be expected to result in
injury to others is punishable by a period of detention not
exceeding 3 years plus a fine not exceeding 300 dinars or by one
of those penalties.
The penalty will be detention if such act results in injury
or harm to any passenger on the train, ship, aircraft or other
mode of transport. The penalty will, be imprisonment if the
offence results in the death of others.
Paragraph 358 - Any person who willfully impedes the
progress of any mode of public transport on land, at sea or in
the air is punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 7
years or by detention or by a fine.
Paragraph 359 - Any person who willfully endangers in any
way the safety of any mode of public. transport is punishable by
detention or by a fine.
The penalty will be imprisonment if the offence results in
the death of others.

SECTION FOUR
Collective Provisions
Paragraph 360 - Any person who destroys, conceals or
substitutes in any way an appliance, implement or other
equipment needed for fighting fires, saving lives at sea or

92

administering medical treatment or for preventing disasters or
other such incidents or who prevents the use of such equipment
is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 2 years
plus a fine not exceeding 200 dinars or by one of those
penalties.

SECTION FIVE
Offences affecting cable and wireless communications
Paragraph 361 Any person who willfully causes damage to
any means of cable or wireless communication set up for the
public benefit or who disconnects or destroys any cable or
equipment or willfully impedes the repair of such equipment is
punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years or by
detention.
The penalty will be imprisonment if the offence is
committed with the use of explosives or in time of war, civil
strife or riot.
Paragraph 362 - Any person who accidentally causes damage
to or destruction of any means of cable or wireless
communication set up for the public benefit or disconnects such
means of communication is punishable by a period of detention
not exceeding 2 years plus a fine not exceeding 200 dinars or by
one of those penalties.
Paragraph 363 - Any person who willfully causes alarm by
the abuse of cable or wireless communications equipment is
punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 1 year plus a
fine not exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties.

SECTION SIX
Offences affecting the course of employment
Paragraph 364 (1) Any public official or agent who leaves
his employment even if he resigns or who willfully refrains from
carrying out the duties of his office or employment and, by so
doing, endangers the lives, health and security of others or
provokes civil strife or unrest or causes damage to a public
utility is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 2
years plus a fine not exceeding 200 dinars or by one of those
penalties.
(2) The commission of such act by 3 or more persons who
have conspired to commit such act with a common purpose is
considered to be an aggravating circumstance.

93

Paragraph 365 - Any person who infringes or attempts to
infringe with the use of force, violence, intimidation or
menaces or by any other illegal means the right of a public
official or agent to carry out his employment is punishable by
detention plus a fine or by one of those penalties.
Paragraph 366 - In circumstances other than those described
in the preceding Paragraph, any person who uses force, violence,
intimidation, menaces or other illegal method against the right
of another to carry out his employment or. the right to employ
or refrain from employing a person is punishable by a period of
detention not exceeding 1 year or by a fine not exceeding l00
dinars.
The provision of this Paragraph also applies if any illegal
method is used in respect of the spouse, ancestor or descendant
of the victim of the offence.
Paragraph 367 - Any person who willfully removes an
instrument or sign necessary for the prevention of accidents at
work or breaks or destroys it or renders it unsuitable for use
or damages it in any way is punishable by detention.
The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not exceeding 10
years if the offence results in the closure of a public utility.
The penalty will be* imprisonment if the offence results in a
disaster or the death of others.

SECTION SEVEN
offences detrimental to the public health
Paragraph 368 - Any person who willfully commits an act
which spreads a dangerous, disease that endangers the lives of
others is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 3
years. If the offence results in the death of others or
permanent disability the offender will, according to the
circumstances, be punishable by the penalty prescribed for the
offence of assault leading to death or that of permanent
disabling.
Paragraph 369 - Any person who accidentally causes the
spread of a dangerous disease that endangers the lives of others
is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 1 year or
by a fine not exceeding 100 dinars.
If the offence results in the death of others or permanent
disability the offender will, according to the circumstances, be

94

punishable by the penalty prescribed for manslaughter or
accidental wounding.

CHAPTER EIGHT
Social offences
SECTION ONE
Failure to give assistance
Paragraph 370 - (1) Anyone who, without justification,
refrains from or hesitates in giving assistance when requested
to do so by a competent public official or agent at a time of
fire, flood or other disaster is punishable by a period of
detention not exceeding 6 months plus a fine not exceeding 50
dinars or by one of those penalties.
(2) The same penalty applies to any person who, without
justification, refrains from or hesitates in giving assistance
to a victim of a disaster or offence.
Paragraph 371 - Any person who is entrusted by law or by
arrangement with the care of a person unable to look after
himself by reason of his young or old age, state of health, mood
or mental condition and he refrains, without justification, from
fulfilling his duties is punishable by a period of detention not
exceeding 1 year plus a fine not exceeding 100 dinars or by one
of those penalties.

SECTION TWO
Offences that violate religious sensibilities
Paragraph 372 - The following persons are punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 3 years or by a fine not
exceeding ?00 dinars:
(1) Any person who attacks the creed of a religious
minority or pours scorn on its religious practices.
(2) Any person who willfully disrupts a religious ceremony,
festival or meeting of a religious minority or who willfully
prevents or obstructs the performance of such ritual.
(3) . Any person who wrecks, destroys, defaces or
desecrates a building set aside for the ceremonies of a
religious minority or symbol or anything that is sacred to it.
(4) Any person who prints or publishes a book sacred to a
religious minority and deliberately misspells the texts so that
the meaning of the text is altered or who makes light of its
tenets or teachings.

95

(5) Any person who publicly insults a symbol or a person
who constitutes an object of sanctification, worship or
reverence to a religious minority.
(6) Any person who publicly imitates a religious ceremony
or celebration with intent to deceive.

SECTION THREE
Desecration of graves and the dead and disruption of funeral
processions and ceremonies
Paragraph 373(i 17 ) - Any person who desecrates or defiles a
grave or cemetery or gravestone or who willfully breaks,
destroys or defaces such a thing is punishable by a period of
detention not exceeding 2 years plus a fine not exceeding 200
dinars or by one of those penalties.
Paragraph 374(i) - Any person who willfully desecrates a
corpse or part thereof of any human remains or who removes the
shroud from such corpse is punishable by a period of detention
not exceeding 2 years plus a fine not exceeding 200 dinars or by
one of those penalties. the penalty will be a period of
detention not exceeding 3 years if such act was committed in
order to take vengeance on or revile such corpse.
Paragraph 375 - Any person who willfully disrupts a funeral
procession or ceremony or impedes it with the use of violence or
menaces is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 1
year or by a fine not exceeding 100 dinars.

SECTION FOUR
Offences involving the family
Paragraph 376 - Any person who obtains a marriage
certificate knowing it to be invalid for any reason in secular
or canonical law and any person who issues such certificate
knowing the marriage to be invalid is punishable by a term of
imprisonment not exceeding 7 years or by detention. The penalty
will be a term of imprisonment not exceeding 10 years if the
spouse, in respect of whom the reason for the invalidity has
arisen, conceals that fact from his partner or consummates the
marriage on the basis of the invalid certificate.

(i) As amended by Paragraph 8 of Law No 207 (1970).

96

Paragraph 377 - (1) An adulteress and the man with whom she
commits adultery are punishable by detention. The offender is
assumed be aware of the marriage unless he can prove that he was
not capable of being aware of it.
(2) The same penalty applies if the husband commits
adultery in the conjugal home.
Paragraph 378 - (1) No action for adultery may be brought
against either spouse nor may any measures be taken in respect
of that action except on the basis of an accusation by the other
partner. Such accusation will not be accepted in the following
circumstances:
(a) If it is made after 3 months from the day when the
complainant first became aware of the offence.
(b) If the complainant is content to resume married life
despite having become aware of the offence.
(c) If it is established that the offence was committed
with the consent of the complainant.
(2) By spouse in this Paragraph is meant any person who
meets that description at the time of the commission of the
offence or who causes to do so following the offence. The right
of the husband to bring an action for adultery committed by his
wife continues for 4 months after he has divorced her.
Paragraph 379 - (1) An action for adultery becomes void and
the civil right of action lapses with the death of the
complainant or if he drops the charges against the offending
party or with the agreement of the complainant to resume normal
relations with the offending party before a final judgment of
the case is made. The dropping of the charges by the husband
against the offending spouse is considered also to apply to the
charges against the man with whom she has committed adultery.
(2) A spouse may therefore prevent the implementation of
the sentence imposed on the other spouse.
If the complainant dies, any of the children of the accused
spouse or guardian of such child may prevent the implementation
of the sentence.
Paragraph 380 - Any husband who incites his wife to commit
adultery and she does so on the basis of such incitement is
punishable by detention.

SECTION FIVE
Offences involving adoption, the care of minors, endangering the
young or old and the desertion of the family

97

Paragraph 381 - Any person who removes a new born child
from whomever has legal authority over such child or conceals it
or substitutes it for another or falsely attributes it to
another mother is punishable by detention.
Paragraph 382 - (1) Any person who is responsible for a
child and who is requested to hand over the child by a person
who has a right to do so in accordance with a decision or
judgment issued by a legal authority in connection with the
upbringing or care of that child and who does not hand over the
child to him is punishable by a period of detention not
exceeding 1 year or by a fine not exceeding 100 dinars. The
provision still applies if the person responsible for the child
is a parent or grandparent.
(2) The same penalty applies to any parent or grandparent
who takes by himself or with the help of another his own young
child or grandchild from any person with whom the responsibility
of the upbringing or care of the child has been placed even
though he does so without cunning or malice.
Paragraph 383 - (1) Any person who by himself or through
another endangers a child under 15 years of age or person who is
unable to defend himself by reason of his state of health or
mental or psychological condition is punishable by a period of
detention not exceeding 3 years or by a fine not exceeding 300
dinars.
(2) The penalty will be detention if the offence involves
the desertion of a child or old person in an isolated place or
if it is committed by a parent of the victim or by a person who
is responsible for the upbringing or care of such child or old
person. If the offence results in the victim's disability or
death without the offender intending such result, the offender
is, according to the circumstances, punishable by the penalty
prescribed for the offence of assault leading to disability or
death. The same penalty applies if the child or old person is
endangered by being willfully deprived of the food or care that
his condition requires notwithstanding the offender's obligation
by law, agreement or custom to provide such food or care.
Paragraph 384 - Any person who is issued with a legal order
to provide support for his wife, parent, child or other person
or to pay nursing, suckling or accommodation charges and
refrains from carrying out such order within a month of its
issue, while being able to do so, is punishable by a period of
detention not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not exceeding 100
dinars or by one of those penalties.

98

An action may only be brought on the basis of a complaint
by the person concerned and that action ceases with the
withdrawal of the complaint by such person or with the discharge
by the defendant of his indebtedness to the complainant. If the
withdrawal of the complaint or discharge of the debt occurs
after any judgment is made in the case, the penalty will not be
carried out.
Paragraph 385 - Any person who has carnal knowledge of a
girl to whom he is not married with her consent when she has not
yet reached the age of 18 is punishable by a term of
imprisonment not exceeding 10 years or by detention.
It is considered an aggravating circumstance if the victim
is forced or if she loses her virginity or contracts venereal
disease as a result of the offence or if the offender is
responsible for the victim's upbringing or supervision or has
some measure of authority over her. Any action or measure in
respect of such action may only be brought on the basis of a
complaint by the victim or her ancestor, descendant, brother or
sister.

SECTION SIX
Offences involving drunkenness
Paragraph 386 - (1) Any person who is found in a public
highway or place or area that is open to the public in a state
of intoxication and who is clearly suffering from a loss of
reason or is causing trouble or disturbing others is punishable
by a fine not exceeding 10 dinars.
(2) If such person reoffends within 1 year of the date of
his sentence, the penalty will be a period of detention not
exceeding 1 month or a fine not exceeding 20 dinars. The court
may, if it is established that the offender is an. alcoholic,
order him to be put in a clinic set up for such persons or
government hospital instead of the penalty prescribed in this
Sub-Paragraph. The court may also release him on application by
the public prosecutor or the convicted person before the end of
that period if a medical report issued by the clinic or hospital
shows that he has recovered.
Paragraph 387 - Any person who incites a young. person who
has not yet reached the age of 18 to consume intoxicating liquor
or gives him an intoxicating drink for a purpose other than
medical treatment is punishable by a period of detention not
exceeding 10 days or by a fine not exceeding 20 dinars.

99

If the victim is deceived as to the nature of the drink and
unwittingly consumes it, the offender is punishable by a period
of detention not exceeding 1 month or by a fine not exceeding 30
dinars.
Paragraph 388(i 18 ) - (1) Any proprietor of a bar or other
public place or any employee working in such place who offers
alcohol to a juvenile who has not reached the age of 18 is
punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 6 months or by
a fine not exceeding 50 dinars.
(2) Any owner of a tavern, bar or night club or any
employee working in such place who permits a person under 21
years of age to enter such place for any reason whatsoever is
punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 6 months plus
a fine not exceeding 50 dinars or by one of those penalties.
(3) If the offender reoffends by committing any of the
above acts within one year following the date on which he was
sentenced, the court may, in addition to imposing the prescribed
penalty for the offence, order that the place be closed for a
period not exceeding 6 months.

SECTION SEVEN
Gambling
Paragraph 389 - (1) Any person who opens or runs an
establishment for gambling and opens it to the public is
punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 1 year plus a
fine not exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties. The
same penalty applies to any person who organizes such gambling
in a public place or place that is open to the public or
location or house set aside for such purpose.
(2) The same penalty applies to a cashier of such
establishment.
(3) Any person found gambling in a place mentioned in SubParagraph 1 is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding
1 month or by a fine not exceeding 50 dinars.
(4) The money and equipment used for gambling will be
seized and ordered to be confiscated.
(5) The court may also order such place to be closed for a
period not exceeding 1 year.

(i.) As amended by Law No 80 (1980).

100

SECTION EIGHT
Begging
Paragraph 390 - (1) Any person over the age of 18 who has a
legitimate source of income on which he can live or who is able
to achieve such source of income by working and who is found
begging in a public highway or public place or enters without
permission a building or part thereof for the purpose of begging
is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 1 month.
The penalty will be a period of detention not exceeding 3 months
if the beggar feigns an injury or disability or uses any other
deceitful means to solicit public charity or displays an injury
or disability or pesters others for alms.
(2) If the offender is under the age of 18, the provisions
relating to the liability of juveniles for the commission of an
infraction are applicable.
Paragraph 391 - The court may, instead of sentencing a
beggar to the penalty prescribed in the preceding Paragraph,
order him to be placed in a work house for a period not
exceeding 1 year if he is able to work or, if he is unable to
work and has no money on which to live, in an infirmary or home
for the disabled or recognized charitable institution whenever
he is able to enter the institution that is suitable for him.
Paragraph 392 - Any person who compels another under the
age of 18 to become a beggar is punishable by a period of
detention not exceeding 3 months plus a fine not exceeding 50
dinars or by one of those penalties. The penalty will be a
period of detention not exceeding 6 months plus a fine not
exceeding 100 dinars or one of

----- PAGE MISSING FROM ORIGINAL -----

(3) If the offence leads to the death of the victim, the
penalty will be life imprisonment.
(4) If the victim was a virgin, the court must order that
she receive appropriate compensation.
Paragraph 395 - Any person who seduces a woman over the age
of 18 with a promise of marriage, has sexual intercourse with
her and subsequently refuses to marry her is punishable by
detention.

101

Paragraph 396 - (1) Any person who sexually assaults a man
or woman or attempts to do so without his or her consent and
with the use of force, menaces, deception or other means is
punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years or by
detention.
(2) The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 10 years if the person against whom the offence is
committed is under 18 years of age or the offender is a person
described in Sub-Paragraph 2 of Paragraph 393.
Paragraph 397 - Any person who sexually assaults a boy or
girl under the age of 18 without the use of force, menaces or
deception is punishable by detention. The penalty will be a term
of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years or detention if the
offender is a person described in Sub-Paragraph 2 of Paragraph
393.
Paragraph 398 - If the offender mentioned in this Section
then lawfully marries the victim, any action becomes void and
any investigation or other procedure is discontinued and, if a
sentence has already been passed in respect of such action, then
the sentence will be quashed. Legal proceedings will resume or
the sentence will be reinstated, according to the circumstances
if such marriage ends in divorce brought about by the husband
without legal justification or in a divorce ordered by the court
for wrongs committed by the husband or for his bad behavior
within 3 years following the cessation of the proceedings. The
public prosecutor, the accused, the victim or any person who has
an interest in the proceedings may, according to the
circumstances, make application for the proceedings,
investigation, procedures or execution of the sentence to be
stopped or for their resumption or for the reinstatement of the
sentence.
________________________________________________________________
RCC
Decision No 488 was published in Al-Waqai' Al-Iraqiya
No 2650 on 24/4/78 in this regard. Text as follows:
(1) The following persons are punishable by death:
(a)

Any person who has sexual intercourse with a female
relative to the third generation who is over 15 years
of age without her consent and the offence leads to
her death or to pregnancy or loss of virginity.

102

(b)

(c)

Any person who has sexual intercourse with a female
relative to the third generation who is under 15 years
of age without her consent.
Any person who has sexual intercourse with a female
relative to the third generation under the age of 15
with her consent and the offence leads to her death,
to pregnancy or loss of virginity.

(2) Any male and female who have sexual intercourse or
commit an act of buggery with each other with her consent and
they are over 18 years of age and related to the third
generation are punishable by life imprisonment.
(3) This decree becomes effective from the date of its
publication in the official newspaper.
Ahmad Hasan al-Bakr. Chairman of the RCC.
________________________________________________________________

SECTION TWO
Incitement to Prostitution and Fornication
Paragraph 399 - Any person who incites a boy or girl under
the age of 18 to indulge in fornication or resort to
prostitution as a profession or assists him or her to do so is
punishable by detention. The penalty will be a term of
imprisonment not exceeding 10 years or by detention if the
offender is a person described in Sub-Paragraph 2 of Paragraph
393 and intends to profit by his action or receives money for
such action.

SECTION THREE
Immodest and shameful acts
Paragraph 400 - Any person who commits an immodest act with
a man or woman and without his or her consent is punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not
exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties.
Paragraph 401 - Any person who commits an immodest act in
public is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 6
months plus a fine not exceeding 50 dinars or by one of those
penalties.

103

Paragraph 402 - (1) The following persons are punishable by
a period of detention not exceeding 3 months plus a fine not
exceeding 30 dinars or by one of those penalties:
(a) Any person who makes indecent advances to another man
or woman.
(b) Any person who assails a woman in a public place in an
immodest manner with words, actions or signs.
(2) The penalty will be a period of detention not exceeding
6 months plus a fine not exceeding 100 dinars if the offender,
having been previously convicted for such offence, reoffends
within a year of the date of such conviction.
Paragraph 403 - Any person who produces, imports,
publishes, possesses, obtains or translates a book, printed or
other written material, drawing, picture, film, symbol or other
thing that violates the public integrity or decency with intent
to exploit or distribute such material is punishable by a period
of detention not exceeding 2 years plus a fine not exceeding 200
dinars or by one of those penalties. The same penalty applies to
any person who advertises such material or displays it in public
or sells, hires or offers it for sale or hire even though it is
not in public or to any person who distributes or submits it for
distribution by any means.
If the offence is committed with intent to deprave, it is
considered to be an aggravating circumstances.
Paragraph 404 - Any person who himself or through some
mechanical means sings or broadcasts in a public place obscene
or indecent songs or statements is punishable by a period of
detention not exceeding 1 year or by a fine not exceeding 100
dinars.

PART THREE
Offences against the person
CHAPTER ONE
Offences affecting the life and physical safety of others
SECTION ONE
Murder
Paragraph 405 - Any person .who willfully kills another is
punishable by life imprisonment or imprisonment for a term of
years.

104

Paragraph 406 - (1) Any person who willfully kills another
is punishable by death in the following circumstances:
(a)
(b)

If such killing is premeditated.
If such killing occurs as a result of the use of toxic
substances or explosives.
(c) If the motive for such killing is base or such killing
is in exchange for money or if the offender uses
brutal methods in the commission of the offence.
(d) If the victim is a parent of the offender.
(e) If the victim is a public official or agent while in
the course of executing his duty or employment or if
he is killed as a consequence of such duty or
employment.
(f) If the offender intends to kill two or more people and
does so as a result of a single act.
(g) If the murder is related to one or more other murders
or attempted murders.
(h) If the killing is committed as a prelude to the
commission of a felony or misdemeanor punishable by a
period of detention of not less than 1 year or in
order to facilitate the commission of such offence or
while carrying out such offence or in order to enable
the offender or accessory to make his escape or avoid
punishment.
(i) If the offender has been sentenced to life
imprisonment for murder and he commits murder or
attempts to do so during the term of his sentence.
(2) The penalty will be death or life imprisonment in the
following circumstances:
(a) If the offender intends to kill one person but his
action results in the death of two or more persons.
(b) If the offender mutilates the body of the victim.
(c) If the offender sentenced to life imprisonment in
circumstances other than those described in SubParagraphs (a)(i) of this Paragraph and he commits
murder during the term of his sentence.
Paragraph 407 - Any mother who,
through fornication, kills her newly
punishable by a term of imprisonment
by a period of detention of not less

having become pregnant
born child. out of shame is
not exceeding 10 years or
than 1 year.

Paragraph 408 - (1) Any person who incites a person to
commit suicide or assists him in any way to do so is punishable
by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years if that person
commits suicide on the basis of such incitement or assistance.

105

The penalty will be detention if the person does not commit
suicide but attempts to do so.
(2) If the suicide is under 18 years of age or is suffering
from a state of diminished reason or will, it is considered an
aggravating circumstance. The offender is, according to the
circumstances, punishable by the penalty for murder or attempted
murder if the suicide is suffering from loss of reason or will.
(3) There is no penalty for an attempted suicide.
Paragraph 409 - Any person who surprises his wife in the
act of adultery or finds his girlfriend in bed with her lover
and kills them immediately or one of them or assaults one of
them so that he or she dies or is left permanently disabled is
punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 3 years. It is
not permissible to exercise the right of legal defense against
any person who uses this excuse nor do the rules of aggravating
circumstance apply against him.

SECTION TWO
Assault leading to death and manslaughter
Paragraph 410 - Any person who willfully assaults another
by striking or wounding him with the use of force or harmful
substances or by committing another unlawful act and who does
not intend to kill that person but the assault leads to the
death of such person is punishable by a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 15 years. The penalty will be a term of imprisonment
not exceeding 20 years if the offence is premeditated or if the
victim is a parent of the offender or if he is a public official
or agent and the offence is committed against him while in the
course of executing his duty or employment or as a consequence
of it.
Paragraph 411 - (1) Any person who accidentally kills
another or causes him to be killed without premeditation so that
it is the result of negligence, thoughtlessness, lack of due
care and attention or lack of regard for any law, regulation or
decree is punishable by detention plus a fine or by one of those
penalties.
(2) The penalty will be a period of detention of not less
than 1 year plus a fine of not less than 300 dinars and not more
than 500 dinars or by one of those penalties if the offence is
committed as a result of a flagrant breach on the part of the
offender of the basic obligations of his employment, profession
or business or if he is under the influence of alcohol or drugs
at the time of committing the error which results in the

106

accident or if he refrains from assisting the victim at the time
of the accident or from seeking assistance for the victim while
being in a position to do so.
(3) The penalty will be a period of detention of not less
than 3 years if the offence results in the death of three or
more persons. If there also exists any other circumstances
described in the preceding Sub-Paragraph, the penalty will be a
term of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years.

SECTION THREE
Intentional wounding, beating and damage
Paragraph 412 - (1) Any person who willfully assaults a
person by wounding or beating him or with the use of force or
harmful substances or by committing another unlawful act with
intent to cause permanent disability is punishable by a term of
imprisonment not exceeding 15 years.
There is permanent disability if the act results in the
severance or amputation of a limb or part thereof or the loss or
diminution of the benefit of such limb or madness or mental
disability or permanent loss in whole or part of any of the
senses or bodily disfigurement that is not expected to disappear
or imminent danger to life.
(2) The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 7 years or detention if the offence results in
permanent disability which the offender did not intend.
Paragraph 413 - (1) Any person who willfully assaults
another by wounding or beating him or by committing any other
unlawful act and causes him to be harmed or become ill is
punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 1 year plus a
fine not exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties.
(2) The penalty will be a period of detention not exceeding
3 years plus a fine not exceeding 300 dinars or by one of those
penalties in the following circumstances:
(a) If the assault results in a broken bone.
(b) If the assault results in the victim being harmed or
contracting an illness that prevents him from carrying
out his normal employment for more than 20 days.
(3) The penalty will be detention if the harm occurs as a
result of the use of a firearm or implement designed to cause
harm or any inflammable, corrosive or toxic substance.

107

Paragraph 414 - If any of the following circumstances exist
in respect of an assault stipulated in paragraphs 412 and 413,
it is considered an aggravating circumstance:
(1) If the act is premeditated.
(2) If the act is committed by a group of three or more
persons who have agreed to carry out the assault.
(3) If the victim is a parent of the offender.
(4) If the assault is committed against a public official
or agent in the execution of his duty or employment or as a
consequence of it.
(5) If the assault is committed preparatory to the
commission of ,a felony or misdemeanor punishable by a period of
detention of not less than 1 year or in order to assist the
commission of such offence or to commit such offence or to
enable the offender or accessory to escape or avoid punishment.
Paragraph 415 - Any person who commits a minor assault or
causes a minor injury which leaves no trace on the victim's body
is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 3 months
plus a fine not exceeding 30 dinars or by one of those
penalties.
Paragraph 416 - (1) Any person who accidentally causes
another harm or to become ill and such act is the result of
negligence, thoughtlessness or lack of due care and attention or
disregard for any law, regulation or decree is punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 6 months plus a fine not
exceeding 50 dinars or by one of those penalties.
(2) The penalty will be a period of detention not exceeding
2 years if the offence results in permanent disability or if the
offender causes a flagrant breach of the obligations of his
office, profession or employment or if he is under the influence
of alcohol or drugs when he commits the act that results in the
accident or he refrains at the time of the accident from
assisting the victim or from seeking such assistance for him
while being in a position to do so or if such act leads to the
assault of three or more persons.

SECTION FOUR
Abortion
Paragraph 417 - (1) Any woman who willfully procures her
own miscarriage or enables another to do so with her consent is
punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 1 year plus a
fine not exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties.

108

(2) The same penalty applies to any person who willfully
procures such woman's miscarriage with her consent. If the
abortion or the means used to procure such abortion, even though
the pregnancy is not terminated, results in the death of the
victim, the penalty will be a term of imprisonment not exceeding
7 years.
(3) If the offender is a doctor, pharmacist, chemist,
midwife or assistant of such person, it is considered an
aggravating circumstance.
(4) If a woman, having become pregnant through fornication,
procures her own miscarriage out of shame it is considered to be
a legally mitigating circumstance.
The same is true in respect of any woman whose pregnancy is
terminated by a relative to the second generation.
Paragraph 418 - (1) Any person who willfully procures the
miscarriage of a woman without her consent is punishable by a
term of imprisonment not exceeding 10 years.
(2) The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 15 years if the abortion or means to procure such
abortion, even though the pregnancy is not terminated, results
in the death of the victim.
(3) If the offender is a doctor, pharmacist, chemist,
midwife or assistant of such person it is considered an
aggravating circumstance. The court must order that he be
prevented from continuing his profession or work for a period
not exceeding 3 years.
Paragraph 419 - Without prejudice to any greater penalty
prescribed by law, any person who assaults a pregnant woman,
while being aware of her condition, by beating or injuring her
or with the use of violence or by administering to her toxic
substances or by committing any other unlawful act without
intending to procure the miscarriage of such woman and thereby
causes her to miscarry is punishable by detention.

SECTION FIVE
Concealment of a body
Paragraph 420 Any person who conceals or buries a dead
body without notifying the competent authorities before it is
discovered or an. inquest carried out is punishable by a period
of detention not exceeding 2 years plus a fine not exceeding 200
dinars or by one of those penalties.

109

CHAPTER TWO
Offences affecting the freedom of an individual and the
deprivation of such freedom
SECTION ONE
Unlawful seizure, kidnapping and detention
Paragraph 421 - Any person who seizes, detains or deprives
a person of his liberty in any way without an order from a
competent authority in circumstances other than those described
in the laws and regulations to that effect is punishable by
detention.
The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not exceeding 10
years in the following circumstances:
(1) If the offence is committed by a person who is wearing
the uniform of a government employee without being entitled to
do so or a distinctive official insignia belonging to such
employee or assumes a false public identity or issues a false
order for the arrest, imprisonment or detention of a person
while claiming it to be issued by a competent authority.
(2) If the offence is accompanied by the threat of death or
physical or mental torment.
(3) If the offence is committed by two or more persons or
by a person openly carrying a weapon.
(4) If the period of seizure, detention or deprivation of
freedom exceeds 15 days.
(5) If the motive for the offence is financial gain or the
sexual assault of the victim or the taking of vengeance on the
victim or on another.
(6) If the offence is committed against a public official
or agent in the execution of his duty or employment or as a
consequence of it.
Paragraph 422 - Any person who himself or through another
kidnaps a person under the age of 18 without the use of force or
deception is punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding
15 years if the victim is female or by a term of imprisonment
not exceeding 10 years if the victim is male.
If the kidnapping is carried out with the use of force or
deception or there exists any aggravating circumstance described
in Paragraph 421, the penalty will be imprisonment if the victim
is female or a term of imprisonment not exceeding 15 years if
the victim is male.
Paragraph 423 - Any person who himself or through another
kidnaps a woman over the age of 18 with the use of force or
deception is punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding

110

15 years. If the kidnapping is accompanied by any sexual
intercourse with the victim or an attempt to have intercourse
with her, the penalty will be death or life imprisonment. (i 19 )
Paragraph 424 - If the use of force described in Paragraph
422 and 423 or the torment described in Paragraph 421 results in
the death of the victim, the penalty will be death or life
imprisonment.
Paragraph 425 - Any person who provides a location for
unlawful detention or imprisonment while being aware of that
fact is punishable by a term of imprisonment not exceeding 7
years or by detention.
Paragraph 426 - (1) If the kidnapper does not cause harm to
the victim and leaves him within 48 hours of the offence in a
secure place which assists him in returning to his family, the
penalty will be a period of detention not exceeding 1 year.
(2) The offender is exempt from the penalty for an offence
stipulated in the preceding Paragraphs of this Chapter if he
voluntarily turns himself over to the authorities, informs them
of the place where the victim is held before they find him,
leads them to such place and identifies any other offenders and
if that results in the rescue of the victim and the arrest of
such offenders.
Paragraph 427- If the offender mentioned in this Section
then lawfully marries the victim, any action becomes void and
any investigation or other procedure is discontinued and, if a
sentence has already been passed in respect of such action, the
sentence will be quashed.
Legal proceedings will resume or the sentence will be
reinstated according to the circumstances if the marriage ends
in a divorce brought about by the husband without legal
justification or in a divorce ordered by the court for wrongs
committed by the husband or for his bad behavior within 3 years
following the cessation of the proceedings.
The public prosecutor, the accused, the victim or any
person who has an interest in the proceedings may, according to
the circumstances, make application for the proceedings,
investigation, procedures or execution of the sentence to be .
stopped or for their resumption or for the reinstatement of the
sentence.

(i) Amended in accordance with Decision No 330 issued on 19/4/81
and published in Al-Waqai' Al-'Iraqiya No 2824 on 6/4/81.

111

SECTION TWO
Violation of the sanctity of the home or property of others
Paragraph 428 - (1) The following persons are punishable by
a period of detention not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not
exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties:
(a) Any person who enters a place of residence or place
set aside for that purpose or part thereof without the
consent of the owner and in circumstances other than
those in which the law sanctions such entry.
(b) Any person who is found in such place while hiding
from another who has a right to eject him from it.
(c) Any person who legitimately enters such place and
remains there against the wishes of another who has a
right to eject him from it.
(2) Any person who enters such place or hides or remains in
it with intent to prevent another by force from taking
possession of it or to commit an offence in it is punishable by
a period of detention not exceeding 2 years plus a fine not
exceeding 200 dinars by one of those penalties. The penalty will
be detention if the offence is committed between dusk and dawn
or if entry is gained by breaking or climbing in or by a person
openly carrying a weapon, carrying a concealed weapon or by 3 or
more persons or by a person who has assumed a public position or
who claims to be a public official or who has assumed a false
identity.
Paragraph 429 – (1) If an offence stipulated in Paragraph;
428 is committed in a place set aside for the safekeeping of
money or in any other property not mentioned in such Paragraph,
the penalty will be a period of detention not exceeding 1 year
or a fine not exceeding 100 dinars.
(2) The penalty will be a period of detention not exceeding
2 years plus a fine not exceeding 200 dinars or one of those
penalties if an offence stipulated in Sub-Paragraph 1 is
committed by 2 or more persons, one of whom is openly carrying a
weapon or carrying a concealed weapon or is committed by 5 or
more persons.

SECTION THREE
Threats
Paragraph 430 - (1) Any person who threatens another with
the commission of a felony against his person or property or
against the person or property of others or with the imputation

112

to him of certain dishonorable matters or with the revelation of
such matters and such threat is accompanied by a demand or
charge to carry out or refrain from carrying out an act or is
intended to be so accompanied is punishable by a term of
imprisonment not exceeding 7 years or by detention.
(2) The same penalty applies if the threat is communicated
anonymously or is attributable to an existing or alleged secret
group.
Paragraph 431 - Any person who threatens another with the
commission of a felony against his person or property or against
the person and property of others or with the imputation to him
of certain dishonorable or disrespectful matters or with the
revelation of such matters in circumstances other than those
mentioned in Paragraph 430 is punishable by detention.
Paragraph 432 - Any person who threatens another by word or
action or in a written or spoken reference or through another
person or in circumstances other than those mentioned in
Paragraphs 430 and 431 is punishable by a period of detention
not exceeding 1 year or by a fine not exceeding 100 dinars.

SECTION FOUR
Defamation, insult and the disclosure of confidential
information
1.

Defamation and insult

Paragraph 433 - (1) Defamation is the imputation to another
in public of a particular matter which if true, would expose
such person to punishment or cause him to be scorned by society.
Any person who defames another is punishable by detention
plus a fine or by one of those penalties. If such defamation is
published in a newspaper or publication or other press medium it
is considered an aggravating circumstance.
(2) Such person is not permitted to establish the proof of
his imputation unless that imputation is directed at a public
official or agent or public deputy or he is carrying out an act
in the public interest or if such imputation is connected with
the office or employment of the aggrieved person but if he
establishes the proof of all imputations made, then there is no
offence.
Paragraph 434 - Insult is the imputation to another of
something dishonorable or disrespectful or the hurting of his

113

feelings even though it does not include an imputation to him of
a particular matter.
Any person who insults another is punishable by a period of
detention not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not exceeding 100
dinars or by one of those penalties.
If such insult Is published in a newspaper or publication
or medium it is considered an aggravating circumstance.
Paragraph 435 - If the defamation or insult is directed at
the victim in private or during a telephone conversation or if
it is sent to the victim in writing or communicated to him by
other means, the penalty will be a period of detention not
exceeding 6 months plus a fine not exceeding 50 dinars or by one
of those penalties.
Paragraph 436 - (1) It is not an offence if a complainant
or his representative defames or insults the other party orally
or in writing while defending his rights before a court,
investigating. authority or other body as long as it is within
the necessary limits of his defense.
(2) There is no penalty for any person who has defamed or
insulted another while in a state of anger following an unjust
assault on him by such other person.
2.

Disclosure of confidential information

Paragraph 437 - Any person who by reason of his office,
profession, trade or the field of nature of his work is privy to
confidential information and who discloses such information in
circumstances other than those prescribed by law or uses it to
his. advantage or to another's advantage is punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 2 years plus a fine not
exceeding 200 dinars or by one of. those penalties. However,
there is no penalty if he has been authorized to make such
disclosure or if, by such disclosure, he intends to report a
felony or misdemeanor or prevent the commission of such offence.
Paragraph 438 - The following persons are punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not
exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties:
(1) Any person who publishes in any way a picture, remark
or information in respect of the private or family life of
another, even though such information is true and such
publication causes him offence.
(2) Any person other than those mentioned in Paragraph 328
who is privy to information contained in a letter, telex or
telephone conversation and he discloses such information to a

114

person other than for whom it is intended and such disclosure
causes harm to another.

CHAPTER THREE
Offences against property
SECTION ONE
Theft
Paragraph 439 - Theft is the willful appropriation of
moveable property belonging to another.
Moveable property is considered to be, for the purposes of
applying the provisions for theft, plants and everything that is
attached to the ground or fixed in it at the time it is pulled
from it or fruit when it is picked or electric or water power
resource or other energy or power resource.
The appropriation of moveable property acquired by a legal
or administrative authority or by another competent authority or
property placed in any way under the authority of the law, even
though that appropriation is committed by the owner of such
property is tantamount to theft.
The same applies to the appropriation of moveable property
that confers a benefit or material guarantee or that is
bequeathed or involves the right of another, even though that
appropriation is committed by the owner of such property.
Paragraph 440(i 20 ) - The penalty will be death if theft is
committed in the following circumstances:
(1) If the offence is committed between dusk and dawn.
(2) If the offence is committed by two or more persons.
(3) If any of the offenders is openly carrying a weapon or
carrying a concealed weapon.
(4) If the offence is committed in a place of residence or
place set aside for that purpose or part thereof and if entry is
gained by climbing a wall, forcing a door or other such method
or by the use of a counterfeit key or by assuming an official
identity or claiming to be on public service or by conspiring
with a resident of such place or by deception.
Paragraph 441(ii 21 ) - The penalty will be death for an
offence of theft committed against a person on a public highway
(i) RCC Decision No 1631 issued on 30/10/80 and published in AlWaqai' Al-'Iraqiya No 2802 on 10/11/80 (see page 255) increased
the penalty for any person who commits an offence stipulated in
Paragraph 440 and Sub-Paragraphs 4 and 5 of Paragraph 443.

115

away from a town or city or on a train or other conveyance on
land or at sea at such times when it is remote from any
populated area and in the following circumstances:
(1) If the offence is committed by two or more persons and
one of them is openly carrying a weapon or carrying a concealed
weapon.
(2) If the offence is committed with the use of force by
two or more persons.
(3) If the offence is committed by a person who is openly
carrying a weapon or is carrying a concealed weapon between dusk
and dawn with the use of force or by threatening with the use of
a weapon or if he tortures the victim or uses extreme force.
Paragraph 442 - The penalty will be death for an offence of
theft committed in any of the following circumstances:
(1) If the offence is committed by two or more persons one
of whom is openly carrying a weapon or is carrying a concealed
weapon.
(2) If the offence is committed between dusk and dawn by
two or more persons with the use of force or by threatening
another with the use of a weapon. Force or threats are
considered to have been used even though the offender employs
such tactics only after he has committed the theft with intent
to retain the stolen goods or escape with them.
(3) If the offence is committed with the use of force which
results in a permanent disability or broken bone or harm or
illness that prevents the victim from carrying out his normal
business for more than 20 days or which results in the death of
another.
Paragraph 443(i 22 ) - The penalty will be death if an offence
of theft is committed in any of the following circumstances:
(1) If the offence is committed with the use of force.
(2) If the offence is committed between dusk and dawn by a
person openly carrying a weapon or carrying a concealed weapon..
(3) If the offence is committed between dusk and dawn by
three or more persons.
(4) If the offence is committed between dusk and dawn in a
place of residence or a place set aside for that purpose or part
thereof.

(ii) RCC Decision No 1133 issued on 2/9/82 increased the penalty
for any person who commits an offence stipulated in Paragraphs
441, 442 and Sub-Paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Paragraph 443.
Published in Al-Waqai' Al-'Iraqiya No 2902 on 20/9/82 (see page
260).

116

(5) If the offence is committed between dusk and dawn in a
bank, shop, store or depot to which the offender gains entry by
climbing a wall, forcing a door, making an opening or by using
some other such method or with the use of a counterfeit key or
by assuming the identity of a public official or claiming to be
on public service or by conspiring with a resident of such place
or by deception.
Paragraph 444 - The penalty will be a term of imprisonment
not exceeding 7 years or detention for an offence of theft
committed in the following circumstances:
(1) If the offence is committed in a place of residence or
place set aside for that purpose or part thereof or in a place
of worship or railway station or port or airport.
(2) If the offence is committed in a place surrounded by a
wall or fence to which the offender gains entry by climbing such
wall, forcing a door or making an opening or with the use of a
counterfeit key or by assuming the identity of a public official
or by claiming to be on public service or by conspiring with a
resident of such place or by deception.
(3) If the offence is committed by one person openly
carrying a weapon or carrying a concealed weapon.
(4) If the offence is committed by three or more persons.
(5) If the offence is committed with the use of force or menaces.
(6) If the offence is committed by a hired servant to the
detriment of his master or employer or by a worker or laborer in
a factory or shop belonging to his employer or in a place where
he normally works.
(7) If the offender makes use of a time of civil commotion,
riot, fire, shipwreck or other disaster to commit an offence of
theft.
(8) If the offence is committed by a public official or
agent in the execution of his duty or by a person who has
assumed the identity of a public official or who claims to be
acting in the public service.
(9 ) If the offence is committed by breaking a seal that
has been affixed by order of a court or other official
authority.
(10) If the offence is committed in time of war against the
wounded including enemy wounded or if the offender exploits the
illness of the victim or his inability to defend himself or his
medical, emotional or mental state.
(11) If the offence is committed against property belonging
to the state or a public organization or company in which the
state has a financial interest.

117

If the offence involves two or more of the above
circumstances the penalty will be a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 10 years.
Paragraph 445 - The penalty will be a term of imprisonment
not exceeding 15 years for an offence of theft committed at a
time of public crisis, commotion or riot or disaster caused by a
member of the armed forces or by a guard, who is entrusted with
keeping the peace at night, in the execution of his duties.
Paragraph 446 - The penalty will be detention for an
offence of theft committed in circumstances other than those
stipulated in the preceding Paragraphs.
The penalty prescribed in this Paragraph may be substituted
for a fine not exceeding 20 dinars if the value of the goods
stolen does not exceed 2 dinars.
Paragraph 447 - The following persons are punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 2 years:
(l) Any person who counterfeits or modifies a key or
manufactures some instrument with intent to use it in the
commission of theft. If such person manufactures such things
professionally, the penalty will be a period of detention not
exceeding 3 years.
(2) Any person found between dusk and dawn in possession of
a counterfeit key or other instrument for use in the forcing of
locks, doors or windows and he attempts to conceal himself or
appears to have intent commit theft.
Paragraph 448 - Any person who incites a juvenile under the
age of 18 to commit theft even though such juvenile does not
commit the offence is punishable by a period of detention not
exceeding 3 years.
The penalty will be detention if such incitement is
directed at more than one juvenile whether or not it occurs at
one time or at different times or if the offender is a parent of
the juvenile or responsible for such juvenile's upbringing or
supervision or has some authority over him.
Paragraph 449 - Any person who consumes food or drink in a
place set aside for that purpose or stays at a hotel or other
establishment or hires a vehicle set aside for that purpose
knowing that he is unable to pay the price or fare or who runs
away without paying such price or fare is punishable by a period
of detention not exceeding 3 months or by a fine not exceeding
30 dinars.

118

Paragraph 450 - Any person who keeps for himself without
the right to do so something he has found or lost property or
property that has come into his possession accidentally or by
chance or who maliciously makes use of it to his or to another's
advantage while being aware of the identity of the owner of such
property or if he does not take the necessary steps to find out
the owner's identity is punishable by a period of detention not
exceeding 1 year plus a fine not exceeding 100 dinars or by one
of those penalties.

SECTION TWO
Unlawful appropriation of documents and property
Paragraph 451 - Without prejudice to any greater penalty
prescribed by law, any person who unlawfully acquires with the
use of force or menaces a document, record, signature, seal or
thumbprint or compels a person by such means to nullify, destroy
or amend such things or to sign a blank form is punishable by a
term of imprisonment not exceeding 15 years.
Paragraph 452 - (1) Any person who compels a person with
the use of menaces to hand over money or anything other than
that mentioned in the preceding Paragraph is punishable by a
term of imprisonment not exceeding 7 years or by detention.
(2) The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 10 years if the offence is committed with the use of
force.

SECTION THREE
Breach of trust
Paragraph 453 - Any person who is entrusted with the
moveable property of another or is assigned such property in any
way or is given such property for any purpose and who
maliciously uses it to his advantage or to the advantage of
another or maliciously disposes of it contrary to the purpose
for which it was assigned or granted to him in accordance with a
legal stipulation or the instructions, expressed or implied,
from the person who granted or assigned such property to him is
punishable by detention or by a fine.
The penalty will be detention if the offender is a
professional land, sea or air freight carrier or his agent and
such property has been entrusted to him in this capacity. or if
he is a lawyer, auctioneer or money changer to whom the property
is entrusted by reason of his profession or if the offence is

119

committed by a secretary, employee or servant in respect of
property entrusted his employer. The penalty will be a term of
imprisonment not exceeding 7 years or detention if the offence
is committed by a person appointed by order of a court in
respect of property entrusted to him by such court or if he is a
guardian or custodian of a minor or incompetent or if he is
responsible for the administration of the property of a
charitable institution.
Paragraph 454 - Any owner of moveable property impounded by
a legal or administrative authority or property that has been
placed in the hands of a legal authority is punishable by
detention or a fine if he maliciously makes use of that property
to his own advantage or to the advantage of another or if he
maliciously disposes of that property or conceals it or refrains
from handing it over to a person entitled to ask him for it and
this defeats the object of the measure adopted by such authority
in respect of that property.
The same penalty applies to the owner of pledged property
if the pledgee entrusts him with such property and he
maliciously makes use of it to his own advantage or to the
advantage of another or maliciously disposes of it contrary to
the purpose for which it was assigned or given to him in
accordance with a legal stipulation or expressed or implied
instruction from the person who gave or assigned such property
to him.
Paragraph 455 - Any person who buys moveable property of
which the vendor retains ownership until such time as the price
is paid in full and disposes of such property, which then leaves
his possession without prior permission from the vendor, is
punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 1 year plus a
fine not exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties.
An action may be brought on the basis of a complaint by the
vendor and that action will be void if the vendor withdraws his
complaint before a final judgment is given.
If the withdrawal of
his complaint occurs after the final judgment is given then the
Judgment will be quashed.

SECTION FOUR
Deception
Paragraph 456 - (1) Any person who obtains or transfers for
himself or another ownership of any moveable property that is in
the possession of another in any of the following circumstances

120

is punishable by detention in any of the following
circumstances:
(a) If the offence is committed by deception.
(b) If the offence is committed by assuming a false name
or identity or by misrepresenting a particular fact,
thereby deceiving the victim or compelling him to
surrender such ownership.
(2) The same penalty applies to any person who, in the ways
stated above, compels another to surrender or transfer to him
ownership of a promissory note or to dispose of property or a
document granting a remission from debt or any other document
that can be used to establish a right of ownership or other
material right or who, in the ways stated above, compels another
to sign, annul, destroy or amend such document.
Paragraph 457 - Any person who disposes of any moveable or
immoveable property knowing that he is not the owner of such
property or that he has no right of disposal over it or disposes
of it knowing that he has already disposed of it or concludes a
contract on the basis of it, thereby causing harm to others, is
punishable by detention.
Paragraph 458 - (1) Any person who takes advantage of the
needs of a juvenile or exploits his inexperience or an obsession
of such juvenile and obtains, to the detriment of such
juvenile's interests or the interests of others, any property,
promissory note, receipt or the annulment or amendment of such
document is punishable by detention.
In addition to juveniles, this Paragraph applies to the
insane, disabled, those place din care or any person whose care
order is to continue after he has reached the age of 18.
(2) The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 7 years or detention if the offender is a guardian,
protector or custodian of the victim or is entrusted in any
capacity with the care of the victim's interests whether by
requirement of law, legal judgment or by private arrangement.
Paragraph 459 - (1) Any person who maliciously gives
another a cheque knowing that he does not have sufficient
disposable funds to cover such cheque or, having given that
person the cheque, he withdraws all or part of such funds so
that the balance does not cover the value of the cheque or
orders the drawee to withhold payment or deliberately writes or
signs the cheque in such a way as to prevent its being honored
is punishable by detention plus a fine not exceeding 300 dinars
or by one of those penalties.

121

(2) The same penalty applies to any person who endorses or
delivers a payable-to-bearer cheque to another knowing that he
does not have sufficient funds to cover the full amount.

SECTION FIVE
Concealment of goods acquired as a result of an offence
Paragraph 460 - Without prejudice to any greater penalty
prescribed by law, any person who knowingly obtains, conceals or
makes use of any goods acquired as a result of a felony or
disposes of such goods in any way is punishable by a term of
imprisonment not exceeding 7 years.
The penalty will be detention if the offence, as a result
of which such goods are acquired, is a misdemeanor but it will
not exceed the maximum limit prescribed for that misdemeanor as
long as the person who obtained, concealed or made use or
disposed of such goods was not a party to the commission of the
offence.
Paragraph 461 - Any person who obtains any goods acquired
as a result of a felony or misdemeanor in circumstances which
lead him to believe the source of such goods to be unlawful is
punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 1 year plus a
fine not exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties.
Paragraph 462 - Any person who commits an offence
stipulated in Paragraphs 460 and 461 is exempt from punishment
if he notifies the public authorities of those who committed
such offence before the authorities begin to investigate the
offenders.
If such notification occurs after the authorities have
begun their investigation, the offender is not exempt from
punishment but the notification is considered to be a mitigating
circumstance.

SECTION SIX
Collective provisions
Paragraph 463 - No action or proceedings may be brought
against any person who commits an offence stipulated in the
preceding Sections of this Chapter to the detriment of his
spouse, ancestor or descendant except on the basis of a
complaint by the victim. Criminal proceedings will lapse if the

122

victim withdraws his complaint before the issue of a final
judgment in the case.
The judgment is quashed if the withdrawal of the complaint
is made after the judgment is given. The provisions of this
Paragraph do not apply in a situation where the goods are
acquired legally or officially or from a competent authority or
placed under the legal authority or pledged to another or held
for the benefit of others.

SECTION SEVEN
Offences against the freedom of public auctions
or notices to tender
Paragraph 464 - Any person who, by deception or any other
illegal means, violates the freedom or integrity of an auction
or notice to tender which is not connected with the government
or any institution or company in which the government has a
financial interest and which is not administered by an official
or semiofficial agency is punishable by a period of detention
not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not exceeding 100 dinars or by
one of those penalties.

SECTION EIGHT
Commercial offences
SUB-SECTION ONE
Usury
Paragraph 465(i 23 ) Any person who, in any way, lends money
to another at a declared or hidden rate of interest that exceeds
the maximum agreed limit prescribed by law is punishable by
detention plus a fine not exceeding 1,000 dinars or by one of
those penalties. The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 10 years if the offender commits a similar offence
within 3 years of the issue of the final judgment of the first
offence.

SUB-SECTION TWO

(i) As amended by Paragraph 1 of Law No 63 (1976) published in
Al-Waqai' Al-‘Iraqiya No 2533 on 14/6/76.

123

Fraudulent commercial transactions
Paragraph 466 - Any person who causes an increase or
decrease in the price of a commodity or negotiable financial
bill or the disappearance of a commodity set aside for
destruction by willfully publishing divergent facts or false
information or by making false claims or by committing any other
act involving deception or fraud is punishable by a period of
detention not exceeding 1 year plus a fine not exceeding 100
dinars or by one of those penalties.
Paragraph 467 - Any person who deceives a contracting party
as to the existence or nature of any goods or their intrinsic
qualities or component parts or the type or source of such goods
in circumstances in which they are considered to form the
fundamental basis for the contract or if the deception is as to
the number, quantity, measure, weight or capacity of such goods
or as to the identity of such goods if the goods delivered are
not those contracted for is punishable by a period of detention
not exceeding 2 years plus a fine not exceeding 200 dinars or by
one of those penalties.

SUB-SECTION THREE
Bankruptcy
Paragraph 468 - Any businessman who is declared bankrupt by
a final judgment in the following circumstances is considered a
fraudulent bankrupt:
(1) If he conceals some or all of his books of account or
destroys, amends or substitutes such books of account.
(2) If he appropriates or conceals part of his assets to
the detriment of his creditors.
(3) If he declares a spurious debt or maintains that he is
in debt for an amount for which he is not, in fact, liable
whether it appears in his books of account, budgeted accounts or
other accounting records or he declares such debt orally.
(4) If he refrains from making available a document or
giving an explanation to a competent authority when he is
requested to do so, while knowing the consequences of his
omission. The fraudulent bankrupt is punishable by a term of
imprisonment not exceeding 7 years or by a period of detention
of not less than 2 years.
Paragraph 469 - Any businessman who is declared bankrupt by
a final judgment and who has caused his creditors to suffer by
his own gross negligence is considered to be a negligent

124

bankrupt and is punishable by a period of detention not
exceeding 2 years.
A bankrupt is grossly negligent in the following
circumstances:
(1) If his personal or private expenses are excessive in
relation to his income.
(2) If he spends excessive amounts of money on gambling,
lotteries or whimsical speculation.
(3) If he purchases goods in order to sell them at a lower
price or borrows funds or issues securities or makes use of any
other means to acquire funds, which results in heavy loss to
himself, in order to delay his being declared bankrupt.
(4) If he, after payments have been suspended, then settles
an account with one of his creditors to the disadvantage of the
remaining creditors or with intent to reach a compromise with
him.
(5) If he fraudulently reaches a compromise with his
creditors.
Paragraph 470 - Any businessman who is declared bankrupt by
a final judgment is punishable by a period of detention not
exceeding 1 year or by a fine not exceeding 100 dinars in any of
the following circumstances:
(1) If he fails to keep trading accounts required to be
kept by trading laws or if such accounts are incomplete or
disorganized so that there is no accurate record of either
debtors or creditors.
(2) If he fails to file notice of suspension of payments
within the period prescribed by law.
(3) If he fails to provide true statements of account
required to be given by law following the suspension of
payments.
(4) If he fails to make application to the receiver in
person when required to do so without a reasonable excuse or if
he fails to provide statements required by such receiver or if
such statements appear to be false.
(5) If he makes, for the benefit of another and without
consideration, a substantial commitment not conducive to his
financial status at the time of making such commitment.
Paragraph 471 - If a trading company is declared bankrupt
by a final judgment, the managing director or any member of the
board of directors who is convicted for the commission of an act
stipulated in Paragraph 467 is punishable by the penalty
prescribed for that offence. The same penalty applies to any
person who, by deception or fraud, commits an act which results
in the bankruptcy of the company or is instrumental in

125

suspending the company's payments whether by publishing false
information concerning the issued or paid up share capital or
false budgets or by distributing spurious dividends or taking
for himself more than that to which he is entitled in accordance
with the articles of the company.
By directors, it is also meant full or silent partners in a
limited partnership if they are habitually involved in the
affairs of the company.
Paragraph 472 - If a trading company is declared
negligently bankrupt by a final judgment for the commission of
any act stipulated in Paragraphs 468 and 469, the members of the
board of directors, the directors and the full or silent
partners in a limited partnership if they are habitually
involved in the affairs of the company are, according to the
circumstances, punishable by the penalties prescribed in those
two Paragraphs.
Paragraph 473 - If a person in care, juvenile or other
person whose affairs are administered by an agent is declared
bankrupt by a final judgment, then the custodian, guardian or
agent who is proved guilty of committing a fraudulent or
negligent act stipulated in the preceding Paragraphs is
criminally liable for acts of negligence or fraud and is,
according to the circumstances, punishable by the penalty
prescribed for such acts.
Paragraph 474 Without prejudice to any greater penalty
prescribed by law, the following persons are punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 2 years plus a fine not
exceeding 200 dinars or by one of those penalties:
(1) Any person who steals or conceals in whole or in part
the assets of a bankrupt whether or not he is the spouse,
ancestor or descendant of such bankrupt.
(2) Any person other than a creditor who fraudulently takes
part in the negotiation of a settlement by deception or who
fraudulently submits or registers his inability to pay a
fictitious debt in his own name or in the name of another.
(3) Any creditor who fraudulently increases the value of a
debt due to him or imposes certain special conditions on the
bankrupt to his own advantage or to the advantage of another in
return for his vote in the negotiation of the settlement or
bankruptcy or a promise thereof.
(4) Any creditor who makes a special arrangement to his own
advantage or to the detriment of the remaining creditors.

126

Paragraph 475 - The court may order the conviction for any
offence stipulated in the preceding Paragraphs of this section
to be published.

SECTION NINE
Violation of the rights of corporate ownership
Paragraph 476 - Without prejudice to any greater penalty
prescribed by law, any person who violates another's right of
corporate ownership which is protected by law or by
international agreement to which Iraq is a party is punishable
by a fine. Any goods arising from the violation of such right
will be ordered to be confiscated.

SECTION TEN
Damage to and destruction of property and trespass
SUB-SECTION ONE
Damage to and destruction of property.
Paragraph 477 - Without prejudice to any greater penalty
prescribed by law:
(1) Any person who breaks, destroys or damages any moveable
property which does not belong to him or renders it unsuitable
for use or harms or impairs it in any way is punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 2 years plus a fine not
exceeding 200 dinars or by one of those penalties.
(2) The penalty will be detention if the offence results in
the closure of a public utility or frustration of an activity
carried out by an agency for the public good or if it endangers
the lives, health or security of others. The same penalty
applies to any person who willfully destroys, damages or defaces
a building set aside for use by the public or monument erected
in a public place.
(3) The penalty will be imprisonment if the offence results
in the death of others.
Paragraph 478 - Without prejudice to any greater penalty
prescribed by law:
(1) Any member of a group consisting of at least five
persons that breaks, damages or destroys moveable or immoveable
property belonging to another or renders it unsuitable for use
or harms or impairs it in any way is punishable by detention.

127

(2) The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 7 years or detention if the offence is committed with
the use of violence against others.
(3) If the offenders make use of a time of civil commotion,
riot or disaster in order to commit such offence, the penalty
will be a term of imprisonment not exceeding 10 years.
Paragraph 479 - (1) The following persons are punishable by
detention plus a fine or by one of those penalties:
(a) Any person who destroys the unharvested crops or
plants belonging to another.
(b) Any person who destroys a sown field belonging to
another or scatters harmful substances or seeds on it.
(c) Any person who uproots, cuts down or destroys a tree
belonging to another or this fruit or bark thereof so
that it dies.
(2) The penalty will be a term of imprisonment not
exceeding 7 years or detention if the offence is committed
between dusk and dawn by at least three persons or by two
persons, one of whom uses violence against another or is openly
carrying a weapon or is carrying a concealed weapon.
Paragraph 480 - Any person who cuts down, uproots or
destroys a tree or any greenery planted in a place of worship or
in a street or public square or recreational area or public
garden or other place set aside for the public benefit without
permission. from a competent authority is punishable by a period
of detention not exceeding 2 years plus a fine not exceeding 200
dinars or by one of those penalties.

SUB-SECTION TWO
Trespass
Paragraph 481 - Any person who fills in a ditch or destroys
a wall or fence made out of living or dead trees or other
material or moves or removes any other marker delimiting areas,
defining boundaries or separating properties is punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 2 years plus a fine not
exceeding 200 dinars or by one of those penalties.
The penalty will be detention if the offence is committed
with the use of violence against others or with intent to
appropriate land belonging to another or if such markers have
been erected by an official or semiofficial agency.

128

SECTION ELEVEN
Killing and harming of animals
Paragraph 482 - The following persons are punishable by
detention plus a fine or by one of those penalties:
(1) Any person who deliberately or unnecessarily kills a
beast of burden belonging to another or seriously injures it or
seriously harms it in any other way.
(2) Any person who poisons fish in a river, canal, pond,
swamp or reservoir or uses any means of mass destruction such as
explosives, chemical substances, electricity or other such thing
in order to catch or destroy them.
Paragraph 483 - Any person who deliberately or
unnecessarily kills silkworms, swarms of bees or any tame or
domesticated animal belonging to another other than those
mentioned in Paragraph 482 or causes them serious harm is
punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 1 year plus a
fine not exceeding 100 dinars or by one of those penalties.
Paragraph 484 - Any person who deliberately causes any
minor harm to an animal belonging to another is punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 1 month or by a fine not
exceeding 20 dinars.
Paragraph 485 - Any person who accidentally causes the
death or injury of cattle or beasts of burden belonging to
another is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 10
days or by a fine not exceeding 10 dinars.
Paragraph 486 - (1) Any person who severely beats a tame or
domesticated animal or torments it or cruelly punishes it or
maltreats it in any other way or uses any unnecessarily cruel
method to kill it is punishable by a period of detention not
exceeding 3 months or by a fine not exceeding 30 dinars.
(2) The same penalty applies to any person who works a
beast of burden beyond its endurance, if it is not suited for
work or works it until it becomes ill or until it is injured or
lame.

129

PART FOUR
Infractions
CHAPTER ONE
Offences relating to public highways and places set aside for
the public benefit
Paragraph 487 - The following persons are punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 15 days or by a fine not
exceeding: 10 dinars.
(1) Any person who unnecessarily or without the permission
of a competent authority obstructs a public highway whether by
digging holes in it or by placing or leaving materials or other
things that render its use by pedestrians unsafe or that impede
traffic on it in any way and any person who takes unlawful
possession of a public highway or any land set aside for the
public benefit.
(2) Any person who causes an obstruction on a public
highway by leaving or stopping a vehicle on it whether such
vehicle is drawn by an animal or not and it occurs on more
occasions than is necessary for the loading or unloading of such
vehicle or for passengers to get on or off such vehicle.
(3) Any person who obstructs a canal or other waterway
crossing set aside for use by the public and does not replace it
or set up any other means by which the public can cross. In all
circumstances, the court will order the convicted person to
refund any expenses incurred in the removal of such obstruction
and pay compensation for any damage arising from such
obstruction.
Paragraph 488 - The following persons are punishable by a
fine not exceeding 5 dinars:
(1) Any person who offers goods for sale on a public
highway or in a place set aside for the public benefit in which
such activity is prohibited by order of a competent authority or
at times other than those specified by that authority for such
activity.
(2) Any person who advertises his goods on a public highway
by shouting in such a way as to cause a nuisance.
(3) Any person who washes his car, vehicle or animal
thereby causing an obstruction on a public highway or
constituting a nuisance to pedestrians.
Paragraph 489 - Any person who removes one or more traffic
signs erected on a public highway or building or signs
indicating distances or roads or giving directions to a city or
other public place or who defaces such signs or alters their

130

direction is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 1
month or by a fine not exceeding 20 dinars.
Paragraph 490 - The following persons are punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 1 month or by a fine not
exceeding 20 dinars:
(1) Any person who fails to give warning during the day of
any excavation or other work which he is authorized to carry on
or of the material which he is authorized to place on a highway
or in a public place or who fails to illuminate it at night.
(2) Any person who removes such warning signs or lights.
(3) Any person who extinguishes, removes or destroys a lamp
used to light a highway or public place.
Paragraph 491 - The following persons are punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 1 month or by a fine not
exceeding 20 dinars:
(1) Any person who places materials on a public highway
thereby causing harm to pedestrians or obstructing the flow of
traffic or who suspends anything above a public or private road
without taking the necessary precautions and which, if they were
to fall, would cause harm or distress to others.
(2) Any person who throws without due care and attention
any solid, liquid or gaseous material at another, even though it
does not cause any injury.
Paragraph 492 - Any person who posts a bill in a place
other than those authorized for such activity or who removes,
destroys or defaces. any bill posted in such place is punishable
by a fine not exceeding 10 dinars.
Paragraph 493 - The following persons are punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 10 days or by a fine not
exceeding 10 dinars:
(1) Any person who rides or leads an animal or drives any
freight vehicle on a public highway or in a public place without
due care for the safety and welfare of others.
(2) Any person who parks a vehicle or drives it on a
highway :or in a public place between dusk and dawn without
displaying a light at both ends of such vehicle.

CHAPTER TWO
Offences against the public peace
Paragraph 494 - Without prejudice to any greater penalty
prescribed by law or to any other obligation prescribed by

131

specific regulation, any person who is given notice by a
competent authority to restore or demolish a building in danger
of collapse and he omits to do so or is negligent in doing so is
punishable by fine not exceeding 30 dinars.
Paragraph 495 - The following persons are punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 1 month or by a fine hot
exceeding 20 dinars:
(1) Any person who sets off a firework or similar thing
without permission in areas in which setting off such thing may
result in damage, danger or harm(i 24 ).
(2) Any person who discharges a firearm or explosive charge
a city, town or village or detonates any other explosive
material.
(3) Any person who intentionally or through negligence
fuses a commotion, disturbance or nuisance in any way to the
annoyance of others.
(4) Any person who allows a person of unsound mind or
predatory animal or animal that is harmful in any way to escape
;to a public highway.
(5) Any person who does not take care of an animal in his
possession or for which he is responsible in order to prevent
any anger or harm that could be caused by such animal.
(6) Any person who gallops a horse or beast of burden in a
residential area or allows it to run free in such area.

CHAPTER THREE
Offences against the public health
Paragraph 496 - The following persons are punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 3 months or by a fine not
exceeding 30 dinars:
(1) Any person who buries a human body from a town, village
residence in any place other than a cemetery or place authorized
by an administrative authority for such burial.
(2)(i 25 ) Any person who throws the body of an animal or any
substance that is unclean or harmful to health into a river,
(i) RCC decree No 570 issued on 27/4/82 and published in AlWaqai' Al-'Iraqiya No 2884 on 17/5/82 stipulates that any person
who discharges a firearm during public or private functions in a
city, town or village, without authorization from a competent
authority is punishable by a period of detention of not less
than 1 year but not exceeding 2 years.
(i) As amended by RCC Decision No 77 issued on 14/1/82 published
in Al-Waqai' Al-'Iraqiya No (unclear).

132

anal, conduit or other watercourse, is punishable by a period of
detention of not less than 1 month but not exceeding 6 months
plus fine of not less than 100 dinars but not, exceeding 500
diners.
Paragraph 497 - The following persona are punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 15 days or by a fine not
exceeding 10 dinars:
(1) Any person who urinates or defecates in a street or
highway or in a public place or city, town or village park or in
places other than those set aside for such purpose.
(2) Any person who throws or leaves in a street or highway
or in a public place or park, refuse, rubbish, waste, dirty
water or any thing that is harmful to the health of others.
(3) Any person who deliberately or negligently causes an
escape of gas, fumes, smoke, dirty water or other substance
thereby causing harm, irritation or contamination to others.
(4) Any person who is negligent when cleaning or repairing
a chimney, oven or factory in which fire is used.
Paragraph 498 - Any professional medical practitioner who
finds during his examination of a dead body or while he is
caring for a person who is seriously injured any indication that
death or injury has resulted from the commission of an offence
or if there is evidence that leads him to be suspicious of the
cause of death or injury and he does not notify the competent
authorities is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding
3 months or by a fine not exceeding 30 dinars.
Paragraph 499 - The following persons are punishable by a
fine not exceeding 5 dinars:
(1) Any person who covers the roof or walls of his
residence in a town with a substance containing excrement or the
dung of cattle or other such thing that is harmful to the public
health.
(2) Any butcher or other such person who moves the meat or
carcasses of cattle through a town or carries it in full view of
passers-by.

CHAPTER FOUR
Offences against property
Paragraph 500 - The following persons are punishable by a
period of detention not exceeding 10 days or by a fine not
exceeding 5 dinars:

133

(1) Any person who goes onto land that is prepared for
cultivation or is sown with seed or contains unharvested crops
without the right to do so or moves around on such land by
himself or with his cattle, beasts of burden or other animals or
leaves them to move around on such land.
(2) Any person who grazes his cattle or other animals
without a right to do so or leaves them to graze on land that
contains a crop or in a garden.
(3) Any person who throws a stone or other solid object or
refuse at a vehicle, house, building or enclosure belonging to
another or into a garden or yard.
(4) Any person who throws into a river, canal, ditch or
other water course any object or other thing that obstructs
navigation or impedes the flow of water.

CHAPTER FIVE
Offences against the public decency
Paragraph 501 - Any person who washes themselves in a city,
town or village in an indecent manner or appears in a public
place in an indecent state of undress is punishable by a period
of detention not exceeding 10 days or by a fine not exceeding 5
dinars.
Paragraph 502 - Any person who loiters in a public place or
observes such a place with indecent intent or for an indecent
purpose is punishable by a period of detention not exceeding 10
days or by a fine not exceeding 5 dinars.

CHAPTER SIX
Organizational offences
Paragraph 503 - Any proprietor of a hotel, inn, hostel or
furnished room set aside for the accommodation of a number of
persons who fails to record the names of guests or residents of
such place in accordance with issued instructions or is
negligent in doing so is punishable by a period of detention not
exceeding 1 month or by a fine not exceeding 20 dinars.
Concluding provisions
Paragraph 504 - The Baghdad Penal Code and the appendices
and amendments thereof are cancelled as are all stipulations in
any penal law that conflicts explicitly or implicitly with the
provisions of this Code.

134

Paragraph 505 - This Code shall become operative 3 months
after the date of its publication in the official newspaper.
Paragraph 506 - This Code must be implemented by the
Minister of Justice.

Registered in Baghdad on the fifth day of Jumada I 1389 or
the nineteenth day of July 1969.
Ahmad Hasan Al-Bakr
President
Prime Minister

135

Decisions of the Revolutionary Command Council
Decision No 1477

Pursuant to the provisions of Sub-Paragraph (A) of Paragraph 42
of the temporary constitution, the Revolutionary Command Council
issued the following Decision during its session of 15 September
1980:
(1) If any person commits an offence, having consumed
alcohol by his own volition or choice, it is not considered an
extenuating circumstance that calls for leniency.
(2) Any stipulation which conflicts with the provisions of
this Decision is void.
(3) This Decision shall come into force on the date of its
publication in the official newspaper.

Saddam Husain
Chairman of the RCC

Published in Al-Waqai' Al-'Iraqiya No 2796 on 26/9/80.

