————————
Number 6 of 2003
————————
DATA PROTECTION (AMENDMENT) ACT 2003
————————
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
Section
1. Definitions.
2. Amendment of section 1 (interpretation and application of
Act) of Principal Act.
3. Amendment of section 2 (collection, processing, keeping, use
and disclosure of personal data) of Principal Act.
4. Provisions in relation to processing.
5. Amendment of section 4 (right of access) of Principal Act.
6. Amendment of section 5 (restriction of right of access) of
Principal Act.
7. Amendment of section 6 (right of rectification or erasure) of
Principal Act.
8. Certain rights of data subjects.
9. Amendment of section 8 (disclosure of personal data in
certain cases) of Principal Act.
10. Additional functions of Commissioner.
11. Amendment of section 10 (enforcement of data protection)
of Principal Act.
12. Restriction on transfer of personal data outside State.
13. Prior checking of processing by Commissioner.
14. Amendment of section 13 (codes of practice) of Principal
Act.
15. Amendment of section 14 (annual report) of Principal Act.

[No. 6.]

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[2003.]

Section
16. Amendment of section 16 (the register) of Principal Act.
17. Amendment of section 17 (applications for registration) of
Principal Act.
18. Amendment of section 18 (duration and continuance of
registration) of Principal Act.
19. Amendment of Section 31 (penalties) of Principal Act.
20. Amendment of Second Schedule (the Data Protection
Commissioner) to Principal Act.
21. Journalism, literature and art.
22. Repeals and Revocation.
23. Short title, collective citation, construction and commencement.

————————

2

[2003.]

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[No. 6.]

Acts Referred to
Data Protection Act 1988

1988, No. 25

Dentists Act 1985

1985, No. 9

Freedom of Information Act 1997

1997, No. 13

Interpretation Act 1937

1937, No. 38

Medical Practitioners Act 1978

1978, No. 4

National Archives Act 1986

1986, No. 11

Social Welfare (Consolidation) Act 1993

1993, No. 27

Statistics Act 1993

1993, No. 21

3

————————
Number 6 of 2003
————————
DATA PROTECTION (AMENDMENT) ACT 2003
————————
AN ACT TO GIVE EFFECT TO DIRECTIVE 95/46/EC OF THE
EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND OF THE COUNCIL OF
24 OCTOBER 1995 ON THE PROTECTION OF INDIVIDUALS WITH REGARD TO THE PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA AND ON THE FREE MOVEMENT OF
SUCH DATA, FOR THAT PURPOSE TO AMEND THE
DATA PROTECTION ACT 1988 AND TO PROVIDE FOR
RELATED MATTERS. [10th April, 2003]
BE IT ENACTED BY THE OIREACHTAS AS FOLLOWS:
1.—In this Act—

Definitions.

‘‘Minister’’ means Minister for Justice, Equality and Law Reform;
‘‘the Principal Act’’ means the Data Protection Act 1988.

2.—Section 1 of the Principal Act is amended—
(a) in subsection (1)—
(i) by the insertion of the following definitions:
‘‘‘the Act of 2003’ means the Data Protection
(Amendment) Act 2003;
‘automated data’ means information that—
(a) is being processed by means of equipment
operating automatically in response to
instructions given for that purpose, or
(b) is recorded with the intention that it should
be processed by means of such
equipment;
‘blocking’, in relation to data, means so marking the
data that it is not possible to process it for purposes
in relation to which it is marked;
‘the Directive’ means Directive 95/46/EC of the
European Parliament and of the Council of 24
October 1995 on the protection of individuals with
5

Amendment of
section 1
(interpretation and
application of Act)
of Principal Act.

[No. 6.]
S.2

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[2003.]

regard to the processing of personal data and on the
free movement of such data(1);
‘the EEA Agreement’ means the Agreement on the
European Economic Area signed at Oporto on 2
May 1992 as adjusted by the Protocol signed at Brussels on 17 March 1993;
‘enactment’ means a statute or a statutory instrument (within the meaning of the Interpretation Act
1937);
‘the European Economic Area’ has the meaning
assigned to it by the EEA Agreement;
‘manual data’ means information that is recorded as
part of a relevant filing system or with the intention
that it should form part of a relevant filing system;
‘relevant filing system’ means any set of information
relating to individuals to the extent that, although
the information is not processed by means of equipment operating automatically in response to instructions given for that purpose, the set is structured,
either by reference to individuals or by reference to
criteria relating to individuals, in such a way that
specific information relating to a particular individual is readily accessible;
‘sensitive personal data’ means personal data as to—
(a) the racial or ethnic origin, the political
opinions or the religious or philosophical
beliefs of the data subject,
(b) whether the data subject is a member of a
trade union,
(c) the physical or mental health or condition
or sexual life of the data subject,
(d) the commission or alleged commission of
any offence by the data subject, or
(e) any proceedings for an offence committed
or alleged to have been committed by the
data subject, the disposal of such proceedings or the sentence of any court in
such proceedings;’’,
(ii) by the substitution of the following definition for the
definition of ‘‘data’’:
‘‘‘data’ means automated data and manual data;’’,
(iii) by the substitution of the following for the definition
of ‘‘direct marketing’’:
‘‘‘direct marketing’ includes direct mailing other
than direct mailing carried out in the course of political activities by a political party or its members, or a
(1)

O.J. No. L 281/38 of 23.11.95, p. 31.

6

[2003.]

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[No. 6.]

body established by or under statute or a candidate S.2
for election to, or a holder of, elective political
office;’’,
(iv) by the substitution of the following definition for the
definition of ‘‘personal data’’:
‘‘‘personal data’ means data relating to a living individual who is or can be identified either from the
data or from the data in conjunction with other information that is in, or is likely to come into, the possession of the data controller;’’,
and
(v) by the substitution of the following definition for the
definition of ‘‘processing’’:
‘‘‘processing’, of or in relation to information or
data, means performing any operation or set of operations on the information or data, whether or not by
automatic means, including—
(a) obtaining, recording or keeping the information or data,
(b) collecting, organising, storing, altering or
adapting the information or data,
(c) retrieving, consulting or using the information or data,
(d) disclosing the information or data by transmitting, disseminating or otherwise making it available, or
(e) aligning, combining, blocking, erasing or
destroying the information or data;’’,
(b) by the insertion of the following subsections after subsection
(3):
‘‘(3A) A word or expression that is used in this Act
and also in the Directive has, unless the context otherwise
requires, the same meaning in this Act as it has in the
Directive.
(3B) (a) Subject to any regulations under section 15(2)
of this Act, this Act applies to data controllers
in respect of the processing of personal data
only if—
(i) the data controller is established in the
State and the data are processed in the
context of that establishment, or
(ii) the data controller is established neither
in the State nor in any other state that is
a contracting party to the EEA Agreement but makes use of equipment in the
State for processing the data otherwise
than for the purpose of transit through
the territory of the State.
7

[No. 6.]

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

S.2

[2003.]

(b) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of this subsection, each of the following shall be treated
as established in the State:
(i) an individual who is normally resident in
the State,
(ii) a body incorporated under the law of the
State,
(iii) a partnership or other unincorporated
association formed under the law of the
State, and
(iv) a person who does not fall within subparagraphs (i), (ii) or (iii) of this paragraph,
but maintains in the State—
(I) an office, branch or agency through
which he or she carries on any
activity, or
(II) a regular practice,
and the reference to establishment in any
other state that is a contracting party to the
EEA Agreement shall be construed
accordingly.
(c) A data controller to whom paragraph (a)(ii)
of this subsection applies must, without prejudice to any legal proceedings that could be
commenced against the data controller, designate a representative established in the State.
(3C) Section 2 and sections 2A and 2B (which sections
were inserted by the Act of 2003) of this Act shall not
apply to—
(a) data kept solely for the purpose of historical
research, or
(b) other data consisting of archives or departmental
records (within the meaning in each case of
the National Archives Act 1986),
and the keeping of which complies with such requirements (if any) as may be prescribed for the purpose of
safeguarding the fundamental rights and freedoms of
data subjects.’’,
and
(c) by the insertion of the following subsection after subsection
(4):
‘‘(5) (a) A right conferred by this Act shall not prejudice the exercise of a right conferred by the
Freedom of Information Act 1997.
8

[2003.]

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[No. 6.]

(b) The Commissioner and the Information Com- S.2
missioner shall, in the performance of their
functions, co-operate with and provide assistance to each other.’’.
3.—Section 2 of the Principal Act is amended—
(a) by the substitution of the following subsection for subsection
(1):
‘‘(1) A data controller shall, as respects personal data
kept by him or her, comply with the following provisions:
(a) the data or, as the case may be, the information
constituting the data shall have been
obtained, and the data shall be processed,
fairly,
(b) the data shall be accurate and complete and,
where necessary, kept up to date,
(c) the data—
(i) shall have been obtained only for one or
more specified, explicit and legitimate
purposes,
(ii) shall not be further processed in a manner
incompatible with that purpose or those
purposes,
(iii) shall be adequate, relevant and not
excessive in relation to the purpose or
purposes for which they were collected
or are further processed, and
(iv) shall not be kept for longer than is necessary for that purpose or those purposes,
(d) appropriate security measures shall be taken
against unauthorised access to, or unauthorised alteration, disclosure or destruction of,
the data, in particular where the processing
involves the transmission of data over a network, and against all other unlawful forms of
processing.’’,
(b) in subsection (5), by the substitution of the following paragraph for paragraph (a):
‘‘(a) Subparagraphs (ii) and (iv) of paragraph (c) of the
said subsection (1) do not apply to personal data
kept for statistical or research or other scientific
purposes, and the keeping of which complies with
such requirements (if any) as may be prescribed
for the purpose of safeguarding the fundamental
rights and freedoms of data subjects, and’’,
(c) by the deletion of subsection (6), and
(d) by the substitution of the following subsections for subsection (7):
9

Amendment of
section 2
(collection,
processing, keeping,
use and disclosure
of personal data) of
Principal Act.

[No. 6.]
S.3

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[2003.]

‘‘(7) Where—
(a) personal data are kept for the purpose of direct
marketing, and
(b) the data subject concerned requests the data
controller in writing—
(i) not to process the data for that purpose,
or
(ii) to cease processing the data for that
purpose,
then—
(I) if the request is under paragraph
(b)(i) of this subsection, the data
controller—
(A) shall, where the data are kept
only for the purpose aforesaid,
as soon as may be and in any
event not more than 40 days
after the request has been given
or sent to him or her, erase the
data, and
(B) shall not, where the data are
kept for that purpose and other
purposes, process the data for
that purpose after the expiration of the period aforesaid,
(II) if the request is under paragraph
(b)(ii) of this subsection, as soon as
may be and in any event not more
than 40 days after the request has
been given or sent to the data controller, he or she—
(A) shall, where the data are kept
only for the purpose aforesaid,
erase the data, and
(B) shall, where the data are kept
for that purpose and other purposes, cease processing the data
for that purpose,
and
(III) the data controller shall notify the
data subject in writing accordingly
and, where appropriate, inform him
or her of those other purposes.
(8) Where a data controller anticipates that personal
data, including personal data that is required by law to
be made available to the public, kept by him or her will
be processed for the purposes of direct marketing, the
data controller shall inform the persons to whom the data
relates that they may object, by means of a request in
10

[2003.]

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[No. 6.]

writing to the data controller and free of charge, to such S.3
processing.’’.
4.—The following sections are inserted in the Principal Act after
section 2:
‘‘Processing of
personal data.

2A.—(1) Personal data shall not be processed
by a data controller unless section 2 of this Act
(as amended by the Act of 2003) is complied with
by the data controller and at least one of the following conditions is met:
(a) the data subject has given his or her consent to the processing or, if the data
subject, by reason of his or her physical or mental incapacity or age, is or
is likely to be unable to appreciate the
nature and effect of such consent, it
is given by a parent or guardian or a
grandparent, uncle, aunt, brother or
sister of the data subject and the giving of such consent is not prohibited
by law,
(b) the processing is necessary—
(i) for the performance of a contract
to which the data subject is a
party,
(ii) in order to take steps at the
request of the data subject prior
to entering into a contract,
(iii) for compliance with a legal obligation to which the data controller is subject other than an obligation imposed by contract, or
(iv) to prevent—
(I) injury or other damage to the
health of the data subject, or
(II) serious loss of or damage to
property of the data subject,
or otherwise to protect his or her
vital interests where the seeking
of the consent of the data subject
or another person referred to in
paragraph (a) of this subsection is
likely to result in those interests
being damaged,
(c) the processing is necessary—
(i) for the administration of justice,
(ii) for the performance of a function
conferred on a person by or
under an enactment,
11

Provisions in
relation to
processing.

[No. 6.]

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

S.4

[2003.]

(iii) for the performance of a function
of the Government or a Minister
of the Government, or
(iv) for the performance of any other
function of a public nature performed in the public interest by a
person,
(d) the processing is necessary for the purposes of the legitimate interests pursued by the data controller or by a
third party or parties to whom the
data are disclosed, except where the
processing is unwarranted in any particular case by reason of prejudice to
the fundamental rights and freedoms
or legitimate interests of the data
subject.
(2) The Minister may, after consultation with
the Commissioner, by regulations specify particular circumstances in which subsection (1)(d) of
this section is, or is not, to be taken as satisfied.
Processing of
sensitive personal
data.

2B.—(1) Sensitive personal data shall not be
processed by a data controller unless:
(a) sections 2 and 2A (as amended and
inserted, respectively, by the Act of
2003) are complied with, and
(b) in addition, at least one of the following
conditions is met:
(i) the consent referred to in paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of
section 2A (as inserted by the Act
of 2003) of this Act is explicitly
given,
(ii) the processing is necessary for the
purpose of exercising or performing any right or obligation
which is conferred or imposed by
law on the data controller in connection with employment,
(iii) the processing is necessary to
prevent injury or other damage
to the health of the data subject
or another person or serious loss
in respect of, or damage to, property or otherwise to protect the
vital interests of the data subject
or of another person in a case
where—
(I) consent to the processing
cannot be given by or on
behalf of the data subject in
accordance with section
12

[2003.]

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[No. 6.]

2A(1)(a) (inserted by the S.4
Act of 2003) of this Act, or
(II) the data controller cannot
reasonably be expected to
obtain such consent,
or the processing is necessary to
prevent injury to, or damage to
the health of, another person, or
serious loss in respect of, or damage to, the property of another
person, in a case where such consent has been unreasonably
withheld,
(iv) the processing—
(I) is carried out in the course of
its legitimate activities by
any body corporate, or any
unincorporated body of persons, that—
(A) is not established, and
whose activities are not
carried on, for profit,
and
(B) exists
for
political,
philosophical, religious
or trade union purposes,
(II) is carried out with appropriate safeguards for the fundamental rights and freedoms
of data subjects,
(III) relates only to individuals
who either are members of
the body or have regular
contact with it in connection
with its purposes, and
(IV) does not involve disclosure of
the data to a third party
without the consent of the
data subject,
(v) the information contained in the
data has been made public as a
result of steps deliberately taken
by the data subject,
(vi) the processing is necessary—
(I) for the
justice,

administration

of

(II) for the performance of a function conferred on a person
by or under an enactment, or
13

[No. 6.]
S.4

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[2003.]

(III) for the performance of a
function of the Government
or a Minister of the
Government,
(vii) the processing—
(I) is required for the purpose of
obtaining legal advice or for
the purposes of, or in connection with, legal proceedings or prospective legal
proceedings, or
(II) is otherwise necessary for the
purposes of establishing,
exercising or defending legal
rights,
(viii) the processing is necessary for
medical purposes and is undertaken by—
(I) a health professional, or
(II) a person who in the circumstances owes a duty of confidentiality to the data subject
that is equivalent to that
which would exist if that person were a health professional,
(ix) the processing is necessary in
order to obtain information for
use, subject to and in accordance
with the Statistics Act 1993, only
for statistical, compilation and
analysis purposes,
(x) the processing is carried out by
political parties, or candidates for
election to, or holders of, elective
political office, in the course of
electoral activities for the purpose of compiling data on
people’s political opinions and
complies with such requirements
(if any) as may be prescribed for
the purpose of safeguarding the
fundamental rights and freedoms
of data subjects,
(xi) the processing is authorised by
regulations that are made by the
Minister and are made for
reasons of substantial public
interest,
(xii) the processing is necessary for the
purpose of the assessment, collection or payment of any tax, duty,
levy or other moneys owed or
14

[2003.]

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[No. 6.]

payable to the State and the data S.4
has been provided by the data
subject solely for that purpose,
(xiii) the processing is necessary for the
purposes of determining entitlement to or control of, or any
other purpose connected with the
administration of any benefit,
pension, assistance, allowance,
supplement or payment under
the
Social
Welfare
(Consolidation) Act 1993, or any nonstatutory scheme administered by
the Minister for Social, Community and Family Affairs.
(2) The Minister may by regulations made
after consultation with the Commissioner—
(a) exclude the application of subsection
(1)(b)(ii) of this section in such cases
as may be specified, or
(b) provide that, in such cases as may be
specified, the condition in the said
subsection (1)(b)(ii) is not to be
regarded as satisfied unless such
further conditions as may be specified
are also satisfied.
(3) The Minister may by regulations make
such provision as he considers appropriate for the
protection of data subjects in relation to the processing of personal data as to—
(a) the commission or alleged commission of
any offence by data subjects,
(b) any proceedings for an offence committed or alleged to have been committed by data subjects, the disposal of
such proceedings or the sentence of
any court in such proceedings,
(c) any act or omission or alleged act or
omission of data subjects giving rise to
administrative sanctions,
(d) any civil proceedings in a court or other
tribunal to which data subjects are
parties or any judgment, order or
decision of such a tribunal in any such
proceedings,
and processing of personal data shall be in compliance with any regulations under this
subsection.
(4) In this section—
‘health professional’ includes a registered medical
practitioner, within the meaning of the Medical
15

[No. 6.]

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

S.4

[2003.]

Practitioners Act 1978, a registered dentist,
within the meaning of the Dentists Act 1985 or a
member of any other class of health worker or
social worker standing specified by regulations
made by the Minister after consultation with the
Minister for Health and Children and any other
Minister of the Government who, having regard
to his or her functions, ought, in the opinion of
the Minister, to be consulted;
‘medical purposes’ includes the purposes of preventive medicine, medical diagnosis, medical
research, the provision of care and treatment and
the management of healthcare services.
Security measures
for personal data.

2C.—(1) In determining appropriate security
measures for the purposes of section 2(1)(d) of
this Act, in particular (but without prejudice to
the generality of that provision), where the processing involves the transmission of data over a
network, a data controller—
(a) may have regard to the state of technological development and the cost of
implementing the measures, and
(b) shall ensure that the measures provide a
level of security appropriate to—
(i) the harm that might result from
unauthorised or unlawful processing, accidental or unlawful
destruction or accidental loss of,
or damage to, the data concerned, and
(ii) the nature of the data concerned.
(2) A data controller or data processor shall
take all reasonable steps to ensure that—
(a) persons employed by him or her, and
(b) other persons at the place of work
concerned,
are aware of and comply with the relevant security measures aforesaid.
(3) Where processing of personal data is carried out by a data processor on behalf of a data
controller, the data controller shall—
(a) ensure that the processing is carried out
in pursuance of a contract in writing
or in another equivalent form
between the data controller and the
data processor and that the contract
provides that the data processor carries out the processing only on and
subject to the instructions of the data
controller and that the data processor
complies with obligations equivalent
16

[2003.]

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[No. 6.]

to those imposed on the data control- S.4
ler by section 2(1)(d) of this Act,
(b) ensure that the data processor provides
sufficient guarantees in respect of the
technical security measures, and
organisational measures, governing
the processing, and
(c) take reasonable steps to ensure compliance with those measures.
Fair processing of
personal data.

2D.—(1) Personal data shall not be treated,
for the purposes of section 2(1)(a) of this Act, as
processed fairly unless—
(a) in the case of data obtained from the
data subject, the data controller
ensures, so far as practicable, that the
data subject has, is provided with, or
has made readily available to him or
her, at least the information specified
in subsection (2) of this section,
(b) in any other case, the data controller
ensures, so far as practicable, that the
data subject has, is provided with, or
has made readily available to him or
her, at least the information specified
in subsection (3) of this section—
(i) not later than the time when the
data controller first processes the
data, or
(ii) if disclosure of the data to a third
party is envisaged, not later than
the time of such disclosure.
(2) The information referred to in subsection
(1)(a) of this section is:
(a) the identity of the data controller,
(b) if he or she has nominated a representative for the purposes of this Act, the
identity of the representative,
(c) the purpose or purposes for which the
data are intended to be processed,
and
(d) any other information which is necessary, having regard to the specific circumstances in which the data are or
are to be processed, to enable processing in respect of the data to be fair
to the data subject such as information as to the recipients or categories of recipients of the data, as to
whether replies to questions asked for
the purpose of the collection of the
data are obligatory, as to the possible
17

[No. 6.]
S.4

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[2003.]

consequences of failure to give such
replies and as to the existence of the
right of access to and the right to rectify the data concerning him or her.
(3) The information referred to in subsection
(1)(b) of this section is:
(a) the information specified in subsection
(2) of this section,
(b) the categories of data concerned, and
(c) the name of the original data controller.
(4) The said subsection (1)(b) does not
apply—
(a) where, in particular for processing for
statistical purposes or for the purposes of historical or scientific
research, the provision of the information specified therein proves
impossible or would involve a disproportionate effort, or
(b) in any case where the processing of the
information contained or to be contained in the data by the data controller is necessary for compliance with a
legal obligation to which the data controller is subject other than an obligation imposed by contract,
if such conditions as may be specified in regulations made by the Minister after consultation
with the Commissioner are complied with.’’.

Amendment of
section 4 (right of
access) of Principal
Act.

5.—Section 4 of the Principal Act is amended—
(a) in subsection (1), by the substitution of the following paragraphs for paragraphs (a) and (b):
‘‘(a) Subject to the provisions of this Act, an individual
shall, if he or she so requests a data controller by
notice in writing—
(i) be informed by the data controller whether the
data processed by or on behalf of the data
controller include personal data relating to
the individual,
(ii) if it does, be supplied by the data controller
with a description of—
(I) the categories of data being processed by
or on behalf of the data controller,
(II) the personal data constituting the data of
which that individual is the data subject,
18

[2003.]

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[No. 6.]

(III) the purpose or purposes of the processing, S.5
and
(IV) the recipients or categories of recipients to
whom the data are or may be disclosed,
(iii) have communicated to him or her in intelligible form—
(I) the information constituting any personal
data of which that individual is the data
subject, and
(II) any information known or available to the
data controller as to the source of those
data unless the communication of that
information is contrary to the public
interest,
and
(iv) where the processing by automatic means of
the data of which the individual is the data
subject has constituted or is likely to constitute the sole basis for any decision significantly affecting him or her, be informed free
of charge by the data controller of the logic
involved in the processing,
as soon as may be and in any event not more than
40 days after compliance by the individual with the
provisions of this section and, where any of the
information is expressed in terms that are not
intelligible to the average person without explanation, the information shall be accompanied by
an explanation of those terms.
(b) A request under paragraph (a) of this subsection
that does not relate to all of its subparagraphs
shall, in the absence of any indication to the contrary, be treated as relating to all of them.’’,
(b) by the insertion of the following subsection after subsection
(4):
‘‘(4A) (a) Where personal data relating to a data subject
consist of an expression of opinion about the
data subject by another person, the data may
be disclosed to the data subject without
obtaining the consent of that person to the
disclosure.
(b) Paragraph (a) of this subsection does not
apply—
(i) to personal data held by or on behalf of
the person in charge of an institution
referred to in section 5(1)(c) of this Act
and consisting of an expression of
opinion by another person about the data
subject if the data subject is being or was
detained in such an institution, or
19

[No. 6.]
S.5

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[2003.]

(ii) if the expression of opinion referred to in
that paragraph was given in confidence
or on the understanding that it would be
treated as confidential.’’,
(c) in subsection (8)(a), by the insertion after ‘‘in the interests
of data subjects’’ of ‘‘or in the public interest’’, and
(d) by the insertion of the following subsections after subsection
(8):
‘‘(9) The obligations imposed by subsection (1)(a)(iii)
(inserted by the Act of 2003) of this section shall be complied with by supplying the data subject with a copy of
the information concerned in permanent form unless—
(a) the supply of such a copy is not possible or
would involve disproportionate effort, or
(b) the data subject agrees otherwise.
(10) Where a data controller has previously complied
with a request under subsection (1) of this section, the
data controller is not obliged to comply with a subsequent
identical or similar request under that subsection by the
same individual unless, in the opinion of the data controller, a reasonable interval has elapsed between compliance
with the previous request and the making of the current
request.
(11) In determining for the purposes of subsection (10)
of this section whether the reasonable interval specified
in that subsection has elapsed, regard shall be had to the
nature of the data, the purpose for which the data are
processed and the frequency with which the data are
altered.
(12) Subsection (1)(a)(iv) of this section is not to be
regarded as requiring the provision of information as to
the logic involved in the taking of a decision if and to
the extent only that such provision would adversely affect
trade secrets or intellectual property (in particular any
copyright protecting computer software).
(13) (a) A person shall not, in connection with—
(i) the recruitment of another person as an
employee,
(ii) the continued employment of another
person, or
(iii) a contract for the provision of services to
him or her by another person,
require that other person—
(I) to make a request under subsection (1) of
this section, or
20

[2003.]

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[No. 6.]

(II) to supply him or her with data relating to S.5
that other person obtained as a result of
such a request.
(b) A person who contravenes paragraph (a) of
this subsection shall be guilty of an offence.’’.
6.—Section 5 of the Principal Act is amended by the insertion in
subsection (1) before paragraph (h) of the following paragraph:
‘‘(gg) kept by the Commissioner or the Information Commissioner for the purposes of his or her functions,’’.
7.—Section 6 of the Principal Act is amended—
(a) in subsection (1), by the insertion after ‘‘where appropriate,’’ of ‘‘blocked or’’, and

Amendment of
section 5
(restriction of right
of access) of
Principal Act.

Amendment of
section 6 (right of
rectification or
erasure) of
Principal Act.

(b) by the substitution of the following subsection for subsection (2):
‘‘(2) Where a data controller complies, or is deemed
to have complied, with a request under subsection (1) of
this section, he or she shall, as soon as may be and in any
event not more than 40 days after the request has been
given or sent to him or her, notify—
(a) the individual making the request, and
(b) if such compliance materially modifies the data
concerned, any person to whom the data were
disclosed during the period of 12 months
immediately before the giving or sending of
the request unless such notification proves
impossible or involves a disproportionate
effort,
of the rectification, blocking, erasure or statement
concerned.’’.
8.—The following sections are inserted in the Principal Act after
section 6:
‘‘Right of data
subject to object to
processing likely to
cause damage or
distress.

6A.—(1) Subject to subsection (3) and unless
otherwise provided by any enactment, an individual is entitled at any time, by notice in writing
served on a data controller, to request him or her
to cease within a reasonable time, or not to begin,
processing or processing for a specified purpose
or in a specified manner any personal data in
respect of which he or she is the data subject if
the processing falls within subsection (2) of this
section on the ground that, for specified
reasons—
(a) the processing of those data or their processing for that purpose or in that
manner is causing or likely to cause
substantial damage or distress to him
or her or to another person, and
21

Certain rights of
data subjects.

[No. 6.]
S.8

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[2003.]

(b) the damage or distress is or would be
unwarranted.
(2) This subsection applies to processing that
is necessary—
(a) for the performance of a task carried out
in the public interest or in the exercise
of official authority vested in the data
controller or in a third party to whom
the data are or are to be disclosed, or
(b) for the purposes of the legitimate
interests pursued by the data controller to whom the data are or are to be
disclosed, unless those interests are
overridden by the interests of the data
subject in relation to fundamental
rights and freedoms and, in particular,
his or her right to privacy with respect
to the processing of personal data.
(3) Subsection (1) does not apply—
(a) in a case where the data subject has
given his or her explicit consent to the
processing,
(b) if the processing is necessary—
(i) for the performance of a contract
to which the data subject is a
party,
(ii) in order to take steps at the
request of the data subject prior
to his or her entering into a
contract,
(iii) for compliance with any legal obligation to which the data controller or data subject is subject other
than one imposed by contract, or
(iv) to protect the vital interests of the
data subject,
(c) to processing carried out by political parties or candidates for election to, or
holders of elective political office, in
the course of electoral activities, or
(d) in such other cases, if any, as may be
specified in regulations made by the
Minister after consultation with the
Commissioner.
(4) Where a notice under subsection (1) of this
section is served on a data controller, he or she
shall, as soon as practicable and in any event not
later than 20 days after the receipt of the notice,
serve a notice on the individual concerned—
22

[2003.]

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[No. 6.]

(a) stating that he or she has complied or S.8
intends to comply with the request
concerned, or
(b) stating that he or she is of opinion that
the request is unjustified to any extent
and the reasons for the opinion and
the extent (if any) to which he or she
has complied or intends to comply
with it.
(5) If the Commissioner is satisfied, on the
application to him or her in that behalf of an individual who has served a notice under subsection
(1) of this section that appears to the Commissioner to be justified, or to be justified to any
extent, that the data controller concerned has
failed to comply with the notice or to comply with
it to that extent and that not less than 40 days
have elapsed since the receipt of the notice by
him or her, the Commissioner may, by an
enforcement notice served on the data controller,
order him or her to take such steps for complying
with the request, or for complying with it to that
extent, as the Commissioner thinks fit and specifies in the enforcement notice, and that notice
shall specify the reasons for the Commissioner
being satisfied as aforesaid.
Rights in relation to
automated decision
taking.

6B.—(1) Subject to subsection (2) of this
section, a decision which produces legal effects
concerning a data subject or otherwise significantly affects a data subject may not be based
solely on processing by automatic means of personal data in respect of which he or she is the data
subject and which is intended to evaluate certain
personal matters relating to him or her such as,
for example (but without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing), his or her performance at
work, creditworthiness, reliability or conduct.
(2) Subsection (1) of this section does not
apply—
(a) in a case in which a decision referred to
in that subsection—
(i) is made in the course of steps
taken—
(I) for the purpose of considering whether to enter into a
contract with the data
subject,
(II) with a view to entering into
such a contract, or
(III) in the course of performing
such a contract,
or
23

[No. 6.]
S.8

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[2003.]

(ii) is authorised or required by any
enactment and the data subject
has been informed of the proposal to make the decision, and
(iii) either—
(I) the effect of the decision is to
grant a request of the data
subject, or
(II) adequate steps have been
taken to safeguard the legitimate interests of the data
subject by, for example (but
without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing), the
making of arrangements to
enable him or her to make
representations to the data
controller in relation to the
proposal,
or
(b) if the data subject consents to the processing referred to in subsection (1).’’.
9.—Section 8 of the Principal Act is amended by—

Amendment of
section 8 (disclosure
of personal data in
certain cases) of
Principal Act.

(a) the substitution of ‘‘processing’’ for ‘‘disclosure’’ in each
place where it occurs, and
(b) the deletion of paragraph (g).

Additional
functions of
Commissioner.

10.—Section 9 of the Principal Act is amended by the insertion of
the following subsections after subsection (1):
‘‘(1A) (a) The lawfulness of the processing of personal data
(including their transmission to the Central Unit
of Eurodac established pursuant to the Council
Regulation) in accordance with the Council Regulation shall be monitored by the Commissioner.
(b) In paragraph (a) of this subsection, ‘the Council
Regulation’ means Council Regulation (EC) No.
2725/2000 of 11 December 2000(2) concerning the
establishment of Eurodac for the comparison of
fingerprints for the effective application of the
Dublin Convention.
(1B) The Commissioner shall arrange for the dissemination
in such form and manner as he or she considers appropriate of—
(a) any Community finding (within the meaning of subsection (2)(b) (inserted by the Act of 2003) of section
11 of this Act),
(b) any decision of the European Commission or the European Council under the procedure provided for in
Article 31(2) of the Directive that is made for the
(2)

O.J. No. L 316, 15.12.00, p. 0001-0010.

24

[2003.]

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[No. 6.]

purposes of paragraph 3 or 4 of Article 26 of the S.10
Directive, and
(c) such other information as may appear to him or her to
be expedient to give to data controllers in relation
to the protection of the rights and freedoms of data
subjects in respect of the processing of personal data
in countries and territories outside the European
Economic Area.
(1C) The Commissioner shall be the supervisory authority in
the State for the purposes of the Directive.
(1D) The Commissioner shall also perform any functions in
relation to data protection that the Minister may confer on him
or her by regulations for the purpose of enabling the Government to give effect to any international obligations of the
State.’’.
11.—Section 10 of the Principal Act is amended—
(a) in subsection (1)—
(i) in paragraph (a), by the deletion of ‘‘by a data controller or a data processor’’, and
(ii) in paragraph (b), by the substitution of the following
subparagraph for subparagraph (ii):
‘‘(ii) if he or she is unable to arrange, within a
reasonable time, for the amicable resolution
by the parties concerned of the matter the
subject of the complaint, notify in writing the
individual who made the complaint of his or
her decision in relation to it and that the individual may, if aggrieved by the decision,
appeal against it to the Court under section
26 of this Act within 21 days from the receipt
by him or her of the notification.’’,
(b) by the insertion of the following subsection after subsection
(1):
‘‘(1A) The Commissioner may carry out or cause to
be carried out such investigations as he or she considers
appropriate in order to ensure compliance with the provisions of this Act and to identify any contravention
thereof.’’,
(c) in subsection (2), by the deletion of ‘‘, being a data controller or a data processor,’’,
(d) in subsection (3), by the substitution of the following paragraph for paragraph (a):
‘‘(a) to block, rectify, erase or destroy any of the data
concerned, or’’,
and
(e) in subsection (7), by the substitution of the following for so
much of the subsection as follows paragraph (a):
25

Amendment of
section 10
(enforcement of
data protection) of
Principal Act.

[No. 6.]
S.11

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[2003.]

‘‘(b) if such compliance materially modifies the data concerned, any person to whom the data were disclosed during the period beginning 12 months
before the date of the service of the enforcement
notice concerned and ending immediately before
such compliance unless such notification proves
impossible or involves a disproportionate effort,
of the blocking, rectification, erasure, destruction or
statement concerned.’’.

Restriction on
transfer of personal
data outside State.

12.—The following section is substituted for section 11 of the Principal Act:
‘‘11.—(1) The transfer of personal data to a country or territory outside the European Economic Area may not take place
unless that country or territory ensures an adequate level of protection for the privacy and the fundamental rights and freedoms
of data subjects in relation to the processing of personal data
having regard to all the circumstances surrounding the transfer
and, in particular, but without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing, to—
(a) the nature of the data,
(b) the purposes for which and the period during which the
data are intended to be processed,
(c) the country or territory of origin of the information contained in the data,
(d) the country or territory of final destination of that
information,
(e) the law in force in the country or territory referred to
in paragraph (d),
(f) any relevant codes of conduct or other rules which are
enforceable in that country or territory,
(g) any security measures taken in respect of the data in
that country or territory, and
(h) the international obligations of that country or
territory.
(2) (a) Where in any proceedings under this Act a question
arises—
(i) whether the adequate level of protection specified in subsection (1) of this section is ensured
by a country or territory outside the European
Economic Area to which personal data are to
be transferred, and
(ii) a Community finding has been made in relation
to transfers of the kind in question,
the question shall be determined in accordance with
that finding.
(b) In paragraph (a) of this subsection ‘Community finding’
means a finding of the European Commission made
26

[2003.]

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[No. 6.]

for the purposes of paragraph (4) or (6) of Article S.12
25 of the Directive under the procedure provided for
in Article 31(2) of the Directive in relation to
whether the adequate level of protection specified in
subsection (1) of this section is ensured by a country
or territory outside the European Economic Area.
(3) The Commissioner shall inform the Commission and the
supervisory authorities of the other Member States of any case
where he or she considers that a country or territory outside the
European Economic Area does not ensure the adequate level
of protection referred to in subsection (1) of this section.
(4) (a) This section shall not apply to a transfer of data if—
(i) the transfer of the data or the information constituting the data is required or authorised by or
under—
(I) any enactment, or
(II) any convention or other instrument
imposing an international obligation on the
State,
(ii) the data subject has given his or her consent to
the transfer,
(iii) the transfer is necessary—
(I) for the performance of a contract between
the data subject and the data controller, or
(II) for the taking of steps at the request of the
data subject with a view to his or her
entering into a contract with the data
controller,
(iv) the transfer is necessary—
(I) for the conclusion of a contract between the
data controller and a person other than the
data subject that—
(A) is entered into at the request of the
data subject, and
(B) is in the interests of the data subject,
or
(II) for the performance of such a contract,
(v) the transfer is necessary for reasons of substantial
public interest,
(vi) the transfer is necessary for the purpose of
obtaining legal advice or for the purpose of or
in connection with legal proceedings or prospective legal proceedings or is otherwise necessary
for the purposes of establishing or defending
legal rights,
27

[No. 6.]
S.12

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[2003.]

(vii) the transfer is necessary in order to prevent
injury or other damage to the health of the data
subject or serious loss of or damage to property
of the data subject or otherwise to protect his or
her vital interests, and informing the data subject of, or seeking his or her consent to, the
transfer is likely to damage his or her vital
interests,
(viii) the transfer is of part only of the personal data
on a register established by or under an enactment, being—
(I) a register intended for consultation by the
public, or
(II) a register intended for consultation by persons having a legitimate interest in its subject matter,
and, in the case of a register referred to in clause
(II) of this subparagraph, the transfer is made,
at the request of, or to, a person referred to in
that clause and any conditions to which such
consultation is subject are complied with by any
person to whom the data are or are to be transferred, or
(ix) the transfer has been authorised by the Commissioner where the data controller adduces
adequate safeguards with respect to the privacy
and fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals and for the exercise by individuals of their
relevant rights under this Act or the transfer is
made on terms of a kind approved by the Commissioner as ensuring such safeguards.
(b) The Commissioner shall inform the European Commission and the supervisory authorities of the other
states in the European Economic Area of any authorisation or approval under paragraph (a)(ix) of this
subsection.
(c) The Commissioner shall comply with any decision of
the European Commission under the procedure laid
down in Article 31.2 of the Directive made for the
purposes of paragraph 3 or 4 of Article 26 of the
Directive.
(5) The Minister may, after consultation with the Commissioner, by regulations specify—
(a) the circumstances in which a transfer of data is to be
taken for the purposes of subsection (4)(a)(v) of this
section to be necessary for reasons of substantial
public interest, and
(b) the circumstances in which such a transfer which is not
required by or under an enactment is not to be so
taken.
28

[2003.]

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[No. 6.]

(6) Where, in relation to a transfer of data to a country or S.12
territory outside the European Economic Area, a data controller adduces the safeguards for the data subject concerned
referred to in subsection (4)(a)(ix) of this section by means of a
contract embodying the contractual clauses referred to in paragraph 2 or 4 of Article 26 of the Directive, the data subject shall
have the same right—
(a) to enforce a clause of the contract conferring rights on
him or her or relating to such rights, and
(b) to compensation or damages for breach of such a
clause,
that he or she would have if he or she were a party to the
contract.
(7) The Commissioner may, subject to the provisions of this
section, prohibit the transfer of personal data from the State
to a place outside the State unless such transfer is required or
authorised by or under any enactment or required by any convention or other instrument imposing an international obligation
on the State.
(8) In determining whether to prohibit a transfer of personal
data under this section, the Commissioner shall also consider
whether the transfer would be likely to cause damage or distress
to any person and have regard to the desirability of facilitating
international transfers of data.
(9) A prohibition under subsection (7) of this section shall be
effected by the service of a notice (referred to in this Act as a
prohibition notice) on the person proposing to transfer the data
concerned.
(10) A prohibition notice shall—
(a) prohibit the transfer concerned either absolutely or
until the person aforesaid has taken such steps as are
specified in the notice for protecting the interests of
the data subjects concerned,
(b) specify the time when it is to take effect,
(c) specify the grounds for the prohibition, and
(d) subject to subsection (12) of this section, state that the
person concerned may appeal to the Court under
section 26 of this Act against the prohibition specified in the notice within 21 days from the service of
the notice on him or her.
(11) Subject to subsection (12) of this section, the time specified in a prohibition notice for compliance with the prohibition
specified therein shall not be expressed to expire before the end
of the period of 21 days specified in subsection (10)(d) of this
section and, if an appeal is brought against the prohibition, the
prohibition need not be complied with and subsection (15) of
this section shall not apply in relation thereto, pending the determination or withdrawal of the appeal.
(12) If the Commissioner—
29

[No. 6.]
S.12

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[2003.]

(a) by reason of special circumstances, is of opinion that a
prohibition specified in a prohibition notice should
be complied with urgently, and
(b) includes a statement to that effect in the notice,
subsections (10)(d) and (11) of this section shall not apply in
relation to the notice but the notice shall contain a statement of
the effect of the provisions of section 26 (other than subsection
(3)) of this Act and shall not require compliance with the prohibition before the end of the period of 7 days beginning on the
date on which the notice is served.
(13) The Commissioner may cancel a prohibition notice and,
if he or she does so, shall notify in writing the person on whom
it was served accordingly.
(14) (a) This section applies, with any necessary modifications, to a transfer of information from the State
to a place outside the State for conversion into
personal data as it applies to a transfer of personal
data from the State to such a place.
(b) In paragraph (a) of this subsection ‘information’
means information (not being data) relating to a
living individual who can be identified from it.
(15) A person who, without reasonable excuse, fails or refuses to comply with a prohibition specified in a prohibition
notice shall be guilty of an offence.’’.

Prior checking of
processing by
Commissioner.

13.—The following section is inserted into the Act of 1988 after
section 12:
‘‘12A.—(1) This section applies to any processing that is of
a prescribed description, being processing that appears to the
Commissioner to be particularly likely—
(a) to cause substantial damage or substantial distress to
data subjects, or
(b) otherwise significantly to prejudice the rights and freedoms of data subjects.
(2) The Commissioner, on receiving—
(a) an application under section 17 of this Act by a person
to whom section 16 of this Act applies for registration in the register and any prescribed information and any other information that he or she may
require, or
(b) a request from a data controller in that behalf,
shall consider and determine—
(i) whether any of the processing to which the application
or request relates is processing to which this section
applies,
30

[2003.]

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[No. 6.]

(ii) if it does, whether the processing to which this section S.13
applies is likely to comply with the provisions of this
Act.
(3) Subject to subsection (4) of this section, the Commissioner shall, within the period of 90 days from the day on
which he or she receives an application or a request referred to
in subsection (2) of this section, serve a notice on the data controller concerned stating the extent to which, in the opinion of
the Commissioner, the proposed processing is likely or unlikely
to comply with the provisions of this Act.
(4) Before the end of the period referred to in subsection
(3), the Commissioner may, by reason of special circumstances,
extend that period once only, by notice in writing served on the
data controller concerned, by such further period not exceeding
90 days as the Commissioner may specify in the notice.
(5) If, for the purposes of his or her functions under this
section, the Commissioner serves an information notice on the
data controller concerned before the end of the period referred
to in subsection (3) of this section or that period as extended
under subsection (4) of this section—
(a) the period from the date of service of the notice to the
date of compliance with the requirement in the
notice, or
(b) if the requirement is set aside under section 26 of this
Act, the period from the date of such service to the
date of such setting aside,
shall be added to the period referred to in the said subsection
(3) or that period as so extended as aforesaid.
(6) Processing to which this section applies shall not be carried on unless—
(a) the data controller has—
(i) previously made an application under section 17
of this Act and furnished the information specified in that section to the Commissioner, or
(ii) made a request under subsection (2) of this
section,
and
(b) the data controller has complied with any information
notice served on him or her in relation to the matter,
and
(c) (i) the period of 90 days from the date of the receipt of
the application or request referred to in subsection (3) of this section (or that period as
extended under subsections (4) and (5) of this
section or either of them) has elapsed without
the receipt by the data controller of a notice
under the said subsection (3), or
(ii) the data controller has received a notice under the
said subsection (3) stating that the particular
31

[No. 6.]
S.13

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[2003.]

processing proposed to be carried on is likely to
comply with the provisions of this Act, or
(iii) the data controller—
(I) has received a notice under the said subsection (3) stating that, if the requirements
specified by the Commissioner (which he or
she is hereby authorised to specify) and
appended to the notice are complied with
by the data controller, the processing proposed to be carried on is likely to comply
with the provisions of this Act, and
(II) has complied with those requirements.
(7) A person who contravenes subsection (6) of this section
shall be guilty of an offence.
(8) An appeal against a notice under subsection (3) of this
section or a requirement appended to the notice may be made
to and heard and determined by the Court under section 26 of
this Act and that section shall apply as if such a notice and such
a requirement were specified in subsection (1) of the said section
26.
(9) The Minister, after consultation with the Commissioner,
may by regulations amend subsections (3), (4) and (6) of this
section by substituting for the number of days for the time being
specified therein a different number specified in the regulations.
(10) A data controller shall pay to the Commissioner such fee
(if any) as may be prescribed in respect of the consideration by
the Commissioner, in relation to proposed processing by the
data controller, of the matters referred to in paragraphs (i) and
(ii) of subsection (2) of this section and different fees may be
prescribed in relation to different categories of processing.
(11) In this section a reference to a data controller includes a
reference to a data processor.’’.

Amendment of
section 13 (codes of
practice) of
Principal Act.

14.—(1) Section 13 of the Principal Act is amended—
(a) by the substitution of the following subsection for subsection
(2):
‘‘(2) The Commissioner shall—
(a) where a code of practice (referred to subsequently in this section as a code) so prepared is submitted to him or her for consideration, consider the code and, after such
consultation with such data subjects or persons representing data subjects and with the
relevant trade associations or other bodies
aforesaid as appears to him or her to be
appropriate—
(i) if he or she is of opinion that the code
provides for the data subjects concerned
a measure of protection with regard to
32

[2003.]

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[No. 6.]

personal data relating to them that con- S.14
forms with that provided for by section 2,
sections 2A to 2D (inserted by the Act of
2003) and sections 3 and 4 (other than
subsection (8)) and 6 of this Act, approve
of the code and encourage its dissemination to the data controllers concerned,
and
(ii) in any event notify the association or body
concerned of his or her decision to
approve or not to approve the code,
(b) where he or she considers it necessary or desirable to do so and after such consultation with
any trade associations or other bodies
referred to in subsection (1) of this section
having an interest in the matter and data subjects or persons representing data subjects as
he or she considers appropriate, prepare, and
arrange for the dissemination to such persons
as he or she considers appropriate of, codes
of practice for guidance as to good practice in
dealing with personal data, and subsection (3)
of this section shall apply to a code of practice
prepared under this subsection as it applies to
a code,
(c) in such manner and by such means as he or she
considers most effective for the purposes of
this paragraph, promote the following of good
practice by data controllers and, in particular,
so perform his or her functions under this Act
as to promote compliance with this Act by
data controllers,
(d) arrange for the dissemination in such form and
manner as he or she considers appropriate of
such information as appears to him or her to
be expedient to give to the public about the
operation of this Act, about the practices in
processing of personal data (including compliance with the requirements of this Act)
that appear to the Commissioner to be desirable having regard to the interests of data
subjects and other persons likely to be
affected by such processing and about other
matters within the scope of his or her functions under this Act, and may give advice to
any person in relation to any of those
matters.’’,
and
(b) by the insertion of the following subsections after subsection
(4):
‘‘(5) The Commissioner shall be paid by a person in
relation to whom a service is provided under this section
such fee (if any) as may be prescribed and different fees
may be prescribed in relation to different such services
and different classes of persons.
33

[No. 6.]
S.14

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[2003.]

(6) In proceedings in any court or other tribunal, any
provision of a code, or a code of practice, approved under
subsection (3) of this section that appears to the court or
other tribunal concerned to be relevant to the proceedings may be taken into account in determining the
question concerned.’’.
(2) A code of practice approved under subsection (2) of the said
section 13 and in force immediately before the commencement of
this section shall continue in force after such commencement as if
approved under subsection (2) (inserted by this section) of section
13 of the Principal Act.

Amendment of
section 14 (annual
report) of Principal
Act.

15.—Section 14 of the Principal Act is amended by the insertion
of the following subsection after subsection (2):
‘‘(3) For the purposes of the law of defamation, a report
under subsection (1) shall be absolutely privileged.’’.

Amendment of
section 16 (the
register) of
Principal Act.

16.—Section 16 of the Act of 1988 is amended by the substitution
of the following subsection for subsection (1):
‘‘(1) In this section ‘person to whom this section applies’
means a data controller and a data processor (other than such
(if any) categories of data controller and data processor as may
be specified in regulations made by the Minister after consultation with the Commissioner) except in so far as—
(a) they carry out—
(i) processing whose sole purpose is the keeping in
accordance with law of a register that is
intended to provide information to the public
and is open to consultation either by the public
in general or by any person demonstrating a
legitimate interest,
(ii) processing of manual data (other than such categories, if any, of such data as may be
prescribed), or
(iii) any combination of the foregoing categories of
processing,
or
(b) the data controller is a body that is not established or
conducted for profit and is carrying out processing
for the purposes of establishing or maintaining membership of or support for the body or providing or
administering activities for individuals who are either
members of the body or have regular contact with
it.’’.

Amendment of
section 17
(applications for
registration) of
Principal Act.

17.—Section 17 of the Principal Act is amended—
(a) in subsection (1)—
(i) by the substitution of the following paragraph for
paragraph (b):
34

[2003.]

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[No. 6.]

‘‘(b) Where a data controller intends to keep per- S.17
sonal data for two or more related purposes,
he or she shall make an application for registration in respect of those purposes and, subject to the provisions of this Act, entries shall
be made in the register in accordance with
any such application,’’,
and
(ii) by the insertion of the following paragraph after paragraph (b):
‘‘(c) Where a data controller intends to keep personal data for two or more unrelated purposes, he shall make an application for separate registration in respect of each of those
purposes and, subject to the provisions of this
Act, entries shall be made in the register in
accordance with each such application.’’,
and
(b) by the substitution of the following subsection for subsection (3):
‘‘(3) The Commissioner shall not accept such an application for registration as aforesaid from a data controller
who keeps sensitive personal data unless he or she is of
opinion that appropriate safeguards for the protection of
the privacy of the data subjects are being, and will continue to be, provided by him or her.’’.
18.—Section 18 of the Principal Act is amended by the substitution
of the following subsection for subsection (2):
‘‘(2) The prescribed period (which shall not be less than one
year) shall be calculated—

Amendment of
section 18 (duration
and continuance of
registration) of
Principal Act.

(a) in the case of a first registration from the date on which
the relevant entry was made in the register, and
(b) in the case of a registration which has been continued
under this section, from the day following the expiration of the latest prescribed period.’’.
19.—Section 31 of the Principal Act is amended in subsection (1)
by—
(a) in paragraph (a), the substitution of ‘‘\3,000’’ for ‘‘£1,000’’,
and

Amendment of
section 31
(penalties) of
Principal Act.

(b) in paragraph (b), the substitution of ‘‘\100,000’’ for
‘‘£50,000’’.
20.—The Second Schedule to the Principal Act is amended by the
insertion of the following paragraph after paragraph 9:
‘‘10. (1) A person who holds or held the office of
Commissioner or who is or was a member of the staff of the
Commissioner shall not disclose to a person other than the
Commissioner or such a member any information that is
obtained by him or her in his capacity as Commissioner or as
35

Amendment of
Second Schedule
(the Data
Protection
Commissioner) to
Principal Act.

[No. 6.]
S.20

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[2003.]

such a member that could reasonably be regarded as confidential without the consent of the person to whom it relates.
(2) A person who contravenes subparagraph (1) of this paragraph shall be guilty of an offence.’’.

Journalism,
literature and art.

21.—The following section is inserted into the Principal Act after
section 22:
‘‘22A.—(1) Personal data that are processed only for journalistic, artistic or literary purposes shall be exempt from compliance with any provision of this Act specified in subsection (2)
of this section if—
(a) the processing is undertaken solely with a view to the
publication of any journalistic, literary or artistic
material,
(b) the data controller reasonably believes that, having
regard in particular to the special importance of the
public interest in freedom of expression, such publication would be in the public interest, and
(c) the data controller reasonably believes that, in all the
circumstances, compliance with that provision would
be incompatible with journalistic, artistic or literary
purposes.
(2) The provisions referred to in subsection (1) of this section
are—
(a) section 2 (as amended by the Act of 2003), other than
subsection (1)(d),
(b) sections 2A, 2B and 2D (which sections were inserted
by the Act of 2003),
(c) section 3,
(d) sections 4 and 6 (which sections were amended by the
Act of 2003), and
(e) sections 6A and 6B (which sections were inserted by
the Act of 2003).
(3) In considering for the purposes of subsection (1)(b) of this
section whether publication of the material concerned would be
in the public interest, regard may be had to any code of practice
approved under subsections (1) or (2) of section 13 (as amended
by the Act of 2003) of this Act.
(4) In this section ‘publication’, in relation to journalistic,
artistic or literary material, means the act of making the material
available to the public or any section of the public in any form
or by any means.’’.

Repeals and
Revocation.

22.—(1) Section 23 and subsections (3), (4) and (5) of section 24
and the Third Schedule of the Principal Act are repealed.
(2) The European Communities (Data Protection) Regulations
2001 (S.I. No. 626 of 2001) are hereby revoked.
36

[2003.]

Data Protection (Amendment) Act
2003.

[No. 6.]

23.—(1) This Act may be cited as the Data Protection
(Amendment) Act 2003.
(2) This Act and the Principal Act may be cited together as the
Data Protection Acts 1988 and 2003 and shall be construed together
as one.
(3) Subject to the subsequent provisions of this section, this Act
shall come into operation on such day or days as, by order or orders
made by the Minister under this section, may be fixed therefor either
generally or with reference to any particular purpose or provision
and different days may be so fixed for different purposes and different provisions including the application of section 22(1) to different
provisions specified therein.
(4) This Act, in so far as it—
(a) amends section 2 of the Principal Act and applies it to manual data, and
(b) inserts sections 2A and 2B into that Act,
comes into operation on 24 October 2007 in respect of manual data
held in relevant filing systems on the passing of this Act.
(5) Notwithstanding subsection (4), a data controller shall, if so
requested in writing by a data subject when making a request under
section 4 of the Principal Act—
(a) rectify, erase, block or destroy any data relating to him or
her which are incomplete or inaccurate, or
(b) cease holding manual data relating to him or her in a way
incompatible with the legitimate purposes pursued by the
data controller.

37

Short title,
collective citation,
construction and
commencement.

BAILE ÁTHA CLIATH
ARNA FHOILSIÚ AG OIFIG AN tSOLÁTHAIR
Le ceannach dı́reach ón
OIFIG DHÍOLTA FOILSEACHÁN RIALTAIS,
TEACH SUN ALLIANCE, SRÁID THEACH LAIGHEAN, BAILE ÁTHA CLIATH 2,
nó trı́d an bpost ó
FOILSEACHÁIN RIALTAIS, AN RANNÓG POST-TRÁCHTA,
51 FAICHE STIABHNA, BAILE ÁTHA CLIATH 2,
(Teil: 01 - 6476834/35/36/37; Fax: 01 - 6476843)
nó trı́ aon dı́oltóir leabhar.
——————
DUBLIN
PUBLISHED BY THE STATIONERY OFFICE
To be purchased directly from the
GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS SALE OFFICE,
SUN ALLIANCE HOUSE, MOLESWORTH STREET, DUBLIN 2,
or by mail order from
GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS, POSTAL TRADE SECTION,
51 ST. STEPHEN’S GREEN, DUBLIN 2,
(Tel: 01 - 6476834/35/36/37; Fax: 01 - 6476843)
or through any bookseller.

ISBN 0-7557-3907-8

\4.06
Wt. 513. 1,250. 4/03. Cahill. (X44346). Gr. 30-15.

9 780755 739073

