BASIC LAW: HUMAN DIGNITY AND LIBERTY,
5752-1992
Basic principles
1. Fundamental human rights in Israel are founded upon recognition of the value of the human being, the sanctity of
human life, and the principle that all persons are free; these rights shall be upheld in the spirit of the principles set forth in
the Declaration of the Establishment of the State of Israel.

Purpose
1A. The purpose of this Basic Law is to protect human dignity and liberty, in order to establish in a Basic Law the values
of the State of Israel as a Jewish and democratic state.

Preservation of life, body and dignity
2. There shall be no violation of the life, body or dignity of any person as such.

Protection of property
3. There shall be no violation of the property of a person.

Protection of life, body and dignity
4. All persons are entitled to protection of their life, body and dignity.

Personal liberty
5. There shall be no deprivation or restriction of the liberty of a person by imprisonment, arrest, extradition or otherwise.

Leaving and entering Israel
6. (a) All persons are free to leave Israel.
(b) Every Israel national has the right of entry into Israel from abroad.

Privacy
7. (a)
(b)
(c)
(d)

All persons have the right to privacy and to intimacy.
There shall be no entry into the private premises of a person who has not consented thereto.
No search shall be conducted on the private premises or body of a person, nor in the body or personal effects.
There shall be no violation of the confidentiality of conversation, or of the writings or records of a person.

Violation of rights
8. There shall be no violation of rights under this Basic Law except by a Law befitting the values of the State of Israel,
enacted for a proper purpose, and to an extent no greater than is required, or by regulation enacted by virtue of express
authorization in such Law.

Reservation regarding security forces
9. There shall be no restriction of rights under this Basic Law held by persons serving in the Israel Defense Forces, the
Israel Police, the Prisons Service and other security organizations of the State, nor shall such rights be subject to
conditions, except by virtue of a Law, or by regulation enacted by virtue of a Law, and to an extent no greater than is
required by the nature and character of the service.

Validity of laws
10. This Basic Law shall not affect the validity of any law in force prior to the commencement of the Basic Law.

Application
11. All governmental authorities are bound to respect the rights under this Basic Law.

Stability
12. This Basic Law cannot be varied, suspended or made subject to conditions by emergency regulations;
notwithstanding, when a state of emergency regulations; notwithstanding, when a state of emergency exists, by virtue of a
declaration under section 9 of the Law and Administration Ordinance, 5708-1948, emergency regulations may be enacted
by virtue of said section to deny or restrict rights under this Basic Law, provided the denial or restriction shall be for a
proper purpose and for a period and extent no greater than is required.

