Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

Amended Act on the Protection of Personal Information
(Tentative Translation)
This is an English translation of the amended Act on the Protection of Personal
Information, to be put into full effect on May 30, 2017.

NOTICE
*This translation has neither had its texts checked by a native English speaker nor
legal language editor, and thus may be subject to change.
*The Japanese original legal texts only shall remain in force, while their English
translation is presented for ease of non-Japanese speakers’ understanding and
reference.

Table of Contents
Chapter I General Provisions (Articles 1 to 3)
Chapter II Responsibilities etc. of the Central and Local Governments
(Articles 4 to 6)
Chapter III Measures etc. relating to the Protection of Personal Information
Section 1 Basic Policy on the Protection of Personal Information
(Article 7)
Section 2 Measures by the Central Government (Articles 8 to 10)
Section 3 Measures by the Local Governments (Articles 11 to 13)
Section 4

Cooperation between the Central and Local Governments
(Article 14)
Chapter IV Obligations etc. of a Personal Information Handling Business
Operator
Section 1 Obligations of a Personal Information Handling Business
Operator (Articles 15 to 35)
Section 2 Obligations of an Anonymously Processed Information
Handling Business Operator etc. (Articles 36 to 39)
Section 3 Supervision (Articles 40 to 46)
Section 4 Private Sector Body’s Promotion for the Protection of Personal
Information (Article 47 to 58)
Chapter V Personal Information Protection Commission (Articles 59 to 74)
Chapter VI Miscellaneous Provisions (Article 75 to 81)
Chapter VII Penal Provisions (Article 82 to 88)

1

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

Chapter I

General Provisions

(Purpose)
Article 1 This Act aims to protect an individual’s rights and interests while
considering the utility of personal information including that the proper and
effective application of personal information contributes to the creation of new
industries and the realization of a vibrant economic society and an enriched
quality of life for the people of Japan; by setting forth the overall vision for the
proper handling of personal information, creating a governmental basic policy
with regard to this, and establishing other matters to serve as a basis for
measures to protect personal information, as well as by clarifying the
responsibilities etc. of the central and local governments and establishing
obligations etc. that a personal information handling business operator shall
fulfill, in light of the significantly expanded utilization of personal information
as our advanced information- and communication-based society evolves.
(Definition)
Article 2
(1) "Personal information" in this Act means that information relating to a living
individual which falls under any of each following item:
(i) those containing a name, date of birth, or other descriptions etc. (meaning
any and all matters (excluding an individual identification code) stated,
recorded or otherwise expressed using voice, movement or other methods in
a document, drawing or electromagnetic record (meaning a record kept in an
electromagnetic form (meaning an electronic, magnetic or other forms that
cannot be recognized through the human senses; the same shall apply in
the succeeding paragraph, item (ii)); the same shall apply in Article 18,
paragraph (2)); hereinafter the same) whereby a specific individual can be
identified (including those which can be readily collated with other
information and thereby identify a specific individual)
(ii) those containing an individual identification code
(2) An “individual identification code” in this Act means those prescribed by
cabinet order which are any character, letter, number, symbol or other codes
falling under any of each following item.
(i) those able to identify a specific individual that are a character, letter,
number, symbol or other codes into which a bodily partial feature of the
specific individual has been converted in order to be provided for use by
2

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

computers
(ii) those character, letter, number, symbol or other codes which are assigned
in regard to the use of services provided to an individual or to the
purchase of goods sold to an individual, or which are stated or
electromagnetically recorded in a card or other document issued to an
individual so as to be able to identify a specific user or purchaser, or
recipient of issuance by having made the said codes differently assigned
or, stated or recoded for the said user or purchaser, or recipient of
issuance
(3) “Special care-required personal information” in this Act means personal
information comprising a principal's race, creed, social status, medical
history, criminal record, fact of having suffered damage by a crime, or other
descriptions etc. prescribed by cabinet order as those of which the handling
requires special care so as not to cause unfair discrimination, prejudice or
other disadvantages to the principal.
(4) A “personal information database etc.” in this Act means those set forth in
the following which are a collective body of information comprising personal
information (excluding those prescribed by cabinet order as having little
possibility of harming an individual’s rights and interests considering their
utilization method).
(i) those systematically organized so as to be able to search for particular
personal information using a computer;
(ii) besides those set forth in the preceding item, those prescribed by cabinet
order as having been systematically organized so as to be able to easily
search for particular personal information.
(5) A "personal information handling business operator" in this Act means a
person providing a personal information database etc. for use in business;
however, excluding a person set forth in the following;
(i) a central government organization;
(ii) a local government;
(iii) an incorporated administrative agency etc. (meaning an independent
administrative agency etc. prescribed in Article 2, paragraph (1) of the Act
on the Protection of Personal Information Held by Incorporated
Administrative Agencies (Act No. 59 of 2003); hereinafter the same);

3

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

(iv) a local incorporated administrative agency (meaning a local incorporated
administrative agency prescribed in Article 2, paragraph (1) of the Local
Incorporated Administrative Agencies Act (Act No. 118 of 2003);
hereinafter the same);
(6) “Personal data” in this Act means personal information constituting a
personal information database etc.
(7) “Retained personal data” in this Act means personal data which a personal
information handling business operator has the authority to disclose, correct,
add or delete the contents of, cease the utilization of, erase, and cease the
third-party provision of, and which shall be neither those prescribed by
cabinet order as likely to harm the public or other interests if their presence
or absence is made known nor those set to be deleted within a period of no
longer than one year that is prescribed by cabinet order.
(8) A “principal” in relation to personal information in this Act means a specific
individual identifiable by personal information.
(9) “Anonymously processed information” in this Act means information relating
to an individual that can be produced from processing personal information
so as neither to be able to identify a specific individual by taking action
prescribed in each following item in accordance with the devisions of
personal information set forth in each said item nor to be able to restore the
personal information.
(i) personal information falling under paragraph (1), idem (i);
Deleting a part of descriptions etc. contained in the said personal
information (including replacing the said part of descriptions etc. with other
descriptions etc. using a method with no regularity that can restore the said
part of descriptions etc.)
(ii) personal information falling under paragraph (1), item (ii);
Deleting all individual identification codes contained in the said personal
information (including replacing the said individual identification codes with
other descriptions etc. using a method with no regularity that can restore
the said personal identification codes)
(10) An “anonymously processed information handling business operator” in
this Act means a person who provides for use in business a collective body
of information comprising anonymously processed information which has
been systematically organized so as to be able to search using a computer
4

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

for specific anonymously processed information or similar others prescribed
by cabinet order as systematically organized so as to be able to search
easily for specific anonymously processed information (referred to as an
“anonymously processed information database etc.” in Article 36,
paragraph (1)). However, a person set forth in each item of paragraph (5) is
excluded.
(Overall Vision)
Article 3 Personal information, considering it should be carefully handled
under the vision of respecting the personality of an individual, shall be made
subject to proper handling.

Chapter II

Responsibilities etc. of the Central and Local Governments

(Responsibilities of the Central Government)
Article 4 The central government shall have the responsibilities for
comprehensively developing and implementing necessary measures to
ensure the proper handling of personal information in conformity with the
purport of this Act.
(Responsibilities of the Local Governments)
Article 5 The local governments shall have the responsibilities for developing
and implementing necessary measures to ensure the proper handling of
personal information based on the characteristics of their local area in
conformity with the purport of this Act.
(Legislative Action etc.)
Article 6 The government shall, considering the nature and utilization method
of personal information, take necessary legislative and other action so as to
be able to take discreet action for protecting personal information that
especially requires ensuring the strict implementation of its proper handling in
order to seek enhanced protection of an individual’s rights and interests, and
shall take necessary action in collaboration with the governments in other
countries to construct an internationally conformable system concerning
personal information through fostering cooperation with an international
organization and other international framework.

5

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

Chapter III
Section 1

Measures etc. for the Protection of Personal Information
Basic Policy on the Protection of Personal Information

Article 7
(1) The government shall establish a basic policy on the protection of personal
information (hereinafter referred to as a “basic policy”) in order to seek to
comprehensively and integrally promote measures concerning the protection
of personal information.
(2) A basic policy shall prescribe those matters set forth in the following.
(i) a basic direction for promoting measures concerning the protection of
personal information
(ii) a matter concerning action to be taken by the central government for the
protection of personal information
(iii) a basic matter concerning action to be taken by a local government for
the protection of personal information
(iv) a basic matter concerning action to be taken by an incorporated
administrative agency etc. for the protection of personal information
(v) a basic matter concerning action to be taken by a local incorporated
administrative agency for the protection of personal information
(vi) a basic matter concerning action to be taken by a personal information
handling business operator, an anonymously processed information
handling business operator and an accredited personal information
protection organization prescribed in Article 50, paragraph (1) for the
protection of personal information
(vii) a matter concerning dealing smoothly with a complaint about the
handling of personal information
(viii) other important matters concerning promoting measures for the
protection of personal information.
(3) The Prime Minister shall call for a cabinet decision on a basic policy
developed by the Personal Information Protection Commission.

6

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

(4) The Prime Minister shall, when a cabinet decision was made pursuant to
the provisions of the preceding paragraph, disclose a basic policy to the
public without delay.
(5) The provisions under the preceding two paragraphs shall apply mutatis
mutandis when altering a basic policy.
Section 2

Measures by the Central Government

(Support to a Local Government etc.)
Article 8 The central government shall provide information, develop guidelines
to ensure the proper and effective implementation of action to be taken by a
business operator etc., and take other necessary action in order to support
measures for the protection of personal information developed or
implemented by a local government and activities undertaken by a Japanese
citizen, or a business operator etc. in relation to seeking the proper handling
of personal information.
(Action for Dealing with a Complaint)
Article 9 The central government shall take necessary action to seek the
proper and prompt dealing of a complaint caused between a business
operator and a principal about the handling of personal information.
(Action for Ensuring the Proper Handling of Personal Information)
Article 10 The central government shall, through the appropriate division of
roles between a local government and itself, take necessary action prescribed
in the succeeding Chapter in order to ensure the proper handling of personal
information by a personal information handling business operator.
Section 3

Measures by the Local Governments

(Protection of Personal Information Retained by a Local Government etc.)
Article 11
(1) A local government shall, considering the nature of personal information it
retains, the purpose of retaining the personal information, and so on, strive
to take necessary action so as to ensure the proper handling of the retained
personal information.

7

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

(2) A local government shall, in response to the characteristics and business
contents of a local incorporated administrative agency that it has
established, strive to take necessary action so as to ensure the proper
handling of personal information that the agency retains.
(Support to a Business Operator etc. in a Local Area)
Article 12 A local government shall, in order to ensure the proper handling of
personal information, strive to take necessary action to support a business
operator and a resident in a local area.
(Mediation etc. for Dealing with a Complaint)
Article 13 A local government shall, in order for a complaint caused between a
business operator and a principal about the handling of personal information
to be dealt with appropriately and promptly, strive to mediate dealing with the
complaint and take other necessary action.
Section 4

Cooperation between the Central and Local Governments

Article 14 The central and local governments shall cooperate with one another
in implementing measures relating to the protection of personal information.
Chapter IV

Section 1

Obligations etc. of a Personal Information Handling Business
Operator
Obligations of a Personal Information Handling Business
Operator

(Specifying a Utilization Purpose)
Article 15
(1) A personal information handling business operator shall, in handling
personal information, specify the purpose of utilizing the personal
information (hereinafter referred to as a “utilization purpose”) as explicitly as
possible.
(2) A personal information handling business operator shall, in case of altering a
utilization purpose, not do so beyond the scope recognized reasonably
relevant to the pre-altered utilization purpose.

8

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

(Restriction due to a Utilization Purpose)
Article 16
(1) A personal information handling business operator shall not handle personal
information without obtaining in advance a principal’s consent beyond the
necessary scope to achieve a utilization purpose specified pursuant to the
provisions under the preceding Article.
(2) A personal information handling business operator shall, in case of having
acquired personal information accompanied with succeeding a business
from another personal information handling business operator because of a
merger or other reason, not handle the personal information without
obtaining in advance a principal’s consent beyond the necessary scope to
achieve the pre-succession utilization purpose of the said personal
information.
(3) The provisions under the preceding two paragraphs shall not apply to those
cases set forth in the following.
(i) cases based on laws and regulations
(ii) cases in which there is a need to protect a human life, body or fortune, and
when it is difficult to obtain a principal’s consent
(iii) cases in which there is a special need to enhance public hygiene or
promote fostering healthy children, and when it is difficult to obtain a
principal’s consent
(iv) cases in which there is a need to cooperate in regard to a central
government organization or a local government, or a person entrusted by
them performing affairs prescribed by laws and regulations, and when
there is a possibility that obtaining a principal’s consent would interfere
with the performance of the said affairs
(Proper Acquisition)
Article 17
(1) A personal information handling business operator shall not acquire personal
information by deceit or other improper means.

9

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

(2) A personal information handling business operator shall, except in those
cases set forth in the following, not acquire special care-required personal
information without obtaining in advance a principal’s consent.
(i) cases based on laws and regulations
(ii) cases in which there is a need to protect a human life, body or fortune, and
when it is difficult to obtain a principal’s consent
(iii) cases in which there is a special need to enhance public hygiene or
promote fostering healthy children, and when it is difficult to obtain a
principal’s consent
(iv) cases in which there is a need to cooperate in regard to a central
government organization or a local government, or a person entrusted by
them performing affairs prescribed by laws and regulations, and when
there is a possibility that obtaining a principal’s consent would interfere
with the performance of the said affairs
(v) cases in which the said special care-required personal information is being
open to the public by a principal, a government organization, a local
government, a person set forth in each item of Article 76, paragraph (1) or
other persons prescribed by rules of the Personal Information Protection
Commission
(vi) other cases prescribed by cabinet order as equivalent to those cases set
forth in each preceding item
(Notification etc. of a Utilization Purpose when Acquiring)
Article 18
(1) A personal information handling business operator shall, in case of having
acquired personal information except in cases where a utilization purpose
has been disclosed in advance to the public, promptly inform a principal of,
or disclose to the public, the utilization purpose.
(2) A personal information handling business operator shall, notwithstanding the
provisions under the preceding paragraph, in cases where it acquires,
accompanied by concluding a contract with a principal, the principal’s
personal information stated in a written contract or other document
(including an electromagnetic record; hereinafter the same in this paragraph)
or other similar cases where it acquires directly from a principal his or her
personal information stated in a written document, state a utilization purpose
10

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

explicitly to the said principal. This, however, shall not apply in cases where
there is an urgent need to protect a human life, body or fortune.
(3) A personal information handling business operator shall, in case of altering a
utilization purpose, inform a principal of, or disclose to the public, a postaltered utilization purpose.
(4) The provisions of the preceding three paragraphs shall not apply in those
cases set forth in the following.
(i) cases in which there is a possibility that informing a principal of, or
disclosing to the public, a utilization purpose would harm a principal or third
party’s life, body, fortune or other rights and interests
(ii) cases in which there is a possibility that informing a principal of, or
disclosing to the public, a utilization purpose would harm the rights or
legitimate interests of the said personal information handling business
operator
(iii) cases in which there is a need to cooperate in regard to a central
government organization or a local government performing affairs
prescribed by laws and regulations, and when there is a possibility that
informing a principal of, or disclosing to the public, a utilization purpose
would interfere with the performance of the said affairs
(iv) cases in which it can be recognized, judging from the acquisitional
circumstances, that a utilization purpose is clear
(Assurance etc. about the Accuracy of Data Contents)
Article 19 A personal information handling business operator shall strive to
keep personal data accurate and up to date within the scope necessary to
achieve a utilization purpose, and to delete the personal data without delay
when such utilization has become unnecessary.
(Security Control Action)
Article 20 A personal information handling business operator shall take
necessary and appropriate action for the security control of personal data
including preventing the leakage, loss or damage of its handled personal
data.

11

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

(Supervision over Employees)
Article 21 A personal information handling business operator shall, in having
its employees handle personal data, exercise necessary and appropriate
supervision over the employees so as to seek the security control of the
personal data.
(Supervision over a Trustee)
Article 22 A personal information handling business operator shall, in case of
entrusting a whole or part of the handling of personal data, exercise
necessary and appropriate supervision over an entrusted person so as to
seek the security control of the personal data of which the handling has been
entrusted.
(Restriction on Third Party Provision)
Article 23
(1) A personal information handling business operator shall, except in those
cases set forth in the following, not provide personal data to a third party
without obtaining in advance a principal’s consent.
(i) cases based on laws and regulations
(ii) cases in which there is a need to protect a human life, body or fortune, and
when it is difficult to obtain a principal’s consent
(iii) cases in which there is a special need to enhance public hygiene or
promote fostering healthy children, and when it is difficult to obtain a
principal’s consent
(iv) cases in which there is a need to cooperate in regard to a central
government organization or a local government, or a person entrusted by
them performing affairs prescribed by laws and regulations, and when
there is a possibility that obtaining a principal’s consent would interfere
with the performance of the said affairs
(2) A personal information handling business operator, in regard to personal
data provided to a third party (excluding special care-required personal
information; hereinafter the same in this paragraph), may, in cases where it
is set to cease in response to a principal’s request a third-party provision of
personal data that can identify the principal and when pursuant to rules of

12

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

the Personal Information Protection Commission it has in advance informed
a principal of those matters set forth in the following or put them into a state
where a principal can easily know, and notified them to the Personal
Information Protection Commission, provide the said personal data to a third
party notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
(i) to set a third-party provision as a utilization purpose
(ii) the categories of personal data provided to a third party
(iii) a method of a third-party provision
(iv) to cease, in response to a principal’s request, a third-party provision of
personal data that can identify the principal
(v) a method of receiving a principal’s request
(3) A personal information handling business operator shall, in case of altering
those matters set forth in item (ii), item (iii) or item (v) of the preceding
paragraph, in advance inform a principal of the contents to be altered or put
them into a state where a principal can easily know and notify them to the
Personal Information Protection Commission pursuant to rules of the
Personal Information Protection Commission.
(4) The Personal Information Protection Commission shall, when notified
pursuant to paragraph (2), disclose to the public a matter relating to the
notification pursuant to rules of the Personal Information Protection
Commission. The same shall apply when notified pursuant to the preceding
paragraph.
(5) In those cases set forth in the following, a person receiving the provision of
the said personal data shall not fall under a third party in regard to applying
the provisions of each preceding paragraph.
(i) cases in which personal data is provided accompanied by a personal
information handling business operator entrusting a whole or part of the
handling of the personal data within the necessary scope to achieve a
utilization purpose
(ii) cases in which personal data is provided accompanied with business
succession caused by a merger or other reason
(iii) cases in which personal data to be jointly utilized by a specified person is

13

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

provided to the specified person, and when a principal has in advance
been informed or a state has been in place where a principal can easily
know to that effect as well as of the categories of the jointly utilized
personal data, the scope of a jointly utilizing person, the utilization purpose
for the utilizing person and the name or appellation of a person
responsible for controlling the said personal data
(6) A personal information handling business operator shall, in case of altering a
utilization purpose for a utilizing person or the name or appellation of a
person responsible for controlling personal data prescribed in item (iii) of the
preceding paragraph, in advance inform a principal of the contents to be
altered or put them into a state where a principal can easily know.
(Restriction on Provision to a Third Party in a Foreign Country)
Article 24 A personal information handling business operator, except in those
cases set forth in each item of the preceding Article, paragraph (1), shall, in
case of providing personal data to a third party (excluding a person
establishing a system conforming to standards prescribed by rules of the
Personal Information Protection Commission as necessary for continuously
taking action equivalent to the one that a personal information handling
business operator shall take concerning the handling of personal data
pursuant to the provisions of this Section; hereinafter the same in this Article)
in a foreign country (meaning a country or region located outside the territory
of Japan; hereinafter the same) (excluding those prescribed by rules of the
Personal Information Protection Commission as a foreign country establishing
a personal information protection system recognized to have equivalent
standards to that in Japan in regard to the protection of an individual’s rights
and interests; hereinafter the same in this Article), in advance obtain a
principal’s consent to the effect that he or she approves the provision to a
third party in a foreign country. In this case, the provisions of the preceding
Article shall not apply.
(Keeping etc. of a Record on a Third-Party Provision)
Article 25
(1) A personal information handling business operator shall, when having
provided personal data to a third party (excluding a person set forth in each
item of Article 2, paragraph (5); hereinafter the same in this Article and the
succeeding Article), keep a record pursuant to rules of the Personal
Information Protection Commission on the date of the personal data
provision, the name or appellation of the third party, and other matters
prescribed by rules of the Personal Information Protection Commission.
This, however, shall not apply in cases where the personal data provision
14

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

falls under any of each item of Article 23, paragraph (1) or paragraph (5)
(this means, in case of a personal data provision pursuant to the provisions
of the preceding Article, any of each item of Article 23, paragraph (1)).
(2) A personal information handling business operator shall maintain a record
under the preceding paragraph for a period of time prescribed by rules of the
Personal Information Protection Commission from the date when it kept the
record.
(Confirmation etc. when Receiving a Third Party Provision)
Article 26
(1) A personal information handling business operator shall, when receiving the
provision of personal data from a third party, confirm those matters set forth
in the following pursuant to rules of the Personal Information Protection
Commission. This, however, shall not apply in cases where the said
personal data provision falls under any of each item of Article 23, paragraph
(1) or paragraph (5).
(i) the name or appellation and address of the third party and, for a corporate
body, the name of its representative (for a non-corporate body having
appointed a representative or administrator, the said representative or
administrator)
(ii) circumstances under which the said personal data was acquired by the
said third party
(2) A third party under the preceding paragraph shall, in cases where a personal
information handling business operator confirms pursuant to the provisions
of the preceding paragraph, not deceive the personal information handling
business operator on a matter relating to the confirmation.
(3) A personal information handling business operator shall, when having
confirmed pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (1), keep a record
pursuant to rules of the Personal Information Protection Commission on the
date when it received the provision of personal data, a matter concerning the
said confirmation, and other matters prescribed by rules of the Personal
Information Protection Commission.
(4) A personal information handling business operator shall maintain a record
under the preceding paragraph for a period of time prescribed by rules of the
Personal Information Protection Commission from the date when it kept the
record.
15

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

(Public Disclosure etc. on Matters relating to Retained Personal Data)
Article 27
(1) A personal information handling business operator shall, concerning its
retained personal information, put those matters set forth in the following into
a state where a principal can know (including those cases in which it, at the
request of a principal, responds without delay).
(i) the name or appellation of the said personal information handling business
operator
(ii) the utilization purpose of all retained personal data (excluding those cases
falling under item (i) through item (iii) of Article 18, paragraph (4))
(iii) the procedures for responding to a request pursuant to the provisions of
the succeeding paragraph or a demand pursuant to the provisions of the
succeeding Article, paragraph (i); Article 29, paragraph (1); or Article 30,
paragraph (1) or paragraph (3) (including, when the amount of a fee has
been decided pursuant to the provisions of Article 33, paragraph (2), the
amount of the fee)
(iv) besides those set forth under the preceding three items, those prescribed
by cabinet order as a necessary matter to ensure the proper handling of
retained personal data
(2) A personal information handling business operator shall, when requested by
a principal to get informed of a utilization purpose of retained personal data
that can identify the principal, inform the said principal thereof without delay.
This, however, shall not apply in those cases falling under any of each
following item.
(i) cases in which the utilization purpose of retained personal data that can
identify the said principal is clear pursuant to the provisions of the
preceding paragraph
(ii) cases falling under item (i) through item (iii) of Article 18, paragraph (4)
(3) A personal information handling business operator shall, when having been
requested based on the provisions of the preceding paragraph but decided
not to inform a principal of the utilization purpose of retained personal data,
inform the principal to that effect without delay.

16

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

(Disclosure)
Article 28
(1) A principal may demand of a personal information handling business
operator disclosing retained personal data that can identify him or herself.
(2) A personal information handling business operator shall, when having
received a demand pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph,
disclose retained personal data to a principal without delay pursuant to a
method prescribed by cabinet order. However, in cases where disclosing
such data falls under any of each following item, a whole or part thereof may
not be disclosed.
(i) cases in which there is a possibility of harming a principal or third party’s
life, body, fortune or other rights and interests
(ii) cases in which there is a possibility of interfering seriously with the said
personal information handling business operator implementing its
business properly
(iii) cases of violating other laws or regulations
(3) A personal information handling business operator shall, when having
decided not to disclose a whole or part of retained personal data in
connection with a demand pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (1) or
when the retained personal data does not exist, inform a principal thereof
without delay.
(4) In cases where a whole or part of retained personal data that can identify a
principal is to be disclosed to the principal pursuant to the provisions of other
laws or regulations using a method equivalent to that prescribed in the main
clause of paragraph (2), the provisions of paragraph (1) and paragraph (2)
shall not apply in regard to the said whole or part of retained personal data.
(Correction etc.)
Article 29
(1) A principal may, when the contents of retained personal data that can
identify the principal are not factual, demand of a personal information
handling business operator making a correction, addition or deletion
(hereinafter referred to as a “correction etc.” in this Article) in regard to the

17

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

contents of the retained personal data.
(2) A personal information handling business operator shall, in case of having
received a demand pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph
except in cases where special procedure concerning a correction etc. of the
contents is prescribed by the provisions of other laws or regulations, conduct
a necessary investigation without delay to the extent necessary to achieve a
utilization purpose and, based on the result thereof, make a correction etc.
of the contents of the retained personal data.
(3) A personal information handling business operator shall, when having made
a correction etc. on a whole or part of the contents of the retained personal
data in connection with a demand pursuant to the provisions under
paragraph (1) or when having made a decision not to make a correction etc.,
inform a principal without delay to that effect (including, when having made a
correction etc., the contents thereof).
(Utilization Cease etc.)
Article 30
(1) A principal may, when retained personal data that can identify the principal is
being handled in violation of the provisions of Article 16 or has been
acquired in violation of the provisions of Article 17, demand of a personal
information handling business operator a utilization cease or deletion
(hereinafter referred to as a “utilization cease etc.” in this Article) of the
retained personal data.
(2) A personal information handling business operator shall, in case of having
received a demand pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph
and when it has become clear that there is a reason in the demand, fulfill a
utilization cease etc. of the said retained personal data to the extent
necessary to redress a violation without delay. This, however, shall not apply
in cases where a utilization cease etc. of the said retained personal data
requires a large amount of expenses or other cases where it is difficult to
fulfil a utilization cease etc. and when necessary alternative action is taken
to protect a principal’s rights and interests.
(3) A principal may, when retained personal data that can identify the principal is
being provided to a third party in violation of the provisions of Article 23,
paragraph (1) or Article 24, demand of a personal information handling
business operator ceasing a third-party provision of the retained personal
data.

18

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

(4) A personal information handling business operator shall, in case of having
received a demand pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph
and when it has become clear that there is a reason in the demand, cease a
third-party provision of the retained personal data without delay. This,
however, shall not apply in cases where ceasing a third-party provision of
the said retained personal data requires a large amount of expenses or
other cases where it is difficult to cease a third-party provision and when
necessary alternative action is taken to protect a principal’s rights and
interests.
(5) A personal information handling business operator shall, when having
fulfilled a utilization cease etc. or decided not to fulfill a utilization cease etc.
of a whole or part of retained personal data in connection with a demand
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (1), or when having ceased a thirdparty provision or decided not to cease a third-party provision of a whole or
part of retained personal data in connection with a demand pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph (3), inform a principal to that effect without delay.
(Explanation of Reason)
Article 31 A personal information handling business operator shall, in case of
informing a principal to the effect that, as regards a whole or part of action
requested or demanded by the principal pursuant to the provisions of Article
27, paragraph (3); Article 28, paragraph (3); Article 29, paragraph (3); or the
preceding Article, paragraph (5), the action will not be taken, or to the effect
that different action from the said action will be taken, strive to explain a
reason therefor to the said principal.
(Procedure for Responding to a Demand etc. for Disclosure etc.)
Article 32
(1) A personal information handling business operator may, as regards a
request pursuant to the provisions of Article 27, paragraph (2) or a demand
pursuant to the provisions of Article 28, paragraph (1); Article 29, paragraph
(1); Article 30, paragraph (1) or paragraph (3) (hereinafter referred to as a
“demand etc. for disclosure etc.” in this Article and Article 53, paragraph (1)),
decide on a method of receiving a request or demand pursuant to those
prescribed by cabinet order. In this case, a principal shall make a demand
etc. for disclosure etc. in accordance with the method.
(2) A personal information handling business operator may, as regards a
demand etc. for disclosure etc., request a principal to present a matter
sufficient to specify retained personal data subject to the demand etc. In this

19

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

case, a personal information handling business operator shall take
appropriate action in consideration of a principal’s convenience such as
providing information conducive to specify the retained personal data so that
the principal would be able to easily and precisely make a demand etc. for
disclosure etc.
(3) A demand etc. for disclosure etc. may be made through an agent pursuant to
those prescribed by cabinet order.
(4) A personal information handling business operator shall, in establishing a
procedure for responding to a demand etc. for disclosure etc. based on the
provisions of the preceding three paragraphs, give consideration so as not to
impose excessive burden on a principal.
(Fee)
Article 33
(1) A personal information handling business operator may, when having been
requested to inform of a utilization purpose pursuant to the provisions of
Article 27, paragraph (2) or when having received a demand for disclosure
pursuant to the provisions of Article 28, paragraph (1), collect a fee in
relation to taking such action.
(2) A personal information handling business operator shall, in case of collecting
a fee pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, decide on the
amount of the fee within a range recognized as reasonable considering
actual expenses.
(Advance Demand)
Article 34
(1) A principal may, when intending to file a lawsuit in connection with a demand
pursuant to the provisions of Article 28, paragraph (1); Article 29, paragraph
(1); or Article 30, paragraph (1) or paragraph (3), not file the lawsuit unless
the principal had previously issued the demand against a person who should
become a defendant in the lawsuit and two weeks have passed from the
delivery day of the issued demand. This, however, shall not apply when the
person who should become a defendant in the lawsuit has rejected the
demand.
(2) A demand under the preceding paragraph is deemed as having been
delivered at the time when such a demand should have normally been
20

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

delivered.
(3) The provisions of the preceding two paragraphs shall apply mutatis
mutandis to a petition for a provisional disposition order in connection with a
demand pursuant to the provisions of Article 28, paragraph (1); Article 29,
paragraph (1); or Article 30, paragraph (1) or paragraph (3).
(Personal Information Handling Business Operator’s Dealing with a Complaint)
Article 35
(1) A personal information handling business operator shall strive to deal
appropriately and promptly with a complaint about the handling of personal
information.
(2) A personal information handling business operator shall strive to establish a
system necessary to achieve a purpose under the preceding paragraph.
Section 2 Duties of an Anonymously Processed Information Handling
Business Operator etc.
(Production etc. of Anonymously Processed Information)
Article 36
(1) A personal information handling business operator shall, when producing
anonymously processed information (limited to those constituting
anonymously processed information database etc.; hereinafter the same),
process personal information in accordance with standards prescribed by
rules of the Personal Information Protection Commission as those necessary
to make it impossible to identify a specific individual and restore the personal
information used for the production.
(2) A personal information handling business operator, when having produced
anonymously processed information, shall, in accordance with standards
prescribed by rules of the Personal Information Protection Commission as
those necessary to prevent the leakage of information relating to those
descriptions etc. and individual identification codes deleted from personal
information used to produce the anonymously processed information, and
information relating to a processing method carried out pursuant to the
provisions of the preceding paragraph, take action for the security control of
such information.

21

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

(3) A personal information handling business operator, when having produced
anonymously processed information, shall, pursuant to rules of the Personal
Information Protection Commission, disclose to the public the categories of
information relating to an individual contained in the anonymously processed
information.
(4) A personal information handling business operator, when having produced
anonymously processed information and providing the anonymously
processed information to a third party, shall, pursuant to rules of the
Personal Information Protection Commission, in advance disclose to the
public the categories of information concerning an individual contained in
anonymously processed information to be provided to a third party and its
providing method, and state to the third party explicitly to the effect that the
information being provided is anonymously processed information.
(5) A personal information handling business operator shall, when having
produced anonymously processed information and making itself handle the
anonymously processed information, not collate the said anonymously
processed information with other information in order to identify a principal
concerned with personal information used to produce the said anonymously
processed information.
(6) A personal information handling business operator shall, when having
produced anonymously processed information, strive to take itself necessary
and appropriate action for the security control of the anonymously processed
information and necessary action for ensuring the proper handling of the
anonymously processed information such as dealing with a complaint about
the handling, including producing, of the said anonymously processed
information, and strive to disclose to the public the contents of such action
taken.
(Provision of Anonymously Processed Information)
Article 37 An anonymously processed information handling business operator,
when providing anonymously processed information (excluding those which it
produced itself by processing personal information; hereinafter the same in
this Section) to a third party, shall, pursuant to rules of the Personal
Information Protection Commission, in advance disclose to the public the
categories of personal information contained in anonymously processed
information to be provided to a third party and state to the third party explicitly
to the effect that the provided information is anonymously processed
information.

22

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

(Prohibition against the Act of Identifying)
Article 38 An anonymously processed information handling business operator,
shall, in handling anonymously processed information, neither acquire
information relating to those descriptions etc. or individual identification codes
deleted from the personal information and information relating to a processing
method carried out pursuant to the provisions of Article 36, paragraph (1), nor
collate the said anonymously processed information with other information in
order to identify a principal concerned with personal information used to
produce the anonymously processed information.
(Security Control Action etc.)
Article 39 An anonymously processed information handling business operator
shall strive to take itself necessary and appropriate action for the security
control of anonymously processed information and necessary action to
ensure the proper handling of anonymously processed information such as
dealing with a complaint about the handling of anonymously processed
information, and shall strive to disclose to the public the contents of such
action taken.
Section 3

Supervision

(Report and Onsite Inspection)
Article 40
(1) The Personal Information Protection Commission may, to the extent
necessary to implement the provisions under the preceding two Sections
and this Section, require a personal information handling business operator
or anonymously processed information handling business operator
(hereinafter referred to collectively as a “personal information handling
business operator etc.”) to submit necessary information or material relating
to the handling of personal information or anonymously processed
information (hereinafter referred to collectively as “personal information
etc.”), or have its officials enter a business office or other necessary place of
a personal information handling business operator etc., inquire about the
handling of personal information etc., or inspect a book, document and other
property.
(2) An official who conducts an onsite inspection pursuant to the provisions of
the preceding paragraph shall carry a certificate for identification, and
present it when requested by a person concerned.

23

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

(3) An onsite inspection authority pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (1)
shall not be construed as granted for a criminal investigation.
(Guidance and Advice)
Article 41 The Personal Information Protection Commission may, to the extent
necessary to implement the provisions under the preceding two Sections,
provide a personal information handling business operator etc. with
necessary guidance or advice on the handling of personal information etc.
(Recommendation and Order)
Article 42
(1) The Personal Information Protection Commission may, when recognizing
there is a need for protecting an individual’s rights and interests in cases
where a personal information handling business operator has violated the
provisions under Article 16 through Article 18, Article 20 through Article 22,
Article 23 (excluding paragraph (4)), Article 24, Article 25, Article 26
(excluding paragraph (2)), Article 27, Article 28 (excluding paragraph (1)),
Article 29, paragraph (2) or (3), Article 30 (2), paragraph (4) or (5), Article 33,
paragraph (2) or Article 36 (excluding paragraph (6)) or in cases where an
anonymously processed information handling business operator has violated
the provisions under Articles 37 or 38, recommend the personal information
handling business operator etc. to suspend the act of violating or take other
necessary action to rectify the violation.
(2) The Personal Information Protection Commission may, when recognizing
that a serious infringement of an individual’s rights and interests is imminent
in cases where a personal information handling business operator etc.
having received a recommendation pursuant to the provisions under the
preceding paragraph did not take action in line with the recommendation
without legitimate ground, order the personal information handling business
operator etc. to take action in line with the said recommendation.
(3) The Personal Information Protection Commission may, notwithstanding the
provisions under the preceding two paragraphs when recognizing there is a
need to take urgent action because there is a fact that seriously harms an
individual’s rights and interests in cases where a personal information
handling business operator has violated the provisions of Article 16, Article
17, Article 20 through Article 22, Article 23, paragraph (1), Article 24 or
Article 36, paragraph (1), paragraph (2) or paragraph (5) or in cases where
an anonymously processed information handling business operator has
violated the provisions under Article 38, order the personal information

24

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

handling business operator etc. to take necessary action to rectify the
violation such as suspending the act of violation.
(Restriction on the Personal Information Protection Commission’s Exercising
the Authority)
Article 43
(1) The Personal Information Protection Commission shall, in the course of
requiring the submission of a report or material from, conducting an onsite
inspection of, or giving a guidance, advice, recommendation or order to, a
personal information handling business operator etc., not hinder the freedom
of expression, freedom of academia, freedom of religion, and freedom of
political activity.
(2) In light of the purport of the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the
Personal Information Protection Commission shall not exercise the
authorities in regard to a personal information handling business operator’s
act of providing personal information etc. to a person set forth in each item
of Article 76, paragraph (1) (limited to those cases where each person
handles personal information etc. for a purpose stipulated in each said item
respectively).
(Delegation of Authority)
Article 44
(1) The Personal Information Protection Commission may, when recognizing
that there is a need for effectively giving a personal information handling
business operator a recommendation or order pursuant to the provisions of
Article 42 because there is a need to urgently and intensively seek ensuring
the proper handling of personal information etc. or similar other
circumstances prescribed by cabinet order, delegate an authority under the
provisions of Article 40, paragraph (1) to a business jurisdictional minister as
prescribed by cabinet order.
(2) A business jurisdictional minister shall, when having exercised an authority
delegated pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, report the
results thereof to the Personal Information Protection Commission as
prescribed by cabinet order.
(3) A business jurisdictional minister may, as prescribed by cabinet order,
delegate a whole or part of an authority delegated pursuant to the provisions
of paragraph (1) or a whole or part of an authority pursuant to the provisions
25

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

of the preceding paragraph to a head of a local branch bureau under Article
43 of the Act for Establishment of the Cabinet Office (Act No.89 of 1999) or
other bureau or organ prescribed by cabinet order.
(4) The Prime Minister delegates an authority delegated pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph (1) and an authority under the provisions of
paragraph (2) (limited to those relating to the Financial Services Agency’s
jurisdiction and excluding those prescribed by cabinet order) to a
Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency.
(5) A Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency may, as prescribed by
cabinet order, delegate part of an authority delegated pursuant to the
provisions of the preceding paragraph to the Securities and Exchange
Surveillance Commission.
(6) A Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency may, as prescribed by
cabinet order, delegate part of an authority delegated pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph (4) (excluding those delegated to the Securities and
Exchange Surveillance Commission pursuant to the provisions of the
preceding paragraph) to a Director-General of a local finance bureau or local
finance branch bureau.
(7) The Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission may, as prescribed
by cabinet order, delegate part of an authority delegated pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph (5) to a Director-General of a local finance bureau or
local finance branch bureau.
(8) As for administrative affairs relating to an authority delegated to a DirectorGeneral of a local finance bureau or local finance branch bureau pursuant to
the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the Securities and Exchange
Surveillance Commission directs and supervises a Director-General of a
local finance bureau or local finance branch bureau.
(9) In case of paragraph (5), a request for administrative review concerning the
Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission’s requiring the
submission of a report or material (including those cases in which a DirectorGeneral of a local finance bureau or local finance branch bureau do so
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (7)) may only be filed against the
Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission.
(Request by Business Jurisdictional Minister)
Article 45 A business jurisdictional minister may, when recognizing that there
is a need for ensuring the proper handling of personal information etc. by a

26

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

personal information handling business operator etc. including that there is an
act of a personal information handling business operator etc. violating the
provisions under the preceding two Sections, request the Personal
Information Protection Commission to take appropriate action in accordance
with the provisions of this Act.
(Business Jurisdictional Minister)
Article 46 A business jurisdictional minister in the provisions of this Section
shall be as follows.
(i) as for those relating to employment management involved in the handling
of personal information etc. by a personal information handling business
operator etc.; a Minister of Health, Labor and Welfare (as for those relating
to a mariner’s employment management; a Minister of Land, Infrastructure,
Transport and Tourism), and a minister having jurisdiction over a business
conducted by a said personal information handling business operator or the
National Public Safety Commission (referred to collectively as a “Minister
etc.” in the succeeding item)
(ii) as for those other than the ones set forth in the preceding item involved in
the handling of personal information etc. by a personal information
handling business operator etc.; a Minister etc. having jurisdiction over a
business conducted by a said personal information handling business
operator
Section 4 Private-Sector Body’s Promotion for the Protection of
Personal Information
(Accreditation)
Article 47
(1) A corporation (including a non-corporate body which has appointed a
representative or administrator; the same shall apply in the succeeding
Article, item (iii), (b)) which intends to render the following services in order
to ensure the proper handling of personal information etc. by a personal
information handling business operator etc. may receive an accreditation
from the Personal Information Protection Commission.
(i) dealing with a complaint under the provisions of Article 52 about the
handling of personal information etc. by a personal information handling
business operator covered by the services (hereinafter referred to as a
“covered business operator”)
27

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

(ii) providing a covered business operator with information concerning a
matter contributory to ensuring the proper handling of personal information
etc.
(iii) besides those set forth in the preceding two items, rendering necessary
services related to ensuring the proper handling of personal information
etc. by a covered business operator
(2) A person who intends to receive an accreditation under the preceding
paragraph shall, as prescribed by cabinet order, apply to the Personal
Information Protection Commission.
(3) The Personal Information Protection Commission shall, when having
granted an accreditation under the paragraph (1), announce to the public to
that effect.
(Disqualification)
Article 48 A person falling under any of each following item shall not receive
an accreditation under the paragraph (1) of the preceding Article.
(i) a person who has been sentenced to imprisonment pursuant to the
provisions of this Act and for whom two years have not elapsed since the
date of either the completion of, or the conclusion of being subject to, the
execution of the sentence
(ii) a person whose accreditation was rescinded pursuant to the provisions of
Article 58, paragraph (1) and for whom two years have not elapsed since
the date of the rescission
(iii) those of which the directors rendering the said services (including a
representative or administrator of a non-corporate body which has
appointed a representative or administrator; hereinafter the same in this
Article) encompass a person who falls under any of the following
(a) a person who has been sentenced to imprisonment or a severer
punishment or who has been sentenced pursuant to the provisions of
this Act and for whom two years have not elapsed since the date of
either the completion of, or the conclusion of being subject to, the
execution of the sentence
(b) a person who was a director of a corporation whose accreditation was
rescinded pursuant to the provisions of Article 58, paragraph (1) within
thirty days prior to the date of the rescission and for whom two years
28

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

have not elapsed since the date of the rescission
(Accreditation Standards)
Article 49 The Personal Information Protection Commission shall not grant an
accreditation unless it recognizes that an accreditation application under
Article 47, paragraph (1) conforms to all of each following item.
(i) a service-rendering method has been devised necessary to perform
properly and assuredly those services set forth in each item of Article 47,
paragraph (1)
(ii) knowledge, capability and financial base have been demonstrated as
sufficient to perform properly and assuredly those services set forth in
each item of Article 47, paragraph (1)
(iii) in cases where services other than those services set forth in each item of
Article 47, paragraph (1) are being rendered, there is no possibility that
rendering such other services disturb the fairness of those services set
forth in each item of the said paragraph
(Notification of Termination)
Article 50
(1) A person who has received an accreditation under Article 47, paragraph (1)
(hereinafter referred to as an “accredited personal information protection
organization”) shall, when intending to terminate services concerning the
accreditation (hereinafter referred to as “accredited services”), in advance
notify the Personal Information Protection Commission to that effect as
prescribed by cabinet order.
(2) The Personal Information Protection Commission shall, when notified
pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, announce to the
public to that effect.
(Covered Business Operator)
Article 51
(1) An accredited personal information protection organization shall make its
covered business operators composed of a personal information handling
business operator etc. who is a constituent of the said accredited personal
29

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

information protection organization or who has consented to becoming
covered by the accredited services.
(2) An accredited personal information protection organization shall announce to
the public the name or appellation of its covered business operators.
(Dealing with a Complaint)
Article 52
(1) An accredited personal information protection organization shall, when
petitioned by a principal or other concerned person to resolve a complaint
about its covered business operator’s handling of personal information etc.,
hold consultation, give necessary advice to the petitioner and investigate
circumstances surrounding the complaint, as well as inform the covered
business operator of the complaint contents and request its expeditious
resolution.
(2) An accredited personal information protection organization may, when
recognizing that there is a need in regard to the resolution of a complaint in
connection with a petition under the preceding paragraph, request the
covered business operator to provide a written or oral explanation or submit
a referential material.
(3) A covered business operator shall, when requested by an accredited
personal information protection organization pursuant to the provisions of
the preceding paragraph, not refuse the request without a justifiable reason.
(Personal Information Protection Guideline)
Article 53
(1) An accredited personal information protection organization shall, for the
purpose of ensuring a covered business operator’s proper handling of
personal information etc., strive to develop a guideline conformable to the
purport of the provisions of this Act (hereinafter referred to as a “personal
information protection guideline”) by asking a person representing
consumers or other concerned person for their opinion in regard to a matter
related to personal information including utilization purpose specification,
security control action and procedures for responding to a demand etc. for
disclosure etc. as well as a matter related to anonymously processed
information including its production method and security control action for
such information.

30

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

(2) An accredited personal information protection organization shall, when
having developed a personal information protection guideline pursuant to the
provisions of the preceding paragraph, notify without delay the Personal
information Protection Commission of the personal information protection
guideline pursuant to rules of the Personal Information Protection
Commission. When this has been modified, the same shall apply.
(3) The Personal Information Protection Commission shall, when having been
notified of a personal information protection guideline under the provisions of
the preceding paragraph, announce to the public the personal information
protection guideline pursuant to rules of the Personal Information Protection
Commission.
(4) An accredited personal information protection organization shall, when a
personal information protection guideline has been announced to the public
pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, take action against a
covered business operator such as providing guidance or recommendation
necessary to make the covered business operator follow the said personal
information protection guideline.
(Prohibition of Utilization for Unintended Purpose)
Article 54 An accredited personal information protection organization shall not
utilize information obtained in the course of rendering accredited services for
the other purposes than for use in such accredited services.
(Restriction on Use of Appellation)
Article 55 A person who is not an accredited personal information protection
organization shall not use the appellation of the accredited personal
information protection organization or any other confusing appellation
therewith.
(Calling for a Report)
Article 56 The Personal Information Protection Commission may, to the extent
necessary to implement the provisions under this section, call for an
accredited personal information protection organization to report on its
accredited services.
(Order)
Article 57 The Personal Information Protection Commission may, to the extent
necessary to implement the provisions of this section, order an accredited
31

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

personal information protection organization to improve a method of
rendering accredited services, amend a personal information protection
guideline, or take any other necessary action.
(Rescinding the Accreditation)
Article 58
(1) The Personal Information Protection Commission may, when an accredited
personal information protection organization falls under any of each
following item, rescind the accreditation.
(i) when having led to falling under Article 48, item (i) or item (iii)
(ii) when having become unconformable to any of each item of Article 49
(iii) when having violated the provisions of Article 54
(iv) when disobeying an order under the preceding Article
(v) when having received an accreditation under Article 47, paragraph (1) by
improper means
(2) The Personal Information Protection Commission shall, when having
rescinded an accreditation pursuant to the provisions of the preceding
paragraph, announce to the public to that effect.
Chapter V The Personal Information Protection Commission
(Establishment)
Article 59
(1) The Personal Information Protection Commission (hereinafter referred to as
the “Commission”) is to be established based on the provisions of Article 49,
paragraph (3) of the Act for Establishment of the Cabinet Office.
(2) The Commission belongs to the jurisdiction of the Prime Minster.
(Duties)
Article 60 The Commission is to assume the duties of pursuing ensuring the
32

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

proper handling of personal information (including taking action such as
giving guidance and advice to an individual number utilizing business etc.
related implementer (meaning an individual number utilizing business etc.
related implementer prescribed in Article 12 of the Act on the Use of Numbers
to Identify a Specific Individual in the Administrative Procedure (Act No.27 of
2013; hereinafter referred to as the “Numbers Use Act”))) in order to protect
an individual’s rights and interests while considering the utility of personal
information including that the proper and effective application of personal
information contributes to the creation of new industries and the realization of
a vibrant economic society and an enriched quality of life for the people of
Japan.
(Jurisdictional Affairs)
Article 61 The Commission is to administer the following affairs in order to fulfil
the duties under the preceding Article.
(i) affairs related to the formulation and promotion of a basic policy
(ii) affairs related to supervision over the handling of personal information and
anonymously processed information, and those related to necessary
mediation on a lodged complaint and cooperation offered to a business
operator who deals with the complaint (excluding those set forth in item
(iv))
(iii) affairs related to an accredited personal information protection
organization
(iv) affairs related to monitoring and supervision over the handling of specific
personal information (meaning specific personal information prescribed in
Article 2, paragraph (8) of the Numbers Use Act; the same shall apply in
Article 63, paragraph (4)) and those related to necessary mediation on a
lodged complaint and cooperation offered to a business operation who
deals with the complaint
(v) affairs related to specific personal information protection assessment
(meaning specific personal information protection assessment prescribed
in Article 27, paragraph (1) of the Numbers Use Act)
(vi) affairs related to public relations and an enlightenment campaign on the
protection of, and the proper and effective application of, personal
information
.
33

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

(vii) affairs related to an investigation or research necessary to administer
those affairs set forth in each preceding item
(viii) affairs related to international cooperation on the jurisdictional affairs
(ix) besides those set forth in each preceding item, those affairs which have
been made by law (including an order based thereon) to belong to the
Commission
(Independence on Exercising the Authority)
Article 62 A chairperson and commissioners of the Commission are to
exercise their official authority independently.
(Organization etc.)
Article 63
(1) The Commission is to be composed of a chairperson and eight
commissioners.
(2) Four of the commissioners are to serve on a part-time basis.
(3) A chairperson and a commissioner are to be appointed by the Prime Minister
with consent of both Houses of the Diet from among those with high
character and deep insight.
(4) A chairperson and commissioners are to encompass a person who has
academic experience concerning the protection of, and the proper and
effective application of, personal information, a person who has sufficient
knowledge and experience concerning the protection of consumers, a
person who has academic experience concerning information processing
technologies, a person who has academic experience concerning public
administrative fields utilizing specific personal information, a person who has
sufficient knowledge and experience concerning private-sector business
practices, and a person recommended by a federate organization (meaning
a federate organization under Article 263-3, paragraph (1) of the Local
Autonomy Act (Act No.67 of 1947) that has given a notification pursuant to
the provisions of the said paragraph).
(Term of Office etc.)
Article 64
34

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

(1) The term of office for a chairperson and a commissioner is to be five years;
however, the term of office of a chairperson or a commissioner appointed to
fill a vacancy shall be the remaining term of office of his or her predecessor.
(2) A chairperson and a commissioner may be reappointed.
(3) When the term of office for a chairperson or a commissioner has expired,
the chairperson or commissioner are to continue to fulfil their duties until
their successor is appointed.
(4) In cases where the term of office of a chairperson or a commissioner has
expired or where a vacancy has occurred, when consent by both Houses of
the Diet cannot be obtained due to the closing of the Diet or the dissolution
of the House of Representatives, the Prime Minister may, notwithstanding
the provisions of the preceding Article, paragraph (3), appoint a chairperson
or a commissioner from among those persons who have those qualifications
prescribed in the said paragraph.
(5) In those cases under the preceding paragraph, an ex post facto approval by
both Houses of the Diet shall be obtained in the first Diet session after the
appointment. In this case, when the ex post facto approval cannot be
obtained by both Houses of the Diet, the Prime Minister shall immediately
dismiss the chairperson or the commissioner.
(Guarantee of Status)
Article 65 A chairperson and a commissioner shall not be dismissed against
their will while in office except in those cases falling under any of each
following item.
(i) when having received a decision on the commencement of bankruptcy
proceedings
(ii) when having been punished in violation of this Act or the Numbers Use Act
(iii) when having been punished by imprisonment without work or severer
sentence
(iv) when, by the Commission, having been recognized to be incapable of
fulfilling his or her duties because of a mental or physical disorder, or
having been recognized to be committing a violation of obligation in the
course of duties or other misconduct unbecoming to a chairperson or a
commissioner

35

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

(Dismissal)
Article 66 The Prime Minister shall, when a chairperson or a commissioner
falls under any of each item of the preceding Article, dismiss the chairperson
or the commissioner.
(Chairperson)
Article 67
(1) A chairperson is to preside over the rules and proceedings of the
Commission and represent the Commission.
(2) The Commission shall designate in advance from among full-time
commissioners a person to be an acting chairperson in cases where the
chairperson is in an accident.
(Meeting)
Article 68
(1) A meeting of the Commission is to be called by a chairperson.
(2) The Commission may, unless a chairperson and four or more
commissioners are present, neither hold a meeting nor make a decision.
(3) A decision of the Commission is to be adopted by a majority of attendees,
and when in a tie, a chairperson is to make a decision.
(4) A recognition pursuant to the provisions of Article 65, item (iv),
notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, shall be allowed
with the unanimous concurrence of all commissioners except for the
commissioner concerned.
(5) With regard to applying the provisions of this Article, paragraph (2) in cases
where a chairperson is in an accident, a person to be an acting chairperson
prescribed in the preceding Article, paragraph (2) shall be deemed as a
chairperson.
(Specialist Commissioner)
Article 69

36

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

(1) In the Commission may a specialist commissioner be posited to have a
specialized matter investigated.
(2) A specialist commissioner is to be appointed by the Prime Minister based on
a proposal made by the Commission.
(3) A specialist commissioner shall be relieved of his or her post when an
investigation into the specialized matter has been finished.
(4) A specialist commissioner is to serve on a part-time basis.
(Secretariat)
Article 70
(1) For the purpose of having commissionary affairs administered, a secretariat
is to be posited.
(2) In a secretariat are a secretary general and other staff to be posited.
(3) A secretary general is to administer secretarial affairs under the order of a
chairperson.
(Prohibition of a Political Campaign etc.)
Article 71
(1) A chairperson and commissioners shall, while in office, neither become a
director of a political party or other political organization nor actively conduct
a political campaign.
(2) A chairperson and a full-time commissioner shall, while in office except in
those cases where there has been permission from the Prime Minister, not
engage in any other duties paying remuneration, operate a profit-making
business, or perform other services for the purpose of gaining monetary
profit.
(Confidentiality Obligation)
Article 72 A chairperson, commissioner, specialist commissioner and
secretarial staff shall not divulge or use by stealth any secret that may have
come to their knowledge in the course of duties. The same shall also apply

37

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

after they have left their position.
(Remuneration)
Article 73 The remuneration of a chairperson and a commissioner shall be
prescribed separately by law.
(Establishment of Rules)
Article 74 The Commission may establish rules of the Personal Information
Protection Commission regarding its jurisdictional affairs in order to enforce a
law or cabinet order, or on the basis of a special delegation under a law or
cabinet order.
Chapter VI

Miscellaneous Provisions

(Scope of Application)
Article 75 The provisions of Article 15, Article 16, Article 18 (excluding
paragraph (2)), Article 19 through Article 25, Article 27 thorough Article 36,
Article 41, Article 42, paragraph (1), Article 43 and the following Article shall
also apply in those cases where a personal information handling business
operator who in relation to supplying a good or service to a person in Japan
has acquired personal information relating to the person being as a principal
handles in a foreign country the personal information or anonymously
processed information produced by using the said personal information.
(Exclusion from Application)
Article 76
(1) To a person set forth in each following item who is a personal information
handling business operator shall the provisions of Chapter IV not apply
when a whole or part of the purpose of handling personal information etc. is
a purpose prescribed in each said item respectively.
(i) a broadcasting institution, newspaper publisher, communication agency
and other press organization (including an individual engaged in the press
as his or her business): a purpose of being provided for use in the press
(ii) a person who practices writing as a profession: a purpose of being
provided for use in writing

38

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

(iii) a university and other organization or group aimed at academic studies, or
a person belonging thereto: a purpose of being provided for use in
academic studies
(iv) a religious body: a purpose of being provided for use in a religious activity
(including those activities accessory thereto)
(v) a political body: a purpose of being provided for use in a political activity
(including those activities accessory thereto)
(2) The “press” prescribed in item (1) of the preceding paragraph means
informing a large number of unspecified people of an objective fact as such
(including stating an opinion or view based thereon).
(3) A personal information handling business operator etc. set forth in each item
of paragraph (1) shall strive to take itself necessary and appropriate action
for the security control of personal data or anonymously processed
information and necessary action to ensure the proper handling of personal
information etc. such as dealing with a complaint about the handling of
personal information etc., as well as announce to the public the contents of
such action taken.
(Affairs Administered by a Local Government)
Article 77 Administrative affairs belonging to the Commission’s authority
prescribed in this Act and an authority delegated to a business jurisdictional
minister or a Commissioner of the Financial Services Agency pursuant to the
provisions of Article 44, paragraph (1) or paragraph (4) may be managed by a
head of a local government or other executive agency as prescribed by
cabinet order.
(Information Provision to the Foreign Enforcement Authorities)
Article 78
(1) The Commission may provide the foreign authorities enforcing those foreign
laws and regulations equivalent to this Act (hereinafter referred to as the
“foreign enforcement authorities” in this Article) with information recognized
as contributory to fulfilling their duties (limited to those equivalent to the
Commission’s duties prescribed in this Act; the same shall apply in the
succeeding paragraph).
(2) Concerning the provision of information pursuant to the preceding
paragraph, appropriate action shall be taken so that the information is
39

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

neither used for purposes other than for the foreign enforcement authorities
fulfilling their duties nor used for a foreign criminal case investigation (limited
to the one conducted after the criminal facts subject to the investigation have
been specified) or adjudication (hereinafter collectively referred to as an
“investigation etc.”) without consent pursuant to the succeeding paragraph.
(3) The Commission may, when having received a request from the foreign
enforcement authorities, consent that the information it provided pursuant to
paragraph (1) be used for a foreign criminal case investigation etc. in
connection with the request except for those cases falling under any of each
following item.
(i) when a crime subject to the criminal case investigation etc. in connection
with the said request is a political crime, or when the said request is
recognized to have been made for the purpose of conducting the
investigation etc. into a political crime
(ii) when an act relating to the crime subject to a criminal case investigation
etc. in connection with the said request, if it were committed in Japan,
shall not constitute a criminal offense according to the laws and
regulations in Japan
(iii) when there is no assurance that the requesting country will accept the
same kind of request from Japan
(4) The Commission shall, in case of consenting under the preceding
paragraph, obtain a Minister of Justice’s confirmation of the case not falling
under item (i) and item (ii) of the preceding paragraph, and a Minister of
Foreign Affairs’ confirmation of the case not falling under item (iii) of the
preceding paragraph respectively.
(Report to the Diet)
Article 79 The Commission shall annually report to the Diet through the Prime
Minister the current status of administering its jurisdictional affairs, and
announce to the public a summary thereof.
(Communication and Cooperation)
Article 80 The Prime Minister and a head of an administrative organization
related to the implementation of this Act (meaning an organization established
in the Cabinet based on the provisions of laws (excluding the Cabinet Office),
an organization under the jurisdiction of the Cabinet, the Cabinet Office, the
Imperial Household Agency, an organization prescribed in Article 49,
40

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

paragraph (1) and paragraph (2) of the Act for Establishment of the Cabinet
Office, and an organization prescribed in Article 3, paragraph (2) of the
National Government Organization Act (Act No.120 of 1948)) shall closely
communicate and cooperate with one another.
(Delegation to Cabinet Order)
Article 81 A matter necessary to implement this Act other than those
prescribed in this Act is to be prescribed by cabinet order.
Chapter VII

Penal Provisions

Article 82 A person who has divulged or used by stealth a secret in violation of
the provisions of Article 72 shall be punished by imprisonment with work for
not more than two years or a fine of not more than 1,000,000 yen.
Article 83 A personal information handling business operator (or its director,
representative or administrator if it is a corporate body (including a noncorporate body having appointed a representative or administrator; the same
shall apply in Article 87, paragraph (1)), its employee, or a person who used
to be such a business operator or employee shall, when having provided or
used by stealth personal information database etc. (including their wholly or
partially duplicated or processed ones) that they handled in relation to their
business for the purpose of seeking their own or a third party’s illegal profits,
be punished by imprisonment with work for not more than one year or a fine
of not more than 500,000 yen.
Article 84 A person who has violated an order pursuant to the provisions of
Article 42, paragraph (2) or paragraph (3) shall be punished by imprisonment
with labor for not more than six months or a fine of not more than 300,000
yen.
Article 85 A person falling under any of each following item shall be punished
by a fine of not more than 300,000 yen.
(i) a person who has failed to submit a report or material under the provisions
of Article 40, paragraph (1) or did falsely submit a report or material, or who
failed to answer a question posed by the staff concerned or did falsely
answer a question, or refused, obstructed or evaded an inspection
(ii) a person who failed to submit a report under the provisions of Article 56, or
did falsely submit a report
Article 86 The provisions of Article 82 and Article 83 shall apply to a person
41

Ver.2 December, 2016
Personal Information Protection Commission, Japan

who has committed an offense under these Articles outside of Japan.
Article 87
(1) When a representative of a corporate body, or an agent, employee or other
worker of a corporate body or natural person has committed a violating act
under Article 83 through Article 85 in relation to the corporate body or natural
person’s business, the actor shall be punished, and a fine set forth in the
respective Articles shall be imposed on the said corporate body or natural
person.
(2) In cases where the provisions of the preceding paragraph apply to a noncorporate body, its representative or administrator shall represent the noncorporate body in regard to an act of litigation, and the provisions of a law on
a criminal suit in the cases where a corporate body is a defendant or
suspect shall apply mutatis mutandis.
Article 88 A person falling under any of each following item shall be punished
by a non-criminal fine of not more than 100,000 yen.
(i) a person who has violated the provisions of Article 26, paragraph (2), or
Article 55
(ii) a person who failed to submit a notification or did falsely submit a
notification under the provisions of Article 50, paragraph (1)

42

