3064 THE KENYA GAZETTE

7th August, 2020

 

GAZETTE NOTICE No. 5472
THE KENYA INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS ACT
(No. 2 of 1998)

THE NATIONAL INFORMATION COMMUNICATIONS AND TECHNOLOGY
(ICT) POLICY GUIDELINES, 2020

IT IS notified for the information of the general public the Cabinet
Secretary for Information, Communications, Technology, Innovation
and Youth Affairs pursuant to section SC of the Kenya Information
and Communications Act, 1998, issues the National Information
Communications and Technology Policy Guidelines, set out in the
Schedule hereto.

1. Foreword

One of the main priorities of the Government towards the
attainment of Kenya Vision 2030 development goals and objectives
for wealth and job creation is the achievement of an industrialised
information society and knowledge economy. The objective is to
facilitate the creation of dignified jobs that provide financial security
and independence to allow greater innovation and future thinking. By
providing local and international connectivity across the country and
region, and developing in-country solutions, the Government will
enable creation of online and digital jobs, markets, and quality skills
allowing Kenyans to embrace the shared economy. In this way,
citizens will transition from traditional ways of working to innovative,
digitally enabled forms of work.

This review of the Information and Communications Technology
(ICT) Policy of March 2006 is inspired by, first, the need to align the
Policy with the new constitutional dispensation in Kenya, and Vision
2030. This review specifically aims to incorporate the lessons learned
from the Vision 2030

Medium Term Frameworks and takes into account the three
underlying pillars of Vision 2030, (Economic, Social and Political)
and the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs).
The overarching focus will be to provide access to ICTs, especially
broadband, to all Kenyans and seamless connectivity to the East
African Community member states with proactive collaboration at
regional and international levels, leveraging our leading position in
Fintech and our capital markets.

Secondly, the review is meant to provide a proactive framework
that is in tandem with current technological realities and dynamics,
and one that will guide the orderly development of the ICT sector so as
to ensure maximum developmental impact for the benefit of all
Kenyans.

In reviewing this policy, the Government has taken into account
the tremendous impact of globalisation and the rapid changes in
technology. These changes have invariably affected the traditional
approach to the management of public affairs and service delivery, and
increasingly inform the need for an adaptive policy and regulatory
response.

This revised Policy provides a clear and compelling vision to drive
social, economic, cultural and political transformation through the
effective use of Information and Communications Technology (ICT)
in the years ahead. The Policy provides many of the key strategies
essential for achieving Kenya’s national development targets. Going
forward, the Government will concentrate on speeding up the
development of new generation mobile, high-speed, secure and
ubiquitous ICT infrastructure, developing a modern technology-
enabled industrial system, implementing the national big data strategy
and enhancing national cyber-security.

By harnessing the power of ICTs, private and state-owned
enterprises are expected to improve their sourcing, sales and logistics
systems; streamline operations, track market trends and boost their
marketing, research and innovation capabilities. Enterprise operations
will become more efficient, translating into productivity gains and the
creation of new markets for innovative products and services. The
strategies and action plans developed as a result of this policy will
continue to bring about the rapid transformation of Kenya.

In conclusion, it is my conviction that this Policy will continue to
set the pace and give the right direction to further the development of
our economy in general and the ICT sector in particular for the benefit
of all stakeholders.

JOE MUCHERU,
Cabinet Secretary for Information, Communications and Technology.

 

2. Preamble

The National ICT policy was last reviewed in 2006. Since then, the
sector has experienced rapid technological advancement, changes to
the legal and administrative framework and many emerging issues.
The latter include increased IT enabled services, increased demand on
bandwidth and for Quality of Service (QoS), challenges of cyber-
security, integration projects and harmonization of ICT policies
regionally and internationally.

This policy is a product of an all-inclusive, participatory and
consultative process. It is guided by the following principles; Putting
ICT at the centre of the national economic agenda, Improving access
to ICT especially broadband, efficient public service delivery and
maintaining an open government, Putting the private sector first and
Leveraging on ICT to promote Sustainable Development Goals.

The main policy objectives are to (1) Create the infrastructure
conditions for use of always-on, high speed, wireless, internet across
the country. Provide enabling infrastructure and frameworks that
support the growth of data centres, pervasive instrumentation (Internet
of Things), machine learning and local manufacturing whilst fostering
a secure, innovation ecosystem; (2) Grow the contribution of ICT to
the economy to 10% by 2030, by using ICT as a foundation to the
creation of a more robust economy, providing secure income and
livelihoods to the citizenry; (3) Leverage regional and international
cooperation and engagements to ensure that Kenya is able to harness
global opportunities; (4) Position the country to take advantage of
emerging trends such as the shared and gig economy by enhancing our
education institutions and the skills of our people, and fostering an
innovation and start-up ecosystem that is able to lead on a global scale;
and (5) Gain global recognition for innovation, efficiency and quality
in public service delivery. Services will be delivered in a manner that
ensures we have a prosperous, free, open and stable society.

These objectives will be actualised through four thematic focus
areas: Mobile first; which will ensure that every Kenyan can access
inexpensive Internet and reasonable access to locally produced
devices;

Market; designed to increase the overall size of the digital and
traditional economy to 10% of GDP by 2030; Skills and Innovation;
which outlines a careful plan designed to jump-start a self supporting
ecosystem that will produce world-class research, technology products
and industries; Public Service Delivery; requires that all government
services are available online, that every Kenyan has online access and
that government services are delivered quickly and fully at the time
and place that they are needed.

The government will also continue to play its role in promoting
broadcasting and telecommunication services through: provision of
infrastructure to enable expansion of digital TV coverage in unserved
and underserved areas; encouraging development of high quality,
easily accessible, relevant local content; development of a National
Language Policy to encourage use of local languages in developing
content; ensuring that the radio frequency spectrum is managed in
equitable and transparent manner with specific and clear conditions;
encouraging sharing of infrastructure and enforcement of quality of
services regulations to ensure availability of reliable services by
service providers and realization of an effective postal and courier
ecosystem to drive the development of e-commerce and the digital
economy.

The implementation of the policy will necessitate institutional

reforms in some Semi-Autonomous Government Agencies that will
result in a more vibrant sector

Finally, to implement this policy effectively, the current legal,
institutional and regulatory framework will be reviewed and aligned to
the strategic policy focus. A robust monitoring and evaluation system
will be put in place to track its implementation and the reviews will be
shared annually.

JEROME OCHIENG,
Principal Secretary for ICT and Innovation
and for Broadcasting and Telecommunications.

3. Vision and Mission
3.1 Vision

Kenya as a globally competitive knowledge based economy
3.2 Mission

To facilitate universal access to ICT infrastructure and services all
over the country
7th August, 2020

4. Overview of the Policy

This policy is designed to realise the potential of the digital
economy by creating an enabling environment for all citizens and
stakeholders. A review of the 2006 policy was necessitated by the
rapid changes and developments in the ICT sector, evolving global
trends and the fast-changing public needs. The Fourth Industrial
Revolution is driving automation and massive data exchange,
impacting our macro and microenvironments and increasing the level
of ICT consumption worldwide. It is for this reason that we are setting
up a policy designed to take advantage of these changes and trends that
will enable Kenya to become a more prosperous participant in the
global economy. The ICT Policy defines the forward-looking position
of the Government on various areas of the evolving ICT sector
landscape in Kenya.

The policy objectives:

* Create the infrastructure conditions that enable the use of
always-on, high speed, wireless, internet across the country.

* Facilitate the creation of infrastructure and frameworks that
support the growth of data centres, pervasive instrumentation
(Internet of Things), machine learning and local manufacturing
while fostering a secure, innovation ecosystem.

* Grow the contribution of ICT to increase the overall size of the
digital and traditional economy to 10% of GDP by 2030, by
using ICT as a foundation for the creation of a more robust
economy, providing secure income and livelihoods to the
citizenry. Leverage regional and international cooperation and
engagements to ensure that Kenya is able to harness global
opportunities.

* Position the country to take advantage of emerging trends such
as the shared and gig economy, by enhancing our education
institutions and the skills of our people and by fostering an
innovation and start-up ecosystem that is able lead in the
adoption of emerging trends on a global scale.

* Gain global recognition for innovation, efficiency and quality
in public service delivery. Government services will be
delivered in a manner that ensures we have a prosperous, free,
open and stable society.

In light of the policy objectives outlined, this policy will focus on 4
key areas:

1. Mobile First

2. Market

3. Skills and Innovation

4. Public Service Delivery
4.1 Mobile First

The heavy investment by Government in internet connectivity
infrastructure has enabled access by 99.9% of our citizenry, mostly via
mobile phones. Internet access anywhere and at any time is pivotal to
the successful growth of a knowledge economy. The Government will
continue to invest in infrastructure for universal, always-on, high
speed, wireless data connectivity for every citizen.

The government takes cognisance of the global trend of ubiquitous
computing which shows that the world is going mobile people want to
access the internet anywhere and at any time. In recognition of this
trend, this policy will drive a mobile first approach, ensuring that
every Kenyan has reasonable access by focusing on mobile and
wireless infrastructure. The government will provide the network;
storage and processing infrastructure frameworks and guidelines that
will see Kenya successfully compete on a global scale. This will
include:

1. Investments in the infrastructure needed for work such as data
centres, hardware, software, telecommunications, networks and
broadcasting

2. Creating an enabling environment for the local assembly and
manufacturing of devices

3. Strengthening of our payments and logistics infrastructure

4. Growth and adoption of local e-commerce platforms with
global reach

 

THE KENYA GAZETTE 3065

5. Provision of trusted security and certification infrastructure for
all electronic communication and transactions

6. Accessible news and media platforms both offline and online

7. Affordable marketing and advertising platforms with quality
audience data

8. Providing an all inclusive ICT environment by encouraging
gender equality and accessibility to persons with disabilities

9. Co-ordination and cooperation with international systems and
platforms for global reach

4.2 Market

By the year 2030, Kenya will have an estimated population of
66M, with over 200M devices and sensors connected to the Internet.
All aspects of our lives including money, security, governance,
agriculture, tourism, education and health will be fully and seamlessly
integrated into the digital economy. Technology is and will continue to
catapult the growth of globalisation and trade across borders. Through
regional and international integration, the market will be global. The
Government recognises, and will leverage our youth demographic as
our competitive advantage in the global market. Over 1M youth enter
the job market every year; the Government will use ICTs as an enabler
in providing dignity and financial stability to our youth.

This policy aims to increase the overall size of ICT contribution to
the digital and traditional economy to 10% of GDP by 2030. In doing
so, this policy will provide a blueprint for creating things, rules and
money.

Things: For those who want to develop devices, applications and
deliver services to the Kenyan populace, the market will be massive;
blocks such as Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa
(COMESA), East African Community (EAC), theSmart Africa
Alliance and the African Continental Free Trade Area will open up
regional, continental and global markets. We will take advantage of
the Internet of Things (oT) and the entire infrastructure laid out in our
Mobile First objective to scale our local businesses beyond our
borders. The Government will encourage the use of our unique culture
and languages to grow our technology ecosystem and elevate our
businesses to compete at a global level. It will promote the adoption
and use of the dot KE country level domain name and set up the
frameworks needed to ensure that Kenyan goods and services are of
quality and in high demand globally in order to attract superior prices.

Rules: This policy will form the basis for the regulation of
converged industry; the rules that we set up will provide an enabling
environment that is secure, open and transparent. It will define a
competition framework to encourage and protect investments, enforce
employment and taxation rules to drive growth and define the
supporting business infrastructure that allows citizens and the world to
do business with Kenyans. This includes such things as identity
management, cryptography and block chain, and the extension of
traditional laws, regulations and norms to the online space. As we
move towards a knowledge-based economy, the Government will
enable access to information to every citizen by encouraging the
private sector to publish statistics that will enable the SME market to
take advantage of trends. This policy will promote the availability of
relevant audience and demographic data to inform the marketing
strategies of businesses, and labour market information to inform
educators and employers. Due to the convergence of infrastructure and
services, the Government will restructure the regulator to enable
convergence in the regulation of the ICT industry, allowing for
diversity in infrastructure, content and services offerings all in line
with the Constitution. This will allow for the early adoption of
emerging trends, such as over-the-top providers (OTTs), convergence
and rapid changes in the sector. This area highlights the guidance of
government on practice and procedure, and the creation of an
overarching architecture for the industry.

Money: The medium of exchange for goods and services is digital
and traditional forms of money. Kenya is currently the global leader in
mobile money with over 70% of the adult population using these
services. This policy aims to promote Kenya as the fintech
infrastructure hub for the region, and use money strategically to direct
the market towards the attainment of national goals. This policy seeks
to create a digital environment where money creates value quickly by
moving rapidly and efficiently through the business transaction cycle.
The fintech opportunities and infrastructure will provide an enabling
environment for businesses to raise capital, list on the Nairobi
3066 THE KENYA GAZETTE

7th August, 2020

 

Securities Exchange and attract foreign direct investment. The policy
will also encourage both local and international businesses to be
domiciled in Kenya, and get high returns. This will in turn attract and
retain global talent in Kenya.

The Government will leverage our skills and innovations to grow
our businesses and provide a strong intellectual property infrastructure
to ensure innovations are protected. It will enable a 24hr economy,
enforce the use of the National Public Key Infrastructure and ensure
all safety nets are in place to protect our money and investments.

43 Skills and Innovation

This policy outlines a careful plan designed to jump-start a self-
supporting ecosystem that will produce world-class research,
technology products and industries. The technology environment is
changing fast and Kenya needs to not just keep up but to lead the
charge. In order to ensure that we are always on the right track, every
two years we will reassess research and development priorities and set
five new technology goals. The government will fund investment in
the selected new technologies, encourage the private sector to focus on
the identified research and investment priority areas and help create
skills in those technologies by funding scholarships, grants, challenges
and innovation awards.

Our people need gainful work, by ensuring incentive and
educational alignment with global market requirements; Kenyans will
be in demand both locally and internationally for technical work. We
want to be leaders and innovators in the fourth industrial revolution
and so we want to attract and create the best educational institutions in
the world. We will continue to encourage partnerships such as the
International Space Program in Malindi and ensure that our curriculum
takes into account the gig economy, generating a skilled workforce
that is attractive globally.

By 2020, there will be over 5 billion connected people worldwide;
the average internet user will be from the emerging markets and we
want to connect with them on all digital platforms. Our unique culture
and languages put our Country in a strategic position to innovate for
the emerging markets, forming partnerships and strategies that guide
our training and skills generation.

The Government will support and enable the development of a
robust technology entrepreneurship ecosystem in the country through
an ICT Co-Fund that will unlock requisite capital, avail easy access to
critical technical assistance and actively promote the adoption and
utilisation of local innovations. Public long-term funds will be
incentivised to set aside 5% of their investments for the local ICT
ecosystem.

The Government will work to encourage early Initial Public
Offerings in the Growth Enterprise Market Segment of the Capital
Market (GEMS) and support the growth of Permanent Listed Vehicles
that build bridges between investors and the businesses that need
investment to grow.

Government ICT procurement, including security and defence, will
prioritise award of tenders to new and innovative local businesses to
permit greater participation by emerging enterprises and preferentially
adopt home grown solutions. Kenyan built solutions will be preferred
over any other solution; where there are no local businesses that meet
the tender requirements, skills transfer to local firms and personnel
will be a mandatory requirement.

44 Public Service Delivery

It is our policy that all government services must be available
online, that every Kenyan has online access and that government
services are delivered quickly and fully at the time and place that they
are needed. This ICT policy requires all arms of government to build,
deploy, operate and manage locally built back-end and front end
systems to deliver services. This policy also requires that Kenyan data
remains in Kenya, and that it is stored safely and in a manner that
protects the privacy of citizens to the utmost. Government services
will be delivered in a manner that ensures we have a prosperous, free,
open and stable society.

This policy aims to promote the collaboration of the National and
County governments to ensure that all services, both physical and
digital reach every citizen at a guaranteed high level of quality. The
ICT policy requires that:

 

* Service charters be published by the public sector and citizens
sensitised about them.

* Government services be easily accessible to all citizens using
their mobile devices anywhere and anytime.

¢ All procurement and tender processes be electronically
published and open to all.

¢ Revenue collection to be transparent and accountable.

¢ All arms of government implement and manage locally built
back-end and front-end systems to deliver services.

* E-services are provided on platforms that are secure from fraud
and breach of privacy of personal information.

¢ All government systems currently developed and all future
systems be integrated with each other.

¢ All government services be available online. Every citizen to
have online access and that government services are delivered
quickly and fully at the time and place that they are needed.

¢ Kenyan data remains in Kenya, and that it is stored safely and
in a manner that protects the privacy of citizens.

The Government will be efficient, secure and open. It will be
recognised internationally for its innovations and quality in public
service delivery. This policy requires and mandates the use of
Universal Personal Identifier (UPI) for all civil servants and citizens
and a local payment scheme for Government transactions.

5. Background
5.1 ICT and Vision 2030

The Vision 2030, Kenya’s Long Term Development Blueprint
aims to create a globally competitive and prosperous nation,
transforming Kenya into a newly industrialising, middle-income
country providing a high quality of life to all its citizens by 2030 in a
clean and secure environment. Vision 2030 three pillars, namely the
Economic, Social and Political are anchored on macroeconomic
stability; continuity in governance reforms; enhanced equity and
wealth creation opportunities for the poor. The Economic Pillar that
captures the expectations of the ICT market seeks to improve the
prosperity of all regions of the country and all Kenyans by achieving a
10% GDP growth rate by 2017.

ICT is identified as enabler or foundation for socio economic
transformation. The Vision recognises the role of Science, Technology
and Innovation in modern economy in which new knowledge plays a
central role in boosting wealth creation, social welfare and
international competitiveness. This will be done through: economic
and institutional regime that utilises existing knowledge; creation of
new knowledge and entrepreneurship; educated and skilled population;
dynamic information and communication infrastructure that facilitate
processing and dissemination; and effective innovation system and
research.

5.2 Rationale for Policy Review

The review of the policy has been necessitated by the rapid
changes and developments since 2006 in order to keep abreast with
development of emerging technologies. The review is therefore
necessary to cater for the changes in legal and regulatory frameworks,
technology advancement and emerging issues. These developments
include:

* Legal and Regulatory Frameworks: Enactment of Constitution
of Kenya 2010, Kenya Information and Communication Act
2013, Media Act 2013 and restructuring of Government
functions.

* Technological Advancement: There have been many changes
in the technological and competitive space since 2006, some of
these include the convergence of ICT technologies, Migration
from analogue to digital TV broadcasting and its effect on
broadcasting market segment and radio spectrum, and
advancement of mobile technology enabling new services.

¢ Emerging Issues: Increased IT enabled services, increased
demand on bandwidth and for Quality of Service (QoS),
Challenges of cyber security, Regional integration projects and
Harmonisation of ICT policies in the international and regional
7th August, 2020

THE KENYA GAZETTE 3067

 

fore, Content in the era of media convergence and
globalisation; Global partnership on Child Online Protection
and changing consumer preferences.

5.3 Guiding Principles of the ICT Policy

In the development of this policy, these principles were taken into
account:

Economic Agenda

Put ICT at the centre of the national economic agenda, recognising
the role of the ICT sector as a critical pillar in national development
and the attainment of the goal of becoming and remaining a global
leader in the knowledge-based economy.

Ubiquitous Access

Fulfil the goal of giving every Kenyan access to reliable,
affordable, high-speed broadband connectivity.

Constitutional Principles

Improve government accountability, efficiency, service delivery
and maintain an open government. Develop and protect citizen rights
and duties as enshrined in the Constitution of our Republic.

Private Sector

Give the interests of the private sector top priority in order to foster
entrepreneurship, innovation, investment and growth.

Sustainable Development

Leverage ICT to promote sustainable development, accelerate
human development, bridge the digital divide and develop a
knowledge society.

5.4 Situational Analysis and Highlights
5.4.1 Regulatory Background

The Constitution of Kenya, 2010, the Kenya Communications Act
(No. 2 of 1998) and as amended by the Kenya Communications
(Amendment) Act, 2009, and the Kenya Information and
Communications (Amendment Act) 2013 provide the main framework
for regulating the communications sector in Kenya. Other statutes
include the Media Act, 2013 and the Kenya Information and
Communications Technology (ICTA) Order 2013; among others.

5.4.2 Operational Environment

Kenya is currently one of Africa’s fastest growing ICT markets
where ICTs have increased productivity in all spheres of production
process and enabled expansion of skills, contributing to improved
standards of living for Kenyans. The Economic Survey 2018 report
provides an overview of the ICT sector performance and development
trends, recognizing that ICT output increased by 10.9% to Ksh 354.1
billion in 2017.

* Fibre Optic Coverage: Every county headquarters has been
reached by the National Optic Fibre Broadband Infrastructure
(NOFBI) in addition to other fibre-optic cables owned by
private companies, Kenya Electricity Transmission Company
(KETRACO) and Kenya Power and Lighting Company
(KPLC).

* 2G Coverage: Geographical coverage is 45% of Kenya’s land
area, with 94.4% of the population covered.

* 3G Coverage: Geographical coverage is 17%, with 78% of the
population covered

* 4G Coverage: Reaches 37% of the population and 15% of the
surface area.

* Internet Domains: The total number of Internet domains grew
by 13.08 per cent to 83,646 in 2018. The number of “.co.ke”
domains increased by 13.72% to account for 92.5% of the total
registered domains in 2017. Enhanced uptake and use of sub-
domain names as a result of awareness on the benefits of use,
led to the doubling of domains under information content,
mobile content and those used in network devices to 374, 126
and 466, respectively.

* Broadcast Services and Subscriptions: The number of
Frequency Modulation (FM) radio stations stood at 173 while

 

Free To Air television stations were 75 in 2018. The number of
digital signal distributors in the country remained at 5 Digital
Terrestrial Televisions Set-Top Box (STB) subscriptions stood
at 4.5 million in 2018 while cable TV and direct to home
satellite subscriptions stood at |.28M.

* Newspaper Circulation and online Newspaper Readership: In
2017, the circulation of daily English and Kiswahili
newspapers declined by 4.9 per cent and 9.9 per cent,
respectively due to online readership of newspapers. Similarly,
the number of weekly English newspapers in circulation
decreased by 5.9 per cent over the same period. However, the
average online readership went up by 20.1 per cent in 2017.

* The value of mobile commerce transactions expanded by 85.5
per cent to Ksh 3.2 trillion in 2017. The growth was spurred by
customer’s preference for mobile commerce and_ the
availability of these services across the country.

5.43 Technology Trends

Gigabit and Petabit Wireless: Networks at the edge are going
wireless. We observe the development of NBase-T, Terahertz wireless
and other high-speed communications developments, and anticipate
their wholesale adoption across all sectors of Kenya. Kenya will
standardise on Gigabit/Ethernet speed wireless networks.

Ubiquitous Communications: Internet access is available
everywhere, all the time to everybody and everything via mobile
phone, Wi-Fi, cable and other means. The internet protocol has
become the de-facto means of communication. This trend will
intensify and increase as available speeds improve.

Pervasive Instrumentation: As more and more devices and
elements of our environment become network enabled, from electric
power meters, industrial equipment to household appliances we are
entering an era where everything is producing data continuously and
everything can talk to everything else. This is the Internet of Things
(IoT) or to use more recent nomenclature the Internet of Everything
(IoE). The ability to remotely effect physical change inherently poses
significant challenges and provides enormous advantages. You can
now remotely monitor, manage and change processes and states
without having to physically be present, but it also means you can do
damage, destroy facilities and injure people remotely.

Big Data: Every person, device and instrument has become a data
emitter. The aggregation and storage of these enormous data volumes
has led to a technical phenomenon called big data. The storage,
analysis and interpretation of big data requires specialised techniques
and equipment for which we must be prepared. Kenya is currently a
net emitter of data and the facilities, capability and interest in being a
sink need to be developed. We need to develop the capacity to store
and use our own data.

Deep Learning: Machine learning is a branch of artificial
intelligence focusing on data classification, trend identification and
predictive analytics. Using big data for machine learning is called deep
learning. Deep learning has led to fundamentally useful outcomes such
as accurate speech recognition, automated expert level medical
diagnosis, better-than-human computer vision, holistic systems like
self-driving cars and self guiding drones, and more mundanely
improved purchase recommendation systems, customer credit rating
and epidemic outbreak prediction.

Blockchain and Digital Currency: A peer-to-peer distributed
digital ledger that provides an immutable time-sequenced record of all
transactions (blockchain) is a peer-to-peer distributed digital ledger
that provides an immutable time sequenced record of all transactions,
does not require trust between parties and facilitates electronic “smart
contracts”. Blockchain can be used to track digital assets, assets whose
ownership can be verified digitally such as land, equities, shares and
derivatives, votes and currency. It’s most famous implementation is in
Bitcoin, but it not limited to those domains. A blockchain’s integrity
hinges on strong cryptography that validates and chains together
blocks of transactions, making it nearly impossible to tamper with any
individual transaction record without being detected.

The Sharing Economy: The Sharing Economy is a socio-economic
ecosystem built around the sharing of human, physical and intellectual
resources. A sharing economy is an economic model in which
individuals are able to borrow or rent assets owned by someone else.
The sharing economy model is most likely to be used when the price
3068 THE KENYA GAZETTE

of a particular asset is high, and the asset is not fully utilised all the
time.

Sitting in any large parking lot are dozens of cars, which represent
hundreds of millions of shillings of non-performing depreciating
capital assets. Putting those assets to use, when the owner is not using
them, is the basic operating model of ride-sharing and online taxi
companies.

Communities of people have shared the use of assets for thousands
of years, but the advent of the Internet has made it easier for asset
owners and those seeking to use those assets to find each other. This
sort of lending is sometimes referred to as a peer-to-peer (P2P) rental
market.

Sharing economies allow individuals and groups to make money
from underused assets. In this way, physical assets are shared as
services. For example, a car owner may allow someone to rent out
their vehicle while they are not using it, or a homeowner may rent out
their home while they are on vacation.

The Gig Economy: The gig economy is a labour market
characterised by the prevalence of short-term contracts or freelance
work as opposed to permanent jobs. In order to be successful in the gig
economy, each individual needs to manage their time and finances as
if they were a one-man company.

The mobility of white-collar work, the emergence of freelancing
platforms and the drive for operational efficiency have transformed the
nature of work. The fastest job growth globally is in “nonemployee”
firm’s i.e. self-employed, short term contract (measured in hours),
remote and telecommuting workers. These participants in what is
called the gig-economy, where people eschew formal salaried
employment for freelancing work are a growing and significant
proportion of the workforce.

Adaptive Security Architecture: The complexities of digital
business and the algorithmic economy, combined with an emerging
“hacker industry,” significantly increase the threat surface for our
nation. We need to develop the capacity to detect and respond to
threats, secure our communications and data, protect our people and
infrastructure, and develop resilience in the face of disaster.

Mass Personalisation and Personalised Manufacturing: The
widespread availability of experience individuation by such services as
Facebook and Google has created an expectation of personalised
custom public service delivery. Cost effective small-run manufacturing
technologies such as 3D printing have transformed marketplace
dynamics making a marketplace of one economically feasible. This
evolution in the calculus of economies of scale will have a significant
impact on Kenyan industry.

5.5 Challenges

There are significant challenges to be overcome in achieving the
goals of this policy in the short term. Some of these challenges,
addressed in this policy, include:

1. Unequal investment and access to ICTs in un-served and
under-served areas within Kenya

2. The under-utilisation of ICTs in the provision of government
services and the underdevelopment of opportunities for economic
growth and job creation

3. Cultural and attitudinal resistance to the implementation of
ICT-based services and offerings

4. Cybercrime and cyber-security vulnerabilities

5. Inadequate policies, legal and institutional frameworks at the
national and devolved county levels of government

6. A dearth of competent and skilled human capacity due to
inadequately and inappropriately equipped universities and tertiary
institutions

7. An underdeveloped innovation ecosystem that hinders the
development and growth of Kenyan corporations and industry

8. Structural and legal inadequacies that hinder the development
and evolution of online transactions, such as a National Addressing
System (NAS)

 

7th August, 2020

6. Policy Focus Areas

The Kenya National ICT Policy outlines the policy of the
Government of Kenya in relation to the design, development,
acquisition, deployment, operation, support and evolution of public
and private ICTS. It defines the current and forward looking position
of the government on various areas of the evolving and emerging
technology landscape in Kenya.

6.1 Mobile First
6.1.1 Background

The Government recognises that to become and remain globally
competitive in the emerging order, it is necessary to invest in and
provide the conditions for always-on, high speed, wireless data
connectivity for every citizen, everywhere in Kenya. In order to
support this goal it is necessary that there be a robust, capable
backbone to back haul traffic, and that the conditions in the
marketplace are conducive to the provision of competitively priced,
affordable last-mile connectivity for every citizen. This policy outlines
the conditions required for the private sector led provision of services,
and provides for the regulation and incentives for affordable high-
speed wireless access across the length and breadth of Kenya. To
balance the principle of open access with the need to provide
commercial incentives that foster investment, the Communications
Authority (CA) will license county-based service providers to offer
last mile access solutions and provide equitable and affordable access
to NOFBI for such licensed providers.

6.1.2 ICT Infrastructure and Access

The Constitution of Kenya establishes a devolved system of
government and provides inter alia that broadcasting, postal and
telecommunications services shall be the mandate of the national
government. In fulfilment of this mandate the national government has
invested and continues to invest in a National Optic Fibre Backbone
Infrastructure (NOFBI). Counties are encouraged to provide ICT
infrastructure and skills development as will permit them to take
advantage of this national ICT policy. The national government will
provide such technical and knowledge support as the counties may
require to give regional effect to this policy.

This policy mandates the deployment of the following services and
systems:

Infrastructure Sharing: Infrastructure development —_ and
deployment is a capital-intensive undertaking and should be managed
on a prudential basis nationally. The government will continue, as it
has, to invest in common, publicly available high capital undertakings
such as a national data transport backbone, central and regional data
centres, and carefully managed shared radio frequencies. The
Communications Authority will oversee access, license operators, and
regulate and price commercial access to infrastructure built with public
funds. All infrastructure built with public funds will be available for
use by Kenyan private and commercial operators on fair, affordable
and equitable terms without prejudice to their size, location or
composition. A legal framework will be developed to provide for a fair
use policy, by which privately established infrastructure may on fair
commercial terms be made available by one operator to others. The
Communications Authority will ensure that the arrangements between
operators and service providers provide national resilience to disasters,
equitable access to naturally limited resources and sites, and that
collocation of services and equipment is encouraged, while ensuring
optimal service reliability, redundancy, carrier and net neutrality, and
the security of data both at rest and in transit. To this end:

1. The National Government will develop a National Integrated
Infrastructure plan. Each County Government will also develop a
County Integrated Infrastructure Plan. These integrated plans will be
designed to facilitate rational, cost-effective, sustainable and easily
maintained ICT infrastructure by multiple stakeholders

2. The National Government will develop a central publicly
available registry of the ICT infrastructure and resources of
government agencies, operators, utility companies and infrastructure
building companies to which reference may be made to prevent
unnecessary duplication and waste of scarce ICT resources.
Regulations will be promulgated to ensure that regular and accurate
reports are made by government agencies, licensees and utility
companies.
7th August, 2020

3. Government will strictly enforce quality of service regulations
to ensure reliability and availability of services.

4. Government will provide industry players with equitable
access to publicly owned infrastructure.

5. Government will review the National Broadband Strategy to
ensure provision of high-speed affordable connectivity to all citizens
in all places. Where it is not commercially viable for operators to
invest in infrastructure, the government will promptly build and
develop publicly owned supporting infrastructure to facilitate
commercial last mile service provision.

6. The Government will adopt an Enterprise Architecture to
govern the implementation and deployment of infrastructure,
hardware, software, systems and services across the public sector in a
coherent, cost-effective and sustainable manner. In order to ensure
efficient use of funds and limited resources, the Government shall
reach agreements for economic bulk purchase of software licenses and
standard ICT equipment. All government Ministries, Departments,
Agencies and bodies are required to acquire such licenses and
equipment, as they need, at the reduced government negotiated price.
These prices will be submitted to the Public Procurement Oversight
Authority for inclusion in the Market Price Index.

7. The Government will liaise with all relevant government
agencies to require that all new commercial and private developments
are designed and adequately provided with facilities for high-speed
connectivity.

8. The Government will be open to, support and encourage the
development of new business models that provide for infrastructure
sharing or the provision of services in under-served and unserved
areas. The government will design incentives, or provide funding on
such terms and in such manner as will best achieve ubiquitous
broadband access.

Internet Exchange Points: Internet Exchange Points (IXP) help
strengthen the local Internet ecosystem, develop the local Internet
industry. Their benefits include —

* improve Internet quality and affordability in local
communities;

* improved local Internet connectivity;
* improve competitiveness;
* serve as a hub for technical activity; and

* encourage local service hosting and local content development
and applications.

The Government encourages partnerships that seek to enhance
peering and interconnection through deploying additional IXPs and
use of deployed infrastructure, including national and international
fibre cables, and local data centre development.

Data Centres: The Government will develop guidelines for current
and future data centres to avoid inefficient public and private ad-hoc
investments.

With the mandated requirement for the licensing of county based
last-mile service providers, County governments are encouraged to
create shared data centres for local peering and internet traffic
exchange. In support of this policy objective:

1. All government Ministries, Departments and Agencies shall
share and optimise data centre infrastructure. All government data
centres, not specifically designated for national security purposes, shall
be approved by the Ministry of ICT, which will not permit new
investment where there is available capacity in any other ministry that
may be used, thus providing a cost efficient, scalable and secure
environment for government data and information storage.

2. The government will promote, encourage and license private
sector investment in neutral data centres by companies incorporated
for that purpose.

3. Encourage Kenyan businesses and County governments to
share data centre infrastructure to minimise network duplication.

4. This policy mandates the development of standards for data
centres, providing legal and regulatory coherence with Kenyan safety
and environmental protection standards. The standards will take

 

THE KENYA GAZETTE 3069

cognisance of national disaster recovery and resilience frameworks,
and the constitutional requirements of devolution and diversity.

5. Regulations and laws will be enacted that specifically ensure
that data is processed fairly and lawfully in accordance with the rights
of citizens and obtained only for specific, lawful purposes, and that
clearly establish that all data on a person is owned by the person.

6. The government will ensure the availability of basic
infrastructure for approved data centers, such as reliable grid power,
subsidised or discounted electric power costs, access to the national
publicly-owned data transport backbone, security within the context of
the national cyber-security framework, physical policing plans, and the
national data classification guidelines. All centres that hold public data
must be a minimum of a level 2 Data Centre.

Rights of Way/Way Leaves: Rights of way, way leaves, permits and
clearances have been a persistent and recurring challenge to the
deployment of cabling plant, towers and other infrastructure. The
Government will:

1. Work with County Governments to develop harmonised way
leave guidelines and charges that protect the ICT infrastructure,
optimise usage, protect the environment and roads, and prevent
multiple charges.

2. Require that all current and future road, rail and underground
power grid designs incorporate common crossing ducts to prevent
damage wherever crossing is needed and provide commonly available
fiber ducts along their length.

3. Take direct corrective measures to protect against way leave
encroachment by developers especially land owners whose properties
front major highways and other access roads.

4. Where there are no pre-existing ducts, to require infrastructure
sharing on new builds as a pre-requisite condition for licensing. The
government will where appropriate provide fee breaks, incentives,
discounts, government cost-sharing and grants to the primary duct
developer and require the provision of equitable access to other service
providers, government agencies and utility companies.

Wireless Data Infrastructure: The Government will facilitate the
ubiquitous deployment of new-generation high-speed wireless
broadband connectivity infrastructure, in order to reduce from- the-
curb and in-building deployment costs, improve the cost effectiveness
of broadband delivery and access, and provide effective, reliable,
secure internet infrastructure. All new government network builds and
deployments will consider a wireless-first approach. This requirement
especially applies to village, small community and government
building networks.

Broadcast Signal Distribution: The Government will continue to
license broadcast signal distribution services depending on the market
growth and the availability of the required radio frequency spectrum
resources to ensure that the use of broadcasting infrastructure is
maximised and frequencies are utilised efficiently. All licensed signal
distributors will be required to provide services to licensees on an open
access and non-discriminatory basis.

IPv6: The Government will support and encourage the migration to
modern internet protocols that provide functional efficiency and
sufficient scope for future technological developments. All national
government installations will use IPv6 at a minimum. All new national
government installations must use IPv6.

Complementary Infrastructure: The Government recognises that
the economic impact of ICT is contextual and dependent on other
complementary infrastructure such as energy, transport and
communications.

The Government will:

1. Provide incentives that enable the development of
infrastructure for the public good.

2. Strengthen mechanisms that ensure open access for all players
and users.

3. Provide support infrastructure such as roads, power grid access,
and security to support ICT development.

Domiciliation of Manufacture: It is the government’s aim and
policy to establish the manufacture of ICT equipment and
3070 THE KENYA GAZETTE

7th August, 2020

 

infrastructure components in Kenya. To this end, the government has
provided in various sections of this policy, incentives and various
measures to achieve this objective, such as:

1. Ensuring that a percentage of rare earths mined in Kenya are
kept for domestic consumption and manufacture.

2. Providing fiscal incentives for the creation of local
manufacturing plants.

3. Providing for technology licensing assistance to Kenyan
enterprises.

4. The provision of free government funded consultancy and
mentoring services especially to the ICT manufacturing sector.

5. Regional and continental trade assistance and market access,
amongst others.

6.1.3 Universal Access

It is the policy of Government to ensure that ICT services both
public and private, and the requisite knowledge to deploy and use them
are available to our citizens at the time, place and manner that they are
required, and also that all citizens can and will participate in the
knowledge economy.

The Government will seek to ensure that:

1. The Universal Service Fund is prudently managed to drive
universal access and that service is provided in areas service providers
do not consider economically viable.

2. High quality internet access is available everywhere in Kenya.

3. Every Kenyan can afford a device that they can use to access
the Internet.

4. Every Kenyan has access to free advice about appropriate
digital technology choices for their needs.

5. Every Kenyan has the skills they need to use their choice of
digital technology appropriately.

6. Kenya receives global recognition as a safe place to do digital
business.

This requires a multidimensional approach to the tri-fold challenge
of ubiquity, utility and participation.

Ubiquity: The challenge of equipping the entire geography of our
nation with the infrastructure and connectivity to make data
everywhere available is variously addressed in this policy document. It
is the government’s policy to treat all populated areas of our country
equally and provide equivalent infrastructure per capita.

Participation: To achieve the full participation of every Kenyan it
is the government’s policy to provide every citizen with the Tools,
Attitudinal change support, Skills and Knowledge (TASK) necessary
to participate in our joint digital future. The plan is to ensure that a
significant proportion of Kenyans’ life, work and play will be digital.

Tools: The tools provide the environment through which people
can access, use and enjoy the technology in their work, community
and recreational activities. These include services, devices, access and
applications. It is the government’s policy to provide:

1. A Digital Identity (Universal Personal Identifier) for every
citizen: for the safe and lawful use of services.

2. Public Key Infrastructure: To provide for security of
transactional data, party recognition and contractual validity.

3. Legal framework and technical support for blockchain: to
securely record all transactions.

4. Regulatory and Legal support for digital payments: to enable
safe financial transactions.

5. A delivery services framework for the delivery of physical
goods and services.

6. Recognition and enforcement of digital contracts to build
confidence in online transactions.

7. Cyber and computer crime and critical infrastructure
legislation.

 

The policy envisages that citizens will use a wide variety of
devices: smartphones, tablets, computers and Internet of Things
devices. However, the basic properties required of all these devices are
that they should be affordable, secure, internet-enabled, identifiable
and should promote mobility.

Since internet-enablement is a basic principle of participation this
policy seeks to facilitate connection to the network with a secure
digital identifier and the delivery of a mandated minimum bandwidth
(defined in the Broadband Strategy) to enable reasonable quality of
interaction.

Attitudinal Change: Support Purely online transactions for non-
digital goods foundationally require a degree of trust and
trustworthiness combined with an openness to change and innovation.
This policy recognizes that there are certain attitudes and behaviours
that should be encouraged in order for Kenya to maintain and grow it’s
leadership in the African and global digital space.

It is the government and people of Kenya’s confident viewpoint
that Kenya is a leader and not a follower in this realm. We have
observed what this confident attitude has done for Kenya in the world
of sports, especially athletics and team sports, and we believe that it
can have similar a dramatic result in the realm of technology.

This policy seeks to promulgate a digital culture wherein citizens
have a preference for activities, goods and services that are channelled
and / or facilitated through technology and where all strata of society
integrate digital technologies into their lives as a natural way of
performing all the activities necessary for life and happiness. The
policy will encourage integration of digital technologies into the
educational and vocational system at all levels to ensure that our
current and future workforce is prepared for the changes that are
happening now.

Skills: It is the Government’s position that all Kenyans should
become proficient users of appropriate digital technology so that they
can benefit from the sea-change currently underway. This policy seeks
to build on the already universal use of mobile digital money and
inculcate widespread adoption of cognate digital services, goods and
activities.

6.1.4 Accessibility

The Government will provide an ICT environment fully accessible
to persons with disabilities. The Government of Kenya is fully
committed to providing equal treatment to people with disabilities with
respect to the use and benefit of ICT services, programs, goods and
facilities in a manner that respects their dignity and that is equitable in
relation to the broader public.

Kenya is a signatory to the United Nations Convention on the
Rights of Persons with Disabilities (CRPD), adopted by the UN
General Assembly on 13th December 2006. The Convention stipulates
that Persons with Disabilities have a right to access to information
through different mediums with Article 9 covering accessibility
including ICTs while Article 30 covers television programmes, films,
theatre and other cultural activities. The World Health Organization
estimates that about ten per cent of the world’s population has some
type of disability.

This policy mandates full accessibility for persons with disabilities.
All public and government communications will be suitably
instrumented.

The Government will take measures to:

1. Ensure that ICT services and emergency communications made
available to the public are provided in alternative accessible formats
for persons with disabilities (PWD);

2. Review existing legislation and regulations to promote ICT
accessibility for PWDs in consultation with organisations representing
PWDs among others;

3. Promote the design, production and distribution of accessible
ICT at an early stage;

4. Ensure that persons with disabilities can exercise the right to
access to information, freedom of expression and opinion;

5. Require both public and private entities that render services to
the public to provide information and services in accessible and usable
formats for persons with disabilities;
7th August, 2020

6. Require content producers for distribution and _ public
consumption in Kenya to produce such content in accessible format;

7. Ensure that websites of government departments and agencies
comply with international web accessibility standards and are
accessible for persons with disabilities;

8. Provide incentives to providers of accessible technology
solutions including software, hardware and applications;

9. Take such measures as will lessen the burden of acquisition of
accessible technologies and associated devices for PWDs through
fiscal means such as funding acquisitions, etc.;

10. Ensure that licensed providers of telecommunications services
make available services and supporting technologies for persons with
disabilities including emergency services, accessible public phones
and relay services to enable persons with speech, hearing and seeing
disabilities to communicate with the rest of society;

11. Ensure existing works in print format to be adapted into
accessible format transformative forms which can be used by the blind
without any liability; and

12. Promote Research and Development for ICT access for Persons
with Disabilities.

6.2 The Market
6.2.1 Background

This ICT policy has been formulated to spur economic growth,
recognising ICTs as an enabler. The contributions of the ICT policy to
The Market are in three domains, namely:

Money: We want to use ICT to enable more people to make more
money faster. It is our goal to give every Kenyan the opportunity to
earn a good living by utilising the digital infrastructure that the
government is investing in.

Rules: This policy requires carefully crafted rules that ensure that
there is fairness in the market place, that transactions are honoured,
contracts and agreements are enforced, and that that scarce national
resources such as spectrum and rights-of-way are fairly allocated.

Things: For the Market to work efficiently and provide a platform
for sellers and buyers, it needs infrastructure. It is our policy to
judiciously use public funds to build state-of-the art infrastructure at
the best possible price and make it available to the largest possible
number of people.

6.2.2 Money

Money, technology and people are the drivers of the digital
economy. By mirroring the physical entities used in business, such as
bank notes, land titles, certificates and so on with digital equivalents,
business can be assisted to move much faster since it is no longer
limited by the time it physically takes to move a business item from
one geographic location to another. We call the process of designing
digital equivalents for physical things “informatisation.”

Digitisation is the state where some thing, state or process in the
real world can be completely simulated in the digital space — and of
course this requires maintenance of exactly the same legal protections
that exist in the physical world. To speed up business and accelerate
prosperity, financial instruments, including cash, must be fully
“informatised” and “digitised.”

The digital and sharing economies are predicated on the legal
recognition of digital contracts for digital analogues.

Knowledge Economy: The Government will enable the move from
minimal value economic activities such as the export of unfinished,
raw materials to higher value economic activities such as
manufacturing, export of finished goods and a digital economy.
However, we recognise that high value artefacts such as phones or cars
require a complex manufacturing ecosystem involving many
interrelated manufacturers, so for instance, to create a computer it is
necessary to have metal forming, plastic extrusion, integrated circuit
design, silicon fabrication, silicon packaging, specialty bonding
materials, microelectromechanical fabrication, circuit layout, all the
way up to operating system and application software development and
hundreds of other specialty capabilities, each most likely in a different

 

THE KENYA GAZETTE 3071

firm. This ecosystem of self-supporting and dependent industries and
technologies is referred as the techonomy in this policy.

This policy is designed to move the Kenyan ICT sector beyond
mere trade in technological items, system deployment and software
development. This move is intimately connected to our country’s
capacity to do fundamental research in the physical sciences and our
capacity to discover, engineer, realise, productise, and mass produce
for global sale, technological artefacts, systems and processes. This
will take time to achieve in full, but we start now, as follows:

1. Set Biennial Research Priorities: Every two years the
Government will set five (5) research priority areas and provide
funding to institutions of higher learning and private enterprise in the
form of research grants, bonded scholarships, equipment purchase
grants and postgraduate course recommendations and certifications in
the priority areas.

2. Set Challenges: The government in consultation will define
challenges and prizes in the priority areas. The solution to the
challenges will become the intellectual property of the Government of
Kenya, and may be licensed to indigenous Kenyan companies for
productisation and manufacture.

3. Protect Intellectual Property: It is and will continue to be the
policy of the government to provide robust protection and enforcement
of Kenyan-developed intellectual property rights, and facilitate the
rapid and advantageous acquisition of non-Kenyan intellectual
property rights.

4. Provide Financial Incentives: Research and fundamental
knowledge generation in Kenya has hitherto been the preserve of
government agencies and institutions of higher learning. The
Government believes that it is time for the private sector to get in on
the act.

5. Innovation Hubs: The Government, in partnership with other
arms will assist in the creation of innovation hubs across the country.
Initially there will be 290 constituency innovation hubs which provide
work and maker spaces for the local community. Each innovation hub
may be associated with a nearby university or technical vocational
education and training institution (TVET) and provide an opportunity
for the community to access knowledge, create local solutions to
problems, explore with expert guidance improvements to traditional
solutions and enter the enterprise pipeline to mass production.

6. Competitions: To provide an avenue to showcase locally
developed ICT products, the Ministry of ICT will hold annual county
and national ICT shows where locally developed products can be
showcased, the shows will provide a platform for developers to meet
industry and financial partners.

Entrepreneurship: The nature of enterprise is changing rapidly,
and the traditional format of corporation, established over 400 years
ago of multidivisional functional silos with ownership and
management separated, is being superseded by new shapes of
organisation based on fluid highly networked, asset light, sharing
economy forms. It is our assessment that organisations that span the
entire supply chain with a vast array of products are harder to create
and have doubtful viability in our environment we posit as policy
assumption that small, agile, highly specialised companies seamlessly
integrating into a product or service delivery pipeline of global scale
are going to gain in prevalence. The top of the food chain will be
organisations in a co-ordination or platform role the service
aggregators and arbitrators as it were. In light of this assessment, the
Government has encouraged the formation of small companies;
agencies such as the Youth Fund and others provide small loans for the
establishment and support of small and micro enterprises by the youth.

The public sector ICT business environment is almost by definition
geared against the majority of local companies, precisely because the
procurement rules and risk minimisation strategy of most government
procurement processes favour the award of contracts and tenders to
already large and successful companies. This creates an unfortunate
chicken and egg scenario where government wants to encourage the
emergence and growth of Kenyan enterprise, but precisely because of
the perceived risk does not give Kenyan enterprises a fair turn at the
wheel. The Access to Government Procurement Opportunities
(AGPO) presidential directive seeks to ameliorate this unfortunate
feedback loop by guaranteeing that 30% of government business goes
to youth and PWD-owned businesses.
3072 THE KENYA GAZETTE

7th August, 2020

 

This policy specifically encourages new business models and
service delivery paradigms built around freelancing, online-work and
opportunity swarming. An example of such a model (in no way
prescriptive) would be a consortium of individual workers that form an
ad-hoc company around a specific government or service delivery
opportunity and share risks and profits, then disband on completion. A
subset of whose members subsequently or concurrently join yet
another opportunity focused organisation built just in time. These
fluid, swarming organisations are an expected element of the future
entrepreneurial environment, and are specifically encouraged. The
enactment of the Companies Act of 2015 provides wide latitude in the
nature and shape of Kenyan corporations.

It is the aim of this policy to ensure that in the next 5 years, there
are new firms:

1. 20 Kenyan Multi-national ICT Companies
2. 300 Mid-sized Companies

3. 5000 Small and Medium Enterprises

4. 20,000 Start-ups

This policy provides that:

Contract Swarming: Government ICT procurement will consider
awards of tenders to new and innovative organisational forms to
permit greater participation by emerging enterprises, and adopt home
grown solutions.

Buying Kenyan: In every instance where there is a Kenyan solution
that meets up to 70% of stated requirements, the Kenyan built solution
will be accepted in preference to any other solution from anywhere
else. In a selection between Kenyan built solutions the usual beauty-
contest evaluation criteria will be used. In government defined priority
areas, a 50% solution will be accepted in order to grow Kenyan
capacity in those areas.

Start-up Ecosystem: Kenya has a healthy and growing start-up
ecosystem centred on universities and innovation hubs. The
government will expand this ecosystem outside of Nairobi and it’s
environs and into the counties. To this end this government supports
the development of innovation hubs and hackerspaces across the
country at National and County level.

The Ministry of ICT will develop and update regularly, and make
available online guidelines, best practices, open source software and
supporting materials for the creation, operation, management and
maintenance of innovation hubs, hackerspaces, chama-based start-up
funds and incentives.

Innovation Funding: Very early stage start-ups, in the pre-
prototype phase of development, need funding, management and
technical support. These firms and individuals are the very life-blood
of the start-up ecosystem. To support them the government encourages
the establishment of crowd-funding and mentoring networks.

Venture Capital: Seed and growth funding for promising start-ups
remain a continuing challenge in Kenya. The government will
establish an anchor fund that will invest in qualifying ventures for a
proportionate equity consideration on a first-loss basis. Co-funders
will then be more willing to commit significant capital to qualified
entities. By catalysing and unlocking capital into the sector from co-
funding partners Private Equity, Venture Capital, Angels, Debt
Funders, Guarantors, Development Financing Institutions the
Government aims to leverage its anchor fund several-fold leading to a
multiplier effect in capital availability.

The Government will also explore innovative ways of raising risk
capital for startups by creating incentives for long-term funds to invest
in early stage Kenyan enterprises; pension funds are encouraged to set
aside 5% of their investments for the local ICT start-up ecosystem.

Capital Markets: The government will work to encourage early
Initial Public Offerings in the Growth Enterprise Market Segment
(GEMS). The Government will support the growth of Permanent
Listed Vehicles that build a bridge between investors and the
businesses that need investment to grow.

Leveraging Our Geopolitical Position: Kenya sits at the nexus of
East African commerce, but the reach of our ICT companies tends to
be limited to Kenya. The Government will make such arrangements
with other African countries as is possible to permit the mutual
recognition of Kenyan corporations without further registration to

 

facilitate seamless trade and commerce in and between Kenya and
signatory countries.

Enterprise Creation Opportunities: The government will work
closely with the private sector to informatise and digitise Government
services and operations and subsequently to develop new service
delivery paradigms and opportunities, which can quickly be converted
into thriving enterprises that serve the Government and/or the private
sector.

3D Printing and Physibles: Personalised manufacture is a growing
and important development in the ICT and manufacturing ecosystem.
In order to make this technology more accessible to the broad public,
the government will encourage all tertiary and secondary schools to
acquire 3D printing capabilities. All innovation hubs and maker labs
will be provided with a grant to acquire additive manufacturing
capabilities. Physibles (data objects that are capable of being
manufactured as a physical object using additive manufacturing
processes) will be protected as intellectual property and the physical
realisation of physibles will be similarly protected. This policy
explicitly and specifically encourages the emergence of new
enterprises around the creation of physibles.

Fiscal Measures: The Government will introduce fiscal measures
to stimulate increased investment and growth in the ICT sector in
order to create a favourable investment climate for the development of
a globally competitive ICT sector and knowledge economy. This
policy seeks to mobilise internal and external investment in the
national ICT ecosystem with a specific focus on the private sector. The
government will take the following measures:

Taxes: The Government will review the taxation regime to better
align to the requirement for affordable computing, broadband access,
financial inclusion and online work.

Incentives: The government will provide incentives for majority
Kenyan owned ICT device, component and__ infrastructure
manufacturers

Training: Incentives will be provided for the development of
online computer based training services and companies in Kenya.

Incubation Centres: Designated ICT incubation centres in each
county will be duty free zones.

Venture Fund: The government will create from existing and new
fund pools a rotating venture capital fund. The management and
priorities of the fund will be determined by guidelines to be
established. The fund will be chaired by the a person to be determined
by the Cabinet Secretary for ICT with membership of a representative
of the Kenya Sovereign Fund, the Kenya Private Sector Alliance, the
CEOs of the three largest private sector pension funds at any one time,
and four other members with ICT expertise as the Cabinet Secretary
for ICT may from time to time determine.

Financial Technology The Government will:

1. Facilitate and support the development and adoption of new
and innovative financial technology services so as to drive financial
inclusion.

2. Encourage financial technology service providers to share
infrastructure and networks in transparent fair and non-discriminatory
ways.

3. Through the Ministry of ICT, in collaboration with the Central
Bank of Kenya, develop a financial technology interoperability policy
that fosters competition.

4. Promote innovation in financial technology services.

5. Ensure that financial technology services infrastructure sharing
is efficient, cost-effective for the consumer, protects the public interest
and guarantees high security and quality of service.

In the domain of mobile money, the Government will:

1. Provide an open and level playing field for mobile money
service providers.

2. Provide for the protection of intermediaries offering mobile
money transfer services.

3. Require interoperability between operators and_ service
providers offering mobile financial services, taking into account
differing commercial and technical models.

4. Facilitate dialogue between operators and financial service
providers, ensuring that mobile money transfer services bring value to
7th August, 2020

THE KENYA GAZETTE 3073

 

the customer, make commercial sense and are available at the right
time, and that regulatory risks are minimised.

5. Put in place measures and mechanisms to address the risk of
money laundering and terrorist financing in mobile money services.

6. Encourage relevant government agencies to develop legislation
and regulations that embrace local innovation and allow a new class of
mobile financial service providers to sustainability provide digital
payments and transfer services.

6.2.3 Things

The nature and manner of design, creation, production, acquisition,
distribution, use and disposal of material goods is changing
dramatically. The advent of the asset-light sharing economy will
evolve our role as consumers of physical artefacts and products of
technology.

In the technology design and creation space the emergence of open
source hardware designs has changed who has access to the designs of
and can make complex technological products. It is now possible for
Kenyans to manufacture from the ground up such things as computers,
printers or even cars. Open-source hardware and software creates
products driven by capitalism rather than monopolies it provides a
powerful and lucrative opportunity for companies and individuals to
learn from each other. It is our policy to encourage the local design,
development, manufacture and global distribution of high-value
technological artefacts.

It is the governments aim to grow and develop:

Broadband Penetration: Grow broadband penetration and
universal access though promoting availability of smart devices.

Device Manufacture: Support the development of a comprehensive
Kenyan supply chain for the local manufacture, assembly and global
distribution of smart devices and complex technological artefacts.

Capacity: Develop and nurture local capacity for computing and
communication device and infrastructure manufacture, building on and
contributing to open source hardware designs and local and licensed
proprietary designs. Encourage the development of Kenyan
professionals in related fields such as system architecture, design and
engineering able to design and manufacture products and use the
emerging technologies effectively.

Rare Earths: Develop a strategic Kenyan silicon fabrication
capability to leverage the mining of rare earths found in Kenya.

Buy Kenya, Build Kenya: Government will preferentially and
exclusively buy Kenyan produced devices, software and solutions.

Engineering: Encourage the Kenyan development of technology
solutions to Kenyan problems.

Scale: Build Kenyan industry and ICT sector scale to rival the best
and largest in the world.

Devices

The achievement of government’s aims with regard to universal
broadband access carries with it the implication of universal access to
individual devices. Kenyans and Africans will regularly buy millions
of devices. Kenyan owned companies should make these devices in
Kenya. To achieve this, this policy mandates that:

Strategic Designation: The development of silicon fabrication
capabilities, device manufacture and machine intelligence are hereby
designated as national strategic imperatives.

Advisory: The government particularly the Ministry of ICT will
provide or arrange for the provision of consulting, technical advice and
mentoring to universities, state owned corporations, private companies
and individual entrepreneurs in pursuit of national strategic
imperatives. It is the governments aim to make corporations in this
domain successful.

Technology Acquisition: Relevant government agencies are
mandated to provide assistance in negotiating technology acquisition
agreements with foreign companies or entities.

Knowledge Diffusion Framework: The government in wide
consultation with the private sector and academia will create a
knowledge diffusion framework wherein the conditions for university-
industry-government-military collaboration will be enhanced,

 

providing for the rapid diffusion of new technologies to a wide variety
of sectors.

Upgrading Human Capacity: The government will provide
competitively selected universities and technical institutions with take-
off grants to procure silicon fabrication, micro-electronic,
microelectromechanical and nano-technology equipment.

Content and Applications:

This policy intends to promote the development of high quality,
easily accessible, relevant local digital content. The stature and
relevance of a country, in these highly networked times, is conditioned
upon the size and relevance of it’s internet footprint. It is our purpose
to increase the total amount of locally produced Kenyan content hosted
in Kenya available on the Internet, and to make Kenya the destination
for African content. It is critical, that globally, we tell our story
ourselves.

This policy mandates :

Local Development: Support locally based development of ICT
applications and multimedia content.

Use of Kenyan Languages: The Government shall encourage the
use of Kiswahili as the national language and local languages in
developing content, and leverage on Kenyans’ good knowledge of
English to develop content for the international community.

Cultural Preservation: Encourage the development of content that
captures and preserves knowledge and culture of Kenya’s diverse
communities.

Removal of Barriers: The Government shall work to remove
barriers to local content creation and distribution such as exorbitant
classification fees and broadcasting fees.

Promotion of Electronic Media: The Government shall promote
collection, preservation, digitisation, distribution and publishing of
historical community materials.

Information as a National Heritage: The Government shall
encourage the development and management of information and
knowledge resources as a national heritage.

Local Content:

It is the objective of this policy to promote the production of local
digital content and create employment for citizens.

To this end, the government will:

Digitisation: All government Ministries, Departments and
Agencies are required to’ move to all digital systems of
communication, document generation, document storage and
archiving. This policy mandates that all MDAs will digitise all their
historical records and make the same available to the National
Archives in an acceptable electronic format.

Open Data: All historical and archival data in government
possession will be available online to Kenyans. This data can be a rich
source for the creative and broadcast industry and spur digital
innovations around public data held by county and_ national
governments.

Animation Labs: The government will support incubation labs
focused on computer generated animation and film production.

National Values: The government will create and enforce policies
and legislation that protects children from inappropriate content and
upholds national values.

Gaming

The development of game software can be an important source of
employment and revenue for Kenyans, in order to promote the
industry, the government with the participation of the private sector
will develop:

Certification Programs: Work with industry to develop training
and certification programs to create a cadre of persons skilled in game
programming.

Incentives: Introduce appropriate fiscal incentives to promote this
sector of the industry.
3074 THE KENYA GAZETTE

Safety: Sensitise the public on security concerns around personal
information and the adverse social impact of internet and gaming
addictions.

Challenge Fund: Develop a mechanism to address the negative
cultural and behavioural challenges due to gaming. fight challenges.

Information Management

Knowledge has long been an important factor in economic growth,
and this policy seeks to maximise the value of data and information
held by government for the common good. Government has a keen
appreciation of the role of knowledge and technology in driving
productivity and economic growth knowledge distribution, then, is
essential to our economic performance.

In light of this, this policy mandates access to:

Government Data: All government data, except as exempt by
section 6 of the Access to Information Act, 2016, will be made
available to all Kenyans online. The general policy is “Open by
default”.

Research Findings and Papers: Research findings from all
government ministries, agencies, institutions and institutes will besides
being made available on their websites, also be made promptly
available on a single common website determined by the Cabinet
Secretary of the Ministry of ICT. All government research and papers
will be in the public domain, except for those, which the cabinet
secretary has specifically, on written request, classified for restricted
circulation for a determined and stated time.

Government Websites: All government websites and portals will
conform to best practices in terms of accessibility for persons with
disabilities, colours, layout and editorial style. Government websites
will be updated daily, at a minimum.

Government Search Engine: All public government content will be
indexed and searchable through a public common interface. All
government sites and data to be crawled daily, at a minimum.

-ke Domain: National and county government websites will
exclusively use the designated government domain. The
Communications Authority (CA), Kenya Network Information Centre
(KENIC) and other stakeholders will take measures to proactively
promote the .ke domain. The CA shall also proactively protect Kenyan
names that have historical, cultural or intellectual value on the internet.

Social Media: The Government will seek to promote the right of
the use of social media as an extension of the protection of freedom of
expression guaranteed under Article 33 and 34 of the Constitution.

However, the right to use social media does not extend to
propaganda or war-like purposes; incitement to violence; hate speech
or advocacy of hatred that constitutes ethnic incitement, vilification of
others or incitement to cause harm; or is based on any ground of
discrimination or that promulgates falsehoods. In the exercise of the
right to freedom of expression, every person shall respect the rights
and reputation of others.

Broadcasting: The overall policy objective for the broadcasting
sector is to create, within the framework of the Constitution, an
environment that enables broadcasting services to be provided in the
public interest and to contribute to the socioeconomic and cultural
development of Kenya. This policy continues the emphasis on
promoting the development of local content and establishing a market
structure that attracts and protects national and _ international
investment in broadcasting content and services.

With the emergence of online media The Government will: The
Government will:-

1. Ensure the development of broadcasting services that reflect a
sense of Kenyan identity, character, National Values, cultural diversity
and expression through the development of appropriate local content;

2. Promote diversity in ownership, control and programming of
broadcasting services and availability throughout Kenya;

3. Review the role, viability, availability and protection of public
broadcasting services;

4. Promote fair competition, innovation, protection of intellectual
property rights and investment in the broadcasting content industry;

 

7th August, 2020

5. Ensure adherence to social responsibility by encouraging the
development of and respect for the Programming Code and other
codes of practice by all broadcasting licensees;

6. Use innovative methodologies to rapidly expand media training
in Kenya.

7. Ensure universal access to, and viability of the public
broadcasting service; and

8. Encourage media training institutions in conjunction with the
broadcasting industry to pursue research into aspects of programming
and curriculum development in the industry. Government media
training institutions are specifically mandated to develop and provide
curriculum and training on animation, computer graphics, and online
media and games;

9. Require government agencies and private sector to promote
local production of advertisements and create an enabling environment
for the production and export of local broadcast and media products
that will contribute towards job creation.

10. Promote subtitling and dubbing to increase the reach of local
programmes.

The National Public Broadcasting: Service The Kenya
Broadcasting Corporation (KBC) will be restructured to ensure its
relevance and viability as the public broadcaster. KBC, operating
commercially, with universal service obligations, and with
Government support to sustain its universal service obligations will
provide national public broadcasting and county broadcasting services
in collaboration with County Governments. KBC may also establish a
subsidiary to provide commercial broadcasting services subject to
fulfilment of licensing and regulatory requirements.

Private/Commercial Broadcasting Services: The main objective of
the granting of licenses for private broadcasting services will be the
development of a diverse broadcasting landscape, while taking into
account the viability of individual enterprises as well as the industry as
a whole. Private broadcasting service providers will be expected to
provide a diversity of programming content, contribute to job creation
and human resource development.

Private broadcast licenses will not be granted to any political party,
or affiliate of a political party. To avoid hoarding of scarce frequency
resources, CA will develop guidelines with appropriate regulatory
safeguards to ensure broadcast licensees start operations within time
frames stipulated in their licenses upon being granted broadcast
licenses.

Community Broadcasting Services: Community broadcasting
service providers, who are fully controlled by a non-profit entity, will
be licensed to offer non-profit services that serve a particular
community. They will be required to:

1. Offer a distinct broadcasting service dealing specifically with
community issues, which are not usually dealt with by private or
public broadcasting service covering the same area; and

2. Focus on the provision of programmes that highlight
community issues, including, but not limited to; developmental issues,
health care, basic information and general education, environmental
affairs and local culture.

Licensing of community broadcasters will follow an approach
where prospective service providers will make application to CA. The
licenses will be granted after evaluation based on clear conditions and
availability of frequencies in the service area. In order to promote the
development of community broadcasting services, the CA will
endeavour to reserve broadcast frequencies and/or television channels
for this purpose. Community broadcast licenses will not be granted to
any political party, or affiliate of a political party.

Radio Frequency Spectrum: Spectrum is a scarce public resource
that can go to waste if not used optimally. It will, therefore, be
managed in line with public policy objectives, with a view to making it
available to all users under equitable, transparent, specific and clear
conditions. The Government will from time to time review plans for
the use of specific frequency bands to ensure optimal utilisation of the
frequency spectrum.

The use of frequency bands will maintain a balance between the
public and private interest and in the event of conflict, public interest
7th August, 2020

THE KENYA GAZETTE 3075

 

will prevail. In planning and allocating radio frequency spectrum as
well as developing policies, laws and regulations relating to spectrum,
Kenya will take into account the outcomes of the International
Telecommunications Union (ITU) World Radio-communication
Conferences (WRCs).

Use of the radio frequency spectrum should contribute to the
promotion of national interests, development and diversity, including
increasing the amount of spectrum available for assignment,
improving sharing conditions among different radio communication
services and increasing the number of licences dedicated to
community services.

1. To enhance public safety, security and emergency
preparedness, spectrum fees may be waived for provision of ICT
services in unserved and under-served areas and public institutions that
provide critical life-line support services. | The institutions may also
include those that provide critical public services such as national
security, public safety and emergency services. Such institutions will
be determined by the ICT regulator;

2. A Wireless Broadband Spectrum policy will be developed to
promote the acceleration of uptake of Broadband services as enshrined
in the National Broadband Strategy; and

3. Measures outlined in the National Broadband
Strategy will be taken to ascertain that:-

¢ Broadband penetration reaches a critical mass nationally for its
impact to be felt in the economy;

* Universal access to broadband is affordable;

* Capacity and skills are developed for optimal and effective use
of broadband services by end users;

¢  Supply-side skills are developed so that Kenyans can exploit
economic and innovative potential of broadband.

6.2.4 Rules

The Government recognises that the ICT ecosystem is complex,
fragile and not understood with mathematical precision, and that
transformative innovations are emergent and dependent to some
degree on serendipity and a web of interrelated stakeholders who
interact unpredictably. In this policy, Government is careful not to
weigh in with a blunt instrument and damage one part of the
ecosystem while trying to promote another part.

Policy Actions: This policy recognises four principal motivational
instruments, which we call policy actions. Policy actions can
communicate, regulate, incentivise, or demonstrate.

Communication: The policy can communicate government
positions, articulate priority areas, and disseminate best practices.

Regulation: The government has the mandate and obligation to
regulate and arbitrate the use of limited resources, enhance
competition, promulgate and enforce anti-trust legislation, establish
and maintain standards, and create a level playing field for all actors.

Incentives: Create incentives to push or pull the private sector in
certain directions using taxation, challenges, and investment of public
funds in R&D, internal and foreign demand creation and other
mechanisms.

Demonstrate: The government can invest in forward looking
activities that do not have immediate commercial value to demonstrate
technology, processes and viability.

Competition

This policy considers competition in two perspectives, encouraging
healthy competition within the ICT sector in Kenya, and making
Kenyan products globally competitive. These are not mutually
exclusive goals, by ensuring that the market competition in Kenya is
intense, we can ensure that bad products, services and ideas die
quickly and that good ideas, products and services survive and
improve. In brief, it should be that if a product is good enough to
survive in Kenya, then it is world class and conversely, that if it is not
world class it will not long survive in Kenya. The need for intense
competition must be balanced with the need to prevent distortion of
the market by the emergence of monopolies and anti-competitive

 

practices. The Government seeks to enhance the evolutionary velocity
of the market and enhance the continuous adaptation of products,
services and offerings to local and global pressures.

It is the goal of this policy to:

1. Increase the population of competing companies by creating
incentives for play, lowering the barriers to entry, reducing the cost of
failure, and encouraging the trial of new ideas.

2. Encourage efficient and equitable access to _ public
infrastructure to enable enhanced competition.

3. Review the competitive environment for fair trade practices.
Prevent unhealthy competitive practices through clear and strategically
consistent regulations enacted in a timely and transparent manner.

4. Facilitate access to government business through non-
discriminatory tendering criteria, and a deliberate preference for
Kenyan owned business entities.

5. Maintain market integrity and competitive honesty by
preventing and promptly punishing unfair and/or misleading market
conduct.

6. Facilitate an open, responsive, regular and continuous dialogue
between government, regulatory authorities and market players with a
view to maintaining a responsive competitive environment.

7. Create a liberal licensing and registration regime to permit
companies and entrepreneurs to fail quickly, with low cost. This will
take the form of rules that allow companies to be licensed for certain
services and only pay for the licenses when they commence operations
or achieve benchmark goals within predefined time frames. There will
be deliberate over-allocation of provisional licenses to increase the
number of license holders with the subsequent upgrade of provisional
licenses to substantive licenses when defined targets are achieved. The
regulatory authority will predefine and make public the total number
of substantive licenses intended, when that target is achieved
provisional licenses will be revoked.

Equity Participation

The government strongly encourages Kenyans to participate in the
ICT and Science & Technology sector through equity participation. It
is the policy that only companies with at least 30% substantive Kenyan
ownership, either corporate or individual will be licensed to provide
ICT services. For purposes of this rule, companies without majority
Kenyan ownership will not be considered Kenyan, and may thus not
be calculated as part of the 30% Kenyan ownership calculus.
Licensees will have 3 years to meet the local equity ownership
threshold they may apply to the Cabinet Secretary for a one year
extension with appropriate acceptable justifications.

For listed companies the equity participation rules will conform to
the then extant rules of the Capital Markets Authority.

Consumer Protection
The Government will:

1. Protect all Kenyan citizens from unfair, deceptive or fraudulent
business practices.

2. investigate and promptly resolve complaints.
3. enforce the law and punish violators.

4. restore the rights, property and privileges of citizens where
they have been violated.

5. Develop rules and regulations that maintain and ensure a free
and fair marketplace.

6. Educate consumers about their rights, duties and
responsibilities.

The consumer protection policy is intended to:
1. Protect consumers from hazards to their health and safety.
2. Promote and protect the economic interests of consumers.

3. Provide consumers with adequate information to enable them
to make informed choices according to individual wishes and needs.

4. Consumer Education.
3076 THE KENYA GAZETTE

7th August, 2020

 

5. Provide a means for effective consumer redress and restoration
of data, rights, property and privileges.

6. Ensure and facilitate the freedom to form consumer and other
relevant groups or organisations, and provide the opportunity for such
organisations to present their views government and decision-making
processes affecting them.

7. Create a monitoring and regulatory capacity to maintain
consumer protection policies in a rapidly changing environment.

8. Create, maintain and evolve standards for the safety and quality
of consumer goods and services.

9. Ensure equitable nationwide access to goods and services of
general utility, and to develop appropriate incentives and support for
nationwide access.

10. Develop, review, maintain or strengthen, as appropriate,
mechanisms for the exchange of information on national and regional
policies and measures in the field of consumer protection.

11. Develop and strengthen information regarding products which
have been banned, withdrawn or severely restricted in other
jurisdictions in order protect our citizens adequately against the
harmful effects of such products.

Environmental Protection

The Government of Kenya has made a special commitment to
environmental protection and environmental sustainability. ICTs are
fundamental in all areas of society today, including in caring for the
environment and providing assistance in the wake of natural disasters.
The rapid evolution of new technologies generates a large amount of
e-waste, which can be either totally or partially recycled or reused. As
Kenya begins to mass produce devices and ICT infrastructure, the
issue of environmental protection becomes particularly important, as
such, the government undertakes to prudently regulate the disposal of
e-waste, promote the use of ICT to mitigate the impact of climate
change and broaden the use of technologies for natural disaster and
emergency monitoring, prevention, mitigation and response.

Specifically, among other measures, the government will:

1. Promote the use of ICT to monitor and protect the
environment. The government will design, develop and deploy an
environmental early warning system.

2. Enhance climate change modelling, adaptation, mitigation,
monitoring, and response through the appropriate use of relevant ICTs.

3. Encourage the development of energy efficient facilities which
minimise negative environmental impact.

4. The Government will ensure that ICT players and consumers
minimise the effect of infrastructure, appliances, machines, devices
and tools on the environment.

5. Develop comprehensive policies on electric and electronic
waste management, based on a positive relationship with stakeholders
and the development of mechanisms of coordination between the
public, private and decentralised sectors and civil society. The
government will develop an inventory of e-waste production,
collection and recycling in the country and work to identify and
eliminate the main bottlenecks in the recycling chain.

6. The Government will provide incentives for the adoption of
best practices to encourage reduction of carbon footprint, efficient
energy management, e-waste recycling, water tower restoration,
afforestation and recycling of ICT products.

7. Provide incentives for investors and innovators who develop
ICT waste disposal and recycling facilities that meet agreed global
safety and environment standards.

8. Promote cooperation and policy making in the region for the
use of ICT in natural disasters, and for prevention of and response to
climate change and emergencies, based on common standards and best
practices, since natural disasters transcend the national sphere.

Language Policy

Language is a key component in ensuring access to information,
fostering national unity and economic growth. To this end, the
Government will:

1. Promote national unity through the proper management of
Kenya’s linguistic heritage.

 

2. Facilitate equitable access to public services, knowledge and
information for development and self-actualisation.

3. Promote public participation in development by all citizens.
4. Promote Kiswahili, the national language of Kenya.

5. Promote the equitable treatment of Kiswahili and English, the
official languages of Kenya.

6. Promote and develop the use of community languages, Kenyan
Sign Language, Braille and other communication formats and
technologies accessible to persons with disabilities.

7. Generate substantial wealth by harnessing Kenya’s
multilingualism and the creation of innovative linguistic technologies
with a reach beyond Kenya’s borders.

8. Help Kenya to become the African media giant by creatively
using her linguistic facility in broadcasting.

9. Initiate and sustain dialogue on multilingualism with all
language communities.

In support of this language policy, the government will:
1. Expound the language policy in a separate policy statement.

2. Draft legislation necessary for the full implementation of the
policy.
Open Source Software:

Efficient use of public resources is a key consideration in
government expenditure and procurement. The Government of Kenya
encourages the use of and already uses open source software and
systems for many purposes, this policy formalises the position of the
government on open source software. Where an open source
alternative exists to proprietary software, the government shall choose
the open source solution. All commissioned software development by
the government shall be delivered with the source code and made
publicly available for use by any government agency that needs similar
or close functionality. The government will maintain and publish a
guide for use by government agencies listing solutions available, and
publishing the source code of all government procured software.

Regional Integration of the ICT Ecosystem

As a member state of the East African Community (EAC) and a
signatory to the East African Common Market Protocol, the
Government is committed to implement policies and programmes to
promote regional integration. The Government will remain proactive
in exploring new areas of collaboration with EAC member states on
ICT policy and regulatory issues and related matters that serve to
advance the objectives of the EAC Common Market Protocol for the
benefit of the citizens of the East African region. Specifically but not
exclusively, this policy mandates that the government:

1. Secure cross border broadband connectivity to enhance cross
border trade in goods and services.

2. Promote high speed broadband connectivity between the
Capital and major cities of the East African Community, COMESA
and Africa to facilitate electronic transactions between the African
Union Member States.

3. Harmonise ICT policy, legal and regulatory frameworks with
the other East African Community member states.

4. Ensure universal, fair and open access to reliable and
affordable broadband infrastructure by all citizens and for other EAC
member states that are landlocked; and

5. Promote Inclusion of ICTs as components of all on-going and
upcoming regional projects.
Policy, Legal and Regulatory Framework

In order to fully implement this policy it is will be necessary to

review the legal, institutional and regulatory framework to align with
this policy. The Government will:

1. Ensure policy, legal, regulatory and institutional framework is
reviewed and amended to enable implementation of the policy.

2. Ensure the legislation provides for the creation of institutions
that will implement the requirements of this policy.
7th August, 2020

THE KENYA GAZETTE 3077

 

3. Provide regulations and guidelines for the implementations and
enforcement of the laws in the sector; and

4. Ensure effectiveness of the laws and the corresponding
institutions.

Current Institutional Arrangements:
Some of the current stakeholders in the ICT ecosystem are:

1. Ministry of ICT and all it’s agencies

2. County Governments

3. National Communications Secretariat

4. Communications Authority of Kenya

5. Kenya ICT Authority

6. Konza Technopolis Development Authority
7. East Africa Marine Cable System Ltd.

8. Postal Corporation of Kenya

9. Kenya Broadcasting Corporation (KBC)

10. Kenya Institute of Mass Communication (KIMC)
11. Kenya News Agency (KNA)

12. Government Advertising Agency

13. Kenya Year Book

14. Communications and Multimedia Appeals Tribunal
15. Media Council of Kenya

16. Kenya Film Commission

17. Kenya Film Classification Board

18. Kenya Film School

19. Development partners

20. Civil Society

21. Investors and Operators

22. Consumers/users

23. ICT Professional Bodies

24. Relevant government agencies

Ministry of ICT: The Government’s role in the sector will include:

1. Strengthen existing institutions and assign appropriate ICT
priority areas to them to champion and deliver on the objectives of the
policy. In particular, specific targets will be agreed upon and reviews
made to determine the extent to which they are being realised;

2. Develop, co-ordinate and implement both the ICT policy and
the monitoring and evaluation (M&E) framework across all sectors of
the economy to ensure that the implementation of ICT programmes
and projects is effective to support the social and economic sectors of
the economy; and

3. Creation of an enabling environment for investment in the
sector.

County Governments: County governments should invest in and
promote the adoption of ICT whilst embracing the sharing of
infrastructure and enterprise applications for efficiency and
transparency.

Konza_ Technopolis Development Authority: In 2008, the
Government of Kenya approved the creation of Konza Technology
City as a flagship Kenya Vision 2030 project. Konza will be a
sustainable, world class technology hub and major economic driver for
Kenya. Konza is conceived to capture the growing global Business
Processing Outsourcing and Information Technology Enabled Services
(BPO/ITES) sectors in Kenya.

National Communications Secretariat (NCS): The National
Communications Secretariat, which is the ICT Policy Advisory
Secretariat, established through the Kenya Communications Act of
1998. It will continue to be the policy advisory arm of the Government

 

on all matters pertaining to the ICT sector. NCS will carry out research
and monitoring related to ICT policy and will publish reports and
results of the research.

Communications Authority of Kenya(CA): The CA as the Sector
Regulator, will play its role as the converged regulatory body for the
sector in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Constitution of
Kenya, 2010.

ICT Authority: The ICT Authority will continue to play its broad
mandate of fostering the development of ICTs in Kenya (including
businesses, innovation and capacity building), implement and maintain
systems and technology for the Government and oversee the
development of integrated ICT projects in addition to being
responsible for computing devices within the government. The
Authority is also tasked with coordination and management of
National ICT Core infrastructure, Applications Project and Complex
ICT Projects, formulation and enforcement of ICT Standards,
coordination of Government ICT HR _ capacity development,
facilitation of ICT Innovations and management of National ICT
Security. It is also the implementing agency for the following key
areas; Disaster Recovery Centres, ICT Capacity Building, Government
ICT Security ICT Standards and Government Shared Infrastructure.

Communications and Multimedia Appeals Tribunal: Disputes
arising between parties in the ICT sector will be heard and settled by
the Communications and Multimedia Appeals Tribunal (formerly the
Communications Appeals Tribunal), which was reconstituted through
the Kenya Communications (Amendment) Act, 2013.

Postal Corporation of Kenya: The Postal Corporation of Kenya is
a Public Commercial Enterprise operating under the PCK Act of
Parliament 1998. The Corporation’s mandate includes provision of
accessible, affordable and reliable Postal Services to all parts of Kenya
as the Public Postal Licensee.

Media Council of Kenya: The Media Council of Kenya established
through the Media Council Act, 2013 will play its role of promoting
and protecting the freedom and independence of the media, prescribing
standards of media practitioners and media enterprises, facilitating
resolution of disputes between the government and the media and
between the public and the media and intra media and establish media
standards and regulate and monitor compliance with the media
standards.

Development Partners: Development partners will play a
complementary role towards realisation of development of the goals
and objectives of this policy. Within the ICT policy framework, the
Government will foster linkages with various development partners to
provide financial, material, technical assistance as well as build
capacity for sustainability.

Civil Society: The role of the Civil Society will be to inform the
policy making process by making relevant contributions.

Investors and Operators: Investors, operators and service providers
play an important role in the sector, and will be required to:-

1. Participate in the provision of universal service/access.

2. Operate with efficiency, credibility, commercial integrity and
good corporate governance.

3. Provide quality and sustainable service with pluralism of
choice to consumers; and

4. Keep abreast with and participate in ICTs development both
regionally and internationally.

Consumers: Are the principal drivers of service delivery, and are
encouraged to use services delivered in new ways, complain and seek
redress if services are of inferior quality and vote wisely with their
wallets.

ICT Professional Bodies: The Government encourages the
formation of national ICT non-statutory professional bodies registered
under the laws of Kenya to foster professional ethics, standards and
human resource development in the sector.

63 Skills and Innovation

This policy extends and amplifies the Government of Kenya
Framework for Science, Technology and Innovation sessional paper of
2012 by adopting a viewpoint called the knowledge triangle (KT),
which holistically examines the interaction between Research and
3078 THE KENYA GAZETTE

7th August, 2020

 

Technology, Education and National Innovation systems. Higher
Education Institutions (HEIs), Public Research Organisations (PROs)
are central actors in the national innovation system, and industry is a
principal consumer of research output. Innovation, in this view, is a
systemic output based on the synergy between robust identifiable
consumer demand, a responsive industry, government, the military,
educational institutions, and corporate research components.

6.3.1 Science Technology and Innovation

This policy will cause to be created and maintained an ecosystem
of world-class research, technology development and industry. The
government will create incentives, provide funding support for
research and innovation, recognise and reward outstanding
contributions, create and fund challenges and bounties. It is the intent
of this policy to mainstream the application of science, technology and
innovation in all sectors and processes of the economy to ensure that
Kenyans benefit from Science, Technology and Innovation (ST and I)
investments.

In the ICT domain the government specifically commits to:

Biennial Research Priorities: Every two years the Ministry after
industry wide consultation will set and review 5 research and
investment priority areas. These 5 areas will be renewed and reviewed
every 2 years. Government will fund capacity building in Higher
Education Institutions (HEIs), create and award scholarships in the
priority areas, build research facilities in support of the priority areas
in HEIs on a competitive basis, support and subsidize corporate
research in the priority areas.

National ICT Research Lab System: The government will establish
a public research organisation called the National ICT Research
Laboratory (NIRL) with the specific goal of developing publicly
available technology for use by and in Kenya. This laboratory system,
established at multiple locations around the republic, will provide
computing support to all other PROs (KEMRI, KARI etc.), conduct
research in matters of national interest in computational biology,
genomics, defence, intelligence, energy, environmental security, high
performance computing, physics and the life sciences and science and
engineering modelling. The NIRL will maintain a close relationship
with industry, academia and government, and provide special capacity
building to HEIs on national research priority areas.

Kenya National Innovation System Administration: The
government will create a new Kenya National Innovation System
Administration (KNISA), which will create, operate, maintain and
evolve a digital platform to connect and mediate the interactions of ST
and I, stakeholders. The administrations task will be to orchestrate the
interactions between stakeholders dynamically and effectively respond
to national needs. These stakeholders will include academia at all
levels, public research organizations, corporate research departments,
government, enterprise (corporate and individual), venture capital and
equity funds, and civil society.

National Research Medal: The government will recognise and
reward outstanding contributions to Science, Technology,
Engineering, Mathematics, Business Innovation and Software
Development with a yearly medal.

63.2 The Council for the Future

The Cabinet Secretary shall appoint an advisory group known as
The Council for the Future. The Council shall consist of industry
leaders, cutting edge entrepreneurs, academia and global thinkers as
key participants dedicated to the generation and development of new
thinking and strengthening of new ideas that can be brought to bear on
challenges of globalisation in the 21st century and shape the role and
future of the ICT landscape in Kenya in the next 50 years.

The National Communications Secretariat will be provided with
resources to enable it serve as the Secretariat to the Council.

6.3.3 Emerging Technologies

The technology landscape is changing fast, and the rate of change
will accelerate. We think it is impossible to prognosticate every
change, and thus it is not possible to formulate clear plans for things
unknown we can however develop a coherent and consistent approach
to the emergence of new trends and technologies as they emerge. In
the short-term technology trends in section 5.4.3, we give an overview
of immediate trends. These trends point to likely changes in the
following areas:

 

Networks: Networks will get faster and faster, we expect wireless
peta and terabit networks in the next 5 years. We expect everything to
be network enabled and to be a data emitter.

Ubiquity: We expect everybody and everything to be connected to
the network everywhere in Kenya. We expect all our environments to
have network connected sensors and continuous monitoring.

Data Volumes: We expect an exponential increase in data volumes
on the networks. Data Analysis at scale, and Knowledge engineering
will progressively become the value differentiators in business.

New Architectures: We can expect a disaggregation and a de-
colocation of functionality in every device and service. Maybe screens
will not have to be in the same place as the computer, maybe all
storage will be cloud based and local storage no longer necessary.

Near Intelligence: With the rapid improvement in big data machine
learning, in the very near term we can expect to see better than human
performance of from networked machines on many tasks.

Changing Ownership Models: Extreme sharing (compared to now)
will become the norm, people will pay less for and own less of each
device and have more connected devices in every part of their lives.

Informatisation: All aspects of our lives will be digital or digitally
mediated, from payments, asset use and rental, work, manufacturing,
agricultural, health and mining will all be digitally controlled.

We anticipate several challenges to emerge from these
developments:

Carrying Capacity: As network carrying capacity demands
increase, we will constantly have to update our core network.
Thankfully physics does not evolve, and we will not in the short term
have to put new cables in the ground, just change the routing/switching
devices.

Interoperability: We need to develop national policies on data
sharing and interoperability to ensure that all systems in Kenya can
work synergistically to yield the operational and administrative
benefits from a coherent national instrumentation.

Balkanisation of Systems: Companies will try to lock their
customers in my defining proprietary protocols and data formats to try
increase the barriers to entry for the competition. These data silos are
inimical to our national progress and are strongly discouraged.

Data Superpowers: Current and future data sinks will become
significant holders of identity, transactional and profile data of the
Kenyan citizenry, and will have inordinate power over the analysis,
partitioning, understanding, discrimination and fine grained
manipulation of public perception. Policy subsidiary to this will create
rules and guidelines for equitable sharing and access to profile data by
all legitimate and licensed players with the need, and establish
principles for the use, disclosure and storage of personally identifiable
data.

Out-dated Laws: As new models of interaction, concepts of
operation and norms of conduct emerge our laws, regulations and
statutes need to keep track with and fairly arbitrate the rights,
obligations and expectations of our citizens. Our laws should not stand
in the way of progress, nor should they use outmoded principles that
have been superseded by globalised norms. Significant new principles
will have to be established around ownership and use of sharing
economy devices and data.

Challenges to privacy: As instrumentation increases and the data
held about individuals and machines become siloed, enhanced and
derived, the data superpowers know more and more about individuals.
It is now established as policy, in conformance to the Constitution, that
citizens have an indefeasible right to privacy and to ownership of all
data about them however and wherever held and to determine how and
whether that data is used, distributed, analysed, enhanced or converted
to other forms. It is further established as policy that citizens of Kenya
may request and will promptly receive a copy of any and all data held
on them, by any and all entities public or private, identified or not, and
may so dispose, use and store that data as they see fit. The
Government of Kenya will retain a copy of such data, and note the
demand and establish rules and regulations for the use of such
deactivated data.

Skills Scarcity: The new technological landscape brings with it
new opportunities and challenges, which we need the skills to manage,
7th August, 2020

operate and understand at scale. Precisely because the skills required
are new, there is a shortage. Our training and manpower development
infrastructure needs to become responsive to these needs.

Incoherent Approaches: Different aspects of the new economy and
technological landscape are managed, regulated and overseen by
different government ministries, departments and agencies, with
different approaches, understandings, focus areas and concerns. As the
environment converges towards a consistent, coherent data-centric
approach (informatisation), everything from finance, health,
agriculture, work and speech, the approach of government to
regulation, almost by definition, becomes Incoherent and inconsistent.
This policy and subsequent subsidiary policy will seek to create a
uniform approach to the new data centric landscape, establishing basic
principles and rules.

Capacity Development: As economic, interaction and transactional
velocity increases, and the geographic reach, transnational flow of data
and information increases, the capacity of government to monitor,
proactively manage and control outcomes may reduce, unless the
capacity is developed right now.

6.3.4 Human Resource Development

Kenyan technical manpower will be among the best in the world
and globally competitive in terms of quality, skills and numbers.
Kenya will develop a network of world-class technical training
institutions producing the highest quality manpower to support the
achievement of Vision 2030. Every Kenyan will be computer literate
and able to profitably engage in the digital economy and earn a good
living.

The government will:

1. Integrate ICT subjects in the curriculum at all levels of
education.

2. Develop and deploy a nationwide e-Education system that
supports schools, higher education/training facilities across the country
by interconnecting them with each other and with relevant knowledge
centres, providing curriculum integration while also generating
information to better shape policies, strategic plans and tactical
decisions for developing education and vocational training in Kenya.

3. Create an environment that is conducive to the return of skilled
Kenyans from the diaspora to participate in the economy.

4. Expand and improve adult-education, life-long learning and
both general and digital literacy programmes, notably for retraining
and reskilling the existing workforce. Making the use of ICT part of
everyday life without excluding those that need skills development.

5. Incentivise industry with ICT specialisation to conduct their
own training programmes and to contribute to institutional training
programmes.

6. Establish educational networks for sharing educational
resources and promoting e-learning at all levels including distance
education, virtual institutions, and integrate it with other existing
resources.

7. Facilitate Public Private Partnerships to mobilise resources in
order to support e-learning initiatives.

8. Require skills domiciliation in projects performed by non-
national resources.

9. Encourage close collaboration between industry and academia
and the exchange of personnel, lecturers should get business and
operational experience, and industry should provide internships.

10. Encourage the establishment of ICT Centres of Excellence to
promote capacity building and innovation as stipulated in the National
ICT Master Plan.

11. Government will provide and support online ICT training for
decision makers, community and civil society leaders as well as
private and public sector executives.

12.Create opportunities and providing assistance for the
disadvantaged; people with special needs, women and the youth to
acquire ICT skills through e-inclusion and e-accessibility activities and
programmes; and

13. Encourage universities to establish postdoctoral research fellow
positions on contractual and attractive terms in order to attract world-

 

THE KENYA GAZETTE 3079

class researchers In order to have global competitiveness of ICT
products and services.

64 Public Service Delivery
6.4.1 E-Services/Government

Government ICT is vital for the delivery of efficient, cost-effective
public services, which are responsive to the needs of citizens and
businesses. We want government ICT to be open: open to the people
and organisations that use our services; and open to any provider —
regardless of size.

Government will ensure that:

1. Kenyans increasingly appreciate, prefer and use online public
services.

2. Itis affordable and safe to use an online public service.

3. Online public services work efficiently and effectively all the
time.

4. All citizen-facing government functions are automated and
available online.

5. Encourage ICT infrastructure deployment across the country
by leveraging on wireless broadband technologies to facilitate e-
services to allow for categorisation of systems and data by sensitivity
and business impact.

6. There is free public Wi-Fi Internet access built around digital
primary and secondary schools, Community Innovation Hubs and
public spaces.

7. Kenya gains global recognition for innovation and quality in
public service delivery.

Public services for the Kenyan people will be SUPER: Seamless,
Universal, Painless, Effective and Right.

Seamless: means that every service should fit seamlessly into the
everyday work and leisure activities of citizens. It should be accessible
through the devices that Kenyans own and use, or in nearby,
convenient locations. Every service is a one-stop service. All charges
and taxes associated with any transaction or service are included in the
fee and clearly indicated on the mandatory service transaction record
(receipt.) Seamless services are available 24 hours a day, 7 days a
week.

Universal means all citizens are:

1. Registered and provided with a single, secure online identity
and access code that enables them to access public services.

2. Clearly informed about the public services available to them
and equipped with the skills to access and use them.

Painless: means that the service is affordable. It is friendly and
pleasant to use. It is secure from financial losses, identity theft or theft
or corruption of private information. The processes involved in
accessing the service and the result are transparent and easy to
understand.

Effective: means that the service achieves the purpose for which it
was designed. Ultimately, public services are designed to ensure that
Kenyans achieve the aspirations enshrined in the Constitution and
Vision 2030. In the case of Information and Communication
Technology it is the goal of the government that the technology is
demystified, woven into the fabric of the lives of Kenyans, and that all
Kenyan get the opportunity to appreciate, use and innovate with the
technology. An effective service is delivered in a timely fashion and
does not delay the citizen from doing his or her work or achieving
results.

Right: meaning that every service transaction is free of graft,
correctly executed in line with regulations, permanently captured and
auditable, and will form part of an aggregated record which will be
available for public scrutiny. The goal of the Information and
Communication Technology policy for public services is to enable this
high standard of public service delivery to be achieved.

6.4.2 Postal and Courier Services

An effective postal and courier system is key to the development
of e-commerce and the digital economy. The Government recognises
that all citizens have a right to access basic postal services and will
ensure that the country has a vibrant and efficient postal and courier
sector across physical, electronic and financial platforms. This will be
achieved by, ensuring that postal operators provide affordable,
equitable and efficient universal service.
3080 THE KENYA GAZETTE

7th August, 2020

 

The Government will:

1. Facilitate the integration of courier and postal services into the
digital marketplace, and use the postal and courier network to deliver
eservices to citizens.

2. Create an environment that attracts increased investments in
the sector and allows the development of postal and courier
infrastructure and services that support national development goals.

3. Increased cooperation with sub-regional, regional and global
postal and courier service organisations.

4. Ensure a level playing field in the postal and courier industry.
In support of this policy, the government will:

1. Encourage the roll out more postal and courier service points,
and business model innovation to bring services closer to the people.

2. Establish a uniform national Addressing System.

3. Restructure Postal Corporation of Kenya to align with
market/technological changes and to diversify revenue streams so as to
remain commercially viable.

4. Promote competition in all postal market segments.

5. Take appropriate measures to ensure a safe and secure mail and
courier network by developing security guidelines for operators in the
sector.

6. Ensure future road and building incorporate designs such as
special access to courier fleet into central urban centres, loading zones,
and delivery windows for courier delivery vehicles.

7. Review the exclusive market segments, from time to time to
allow for more competition.

8. Support the provision of financial services through the postal
system.

6.43 Child Online Protection

The government will ensure that there are rules, structures,
principles and policies to ensure that children can use the Internet and
computers safely. In order to effect this policy the government will:

1. Develop a legislative framework that embraces child online
protection comprehensively as a special case of privacy, and security
through a practical multilateral, multi-stakeholder approach (Policy,
Law, Technical, Education, Awareness).

2. Develop local public awareness information and content
targeted at various target audiences.

3. Develop innovative ‘online values” programmes that ensure
that the right online values are instilled in Kenyan children from the
moment they begin to use technology.

4. Develop a mechanism to equip relevant stakeholders with
appropriate information and skills to respond adequately to child
online abuse and exploitation.

5. Development of framework of engagement between local and
international organisations and law enforcement agencies; and

6. Foster the development of technical tools and services in the
market that minimise the risk of exposure of children by-

* Removal of illegal content from cyberspace such as child

sexual abuse materials

¢ Investigation of child online crimes

* Detection and identification of child victims on online abuse
and exploitation

* Prevention of circulation of child sexual abuse materials; and
* Reporting of such content.

7. Better understand the online habits of children and youth and
facilitate identification and development of mechanisms to reduce their
exposure to risks and vulnerabilities online; understand the context to
which a child become vulnerable and how to prevent online protection.

8. Prioritise the equipping of law enforcement agencies and
judicial officers to handle Child Online Protection related matters.

9. Establish a database of offenders against children.
6.5 Security

As Kenya moves wholly online the security of our infrastructure,
resilience in the face of attack, and coherent internal policies to protect
citizens from abuse and illegal exploitation become critical to our
continued progress. Kenya will develop comprehensive defensive and
offensive cyber-capabilities.

 

The Government will continue to review and implement the Cyber
Security Strategy and develop relevant legislation to achieve the cyber
security policy objectives.

It is the government’s objective to:

1. Recognise cyber security as a key pillar of national security
and foster a multi-agency approach in the management of national
cyber security.

2. Establish an enabling legal framework, aligned with Kenya’s
constitutional provisions, legislative and regulatory environment, and
consistent with regional and global best practices build capacity skills
within law enforcement and the judicial system on the prevailing legal
and regulatory frameworks.

3. Support the development of a new generation of technologies
that will lead to measurable, available, secure, trustworthy, and
sustainable computing and communications systems, as well as
associated management and policy tools that enable successful
utilisation of the new technologies.

4. Develop information security standards for the ICT sector
which are to be adopted and applied by all government agencies and
recommended as best practices to private sector business.

5. Sensitise and create awareness to enhance the adoption of
information security approaches and new attitudes and culture by
citizens.

6. Ensure the efficient mitigation of cyber threats in order to
promote trust and confidence with the objective of preserving the
openness of the Internet as a platform for innovation and new sources
of growth; and

7. Put in place measures to protect vulnerable groups such as
children and ensure that they are safe and derive value from
cyberspace.

8. Develop intelligence, defensive and offensive capabilities in
the cyber-spatial dimension of the battle-space of today and the future.

In support of this policy the government will:
1. Implement Computer and Cyber Crimes Legislation.

2. Promote confidence and trust in the use of ICTs by requiring
confidentiality of personal information, integrity and availability of
ICT services in Kenya.

3. Enacting specific and effective legislative instruments on
privacy, security, cyber-crimes, ethical and moral conduct, encryption,
digital signatures, copyrights and fair trade practices.

4. Address any gaps in regulatory capacity, especially in the face
of convergence of networks and services.

5. Leverage on the power of ICTs to assist law enforcement
agencies and defensive agencies to secure our borders through use of
appropriate electronic tools as part of national security.

6. Require ICT Service Providers to provide facilities for
emergency communication and prediction, monitoring and early
warning of disasters; and

7. Identify institutions, organisations and establishments that are
of National strategic importance and classify them as Critical
Infrastructure. These will be required to demonstrate strict adherence
to IT security management by complying with requirements set out by
the Government or relevant regulatory authorities.

7. Monitoring and Evaluation

Monitoring and Evaluation of this policy will be integrated with
the national integrated monitoring and evaluation system (NIMES) in
order to maintain clear linkages between the implementation of this
policy and the Medium Term Plan (MTPIII) of Vision 2030.

The Ministry of ICT will develop a road map to implement the
national ICT policy. The road map will inform the Monitoring and
Evaluation Framework and Implementation Matrix of the National
ICT Policy.

A review of this policy will be conducted every three (3) years and
a mid-term review after five years. In addition to these reviews, the
Ministry will carry out an annual monitoring and evaluation exercise
and report on the implementation of the policy.

List of Acronyms

ICT Information, Communications and Technology
COMESA Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa
EAC East African Community

UPI Universal Personal Identifier
THE KENYA GAZETTE 308 1

 

7th August, 2020
GEMS Growth Enterprise Market Segment of the Capital
Market
STB Set-Top Box
FM Frequency Modulation
loT Internet of Things
loE Internet of Everything
IXP Internet Exchange Point
ST andI Science, Technology and Innovation
HEIs Higher Education Institutions
Dated the 22nd July, 2020.

JOE MUCHERU,
Cabinet Secretary for Information, Communications Technology,
Innovation and Youth Affairs.

 

GAZETTE NOTICE No. 5473

APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS TO THE INTERIM MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE ON THE LEASING OF FIVE STATE OWNED SUGAR MILLS

IT IS notified for the general information of the public that, the
Cabinet Secretary, Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Co-operatives
has appointed an Interim Management Committee on the Leasing of
State Owned Sugar Mills.

1. Background

Whereas the Government is committed to improving the
competitiveness of the Sugar Sector, the Ministry of Agriculture,
Livestock, Fisheries and Co-operatives has initiated the process of
long-term leasing of five (5) State Owned Sugar Mills namely; Nzoia
Sugar Company, Chemelil Sugar Company, Miwani Sugar Company
(in Receivership), Muhoroni Sugar Company (in Receivership) and
South Nyanza Sugar Company.

In the period leading up to the leasing and in order to strengthen
the fiduciary responsibilities of management, the Ministry has set up
an Interim Management Committee to oversee the operations of the
Sugar Mills during this transition period before eventual takeover by
the successful bidders.

In view of the above, I appoint the following as members of the
Interim Management Committee with the following specific terms of
reference.

2. Specific Terms of Reference, TORs: -

The Terms of Reference, TORs, for the Management Committee
are:

1. To receive, review and make recommendations on issues
related to the respective Sugar Mills including but not limited to:

(a) Job contracts

(b) Payment of wages

(c) Management of suppliers

(d) Forward sales and other credit arrangements

(e) Staff and grower arrears

(f) Security arrangements

2. To make recommendations on the general operations of the
Mills regarding short terms contracts.

3. To prepare regular reports to the Cabinet Secretary Ministry of
Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Cooperatives recommending
appropriate measures on the issues raised in one (1) and two (2) above.

The Interim Management Committee shall comprise of the
following:

Anne Mukami Nyaga (Ms.) — Chairperson

Members

Anthony Murithi,

Grace Agili (Ms),

CPA Michael Wanjala,

Stephen Ligawa,

Harun Kirui,

Francis Ooko,

Gabriel Nyangweso,

Rosemary Owino (Ms.) — Secretary

3. Tenure of the Interim Management Committee

The Committee shall be for a term upto when the last of the five
(5) sugar mills is handed over to the successful bidder.
4. Budget

The Agricultural and Food Authority (AFA) shall provide the
requisite budget and facilitate the work of the Interim Management
Committee.

 

5. Location of the Secretariat

The Agricultural and Food Authority (AFA) shall provide the
Secretariat and working space for the Interim Management
Committee.

Dated the 6th August, 2020.

PETER G. MUNYA,
Cabinet Secretary,
Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries and Co-operatives.

 

GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 5474
SUPREME COURT OF KENYA
AUGUST RECESS, 2020

PURSUANT to Article 163 (1) (a) of the Constitution of Kenya
and section 6 of the Supreme Court Act, 2011 and Rules 4 (d), 5 and 7
of the Supreme Court Rules, 2020, the Chief Justice gives notice as
follows:

The Supreme Court August recess shall commence on Ist August,
2020 and terminate on 15th September, 2020, both days inclusive.

The duty Judge will be available to attend duty matters.

During this period, the Supreme Court Registry shall be open to
the public from 8.30 a.m to 5.00 p.m on all weekends other than public
holidays.

Dated the 21st July, 2020.

D.K. MARAGA,
Chief Justice/President of the Supreme Court of Kenya.

 

GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 5475
THE BANKING ACT
(Cap. 488)
ACQUISITION OF NINETY PERCENT OF THE ISSUED SHARE CAPITAL OF

JAMII BORA BANK LIMITED BY THE CO-OPERATIVE BANK OF KENYA
LIMITED

IT IS notified for information of the general public that pursuant to
the provisions of section 9 (5) of the Banking Act—

1. the shareholders of the Jamii Bora Bank Limited vide a
resolution passed at a meeting held on the Ist July, 2020, approved the
acquisition of ninety percent of the issued share capital of Jamii Bora
Bank Limited by Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited as per the
Share Subscription Agreement dated the 17th July, 2020;

2. the Directors of Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited vide a
resolution passed on the 28th May, 2020 approved the acquisition of
ninety percent of the issued share capital of Jamii Bora Bank Limited
by the Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited as per the Share
Subscription Agreement dated the 17th July, 2020. The Co-operative
Bank of Kenya Board Resolution will be tabled at the bank’s next
Annual General Meeting for ratification;

3. pursuant to section 9 (1) of the Banking Act, the Cabinet
Secretary for the National Treasury and Planning on the 4th August,
2020, approved the acquisition, by subscription, of ninety percent of
the issued share capital of Jamii Bora Bank Limited by the Co-
operative Bank of Kenya Limited;

4. the acquisition shall take effect on the 21st August, 2020.
Dated the Sth August, 2020.

PATRICK NJOROGE,
Governor , Central Bank of Kenya.

 

GAZETTE NOTICE NO. 5476
THE INSOLVENCY ACT
(No. 18 of 2015)
APPOINTMENT

IN EXERCISE of the powers conferred by section 701 (1) (a) of
the Insolvency Act, the Attorney-General appoints—

MANYEKI MARK GAKURU
to be the Official Receiver, with effect from the Ist March, 2020.
Dated the 23rd July, 2020.

P. KIHARA KARIUKI,
Attorney-General.
