SPECIAL ISSUE

,

TH
JUL zg7

REPUBLIC OF KENYA

KENYA GAZETTE SUPPLEMENT
ACTS, 2017
NAIROBI, 23rd June, 2017

CONTENT
Act -

PAGE
The Health Act, 2017 ...................................................................................415

PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY THE GOVERNMENT PRINTER, NAIROBI

/

415

THE HEALTH ACT
No. 21 of 2017
Date of Assent: 21st June, 2017
Date of Commencement: 7th July, 2017
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
Section

PART I—PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS

1 —Short title and commencement.
2— Interpretation.
3—Objects of Act.
4—Responsibility for health.
5—Standard of health.
PART 11— RIGHTS AND DUTIES

6—Reproductive health.
7—Emergency treatment.
8— Health information.
9—Consent.
10—Information dissemination.
11—Confidentiality.
12—Health care providers.
13—Duty of users.
14—Complaints.
15—Duties of national government.
Office of the Director-General.
Functions of the Director-General.
18 —Directorates.
19—County health system.
20—Duties of county government.
21—Coordination.
PART Ill—PUBLIC HEALTH FACILITIES

22—Public health facilities.
23—Public-private partnerships.
24—Retention of service provision.
25—Classification of levels of healthcare.

No. 21

416
Health

PART IV— KENYA HEALTH SECTOR INTERGOVERNMENTAL
CONSULTATIVE FORUM

26—Establishment of Forum.
27— Purpose of the Forum.
28—Meetings of the Forum.
29—Conduct of Business of the Forum.
PART V— ESTABLISHMENT OF THE KENYA
HEALTH HUMAN RESOURCE ADVISORY
COUNCIL

30—Establishment of the Council.
31—Functions of the Council.
32—Powers of the Council.
33—Chief Executive Officer.
34—Conduct of business affairs of the Council.
35—Delegation by the Council.
36—Tenure of office.
37—Staff of the Council.
38—Terms and conditions of service.
39—Protection from liability.
40—Funds of the Council.
41—Financial year.
42—Annual estimates.
43—Accounts and audit.
44—Investment of funds.
PART VI—ESTABLISHMENT OF THE KENYA
HEALTH PROFESSIONS OVERSIGHT
AUTHORITY

45—Establishment of the Authority.
46—Composition of the Authority.
47—Powers of the Authority.
49—Functions of the Authority.
49—Chief Executive Officer.
50—Conduct of business affairs of the Authority.
51—Delegation by the Authority.
52—Staff of the Authority.
53—Terms and conditions of service.

2017

417

2017

Health

54—Protection from liability.
55—Funds of the Authority.
56—Financial year.
57—Annual estimates.
58—Investment of funds.
59—Accounts and Audit
60—Relationship with other regulatory bodies.
61—Formation of professional bodies.
PART VU—REGULATION OF HEALTH
PRODUCTS AND HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES
62—Establishment of a single regulatory body for health
products and technologies.
63—Functions of the single regulatory body.
64—Conditions.
65—Licences.
66—Standards.
67—Procurement of health products and technologies.
PART VIII—PROMOTION AND ADVANCEMENT
OF PUBLIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
68—Public and environmental health.
69—Policies.
70—Amendment of Cap. 242.
71—Lactation stations in the workplace.
72—Provision of break intervals for nursing employees.
PART IX—MENTAL HEALTH
73—Mental health.
PART X—TRADITIONAL AND ALTERNATIVE
MEDICINES
74—Promotion of practice.
75—Regulation of practice on traditional medicine.
76—Documentation and mapping.
77—Standardization.
78—Charges.
79—Referral.

No. 21

No. 21

418
Health

PART XI—HUMAN ORGANS, HUMAN BLOOD,
BLOOD PRODUCTS, OTHER TISSUES AND
GAMETES
80—Human organs transplantation.
Making of wills.
Donation purposes.
Revocation of a donation by a donor.
Postmortem.
85—Kenya National Blood Transfusion Service.
PART XII– HEALTH FINANCING
86—Health finance.
87—Bank account.
PART XIII—ROLE PRIVATE SECTOR
PARTICIPATION
88—Private health services.
89—Licensing of private entities to operate hospitals,
clinics, etc.
90—Private health workers.
91—Duty of licensees.
92— Partnership agreements.
PART—XIV—PROMOTION AND CONDUCT OF
RESEARCH FOR HEALTH
93—Establishment of the National Research for Health
Committee.
94—Membership.
95—Term of office.
96—Functions of the Committee.
97—Institute.
98—Procedures.
99—Research approvals.
100—Minors.
101—Research budget.
102—Donor Support and collaborative arrangements.
PART XV—E- HEALTH
103 —E-health delivery.
104— E-legislation.
105—Health information system.

2017

419

2017

Health

PART XVI—INTER- DEPARTMENTAL
COLLABORATION
106 —Collaboration.
107—Training.
108—Fields of Collaboration.
PART XVII —TRANSITIONAL AND
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
109—Existing laws.
110—Public service.
11 1—General penalty.
112—Regulations.
FIRST SCHEDULE - TECHNICAL
CLASSIFICATION OF THE
LEVELS OF HEALTHCARE
DELIVERY
SECOND SCHEDULE—PROVISIONS AS TO THE
CONDUCT OF BUSINESS
AND AFFAIRS OF THE
COUNCIL
THIRD SCHEDULE—PROVISIONS AS TO THE
CONDUCT OF BUSINESS
AND AFFAIRS OF THE
AUTHORITY
FOURTH SCHEDULE—PROVISIONS AS TO THE
CONDUCT OF BUSINESS
AND AFFAIRS OF THE
COMMITTEE

No. 21

420
No. 21

2017

Health

THE HEALTH ACT, 2017
AN ACT of Parliament to establish a unified health
system, to coordinate the inter-relationship
between the national government and county
government health systems, to provide for
regulation of health care service and health care
service providers, health products and health
technologies and for connected purposes.
ENACTED by the Parliament of Kenya, as follows—
PART I— PRELIMINARY
This Act may be cited as the Health Act, 2017 and
shall come into operation upon the expiry of ninety days
from the date of publication.
In this Act unless the context otherwise requires"abortion" means termination of a pregnancy before
the foetus is viable as an independent life outside the
womb;
"alternative medicine" means complementary
medicine and includes a broad set of health care practices
that are not part of Kenya's tradition and are not integrated
into dominant health care system;
"Authority" means the Kenya Health Professions
Oversight Authority established under section 45;
"Board" refers to the governing Board of the Kenya
Health Professions Oversight Authority;
"breastfeeding" means the method of feeding an infant
directly from the female breast;
"Cabinet Secretary" means the Cabinet Secretary for
Ministry responsible for matters relating to health;
"Committee" means the National Research for Health
Committee established under section 93;
"Director-General" means the Director-General for
health appointed under section 16;
"disaster" means but is not limited to an adverse
situation or event, which overwhelms local capacity for
response and recovery, necessitating external assistance;

Sim,, title and

Interpretation

421
2017

Health

"disease" refers to any physical or mental condition
that causes pain, dysfunction, distress, social problems or
death to the person afflicted or similar problems for those
in contact with the person;
"e-Health" means the combined use of electronic
communication and information technology in the health
Sector including telemedicine";
"emergency treatment" refers to necessary immediate
health care that must be administered to prevent death or
worsening of a medical situation;
"expressing milk" means the acts of extracting human
milk from the breast by hand or by pump into a container"
"health" refers to a state of complete physical, mental
and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease
or infirmity;
"health care professional" includes any person who
has obtained health professional qualifications and licensed
by the relevant regulatory body;
"health care provider" means a person who provides
health care services and includes a health care
professional;"
"health care services" means the prevention,
promotion, management or alleviation of disease, illness,
injury, and other physical and mental impairments in
individuals, delivered by health care professionals through
the health care system's routine health services, or its
emergency health services;
"health extension worker" means a health care
professional working in health centres in rural and
medically underserved areas, where they provide
emergency treatments and a range of other health services
to patients;
"health facility" means the whole or part of a public or
private institution, building or place, whether for profit or
not, that is operated or designed to provide in-patient or
out-patient treatment, diagnostic or therapeutic
rehabilitative,
palliative,
nursing,
interventions,
convalescent, preventative or other health service;
"health system" means an organization of people,
institutions and resources, that deliver health care services

No. 21

422
No. 21

Health

to meet the health needs of the population, in accordance
with established policies:
"health technology" refers to the application of
organized knowledge and skills in the form of devices,
medicine, vaccines, procedures and systems developed to
solve a health problem and improve the quality of life;
"human blood products" means any product derived
or produced from blood, including plasma, sera, circulating
progenitor cells, bone marrow progenitor cells and
umbilical cord progenitor cells;
"informed consent" refers to a process of getting
permission before conducting a health care prevention on a
person;
"lactation stations" means private, clean, sanitary and
well ventilated rooms or areas in the workplace where
nursing mothers can wash up, breast feed or express their
milk and hygienically preserve it;
"medical emergency" means an acute situation of
injury or illness that poses an immediate risk to life or
health of a person or has potential for deterioration in the
health of a person or if not managed timely would lead to
adverse consequences in the well-being;
"private health services" means provision of health
services by a health facility that is not owned by the
national or county governments and includes health care
services provided by individuals, faith-based organizations
and private health institutions;
"public good" means a good or service whose benefits
may be provided to a group at no more cost than that
required to provide for one person;
"public health services" means health services owned
and offered by the national and county governments;
"referral" means the process by which a given health
facility transfers a client service, specimen and client
parameters to another facility to assume responsibility for
consultation, review or further management;
"reproductive cloning of a human being" means the
manipulation of genetic material in order to achieve the
reproduction of a human being and includes nuclear
transfer or embryo splitting for such purpose;

2017

423

2017

Health

No. 21

"research for health" includes but is not limited to
research which seeks to contribute to the extension of
knowledge in any health related field, such as that
concerned with the biological, clinical, psychological or
social processes in human beings improved methods for the
provision of health services; or human pathology; or the
causes of disease; or the effects of the environment on the
human body; or the development or new application of
pharmaceuticals, medicines and other preventative,
therapeutic or curative agents; or the development of new
applications of health technology;
"risk" means probability or threat of damage, injury,
liability, loss or any other negative occurrence caused by
external or internal vulnerabilities that may be avoided
through pre-emptive action;
"specialist" means a health professional who is
specially trained in a certain branch of his or her profession
related to specific services or procedures;
"telemedicine" refers to the provision of health care
services and sharing of medical knowledge over distance
using telecommunications and it includes consultative,
diagnostic, and treatment services;
"therapeutic manipulation or cloning" means handling
of genetic material of zygotic or embryonic cells in order to
alter, for therapeutic purposes, the function of cells or
tissues;
"tissues" shall include but not limited to the placenta,
embryonic or foetal tissue, stem cells and umbilical cord;
and
"traditional medicine" includes the knowledge, skills
and practices based on the theories, beliefs and experiences
indigenous to different cultures, whether explicable or not,
used in the maintenance of health as well as in the
prevention, diagnosis, improvement or treatment of
physical and mental illness..
3. The objects of this Act are to—
(a) establish a national health system which
encompasses public and private institutions and
providers of health services at the national and
county levels and facilitate in a progressive and

Objects of the Act.

No. 21

424
Health

2017

equitable manner, the highest attainable standard
of health services;
protect, respect, promote and fulfill the health
rights of all persons in Kenya to the progressive
realization of their right to the highest attainable
standard of health, including reproductive health
care and the right to emergency medical
treatment;
protect, respect, promote and fulfill the rights of
children to basic nutrition and health care
services contemplated in Articles 43(1) (c) and
53(1) (c) of the Constitution;
protect, respect, promote and fulfill the rights of
vulnerable groups as defined in Article 21 of the
Constitution in all matters regarding health; and
recognize the role of health regulatory bodies
established under any written law and to
distinguish their regulatory role from the policy
making function of the national government.
4. It is a fundamental duty of the State to observe,
respect, protect, promote and fulfill the right to the highest
attainable standard of health including reproductive health
care and emergency medical treatment by inter alia developing policies, laws and other measures
necessary to protect, promote, improve and
maintain the health and well-being of every
person;
ensuring the prioritization and adequate
investment in research for health to promote
technology and innovation in health care
delivery;
ensuring the realization of the health related
rights and interests of vulnerable groups within
society, including women, older members of
society, persons with disabilities, children, youth,
members of minority or marginalized
communities and members of particular ethnic,
religious or cultural communities;
ensuring the provision of a health service
package at all levels of the health care system,

:1bhhhtY for

425

2017

Health

No. 21

which shall include services addressing
promotion, prevention, curative, palliative and
rehabilitation, as well as physical and financial
access to health care;
(e) ensuring adequate investment in research for
health to promote technology and innovation in
health care delivery.
5. (1) Every person has the right to the highest
attainable standard of health which shall include
progressive access for provision of promotive, preventive,
curative, palliative and rehabilitative services.

Standardofhealth.

(2) Every person shall have the right to be treated with
dignity, respect and have their privacy respected in
accordance with the Constitution and this Act.
(3) The national and county governments shall ensure
the provision of free and compulsory vaccination for children under five years of age;
and
maternity care.
(4) For the purposes of implementing subsection (3),
the national government shall in consultation with the
respective county governments provide funds to county
governments.

PART 11—RIGHTS AND DUTIES
6. (1) Every person has a right to reproductive health
care which includes—
the right of men and women of reproductive age
to be informed about, and to have access to
reproductive health services including to safe,
effective, affordable and acceptable family
planning services;
the right of access to appropriate health-care
services that will enable parents to go safely
through pregnancy, childbirth, and the postpartum period, and provide parents with the best
chance of having a healthy infant;
access to treatment by a trained health
professional for conditions occurring during

Reproductive

426
2017

Health

No. 21

pregnancy including abnormal pregnancy
conditions, such as ectopic, abdominal and molar
pregnancy, or any medical condition exacerbated
by the pregnancy to such an extent that the life or
health of the mother is threatened. All such cases
shall be regarded as comprising notifiable
conditions.
For the purposes of subsection (I) (c), the term "a
trained health professional" shall refer to a health
professional with formal medical training at the proficiency
level of a medical officer, a nurse, midwife, or a clinical
officer who has been educated and trained to proficiency in
pregnancy-related
the skills needed to manage
complications in women, and who has a valid license from
the recognized regulatory authorities to carry out that
procedure.
Any procedure carried out under subsection (1) (a)
or (1) (c) shall be performed in a legally recognized health
facility with an enabling environment consisting of the
minimum human resources, infrastructure, commodities
and supplies for the facility as defined in the norms and
standards developed under this Act.
7. (1) Every person has the right to emergency
medical treatment.

Emergency
treatment.

(2) For the purposes of this section, emergency
medical treatment shall includepre-hospital care;
stabilizing the health status of the individual; or
arranging for referral in cases where the health
provider of first call does not have facilities or
capability to stabilize the health status of the
victim.
(3) Any medical institution that fails to provide
emergency medical treatment while having ability to do so
commits an offence and is liable upon conviction to a fine
not exceeding three million shillings.
8. (1) Every health care provider shall inform a user
or, where the user of the information is a minor or
incapacitated, inform the guardian of the-

Health information.

427

2017

Health

user's health status except in circumstances
where there is substantial evidence that the
disclosure of the user's health status would be
contrary to the best interests of the user;
range of promotive, preventive and diagnostic
procedures and treatment options generally
available to the user;
benefits, risks, costs and consequences generally
associated with each option; and
user's right to refuse recommended medical
options and explain the implications, risks, and
legal consequences of such refusal.
The health care provider concerned must, where
possible, inform the user as contemplated in subsection (1)
in a language that the user understands and in a manner
which takes into account the user's level of literacy.
Where the user exercises the right to refuse a
treatment option, the health care provider may at its
discretion require the user to confirm such refusal in a
formal manner.
In this section, the word "user" refers to any
person who seeks or intends to seek medical care from a
health care provider and the expression "health care
provider" includes any health facility.
9. (1) No specified health service may be provided to
a patient without the patient's informed consent unless—
(a) the patient is unable to give informed consent
and such consent is given by a personmandated by the patient in writing to grant
consent on his or her behalf; or
authorized to give such consent in terms of
any law or court order;
(b) the patient is unable to give informed consent
and no person is mandated or authorized to give
such consent, but the consent is given by the next
of kin;
(c) the provision of a health service without
informed consent is authorized by an applicable
law or court order;

No. 21

Consent.

IDIOM
No. 21

Health

the patient is being treated in an emergency
situation;
failure to treat the user, or a group of people
which includes the user, will result in a serious
risk to public health; or
any delay in the provision of the health service to
the patient might result in his or her death or
irreversible damage to his or her health and the
patient has not expressly, or by implication or by
conduct refused that service.
A health care provider must take all reasonable
steps to obtain the user's informed consent.
For the purposes of this section "informed
consent" means consent for the provision of a specified
health service given by a person with legal capacity to do
so and who has been informed as provided for in section 8
of this Act.
10. The national government, county governments and
every organ having a role or responsibility within the
National Health System, shall ensure that appropriate,
adequate and comprehensive information is disseminated
on the health functions for which they are responsible
being cognizant of the provisions of Article 35(l)(b) of the
Constitution, which must includethe types, availability and cost if any of health
services;
the organization of health services;
operating schedules and timetables of visits;
procedures for access to the health services;
procedures for laying complaints;
the rights and duties of users and health care
providers under this Act and as provided for in the
applicable service charters; and
management of environmental risk factors to
safeguard public health.
11. (1) Information concerning a user, including
information relating to his or her health status, treatment or
stay in a health facility is confidential except where such

2017

IifOrm1tio1
dissemination.

Confidentiality.

4

429

2017

Health

No. 21

information is disclosed under order of court or informed
consent for health research and policy planning purposes.
(2) Subject to the Constitution and this Act, no person
may disclose any information contemplated in subsection
(1) unless—
the user consents to such disclosure in writing in
the prescribed form;
a court order or any applicable law requires such
disclosure; or
non-disclosure of the information represents a
serious threat to public health.
(3) Any proposed disclosure of information under
subsection 2 (c), shall be subject to regulations published
by the Cabinet Secretary of health, from time to time
12. (1) The Rights and duties of healthcare providers
shall include—
not to be unfairly discriminated against on
account of any of the grounds set out in Article
27(4) of the Constitution;
the right to a safe working environment that
minimizes the risk of disease transmission and
injury or damage to the health care personnel or
to their clients, families or property;
the right to refuse to treat a user who is
physically or verbally abusive or who sexually
harasses him or her except in an emergency
situation where no alternative health care
personnel is available;
the right to apply for and accept a salaried post in
the public service or the private sector.
(2) All healthcare providers, whether in the public or
private sector, shall have the duty—
to provide health care, conscientiously and to the
best of their knowledge within their scope of
practice and ability, to every person entrusted to
their care or seeking their support;
to provide emergency medical treatment as
provided for under section 7(2);

Healthcare providers.

No. 21

430
Health

2017

(c) to inform a user of the health system, in a manner
commensurate with his or her understanding, of
his or her health status:
Provided that where this would be contrary to the best
interests of the user, then in such cases, the requisite
information should be communicated to the next of kin or
guardian as case may be.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1)
(a), the head of any health facility may impose conditions
on the service that may be provided by a health care
provider taking into account his or her health status.

13. A user of the health system has the duty, in the

Duty of users.

absence of any observable incapacity to adhere to the rules of a health facility when
receiving treatment or using the health services
provided by the establishment;
to adhere to the medical advice and treatment
provided by the establishment;
to supply the healthcare provider with accurate
information pertaining to his or her health status;
to cooperate with the healthcare provider;
to treat healthcare providers and health workers
with dignity and respect;

(0 if so requested, to sign a discharge certificate or
release of liability if he or she refuses to accept or
implement recommended treatment.

14. (1) Any person has a right to file a complaint
about the manner in which he or she was treated at a health
facility and have the complaint investigated appropriately.
The relevant national and county governments
shall establish and publish the procedure for the laying of
complaints within public and private health care facilities
in those areas of the national health system for which they
are responsible.
The procedures for laying complaints shall—
(a) be displayed by all health facilities in a manner
that is visible for any person entering the

complaints.

431
2017

Health

No. 21

establishment and the procedure must be
communicated to users on a regular basis; and
(b) be primarily handled by the head of the relevant
facility or any person designated by the facility as
responsible for handling user complaints.
Every complainant under subsection (1) has a right
to be informed, in writing and within a period of three
months from the date the complaint was lodged, of the
action taken or decision made regarding the complaint.
Where a health facility or a regulatory body fails to
resolve a complaint to the satisfaction of the complainant,
the Authority shall take necessary action.
15. (1) The national government ministry responsible
for health shall
develop health policies, laws and administrative
procedures and programmes in consultation with
county governments and health sector
stakeholders and the public for the progressive
realization of the highest attainable standards of
health including reproductive health care and the
right to emergency treatment;
develop and maintain an organizational structure
of the Ministry at the national level comprising
of technical directorates;
ensure the implementation of rights to health
specified in the Bill of Rights and more
particularly the progressive realization of the
right of all to the highest attainable standard of
health including reproductive health care and the
right to emergency treatment;
ensure, in consultation and collaboration with
other arms of government and other stakeholders.
that there is stewardship in setting policy
guidelines and standards for human food
consumption, dietetic services and healthy
lifestyle;
offer technical support at all levels with emphasis
on health system strengthening;
(1) develop policy measures to promote equitable
access to health services to the entire population,

Duties of national
government

No. 21

432
Health

with special emphasis on eliminating the
disparity in realization of the objects of this Act
for marginalized areas and disadvantaged
populations;
develop and promote application of norms and
standards for the development of human
resources for health including affirmative action
measures for health workers working in
marginalized areas;
provide for medical audit of deaths with a special
emphasis on maternal and neonatal deaths as a
tool for the further development of obstetric and
neonatal care;
put in place policy intervention measures to
reduce the burden of communicable and non communicable diseases, emerging and reemerging diseases and neglected diseases;
develop, through regulatory bodies, standards of
training and institutions providing education to
meet the needs of service delivery;
set guidelines for the designation of referral
health facilities;
(1) through respective regulatory bodies to develop
and ensure compliance on professional standards
on registration and licensing of individuals in the
health sector;
co-ordinate development of standards for quality
health service delivery;
provide for accreditation of health services;
co-ordinate through the established intergovernmental relations mechanisms all health
aspects of disaster and emergencies;
ensure through intergovernmental mechanisms
that financial resources are mobilized to ensure
uninterrupted access to quality health services
country wide;
promote the development of public and private
health institutions to ensure their efficient and
harmonious development and in the common

2017

433

2017

Health

interest work towards progressive achievement of
the right to health;
provide for the development and expansion of a
countrywide national health information
management system;
facilitate all forms of research that can advance
the interests of public health;
develop and manage the national and specialized
health referral facilities;
promote the use of appropriate health
technologies for improving the quality of health
care;
provide policy guidelines and regulations for
hospital waste management and conduct of
environmental health impact assessment;
collaborate in the common interest with the
health authorities of other countries and with
regional and international bodies in the field of
health;
establish an emergency medical treatment fund
for emergencies to provide for unforeseen
situations calling for supplementary finance;
provide policy guidelines in public-private
partnerships for health to enhance private sector
investment; and
provide policy and training, maintenance of
standards and co-ordination mechanisms for the
provision of emergency healthcare.
(2) The Cabinet Secretary responsible for health in
consultation through the established inter-governmental
relations mechanisms shall make regulations on any matter
where it is necessary or expedient in order—
to implement any provision of this Act; and
to implement within Kenya measures agreed upon
within the framework of any treaty, international
convention or regional intergovernmental
agreement to which Kenya is a party.
16. (1) There shall hereby be established the office of
the Director-General for health.

No. 21

Office of the
Director -General.

No. 21

434
Health

(2) The Director General for health shall be recruited
by the Public Service Commission through a competitive
process, vetted by Parliament and appointed by the Cabinet
Secretary.
(3) A person appointed under subsection (2) must—
be a medical practitioner registered by the
Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board;
at least be a holder of a Masters degree in public
health, medicine or any other health related field;
have experience of at least ten years
in
management of health services, five of which
must be at a senior management position; and
meet the provisions of Chapter Six of the
Constitution of Kenya.
(4) The Director-General shall hold office for a term
of five years renewable once.
17. The Director-General shall be the technical advisor to the Government on all
matters relating to health within the health sector;
be the technical advisor to the Cabinet Secretary of
health;
be responsible for preventing and guarding against
the introduction of infectious diseases into Kenya;
promote the public health and the prevention,
limitation or suppression of infectious,
communicable or preventable diseases within
Kenya;
advice the two levels of Government on matters of
national security on public health;
(I) promote and facilitate research and investigations
in connection with the prevention or treatment of
human diseases;
prepare and publish reports and statistical or other
information relative to the public health;
obtain and publish periodically information on
infectious diseases and other health matters and
such procurable information regarding epidemic

2017

Functions of the
Director-General.

435

2017

Health

No. 21

diseases in territories adjacent to Kenya or in other
Countries as the interests of public health may
require;
provide guidelines for registration, licensing,
certification and gazettement of all health
facilities;
be responsible for internship program for health
workers;
supervise the directorates within the national
Ministry of health; and
(1) perform any other duties as may be assigned by
the appointing authority and any other written law.

18. For purposes of section 15(1)(b), the Cabinet
Secretary shall -

Directorates.

(a) form directorates to deal with the following
matters medical services;
nursing;
pharmaceutical services;
public health; and
administrative services;
(b) notwithstanding paragraph (a), form other
directorates based on policy priority areas in
consultation with the Director-General.
19. (1) There shall be established with respect to every
county, a county executive department responsible for
health, which shall be in line with the health policy
guidelines for setting up county health system and shall in
all matters be answerable to the Governor and the County
Assembly subject to the provisions of the Constitution and
of any applicable written law.
There shall be established the office of the County
Director of health who shall be a technical advisor on all
matters of health in the County.
The County Director of health shall be recruited
through a competitive process in conformity with the rules
and regulations set from time to time by the County
Public Service Board.

County health
system.

436
No. 21

Health

(4) A person appointed a County Director of health
shall be a medical practitioner registered by the
Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board;
be at least a holder of a Masters degree in public
health, medicine or any other health related
discipline; and
have at least five years' experience in
management of health services.
(5) The County Director of health shallbe the technical advisor on all matters relating to
health within the County;
be the technical advisor to the County Health
Executive Committee member and the Governor;
supervise all health services within the County;
promote the public health and the prevention,
limitation or suppression of infectious,
communicable or preventable diseases within the
County;
prepare and publish reports and statistical or
other information relative to the public health
within the County;
report periodically to the Director-General for
health on all public health occurrences including
disease outbreaks, disasters and any other health
matters; and
perform any other duties as may be assigned by
the appointing authority and any other written
law.
20. The county government in furtherance of the
functions assigned to it under the Fourth Schedule of the
Constitution shall be responsible for implementing the national health policy and
standards as laid down by national government
Ministry responsible for health;
service delivery, including the maintenance,
financing and further development of those

2017

Duties of county
government.

437

2017

Health

health services and institutions that have been
devolved to it;
coordination of health activities in order to
ensure complementary inputs, avoid duplication
and provide for cross-referral, where necessary to
and from institutions in other counties;
facilitating
registration,
licensing
and
accreditation of providers and health facilities
respectively according to standards set nationally
by the national government department
responsible for health and relevant regulatory
bodies;
designation of county referral hospitals according
to criteria agreed upon by the intergovernmental
health coordinating mechanism;
developing and implementing, in consultation
with the Salaries and Remuneration Commission,
such policies as may be necessary to guarantee
the staffing of the public health service in
marginal areas including taking into account the
use of equalization fund;
procuring and managing health supplies;
maintaining standards of environmental health
and sanitation as laid down in applicable law;
providing access and practical support for
monitoring standards compliance undertaken
within the county by the national government
department responsible for health, the Authority
and professional regulatory bodies established
under any written law;
providing access and practical support for
technical assistance, monitoring and evaluation,
research for health by the national and county
government department responsible for health;
developing supplementary sources of income for
the provision of services, in so far as these are
compatible with the applicable law;
(1) making due provision and develop criteria to
compensate health care facilities for debts arising

No. 21

438
No. 21

2017

Health

through failure to secure payment for bills for
non-payment of treatment of indigent users;
reporting, according to standards established by
law, on activities, development and the state of
finance within the county health services;
making known to the public at all times the
health facilities through which generalized or
specialized services are available to them;
developing and promoting public participation in
the planning and management of local health
facilities so as to promote broad ownership;
ensuring and coordinating the participation of
communities in the governance of health services
at the county level so as to promote a
participatory approach in health care governance.
The National Health System shall work in a
manner that respects the distinct levels of government,
while respecting the principles of cooperation and
coordination as outlined in this Act and in legislation
regulating the relationships and functions of the county and
national government.

Coordination.

PART Ill—PUBLIC HEALTH FACILITIES

The national and county governments shall ensure
the progressively equitable distribution throughout the
country of such publicly owned health institutions,
including hospitals, health centers, pharmacies, clinics and
laboratories, as are deemed necessary for the promotive,
preventive and rehabilitative health services.
Notwithstanding the provisions of section 65 and
subject to any other law regulating public-private
partnerships, nothing under this Act shall prevent the
national and county governments from entering into publicprivate partnerships for the purpose of establishing and
deepening health service provision.
Without prejudice to the distribution of health
functions and services between the national and county
levels of government as set out in Fourth Schedule of the
Constitution, the national Government shall manage and be
responsible for -

Pull ic health
facilities.

Public private
partnership.

letention of service

439
2017

Health

any public health institution classified as a
national referral facility under this Act;
any institution or service dependent for its
function on expertise that is a shared resource as
classified from time to time in regulations under
this Act
laboratories and other institutions designated as
serving a national rather than a regional purpose;
regulation of health products and health
technologies including assessment, licensing and
control of commercial and industrial activities;
facilitation
through
inter-governmental
institutions, procurement and supply chain
management of public health goods including
vaccines,
pharmaceutical
and
nonpharmaceuticals for the. purpose of ensuring
control of highly infectious and communicable
health conditions, putting measures for quality
assurance and standards as well as measures for
guarding against resistance strains in the interest
of public health; and
any health care function or service that is not
otherwise assigned to the county government.
(1) The technical classification of levels of health
care shall be as set out in the First Schedule.
(2) Subsection (1) shall not apply to a health facility
under the management of a county government at the
commencement of this Act.
PART IV - KENYA HEALTH SECTOR INTER-

No. 21

classificatio of
levels of i?tcare.

GOVERNMENTAL CONSULTATIVE FORUM

(1) There is established a Health Sector InterGovernmental Consultative Forum, in line with the
provisions of the Inter-Governmental Relations Act, and
any applicable law.
(2) The Forum shall comprise of—
the Director-General for health or a designated
representative; and
each County Director of health or a designated
representative.

Establishment of
No. 2of2012

No. 21

440
Health

2017

27. (1) The Forum shall—
develop criteria and framework for determining
matters
requiring
inter-governmental
consultation; and
develop inter-governmental agreements for joint
implementation of any activities for health
service delivery.
be a platform for mutual consultation,
coordination and collaboration between the
national and county governments on all matters
related to health.
28. The Forum shall meet at least twice a year.

Purpose ofthe
Forum.

29. The Forum shall regulate the conduct and

Conduct of Business.

Meetings of the

regulation of the business and affairs of the Forum.
PART V—ESTABLISHMENT OF THE KENYA
HEALTH HUMAN RESOURCE ADVISORY
COUNCIL
30. (1) There is established a Kenya Health Human

Resource Advisory Council which shall consist of—
a Chairperson, who shall be appointed by the
Cabinet Secretary;
the Principal Secretary for the time being
responsible for matters relating to health or a
representative designated by the Principal
Secretary;
one person, not being a governor, nominated by
the Council of Governors;
the Attorney General or a representative
designated by the Attorney General;
the Director-General for health or a
representative designated by the Director General;
one representative nominated by the Public
Service Commission;
one person nominated by the county directors of
health;

Establishment of the
Council.

441
2017

Health

No. 21

one person nominated by the county public
service boards;
three persons nominated by the public
universities, private universities and mid-level
institutions; and
the Chief Executive Officer who shall be an ex
officio member and secretary to the Council.
(2) The Council shall be a body corporate with
perpetual succession and a common seal, and shall in its
corporate name be capable of—
suing and being sued;
acquiring, holding and disposing of movable and
immovable property; and
doing or performing all such other things or acts
as may be lawfully done by a body corporate.
31. The Council shall review policy and establish
uniform norms and standards for—
posting of interns to National Government and
County Government facilities;
inter county transfer of healthcare professionals;
transfer of healthcare professionals from one
level of Government to another;
the welfare and the scheme of service for health
professionals;
management and rotation of specialists; and
the maintenance of a master register for all health
practitioners in the counties.
32. The Council shall have all powers necessary for
the proper performance of its functions under this Act and
in particular, but without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing, the Council shall have power to—
control, supervise and administer the assets of the
Council in such manner and for such purpose as
best promotes the purposes for which the Council
is established;
determine the provision to be made for capital
and recurrent expenditure and for the reserves of
the Council;

lunclion, of the

Powers of the
Council.

No. 21

442
Health

receive any grants, gifts, donations or
endowments and make legitimate disbursements
therefrom;
enter into association with other bodies or
organizations within or outside Kenya as the
Council may consider desirable or appropriate
and in furtherance of the purpose for which the
Council is established;
open a banking account or banking accounts for
the funds of the Council; and
invest any funds of the Council not immediately
required for its purposes as may be permitted by
law for the time being in force.
33. (1) The Public Service Commission shall, through
an open and transparent process, recruit a Chief Executive
i.
Officer who shall be appointed by the Council.
(2) A person is qualified for appointment as the Chief
Executive Officer to the Council if the person—
holds at least a degree in medicine from a
university recognized in Kenya, and is registered
by the Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board;
has at least ten years' experience in the practice
of medicine, five of which shall be experience at
a senior management level; and
meets the, requirements of Chapter Six of the
Constitution.
(3) The Chief Executive Officer shall serve the
Council for a term of five years and shall be eligible,
subject to satisfactory performance of his or her functions,
for reappointment for one further term.
(4) A person shall not be appointed as the Chief
Executive Officer or an officer of the Council if such
person has any direct or indirect interest in the health
sector.
(5) The Chief Executive Officer may be removed
from office for gross misconduct, violation of the
Constitution or any other law or any other ground as may
be provided for in the contract of employment.

2017

gchltie

443

2017

Health

(6) The Chief Executive Officer shall be responsible
for the day to day operations of the Council.
34. (1) The conduct and regulation of the Business
and affairs of the Council shall be as provided in the
Second Schedule.
(2) Except as provided in the Second Schedule, the
Council may regulate its own procedure.
35. The Council may, by resolution generally or in
any particular case, delegate to any committee of the
Council or to any member, officer, employee or agent of
the Council, the exercise of any of the powers or the
performance of any of the functions or duties of the
Council under this Act.
36. (1) The chairperson and the members of the
Council, other than the ex-officio members, shall hold
office for a term of five years and shall be eligible for reappointment for one further term.
(2) The members of the Council shall be appointed in
such a manner that the respective expiry dates of their
terms of office fall at different times.
37. (1) The Council may competitively appoint
suitably qualified staff as may be necessary for the efficient
performance of the functions of the Council.
(2) In the appointment of the staff of the Council, the
Council shall comply with the values and principles set out
in the Constitution and in particular—
afford adequate and equal opportunities for
appointment and advancement at all levels, of
men and women, members of all ethnic groups
and persons with disabilities;
exercise transparency in the recruitment process;
and
ensure competitive recruitment and selection on
the basis of personal integrity, competence and
suitability.
38. The staff of the Council shall serve on such terms
of service as the Council, on recommendation of the
Salaries and Remuneration Commission may determine.

No. 21

Conduct of business
and affairs of the
Council.

Delegation by the

Tenure of office.

Staff of the Council.

Terms and
conditions of service.

No. 21

444
Health

39. (1) A member of the Council or any person
working under the instructions of the Council shall not be
personally liable for any act or default of the Council done
or omitted to be done in good faith in the course of
carrying on the functions of, or exercising of powers
conferred upon the Council under this Act.
(2) Despite'
espit subsection- (1), the Council shall not be
relieved of its liability to pay compensation to any person
for any injury to him or her, his or her property or to any of
his or her interest caused by the exercise of any power
conferred by this Act or by failure, whether wholly or
partially, of any works.
40. The funds of the Council shall comprise—
such funds as may be appropriated by the
Parliament.
such monies or assets as may accrue to or vest in
the Council in the performance of its functions or
exercise of its powers under this Act or any other
written law; and
all monies from any other source provided for,
donated or lent to the Council.
41. The Financial year of the Council shall be the
period of twelve months ending on the thirtieth day of June
in every year.
42. (1) The Council shall, at least three months before
the commencement of each financial year, cause to be
prepared estimates of revenue and expenditure of the
Council for that financial year.
(2) The annual estimates shall make provisions for all
the estimated expenditure of the Council for the financial
year concerned and in particular shall provide for the payment of salaries, allowances and other
charges in respect of the members of staff or
agents of the Council;
payment of pensions, gratuities and other charges
in respect of members and other staff of the
Council;

2017
from

Funds of the
Council.

Financial year.

Annual estimates.

445

2017

Health

proper maintenance of buildings and grounds of
the Council;
acquisition, maintenance, repair and replacement
of the equipment and other movable property of
the Council; and
funds to meet future or contingent liabilities in
respect of retirement benefits, insurance or
replacement of buildings or equipment, or in
respect of such other matter as the Council may
deem appropriate.
The annual estimates shall be approved by the
Council before 'commencement of the financial year to
which they relate and shall be submitted to the Cabinet
Secretary for approval and after approval, the Council shall
not increase annual estimates without the consent of the
Cabinet Secretary.
No expenditure shall be incurred for the purposes
of the Council except in accordance with the annual
estimates approved under subsection (3), or in pursuance of
an authorizations by the Cabinet Secretary.
43. (1) The Council shall cause to be kept all proper
books of records of accounts of the income, expenditure,
assets and liabilities of the Council.
The accounts of the Council shall be audited and
reported upon in accordance with the provisions of the
Public Audit Act
The Council shall, within three months from the
end of the financial year to which the accounts relate,
submit to the Auditor-General the accounts of the Council
together with—
a statement of income and expenditure during the
year;
a statement of the assets and liabilities of the
Council as of the last day of that year;
a cash flow statement for the financial year; and
any other statements and accounts that may be
necessary to fully disclose the financial position
of the Council.

No. 21

Accounts and audit.

No. U of 2003

No. 21

446
Health

44. The Council may, subject to the approval of the

2017
Investment of funds.

Cabinet Secretary for the time being responsible for matter
relating to finance invest any of the funds of the Council in
securities in which, for the time being, trustees may by law
invest funds or any other securities which the Treasury
may, from time to time approve for that purpose.
PART VI—ESTABLISHMENT OF THE KENYA
HEALTH PROFESSIONS OVERSIGHT
AUTHORITY
45. (1) There is established an Authority known as the

Kenya Health Professions Oversight Authority.
(2) The Authority shall be a body corporate with
perpetual succession and a common seal, and shall in its
corporate mane be capable of—
suing and being sued;
acquiring, holding and disposing of movable and
immovable property; and
doing or performing all such other things or acts
as may be lawfully done by a body corporate.
46. (1) The Authority shall be administered by a
Board which shall consist of—
a chairperson appointed by the Cabinet Secretary
who shall be a health professional who meets the
requirements of Chapter six of the Constitution
of Kenya;
the Principal Secretary in the Ministry for the
time being responsible for health or a designated
representative;
the Director-General for health or a designated
representative;
the Attorney General or a designated
representative;
two representatives nominated by the health
regulatory bodies established under an Act of
Parliament;
two representatives nominated by the Council of
Governors;

Establishment of the
Authority.

Board of the

447
2017

Health

two representatives nominated by the health
professional associations registered by the
Registrar of Societies who are not regulated or
registered by any regulatory body;
one representative from the private sector
appointed by the Cabinet Secretary;
one representative from consumer rights bodies
appointed by the Cabinet Secretary; and
the Chief Executive Officer, appointed by the
Authority, through a competitive process and
who shall be an ex officio member and the
secretary to the Authority.
The Authority shall be supported by a Secretariat
which shall be headed by the Chief Executive Officer.
The powers of the Authority shall be vested in the
advisory Board.
The business and affairs of the Authority shall be
conducted in accordance with the Second Schedule.
47. The Board shall have all powers necessary for the
proper performance of its functions under this Act and in
particular, but without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing, shall have power to—
control, supervise and administer the assets of the
Authority in such manner and for such purpose
as best promotes the purposes for which the
Authority is established;
determine the provisions to be made for capital
and recurrent expenditure and for the reserve of
the Authority;
receive any grants, gifts, donations, or
endowments and make legitimate disbursements
therefrom;
enter into association with other bodies or
organizations within and outside Kenya as the
Authority may consider desirable or appropriate
and in furtherance of the purpose for which the
Authority is established.
open a banking account or banking accounts for
the funds of the Authority; and

No. 21

Powers of the Board.

No. 21

448
Health

(I) invest any funds of the Authority not
immediately required for its purposes as provided
under section 58.
48. The functions of the Authority shall be to–
maintain a duplicate register of all health
professionals working within the national and
county health system;
promote and regulate inter-professional liaison
between statutory regulatory bodies;
coordinate joint inspections with all regulatory
bodies;
receive and facilitate the resolution of complaints
from patients, aggrieved parties and regulatory
bodies;
monitor the execution of respective mandates and
functions of regulatory bodies recognised under
an Act of Parliament;
(0 arbitrate disputes between statutory regulatory
bodies, including conflict or dispute resolution
amongst Boards and Councils; and
(g) ensure the necessary standards for health
professionals are not compromised by the
regulatory bodies.
(2) The Cabinet Secretary shall, in consultation with
the Authority make regulations generally for the better
carrying out of the provisions of this section and without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Cabinet
Secretary shall make regulations to prescribe—
the manner and form of coordinating joint
inspections with all regulatory bodies;
the procedure for receipt and facilitation of the
resolution of complaints from patients aggrieved
parties and regulatory bodies;
the manner of monitoring the execution of
respective mandates and functions of regulatory
bodies recognized under an Act of Parliament;
the mechanisms for arbitration of disputes
between statutory regulatory bodies, including

2017

Functions of the
Authority.

449
2017

Health

conflict or dispute resolution amongst Boards
and Authorities; and
(e) mechanisms to ensure that the necessary
standards for health professionals are not
compromised by the regulatory bodies.
49. (1) The Public Service Commission shall, through
an open and transparent process, recruit a Chief Executive
Officer who shall be appointed by the Authority.
(2) A person is qualified for appointment as the Chief
Executive Officer to the Authority if the person—
is a health practitioner registered by the
respective regulatory body;
has at least ten years' experience in the practice
of medicine, five of which shall be experience at
a senior management level; and
meets the requirements of Chapter Six of the
Constitution.
(3) The Chief Executive Officer shall serve the
Authority for a term of five years and shall be eligible,
subject to satisfactory perfomance of his or her functions,
for re-appointment for one further term.
(4) A person shall not be appointed as the Chief
Executive Officer or an officer of the Authority if such
person has any direct or indirect interest in the health
sector.
(5) The Chief Executive Officer may be removed
from office for gross misconduct, violation of the
Constitution or any other law or any other ground as may
be provided for in the contract of employment.
(6) The Chief Executive Officer shall be responsible
to the Board for the day to day operations of the Authority.
50. (1) The conduct and regulation of the business and
affairs of the Board shall be as provided in the Third
Schedule.
(2) Except as provided in the Third Schedule, the
Authority may regulate its own procedure.
51. The Authority may, by resolution generally or in
any particular case, delegate to any committee of the

No. 21

Chief Executive
Officer.

Conduct f business
and affairs of the
Authority.

Delegation by the

No. 21

450
Health

Authority or to a member, officer, employee or any agent
of the Authority, the exercise of any of the powers or the
performance of any of the functions or duties of the
Authority under this Act.
52. (1) The Board may competitively appoint suitably
qualified staff as may be necessary for the efficient
performance of the functions of the Board.
(2) In appointment of the staff of the Board, the Board
shall comply with the values and principles set out in the
Constitution and in particular—
afford adequate and equal opportunities for
appointment and advancement at all levels, of
men and women , members of all ethnic groups
and persons with disabilities;
exercise transparency in the recruitment process;
and
ensure competitive recruitment and selection on
the basis of personal integrity, competence and
suitability.
The staff of the Board shall serve the Board on
such terms of service as the Board, on recommendation of
the Salaries and Remuneration Commission may
determine.
(1) A member of the Board, or an officer,
employee or agent of the Authority or any person acting
under their direction is not liable for any matter or things if
that matter or thing is done in good faith for executing the
functions, powers or duties of the Authority.
(2) Despite subsection (1), the Board shall not be
relieved of its liability to pay compensation to any person
for any injury to him or her, his or her property or to any of
his or her interest caused by the exercise of any power
conferred by this Act or by failure, whether wholly of
partially, of any works.
The funds of the Authority shall comprisesuch funds as may be appropriated by
Parliament.
such monies or assets as may accrue to or vest in
the Authority in the performance of its functions

2017

staff of the

Terms and
conditions of service.

Protection from

Funds of the

451

2017

Health

or the exercise of its powers under this Act or
any other written law; and
(c) All monies from any other source provided for,
donated or lent to the Authority.
The financial year of the Authority shall be the
period of twelve months ending on the thirtieth day of June
in every year.
(1) The Board shall, at least three months before
the commencement of each financial year, cause to be
prepared estimates of revenue and expenditure of the
Authority for that financial year.
(2) The annual estimates shall make provision for the
estimated expenditure of the Authority for the financial
year concerned and in particular shall provide for—
payment of salaries, allowances and other
charges in respect of the members of staff or
agents of the Authority;
payment of pensions, gratuities and other charges
in respect of members and other staff of the
Authority;
proper maintenance of buildings and grounds of
the Authority;
acquisition, maintenance, repair and replacement
of the equipment and other movable property of
the Authority; and
funds to meet future or contingent liabilities in
respect of retirement benefits insurance or
replacement of buildings or equipment, or in
respect of such other matter as the Authority may
deem appropriate.
(3) The annual estimates shall be approved by the
Board before the commencement of the financial year to
which they relate and shall be submitted to the Cabinet
Secretary for approval and after approval, the Authority
shall not increase annual estimates without the consent of
the Cabinet Secretary.
(4) No expenditure shall be incurred for the purposes
of the Authority except in accordance with annual
estimates approved under subsection (3), or in pursuance of
an authorization by the Cabinet Secretary.

No. 21

Financial year.

Annual estimates.

1

452
No. 21

2017

Health

58. The Board may, subject to the approval of the
Cabinet Secretary for the time being responsible for matter
relating to finance invest any of the funds of the Authority
in securities in which, for the time being, trustees may by
law invest funds or in any other securities which Treasury
may, from time to time approve for that purpose.

Investment offunds.

59. (1) The Board shall cause to be kept all proper
books and records of accounts of the income, expenditure,
assets and liabilities of the Authority.

Accounts and Audit

The Accounts of the Authority shall be audited and
reported upon in accordance with the provisions of the
Public Audit Act.

No. 12111 2003

The Board shall, within three months from the end
of the financial year to which the accounts relate, submit to
the Auditor-General the accounts of the Authority together
with—
a statement of income and expenditure during the
year;
a statement of the assets and liabilities of the
Authority as of the last day of that year;
a cash flow statement for the financial year; and
any other statements and accounts that may be
necessary to fully disclose the financial position
of the Authority.
60. (1) The obligation to inspect monitor and evaluate
the standard of performance in all the services regulated
and professionals engaged in the health sector, both public
and private shall be undertaken by the respective regulatory
bodies provided that they are not in conflict with the
functions of the Authority as stipulated in this Act or under
any other written law.

Relationship with
other regulatory
bodies.

(2) For the avoidance of doubt the regulatory bodies
referred to in subsection (1) shall include—
the Clinical Officers Authority established under
the Clinical officers Act;

260.

the Nursing Council of Kenya established under
the Nurses Act;

Cap. 257.

453
2017

Health

the Kenya Medical Laboratory Technicians and
Technologists Board established under the
Medical
Laboratory
Technicians
and
Technologists Act;
the Medical Practitioners and Dentists Board
established under the Mediacal Practitioners and
Dentists Act;
the Radiation Protection Board established under
the Radiation Protection Act;
the Pharmacy and Poisons Board established
under the Pharmacy and Poison Act;
the Council of Institute of Nutritionists and
Dieticians established undr the Nutritionists and
Dieticians Act;
the Public Health Officers and Technicians
Council established under the Public Health
Officers ( Training. Registration and Licensing)
Act; and
any other body as may be prescribed by the
Cabinet Secretary under this Act.
Any health professionals seeking to form a
professional regulatory body must adhere to the criteria
prescribed by the Cabinet Secretary in consultation with the
Authority.

No. 21
Cap. 2531.

Cap. 253.

Cap. 243.

Cap. 244.

Cap. 25313.

No. 12 of 2013.

Formation of
professional bodies.

PART VII—REGULATION OF HEALTH
PRODUCTS AND HEALTH TECHNOLOGIES

There shall be established by an Act of Parliament
a single regulatory body for regulation of health products
and health technologies,
(1) The regulatory body shalllicence health products and health technologies;
licence manufacturers and distributors of health
products;
conduct laboratory testing and inspection of
manufacturing, storage and distribution facilities
of health products and technologies;
control of clinical trials;

Establishment
of a single regulatory
body for health
products and
technologies.
Functions of the
regulatory body.

1

454
No. 21

1

2017

Health

conduct advertising and promotion, post
marketing surveillance for quality, safety and
disposal of health products and health
technologies;
regulate contractors for medical devices and
physical security for products including
radioactive material and biological products.
(2) The classes of products governed by legislation
shall extend to therapeutic feeds and nutritional
formulations.
Legislation under section 62 shall provide for the
granting of marketing approval only by a technically
competent body after appropriate assessment has
established that such a product meets generally recognized
standards and approval may be made subject to conditions,
notably with respect to the conduct and content of
promotion and advertising.
(1) No person, firm or institution may engage in
one or more of the activities specified in section 63(1)
whether by way of trade or otherwise, unless one has a
valid licence granted by the single regulatory body
established under this Part.
(2) Any person, firm or institution in the possession of
such a licence shall display the same at a conspicuous place
and shall produce the same for inspection when required to
do so by any. officer from the single regulatory body
established under this Act.
Any medicine, vaccine or other health product and
technology intended for sale to members of the public shall
be eligible for licensing only ifafter due assessment, it is found to achieve the
therapeutic or the intended effect it claims to
possess or which may reasonably be attributed to
it;
it is sufficiently safe under the normal conditions
of use;
it is made and packaged according to satisfactory
standards.'.

Conditions.

Licences.

Standards.

455

2017

Health

67. (1) The procurement for the public health services
of health products and technologies shall be undertaken in
line with the Public Procurement and Disposal Act as well
as the inter-governmental arrangements for medicine and
medical products agreed upon.
The classes of products procured by Kenya
Medical Supplies Authority shall extend to therapeutic
feeds and nutritional formulations.
The Kenya Medical Supplies Authority may be the
point of first call for procurement of health products at the
county referral level and it shall endeavor to establish
branches within each county at such locations as it may
determine.
The national government shall provide guidelines
for the procurement, distribution and management of health
products and technologies including essential medicines,
laboratory chemicals and reagents and non-pharmaceuticals
at all levels of the national health system..
PART VIII—PROMOTION AND ADVANCEMENT
OF PUBLIC AND ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH
68. (1) The National health system shall devise and
implement measures to promote health and to counter
influences having an adverse effect on the health of the
people including—
interventions to reduce the burden imposed by
communicable and non-communicable diseases
and neglected diseases, especially among
marginalized and indigent population;
to promote healthy lifestyle
interventions
including physical activity, counter the excessive
use of alcoholic products and the adulteration of
such products, reduce the use of tobacco and
other addictive substances and to counter
exposure of children and others to tobacco
smoke;
the promotion of supply of safe foodstuffs of
sufficient quality in adequate quantities and the
• promotion of nutritional knowledge at all
•
population levels;

No. 21
Procurement of
health products and
technologies.

Public and
environmental
health.

No. 21

456
Health

general health education of the public; and
a comprehensive programme to advance
reproductive health includingeffective family planning services;
implementation of means to reduce unsafe
sexual practices;
adolescence and youth sexual and
reproductive health;
maternal and neo- natal and child health;
elimination of female genital mutilation; and
maternal nutrition and micro nutrient
supplementation.
(2) The national health system shall ensure that
measures for managing environmental risk factors to curtail
occurrence and distribution of diseases are put in place and
implemented. In particular such measures shall target—
(a) the reduction of disease burden arising from poor
environmental hygiene, sanitation, occupational
exposure and environmental pollution;
the reduction of morbidity and mortality of
waterborne, foodborne and vector transmitted
diseases, and mitigate the health effects of
climate change;
the reduction of morbidity, mortality, prolonged
hospital stays, long-term disabilities, antibiotic
resistance that emanate from health care acquired
infections;
the strengthening of national and county capacity
to address or forestall transmission of diseases of
international concern; and
building community capacity in providing
solutions to public health challenges.
69. (1) Pursuant to meeting the objects set out in
section 68, the national government department of health
shall formulate national strategic and operation policies
that shall provide for measures that include-

2017

Policies.

457

2017

Health

No. 21

ensuring and promoting the provision of
quarantine especially in ports, borders and
frontiers health services;
ensuring that food and water available for human
consumption are hygienic and safe;
ensuring houses, institutions, hospitals and other
public places maintain environment to the
highest level of sanitation attainable to prevent,
reduce or eliminate environmental health risks;
developing risk-based, sustainable, integrated
food safety systems, occupational health
practices, water safety systems, appropriate
housing, and vector and vermin control;
strengthening infection prevention and control
systems including health care waste management
in all health facilities;
mobilizing resources including human resources
for action;
public education and participation;
promoting the public health and the prevention,
limitation or suppression of preventable diseases
including
communicable
and
noncommunicable, diseases neglected within Kenya;
ensuring provision of environmental health and
sanitation mechanisms to prevent and guard
against the introduction of infectious disease into
Kenya from outside;
dissemination of public health guidelines to
counties in regard to matters affecting the public
health from the environment and sanitation;
promoting disease surveillance in connection
with the prevention of environmental, food,
water and sanitation related diseases;
(1) addressing all issues pertaining to environmental
hygiene and sanitation; and
(m) developing guidelines for the conduct of health
impact assessment.
70. The Public Health Act is amended by deleting the
expression "Director of Medical Services" and substituting

men2dment of

No. 21

458
Health

therefor the expression "Director-General for health",
wherever it appears.
71. (1) All employers shall in the workplace establish
lactation stations which shall be adequately provided with
necessary equipment and facilities including hand washing
equipment, refrigerates or appropriate cooling facilities,
electrical outlets for breast pumps, a small table
comfortable seats the standard of which shall be defined by
the Ministry responsible for matters relating to health.
The lactation station shall not be located in the rest
rooms.
All employers shall take strict measures to prevent
any direct or indirect form of promotion, marketing and or
selling of infant formula and or breast substitutes within the
lactation stations.
72. (1) An employer shall grant all nursing employees
break intervals in addition to the regular times off for meals
to breastfeed or express milk.
(2) The time intervals referred to in sub section (1)
shall include the time it takes an employee to get to and
from the lactation station and shall be counted • as
compensable hours worked provided that such intervals
shall not be more than a total of one hour for every eight
hour working period.

2017

Lactation stations in
the workplace.

Provision of break
intervals for nursing
employees.

PART IX—MENTAL HEALTH
73. There shall be established by an Act of Parliament,
legislation to—
protect the rights of any individual suffering from
any mental disorder or condition;
ensure the custody of such persons and the
management of their estates as necessary;
establish, manage and control mental hospitals
having sufficient capacity to serve all parts of the
country at the national and county levels;
advance the implementation of other measures
• introduced by specific legislation in. the field of
mental health; and
ensure research is conducted to identify the
fac ors associated with mental health.

Mental health.

459
2017

Health

No. 21

PART X—TRADITIONAL AND ALTERNATIVE
MEDICINE

(1) The national government department of health
shall formulate policies to guide the practice of traditional
and alternative medicine.
(2) The county executive department for health shall
ensure implementation of any policies thereto.
(1) There shall be established regulatory body by
an Act of Parliament, to regulate the practice of traditional
medicine and alternative medicine.

Promotion of

of
traditional medicine.

(2) The regulatory body shall, maintain a register at
both the national and county levels.
The regulatory body in consultation with the
National government department for health shall set the
minimum standards of practice for traditional medicine and
alternative medicine.
The regulatory body shall be responsible for
registration, licensing and standards compliance of practice
in traditional and alternative medicine.
The regulatory body shall institute measures for
documentation and mapping of traditional and alternative
medicine practice and the county executive departments for
health shall facilitate the mapping of traditional and
alternative medicine.

Documentation.and

The national government department for health
shall, in consultation with key stakeholders develop
policies for standardization of traditional and alternative
medicine practice.

Standardization.

The charges levied on the practice of traditional
medicine shall be approved by the Authority in
consultation with statutory bodies.

Charges.

The national government department of health
shall develop policy guidelines for referral mechanisms and
a system of referrals from practitioners of traditional and
alternative medicine to conventional health facilities and
may prescribe regulations for incidental and connected
purposes which shall be implemented by county
departments.

Referral.

460
No. 21

Health

2017

PART XI—HUMAN ORGANS, HUMAN BLOOD,
BLOOD PRODUCTS, OTHER TISSUES AND
GAMETES
80. (1) No person shall remove tissue or gametes from

a human being for transplantation in another human being
or carry out the transplantation of such tissue or gametes
except—
in a duly authorized health facility for that
purpose; and
on the written authority ofthe medical practitioner in charge of clinical
services in that health facility or any other
medical practitioner authorized by him or
her; or
in the case where there is no medical
practitioner in charge of the clinical services
at that health facility, a medical practitioner
authorized by the person in charge of the
hospital; or
the person from whom the tissue or
gametes are removed, in the prescribed
manner.
(2) The medical practitioner mentioned in subsection
(1) (b) shall not be the lead participant in a transplant for
which he or she has granted authorization under that
subsection.
(3) The Cabinet Secretary shall prescribe through
regulations the criteria for the approval of organ transplant
facilities; and
the procedural measures to be applied for such
approval.
(4) (a) Any person who contravenes the provision of
this section or fails to comply therewith or who
charges a fee for a human organ commits an
offence.
(b) Any person convicted of an offence under
paragraph (a) is liable on conviction to a fine not

Human organs

461
2017

Health

exceeding ten million shillings or to
imprisonment for a period not exceeding ten
years or to both a fine and imprisonment.
81. (1) (a) A person who is competent to make a will
may in the will; or
in a document signed by him or her in the
presence of at least two competent witnesses who
are present when he or she signs and signed by
them in his or her presence; or
in an oral statement made in the presence of at
least two competent witnesses,
donate his or her body or any specified tissue thereof to be
used after his or her death, or give consent to the post
mortem examination of his or her body, for any purpose
provided for in this Act.
A person who makes a donation as contemplated
in paragraph (a) must nominate an institution or a
person contemplated under this Act.
If no donee is nominated in terms of paragraph
(b), the donation shall be null and void.
Paragraph (b) does not apply in respect of an
organ donated for the purposes contemplated in
section 80(1) and the donee of such organ must be
determined as provided in section 80(2).
In the absence of a donation under subsection (1)
(a) or of a contrary direction given by a person whilst alive
and upon death the person's body remains unclaimed under
any other law, the spouse or spouses, elder child, parent,
guardian, eldest brother or sister of that person, in the
specific order mentioned, may, after that person's death,
donate the body or any specific tissue of that person to an
institution or a person contemplated in this subsection.
(a) The Cabinet Secretary may, after the death of a
person and if none of the persons contemplated in
subsection (2) can be located, donate the body or part or
any specific tissue of that person to an institution or a
person contemplated in section 81(2).
(b) The Cabinet Secretary shall only allow the
donated tissue to be used if all the prescribed steps

No. 21

Making ofwills.

No. 21

462
Health

have been taken to locate the persons
contemplated in subsection (2).
82. (1) A donation under section 83 may only be made
for—
the purposes of the training of students in health
sciences;
the purposes of health research;
the purposes of the advancement of health
sciences;
therapeutic purposes, including the use of tissue
in any living person; or
the production of a therapeutic, diagnostic or
prophylactic substance.
(2) This Part does not apply to the—
preparation of the body of a deceased person for
the purposes of embalming;
making of incisions in the body for the
infusion thereof by a preservative; or
restoration of any disfigurement or mutilation of
the body before its burial.
83. A donor may, prior to the transplantation of the
relevant organ into the donee, revoke a donation in the
same way in which it was made or, in the case of a
donation by way of a will or other document, also by the
intentional destruction of that will or document.
84. (1) Subject to subsection (2), a post mortem
examination of the body of a deceased person may be
conducted if the person when alive gave consent thereto;
the spouse(s), child, guardian, brother or sister of
the deceased, in the specific order mentioned,
gave consent thereto; or such an examination is
necessary for determining the cause of death.
(2) A post mortem examination may not take place
unless (a) there is a medical practitioner in charge of
clinical services in the hospital or authorized
institution or of the mortuary in question, or any

2017

Donation purposes.

Revocation.

Postmortem.

463

2017

Health

other medical practitioner authorized by such
practitioner; or
(b) in the case where there is no medical practitioner
in charge of clinical services, a medical
practitioner authorized by the person in charge of
such hospital or authorised institution, authorizes
the post mortem examination in writing and in
the prescribed manner.
85. (1) There shall be established by an Act of
Parliament, a body to be known as the Kenya National
Blood Transfusion Service.
The legislation contemplated under subsection (1)
shall provide for among other things, the institutional
organization of blood transfusion service within the
Republic of Kenya.
The Service shall be charged with the mandate of
developing a comprehensive and coordinated national
blood service based on voluntary non remunerated blood
donations so as to guarantee availability of adequate and
safe blood.
The Service shall establish settings and
mechanisms that will enable it superintend, regulate and
provide blood transfusion services in the Republic of
Kenya as required by this Act or any other written law.
Any person who contravenes the provisions of this
section or who fails to comply therewith is guilty of an
offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding
one million shillings or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding five years or to both fine and imprisonment.

No. 21

Kenya National
Blood Transfusion
Service.

PART Xll—HEALTH FINANCING
86. (1) The department of health shall ensure

progressive financial access to universal health coverage by
taking measures that include—
developing mechanisms for an integrated
national health insurance system including
making provisions for social health protection
and health technology assessment;
establishing in collaboration with the department
responsible for finance oversight mechanism to
regulate all health insurance providers;

Health finance.

No. 21

464
Health

2017

developing policies and strategies that ensure
realization of universal health coverage;
determining, during each financial period and in
consultation with individual county authorities,
cost sharing mechanisms for services provided
by the public health system without significantly
impending the access of a particular population
groups to the system in the areas concerned;
defining in collaboration with the department
responsible for finance, public financing of heath
care framework, including annual allocations
towards reimbursing all health care providers
responding to disasters and emergencies as
contemplated under this Act.
ensuring, that all pharmaceutical and nonpharmaceutical products correspond to Kenya
Medical Supplies Authority market prices; and
defining in collaboration with the department
responsible for finance, a standard health
prepayment
package
financed
through
mechanisms including last expense.
(2) The Ministry of health shall, in consultation
through the established inter-governmental relations
mechanisms—
provide a framework for collaboration with the
ministries responsible for finance, planning and
any other relevant department to secure health
care for vulnerable groups and indigents;
provide a framework for examining means of
optimizing usage of private health services as a
result of relieving the burden carried by the
publicly financed system; and
provide a framework for establishing a
harmonized
common
mechanism
for
coordinating planning and financing and
monitoring and evaluation within the health
sector.
87. (1) The National Treasury shall, facilitate the
opening and maintenance of bank accounts by the county
treasuries, for purposes of operationalizing disbursements

Bank account.

Act No. 18 of 2012

-1

r

465

~

2017

Health

No. 21

of conditional grants, donation and any other monies
designated for health as may be prescribed, in accordance
with the provisions of the Constitution and the Public
Finance Management Act.
(2) Funds identified and designated for health in subsection (I) shall not be appropriated for any other purpose.

PART XIII—THE PRIVATE SECTOR
PARTICIPATION
88. (1.) The Cabinet Secretary shall pursue strategies
conducive to the development and regulation of private
health services and their attunement to the needs of the
population.

ttth

(2) The public and private health services and
facilities shall complement each other in the provision of
comprehensive and accessible health care to the people.
(1) Private entities shall be permitted to operate
hospitals, clinics, laboratories and other institutions in the
health sector, subject to licensing by the appropriate
regulatory bodies.
(2) The standards to be met in order to qualify for the
issue of an operational licence under this section and the
conditions that may be attached to such a licence shall be
as defined in regulations issued under this Act by the
Cabinet Secretary.
Private health workers appropriately qualified to
practice any health profession shall similarly be entitled to
practice their profession in Kenya, subject to licensing by
the appropriate regulatory bodies
(1) Institutions licensed under section 88 and
private health workers licensed under section 89 shall
irrespective of any specific conditions attached to such a
licence be bound—
to permit and facilitate inspection at any time by
the Authority and regulatory bodies;
to provide emergency services in their field of
expertise required or requested either by
individuals, population groups or institutions,
without regard to the prospect or otherwise of
direct financial reimbursement.

Licensing of private
entities to operate

hospitals. clinics, etc.

Privtehealth

Duty of licensees.

No. 21

7

466
Health

(2) Institutions and private health workers shall
nevertheless be entitled to compensation under similar
terms as contemplated under this Act.
(1) Where appropriate, and subject to the
provisions of the Public Private Partnerships Act, the
Cabinet Secretary and the County Governors shall be
entitled to enter into partnership agreements with
companies operating in the private sector in order to
develop specific services or facilities that will serve the
needs of public health.

2017

Act 10- 15 of 2013

Partnership
Act No IS of 2013.

No. 15 of 2013

(2) Counties or individual facilities may similarly
enter into agreements of this type with the private sector
subject to the provisions of the Public Private Partnerships
Act.

PART XIV—PROMOTION AND CONDUCT OF
RESEARCH FOR HEALTH
(1) There shall be established by the Cabinet
Secretary, a National Health Research Committee which
shall be a technical committee.

Establishmentofthe
National Health
Research
Committee.

(2) The membership of the Committee shall be as
provided for under section 94 and shall consist of not more
than eleven members appointed by the Cabinet Secretary.
(1) The membership of the Committee established
under this section shall as much as possible reflect ethnic,
gender, county and regional balance and shall include
membership drawn from the following—
the chairperson who shall be a distinguished
health researcher and renowned in a health
discipline;
one representative from Kenya Medical Research
Institute;
one
representative
from
the
National
Commission for Science, Technology and
Innovation;
head of the directorate of the Ministry of health
responsible for research and development;
one representative from the Authority;
two representatives from public universities;

Membership.

F_

467

2017

Health

No. 21

one representative from private universities
one research expert with orientation to
traditional and alternative medicine;
one research expert with orientation in clinical
trials; and
one distinguished bio-medical science researcher.
95. (1) The term of office of the Chairperson shall be
five years, renewable for one further term of five years.

Term of office.

The chairperson may resign through a letter
addressed to the Cabinet Secretary.
A member of the Committee shall hold office for
a term of three years, renewable for one further term of
three years.
A member of the Committee may resign through a
letter addressed to the Cabinet Secretary.
96. (1) The Committee shall make recommendations
on the development on the national research for health
policy and on the various priorities to be accorded in the
area of research for health in the light of current knowledge
and needs, recognized priorities and economic resources.
(2) In identifying research for health priorities, the
Committee shall give due regard to—
the burden of disease;
the cost-effectiveness of interventions aimed at
reducing the burden of disease;
the availability of human and institutional
resources for the implementation of an
intervention at the level closest to the affected
communities;
the health needs of vulnerable groups such as
women, older persons, children and people with
disabilities;
the health needs of communities;
national security; and
emerging issues on health.
(3) The Committee shall have the responsibility to-

Functionsofthe
Committee.

No. 21

1

468
Health

2017

determine the extent of research for health to be
carried out by public and private health
authorities whether national or international;
ensure that research for health agenda and
research resources focus on priority health
problems;
develop and advise the Cabinet Secretary on the
application and implementation of an integrated
national policy and strategy for health research;
ensure that the intellectual property benefits
arising from any health research conducted in the
country are commensurately enjoyed by all
involved parties;
ensure resource mobilization or budget allocation
for the National Research Fund for the
established research for health priorities;
create a framework for linking research
outcomes into policy and legislation
set up a national research database; and
enhance capacity building and strengthening in
the research for health activities.
(4) The Committee shall execute its functions through
the head of the directorate of the Ministry of health
responsible for research and development who shall be its
secretary.
(1) The Kenya Medical Research Institute
established under the Science and Technology Act shall
review its programmes to optimally attune to the health
interests of the population and the overall programme of
health research.

Institute.
Cap. 250

(2) The Committee shall collaborate with other
research organizations to make recommendations for the
formulation of the national health policy.
Except as may be provided in the Fourth
Schedule, the Committee may regulate its own procedure.

Procedures.

(1) Where medical and scientific research is to be
conducted on human subjects, details shall in all cases be
submitted as per the regulations articulated under the

Research Approval.

469

2017

Health

Commission for Science, Technology and Innovation
established under the Science and Technology Act.

No. 21
Cap. 250

(2) The Committee shall set standards for ethical
clearance on health research approvals.
100. (1) Where research or experimentation is to be
conducted on a minor for a therapeutic purpose, the
research or experimentation may only be conducted—

Minors.

if it is in the best interest of the minor;
in such manner and on such conditions as may be
prescribed; and
with the informed written consent of the parent
or guardian of the minor.
(2) Where research or experimentation is to be
conducted on a minor for a non-therapeutic purpose, the
research or experimentation may only be conducted in such manner and on such conditions as may be
prescribed by the Committee; and
with the informed written consent of the parent
or guardian of the minor.
(3) Parliament shall enact legislation to give full effect
to the provisions of this Part.
101. Having regard to the necessity of both scientific
and policy research in the field of health in Kenya, a
portion of not less than thirty per cent of the National
Research Fund shall be allocated for health research.

Research budget.

102. Notwithstanding the responsibility of national
government under section 92 of this Act, nongovernmental and international organizations may
cooperate with research institutions including the Kenya
Medical Research Institute, universities and health
institutions with approval from the Committee in providing
.ipport for promotion and conduct of health research.

lonor support
and collaborative
arrangements

PART XV—E-HEALTH
103. E- Health shall be a recognized mode of health
service.

E-health.

104. The Cabinet Secretary shall, within three years of
the operation of this Act, ensure the enactment of
legislation that provides for among other things-

Elegislation.

No. 21

470
Health

administration of health information banks
including interoperability framework, data
interchange and security;
collection and use of personal health information;
management of disclosure of personal health
information;
protection of privacy;
business continuity, emergency and disaster
preparedness;
health service delivery through M-health, Elearning and telemedicine;
E-waste disposal; and
health tourism.
105. (1) The Ministry of health shall facilitate the
establishment and maintenance of a comprehensive
integrated health information system.
The Cabinet Secretary in consultation with the
Director General may, for the purpose of creating,
maintaining or adapting databases within the national
health information system desired in subsection (1),
prescribe categories or kinds of data for submission,
collection and the manner and format in which and by
whom the data is to be compiled or collated and submitted
to the Ministry of health.
The Cabinet Secretary shall, in consultation with
the Director General, prescribed policy guidelines for
establishment of an integrated comprehensive health
information management system, which shall include—
an integrated comprehensive health information
system relating to the national government health
functions;
an integrated comprehensive health information
system relating to every county and in respect of
county functions;
the consolidation and harmonization of health
information obtained under paragraph (a) and
paragraph (b);

2017

Health information
system.

471
2017

Health

No. 21

the minimum
standards applicable for
establishment and maintenance of health
information systems;
a guide on the minimum indices to be captured
by each county health information system;

(0

the mechanism for ensuring inter-connectivity
between each county information system and the
national system;
the guiding principles for management and
administration of health information banks; and
any other information on health services,
including sources of health financing, human
resources available in health sector.

(4) All health care providers shall establish and maintain a health information
system as part of the health information system
as specified under subsection (1); and
ensure compliance with the provision of
paragraph (a) as a condition necessary for the
grant or renewal of annual operating licenses.
(5) Any health care provider that neglects or fails to
comply with the provision of subsection (3)(a) of this
section commits an offence and on conviction shall be
liable to imprisonment for a term of six months or a fine of
five hundred thousand shillings or to both.
(6). Nothing in the foregoing precludes a county
government from making laws with regards to health
information system for that county and the city, urban and
municipal areas within that county.

PART XVI - INTER-DEPARTMENTAL
COLLABORATION
106. (1) While the Cabinet Secretary responsible for
health shall bear primary responsibility for this Act, the
respective levels of government and other agencies of
government shall collaborate, consult and enter into
agreements for the better carrying out of the provisions of
this Act.
(2) Without prejudice to sub section (1), the respective
levels of government shall collaborate in the

Collaboration.

472
Health

No. 21

2017

implementation of this Act, development or regulations and
where necessary in the adaptation of legislation.
107. (1) The establishment, management and
maintenance of institutions for the training of all categories
of health professionals shall be the subject of national
policy providing for collaboration, consultation and
cooperation between the state department responsible for
education, science, technology and innovation and the
Commission for Higher Education.

Training.

The Cabinet Secretary shall issue administrative
guidelines and regulations on professional post basic
training of all health workers for implementation in line
with the national training policy for health professionals.
All specialists shall be treated as a national asset in
order to sustain internship training and specialist services
to ensure standards and equity.
Regulatory bodies shall ensure that the training of
health professionals meet the set standards and quality.

108. Subject to section 106 the fields in which the
need for collaboration, consultation and cooperation shall
be necessary include, though not exclusively, those that
deal with matters relating to--

Fields of
collaboration.

health workers welfare;
health aspects of environmental protection;
issues of animal health;
professional education and training;
public education;
financing of health services; and
bio-medical sciences.

PART XVII—TRANSITIONAL AND
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
109. (1) Except to the extent that this Act expressly
provides to the contrary, all rights and obligations, however
arising, of the Government and subsisting immediately
before the effective date shall continue as rights and
obligations of the national and county governments as
assigned under this Act.

Existing laws.

473

2017

Health

No. 21

All law in force immediately before the effective
date continues in force and shall be construed with the
alterations, adaptations, qualifications and exceptions
necessary to bring it into conformity with this Act.
If, with respect to any particular matter—
a law that was in effect immediately before the
effective date assigns responsibility for that
matter to a particular State organ or public
officer; and
a provision of this Act that is in effect assigns
responsibility for that matter to a different State
organ or public officer,
the provisions of this Act shall prevail to the extent of the
conflict.
110. (1) Any public officer appointed by the Public
Service Commission in exercise of its constitutional
powers and functions before the coming to effect of this
Act and is serving under the National Government and in a
county before the constitution of that county government
shall be deemed to be in the service of the county on
secondment from national government with their terms of
service as at that date.
The officer's terms of service including
remuneration, allowances and pension or other benefits
shall not be altered to the officer's disadvantage but to his
or her advantage.
The officer shall not be removed from the service
except in accordance with the terms and conditions
applicable to the officer as at the date immediately before
the establishment of the county government or in
accordance with the law applicable to the officer at the time
of commencement of the proceedings for the removal.
Any public officer appointed by the Public Service
Commission in exercise of its constitutional powers and
functions before the coming to effect of this Act and is
providing health services assigned to county government
under the Fourth Schedule of the Constitution and is
serving in a county on the date of the constitution of that
county government shall be deemed to be in the service of
the county government with their terms of service as at that
date and-

Public service.

No. 21

474
Health

24117

the officer's terms of service including
remuneration, allowances and pension or other
benefits shall not be altered to the officer's
disadvantage but only to his or her advantage;
and
the officer shall not be removed from the service
except in accordance with the terms and
conditions applicable to the officer as at the date
immediately before the establishment of the
county government or in accordance with the law
applicable to the officer at the time of
commencement of the proceedings for the
removal.
Every public officer holding or acting in a public
office to which the commission had appointed the officer
as at the date of the establishment of the county
government shall discharge those duties in relation to the
relevant functions of the county government or national
government as the case may be.
The Authority acting in consultation with the
Public Service Commission, the County Public Service
Board and the National Ministry and county executive
department responsible for health shall facilitate the
redeployment, transfers and secondment of staff to the
national and county governments.
The provision under subsection (7) shall not
preclude the County Public Service Board or other lawful
body from promoting or appointing the officer to another
position.
The period of secondment under subsection (1)
shall cease upon the transfer of a public officer from the
national government to a county government or upon the
release of an officer by the county government to the
national government.
Appointment of a public officer by the Public
Service Commission includes appointment of a public
officer on powers delegated by the Public Service
Commission.
111. (1) A person convicted of an offence under this
Act for which no penalty is provided shall, on conviction,

General penalty.

475

2017

Health

be liable to a fine not exceeding two million shillings or to
imprisonment for a term of three months, or both,
An act or commission which is an offence under
this Act or any regulations made hereunder shall, if done
by a body corporate, be deemed to be an offence
committed by every director, secretary or manager of the
body corporate unless proved that the offence was
committed without consent or connivance of the director,
secretary or manager and that he or she exercised all such
diligence to prevent the commission of the offence as he
ought to have exercised having regard to the nature of his
functions and circumstances of the case.
If an offence under this Act or any regulations
made hereunder is committed by a partner in a firm, every
person who, at the time of the commission of the offence,
was a partner in that firm, or was purporting to act in that
office shall be deemed to have committed the offence,
unless there is proof that the offence was committed
without the consent or connivance of the partner and that
he exercised all such diligence to prevent the commission
of the offence as he ought to have exercised having regard
to the nature of his functions and the circumstances of the
case.
112. The Cabinet Secretary in consultation with the
Director General shall make regulations generally for the
better carrying out of the provisions of this Act and without
limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Cabinet
Secretary may make regulations for—
the fees to be paid to access services in a public
health facility;
the norms and standards for health service
delivery;
specified types of protective clothing and the use,
cleaning and disposal of such clothing;
co-operation and interaction between private
health care providers and private health
establishments on the one hand and public health
care providers and public health establishments
on the other;
returns, registers, reports, records, documents and
forms to be completed and kept by national

No. 21

Regulations.

No. 21

476
Health

referral institutions and county health
institutions, public health facilities and private
health facilities;
communicable and non-communicable diseases;
notifiable medical conditions;
rehabilitation;
emergency medical services and emergency
medical treatment;
health nuisances and medical waste;
the import and export of pathogenic microorganisms;
(I) health research;
health technology;
the national health information system;
the documentation of traditional medicines and a
database of herbalists;
the rendering of forensic pathology, forensic
medicine and related laboratory services,
including the provision of medico-legal
mortuaries and medico-legal services;
the procurement of health products and health
technologies;
grading of health facilities in consultation with
the county governments; and
anything which may be prescribed under this
Act.

2017

1

477

2017

Health

FIRST SCHEDULE

No. 21

(s. 25)

TECHNICAL CLASSIFICATION OF LEVELS OF HEALTHCARE
DELIVERY
LEVEL 1: COMMUNITY HEALTH SERVICES

Functions Facilitates
individuals,
households
and
communities to carry out appropriate healthy
behaviours;
Provides agreed health services;
Recognizes signs and symptoms of conditions
requiring referral;
Facilitates community diagnosis, management and
referral.
Note: The In-charge is the community health extension
worker.
LEVEL 2:

DISPENSARY/CLINIC

FunctionsThis is a health facility with no in-patient services
and provides consultation, treatment for minor
ailments;
Provides rehabilitative services;
Provision of preventive and promotive services.
Note: The In-charge is a nurse or clinical officer.
LEVEL 3:

HEALTH CENTRE

Functions It provides out-patient care;
Provision of limited emergency care;
Maternity for normal deliveries;
Laboratories, oral health and referral services;
Provision of preventive and promotive services;
In-patient observations.
Note: The In-charge is the clinical officer or medical
officer with at least two years managerial experience.

478
No. 21

Health

2017

LEVEL 4: PRIMARY HOSPITAL

LEVEL 5:

FunctionsClinical supportive supervision to lower level
facilities;
Referral level out-patient care;
In-patient services;
(d)Emergency obstetric care and oral health services;
Surgery on in-patient basis;
Client health education;
Provision of specialized laboratory tests;
Radiology service;
Proper case management of referral cases through
the provision of four main clinical specialties (i.e
internal medicine, general surgery, gynaeobstetrics
and paediatrics) by general practitioners backed by
appropriate technical devices;
Proper counter referral;
Provision of logistical support to the lower
facilities in the catchment area;
(I) Coordination of information flow from facilities in
the catchment area.
Note: The In-charge is a registered medical practitioner
with a Master's degree in a health related field.
SECONDARY HOSPITAL
Functions—
Provision of specialized services;
Training facilities for cadres of health workers
who function at the primary care level
(paramedical staff);
Serves as an internship centre for all staff, up to
medical officers;
Serves as a research centre, that provides research
services for issues of county importance;

1

479

2017

Health

No. 21

Note: The In-charge is a registered medical practitioner
with a Masters degree in a health related field.
YEL 6: TERTIARY HOSPITAL
Functions (a) Provides highly specialized services. These includegeneral specialization;
discipline specialization; and
geographical/regional specialization including
highly specialized healthcare for area/regional
specialization;
(b) Research centre, provides training and research
services for issues of national importance.

Note:
The In-charge is a registered medical practitioner
with a Masters degree in a health related field and with
training and experience of over ten (JO) years in senior
management.
Level 6 shall be National Referral Hospitals and
established in every County.
Facilities from levels 2-5 can be upgraded or
downgraded by the Director-General based on a set criteria.

480
No. 21

2017

Health

SECOND SCHEDULE

(s.34)

PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE CONDUCT OF
BUSINESS AND AFFAIRS OF THE COUNCIL
1. A member other than an ex qfficio member may—
at any time resign from office by notice in
writing, in the case of the Chairperson, to the
President, and in the case of any other member,
to the Cabinet Secretary;
be removed from office by the President or the
Cabinet Secretary, as the case may be, if the
memberhas been absent from three consecutive
meetings of the Council without the
permission of the Council;
is adjudged bankrupt or enters into a
composition scheme or arrangement with his
or her creditors;
is convicted of an offence involving
dishonesty or fraud;

Vacation of
office.

is convicted of a criminal offence and
sentenced to imprisonment for a term
exceeding six months or to a fine exceeding
ten thousand shillings;
is incapacitated by prolonged physical and
mental illness;
is found to have acted in a manner
inconsistent with the aim and objectives of
this Act;
fails to comply with the provisions of this
Act relating to disclosures; or
is otherwise unable or unfit to discharge his
or her functions as a member of the Council.
2. (1) The Council shall hold at least four meetings in
every financial year and not more than four months will
lapse between one meeting and the next.
(2) Meetings shall be convened by the Chairperson or
in his or her absence by the vice-chairperson.

Meetings.

1

1

481
2017

Health

No. 21

Unless three quarters of the members otherwise
agree, at least fourteen days; notice of a meeting shall be
given to every member.
The Chairperson shall preside over all the
meetings of the Council or in his or her absence, the
meetings shall be presided over by the vice-chairperson or
in both of their absences, by a person elected by the
Council at the meeting for that purpose.
A decision of the Council shall be by a majority of
the members present and voting and, in the case of an
equality of votes; the person presiding at the meeting shall
have a second or casting vote.
The first order of business of the Council shall be
to elect a Vice Chairperson.
The quorum for the conduct of business of the
Council shall be half of the members, unless a unanimous
decision is reached, decisions shall be by a majority vote of
members present, and in the case of an equality of votes,
the chairperson or the person presiding shall have a casting
vote.
Minutes of all meetings shall be kept and entered in
books kept for that purpose.
(1) If a member is directly or indirectly interested in
any matter before the Council and is present at the meeting
of the Council at which the matter is the subject of
consideration, he or she shall, at the meeting and as soon as
practicable after the commencement, disclose that fact and
shall be excluded at the meeting at which the matter is
being considered.
(2) A disclosure of interest made under this section
shall be recorded in the minutes of the meeting at which it
is made.
The Chairperson and members of the Council shall
be paid such allowances as the Cabinet Secretary in
consultation with the Salaries and Remuneration
Commission shall determine.
7 (1) The Council shall operate under the supervision
of the Cabinet Secretary.
(2) Where the Council fails to maintain any prescribed
standard in the fulfilment of its functions under this Act,

Quorum.

Minutes.
Disclosure of
interest.

Allowances of the
Council.

Powers of the
Cabinet Secretary.

No. 21

482
Health

the Cabinet Secretary may give general or special
directions to the Council describing the extent of the failure
and stating the steps required to remedy the situation.
(s.50)
THIRD SCHEDULE
PROVISIONS RELATING TO THE CONDUCT OF
BUSINESS AND AFFAIRS OF THE AUTHORITY
1. (1) The Authority shall hold at least four meetings
in every financial year and not more than four months will
elapse between one meeting and the next.
Meetings shall be convened by the Chairperson
or in his absence by the vice-chairperson.
Unless three quarters of the members otherwise
agree, at least fourteen days notice of a meeting shall be
given to every member.
A meeting shall be presided over by the
Chairperson, or in his absence by the vice-chairperson or in
their absence, by a person elected by the Board at the
meeting for that purpose.
A decision of the Board shall be by a majority of
the members present and voting and, in the case of an
equality of votes, the person presiding at the meeting shall
have a second or casting vote.
The first order of business of the Board shall be to
elect a vice-chairperson.
2. The quorum for meeting shall be five members.
3. Minutes of all meetings shall be kept and entered in
books kept for that purpose.
4. A member of the Authority who has a direct or
indirect personal interest in a matter being considered or to
be considered by the Board shall as soon as reasonably
practicable after the relevant facts concerning the matter
have come to his knowledge, disclose the nature of his
interest to the Board.
5. A disclosure of interest in a matter shall be recorded
in the minutes of the meeting of the Board and the member
shall not be present while that matter is being dealt with by
the Board and shall not take part in any deliberations or
vote relating to the matter.
6. The Authority shall pay the members of the Board
such allowances and expenses as are determined by the
Cabinet Secretary.

2017

Meetings.

Quorum.
Minutes.

Conflict of
Interest.

Disclosure of
interest by
meml,ers of the
Board.

Remuneration of
members of the
Board.

1

483

2017

Health

FOURTH SCHEDULE
(s.98)
PROVISIONS AS THE CONDUCT OF BUSINESS
AND AFFAIRS OF THE COMMITTEE
1. (1) The Committee shall hold at least four meetings

in every financial year and not more than four months will
elapse between one meeting and the next.
Meetings shall be convened by the Chairperson or
in his absence by the vice-chairperson.
Unless three quarters of the members otherwise
agree, at least fourteen days notice of a meeting shall be
given to every member.
The Chairperson shall preside over all the
meetings of the Committee or in his absence, the meetings
shall be presided over by the vice-chairperson or in both
their absences, by a person elected by the Committee at the
meeting for that purpose.
A decision of the Committee shall be by a majority
of the members present and voting and, in the case of an
equality of votes, the person presiding at the meeting shall
have a second or casting vote.
The first order of business of the Committee shall
be to elect a vice-chairperson.
2. The quorum for meeting shall be five members.
3. Minutes of all meetings shall be kept and entered in
books kept for that purpose.
4. A member of the Committee who has a direct or
indirect personal interest in a matter being considered or to
be considered by the Committee shall as soon as reasonably
practicable after the relevant facts concerning the matter
have come to his knowledge, disclose the nature of his
interest to the Committee.
5. A disclosure of interest in a matter shall be
recorded in the minutes of the meeting of the Committee
and the member shall not be present while that matter is
being dealt with by the Committee and shall not take part in
any deliberations or vote relating to the matter.
6. The Committee shall pay the members of the
Committee such allowances and expenses as shall be
determined by the Cabinet Secretary.

No. 21

Meetings.

Minutes.
Conflict of
Interest.

Disclosure of
interest by
members of the
Committee.

Remuneration of
Committee

