SPECIAL ISSUE

709

Kenya Gazette Supplement No. 119
(Legislative Supplement No. 43)
LEGAL NOTICE NO. 109
THE NATIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEM ACT
(No. 39 of 2011)
THE NATIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEM REGULATIONS, 2014
ARRANGEMENT OF REGULATIONS
Regulation

PART I—PRELIMINARY

1—Citation.
2—Interpretation.
3—Purpose.
PART II—PAYMENT SERVICE PROVIDERS
4—Authorization of a payment service provider.
5—Application process.
6—Approval of company name.
7—Approval of product name.
8—Criteria for assessing suitability.
9—Renewal of authorization.
10—Revocation and suspension.
11—Capital requirements.
12—Register of Customers.
13—Changes to the electronic retail service or e-money issuance.
14—Agents.
15—Agents and cash merchants.
16—Enlisting of new agents and cash merchants.
17—Appointment of an agent or a cash merchant.
18—Wholesale agents and cash merchants
19—Maintenance of records
20—Due diligence.
21—Interoperability.
22—Payment Service Provider Management Body.
23—Outsourcing.
24—Risk Management.
25—Governance.

1st August, 2014

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

688

26—Contents of Trust Deed.
27—Operational arrangements for payment service providers.
28—Execution of payments.
29—Record keeping and submission of reports.
30—Bank Oversight and Audit.
31—Screening of transactions.
32—Register of payment service providers.
33—Inspection.
34—External Audit.
35—Disclosure.
36—Publication of information.
37—Advertisements.
38—Customer care service.
39—Filing of complaints.
40—Resolution of complaints.
41—Customer service agreements.
42—Confidentiality.
43—Transaction limits.
44—Redemption of E-Money.
45—Prohibition against lending.
46—Registration of small e-money issuers.
47—Certificate of registration.
48—Compliance with registration.
49—Submission of reports.
50—Revocation or suspension of registration.
51—Remedial Actions.
PART III—DESIGNATION OF A PAYMENT SYSTEM OR
INSTRUMENT
52—Application process.
53—Notification by the Bank.
54—Changes and enhancements.
55—Revocation and suspension.
PART IV—GENERAL PROVISIONS
56—Non-compliance
57—General Penalty.
58—Payment of monetary penalty.
59—Transitional provisions.
60—Anti- money laundering measures.
SCHEDULES

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

689

THE NATIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEM ACT
(No. 39 of 2011)
IN EXERCISE of the powers conferred by section 31 of the
National Payment System Act, 2011, the Cabinet Secretary for the
National Treasury makes the following Regulations:—
THE NATIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEM REGULATIONS, 2014
PART I—PRELIMINARY
1. These Regulations may be cited as the National Payment
System Regulations, 2014.

Citation.

2. In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires—

Interpretation.

“Act” means the National Payment System Act, 2011;

No. 39 of 2011.

“agent” means a person who, for a fee, provides limited payment
services on behalf of a payment service provider;
“aggregate monthly load limit” means the total amount of emoney transferred into an e-money account held by an e-money holder
over the period of a calendar month;
“Bank” means the Central Bank of Kenya established under
section 3(1) of the Central Bank of Kenya Act;
“business of an electronic retail provider” means an issuance of
e-money against currency of Kenya received or any other currency
authorized by the Central Bank of Kenya as well as the redemption of
e-money for currency of Kenya or any other currency authorized by the
Central Bank of Kenya and includes the transfer of the e-money and
provision of closely related ancillary services in respect of the issuance
and transfer;
“business of an e-money issuer” means an issuance of e-money
against currency of Kenya received or any other currency authorized by
the Central Bank of Kenya as well as the redemption of e-money for
currency of Kenya or any other currency authorized by the Central
Bank of Kenya and includes the provision of closely related ancillary
services in respect of the issuing of e-money as well as the operational
services of the e-money issuer;
cash” means bank notes and coins;
“cash merchant” means a person who, for a fee, provides cash
services on behalf of a payment service provider;
“cash services” means the exchange of cash for e-money and emoney for cash;
“complaint” means a statement of dissatisfaction against a
payment service provider for a service provided;
“core capital” means shareholders equity in the form of issued

Cap. 491.

690

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

and fully paid-up shares of common stock, plus all disclosed reserves,
less goodwill or any other intangible assets;
“customer” means a user of the services of a payment service
provider;
“Designated Payment Instrument” has the meaning assigned to it
under section 2 of the Act;
“Designated Payment System” has the meaning assigned to it
under section 2 of the Act;
“electronic retail transfer” means a payment instruction issued by
a payer to a payment service provider to debit a payment account and to
credit the payment account of the payee or to make the funds available,
directly or through another payment service provider, to the payee
where the payee does not hold a payment account, provided that the
value being transferred does not exceed the maximum amount as
prescribed by the Bank;
“electronic retail payment service provider” means a payment
service provider providing electronic retail transfer services;
“e-money” means monetary value as represented by a claim on
its issuer, which is—
(a) electronically or magnetically stored;
(b) issued against receipt of currency of Kenya or any other
currency authorised by the Bank; and
(c) accepted as a means of payment by persons other than the
issuer;
“E-money holder” means a person who has an e-money claim on
an e-money issuer or payment service provider for e-money
“E-money Issuer” means a payment service provider authorized
to issue E-money under these Regulations;
“gross value ”means the total value of transactions transacted by
the payment service provider;
“interoperate” means a commercial interconnectivity between
providers of different payment systems or payment instruments
including the capability of electronic systems to exchange messages
and “interoperable” shall be construed accordingly;
“the Integrated Population Registration System (IPRS)” means a
centralized database holding registration data from various Kenyan
government agencies, which is located in the Department of
Immigration Services or such other department as the government may
determine;
“mobile payment service provider” means a telecommunications

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014
service provider licensed under the Kenya Information and
Communications Act, and authorized by Central Bank of Kenya to
offer payment services;
“payee” means a person who is a recipient of funds which are the
subject of an electronic retail transfer;
“payer” means a person who holds a payment account from
which an electronic retail transfer is initiated;
“payment account” means an account which is credited or debited
with an electronic retail transfer;
“payment instruction”means an instruction to a settlement system
participant to transfer funds or make a payment;
“payment instrument” means an instrument, whether tangible or
intangible, which enables a person to obtain money, goods or services,
or to otherwise make payment;
“payment service” means the retail transfers service offered by a
payment service provider;
“payment service provider” has the meaning assigned to it under
section 2 of the Act;
“payment service provider management body” means a body as
established by payment service providers to facilitate interoperability;
“payment system” has the meaning assigned to it under section 2
of the Act;
“point of service” means the location from which a payment
service provider provides electronic retail transfers including its head
office and branches and all the outlets of its cash merchants and agents,
as well as any website that can be accessed to initiate electronic retail
transfers;
“real time settlement” means(a) a complete electronic retail transfer where the payment
account of the payer is debited and the payment account of the payee is
credited instantaneously with no risk of settlement; and
(b) the payer and payee receive notification, simultaneous with
the completion of the electronic retail transfer, of having sent and
received the funds respectively;
“small e-money issuer” means a payment service provider

691

692

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

registered to issue e-money under regulation 46;
“significant shareholder” means a person, other than the
government or a public entity who—
(a) holds directly or indirectly five percent or more of the share
capital of a payment service provider; or
(b) holds directly or indirectly ten percent or more of the share
capital of a publicly listed payment service provider; and
“significant shareholding” shall be construed accordingly.
3. The purpose of these Regulations is to provide for the
authorization and oversight of payment service providers, designation
of payment systems, designation of payment instruments and AntiMoney Laundering measures.

Purpose.

PART II—PAYMENT SERVICE PROVIDER REGULATIO
4. (1) A person, other than an institution as defined in the Act,
who wishes to be authorized as a payment service provider, shall,
before commencing such business, apply to the Bank for authorization.
(2) An application under paragraph (1) shall be made in Form 1
as set out in the First Schedule and shall be accompanied by—
(a) documents of registration including certificate of
incorporation and the memorandum and articles of
association;
(b) for a mobile payment service provider—
(i) a certified copy of a current license from the
communication services regulator ; and
(ii) a certified copy of the management agreement where a
custodial Trust relationship exists with the mobile
payment service provider;
(c) the type of services to be offered and the programme of
operations to offer these services;
(d) information on the public interest that will be served by the
provision of the payment service;
(e) a business plan including an indicative budget for the first
three financial years which demonstrates that the applicant is
able to operate efficiently and safely;
(f) evidence that the payment service provider holds the initial
capital set out in the First Schedule;
(g) a description of—
(i) the governance arrangements of the applicant and
internal control mechanisms, including administrative,
risk management and accounting procedures, which
demonstrates that these governance arrangements,

Authorisation of a
payment service
provider.

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

693

control mechanisms and procedures are proportionate,
appropriate, sound and adequate;
(ii) the internal control mechanisms which the applicant has
established to comply with its anti-money laundering
obligations as set out in the Proceeds of Crime and AntiMoney Laundering Act, 2009, the Prevention of
Terrorism Act, 2012, and the relevant Regulations and
guidelines;
(iii) the structural organization of the applicant including,
where applicable, its intended use of agents, cash
merchants, branches and outsourcing arrangements, and
its participation in a national or international payment
system;
(h) how the payment service provider is going to settle the
payment obligations arising from its provision of electronic
retail transfers;
(i) the identity of—
(i) its directors and persons responsible for the management
of the payment service provider;
(ii) the custodial trustees holding the cash which is
represented in the payment service of the applicant;
(iii) persons who, if the activities for which authorization is
being sought shall be conducted in a separate division, are
responsible for the management of that division;
(iv) the “Fit and Proper Form” as set out in the Second
Schedule for persons listed in paragraph (i) (i),(ii) and
(iii);
(j) the address of the head office;
(k) terms and conditions that will apply to its customers, agents
and cash merchants;
(l) current tax compliance certificate from tax authorities;
(m) current credit rating report from a credit reference bureau;
(n) a letter of no objection from the home regulatory authority
where the applicant is a subsidiary of a foreign company,
recommending the applicant to establish a payment system in
Kenya;
(o) for new products, the applicant shall submit to the Bank one or
several proposed names for consideration and approval, in
order of preference:
Provided that the Bank shall reserve the acceptable name with the
restriction that the applicant shall not conduct any business under that
name until the Bank grants an approval for authorization; and

No. 9 of 2009
No. 30 of 2012.

694

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

(p) any other document or information as the Bank may require.
5. (1) A person seeking to be authorised as a payment service
provider shall apply to the Bank for an authorization.
(2) An application under paragraph (1) shall be made in Form 1
as set out in the First Schedule and shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable application fee as set out in the First Schedule.
(3) The Bank may, within thirty days of receiving an application
under paragraph (1), request for additional information from the
applicant if the information submitted is not complete or if the Bank
considers it necessary.
(4) The Bank shall, in considering an application under this
paragraph assess—
(a) the ability of the applicant to provide electronic retail
transfers services safely and efficiently;
(b) if the applicant is engaged in other licensed commercial
activities the potential of that activity impairing or otherwise
affecting (i) the safety or the financial soundness of the payment
service provider; or
(ii) the ability of the Bank to monitor compliance of the
payment service provider with this regulation;
(c) the history, character and integrity of the applicant’s
significant shareholders, proposed directors and senior
officers;
(d) the suitability of its trustees, directors and senior officers as
per requirements of these Regulations; and
(e) the core capital held by the applicant as required in the First
Schedule.
(5) The Bank shall upon receiving a complete application and all
information required, and is satisfied that the applicant has met all the
application requirements, advise the applicant to pay the prescribed
authorization fees as set out in the First Schedule.
(6) Where the Bank approves any payment service provider, the
Bank shall, within seven days of receipt of authorization fees, issue an
authorization certificate to the applicant.
(7) Where the Bank rejects an application for authorization, the
Bank shall communicate the reasons for its decision to the applicant
within seven days.

Application process.

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014
6. (1) A person who makes an application to be a payment
service provider shall first apply to the Bank for approval of the
proposed name.

695
Approval of
Company name.

(2) For the purposes of paragraph (1), the applicant shall forward
three proposed names in order of preference to the Bank for
consideration.
(3) The Bank may invite an applicant for a preliminary meeting
for the purposes of knowing the applicant’s intention of business and to
enlighten the applicant on the application requirements.
(4) The applicant shall, once the Bank accepts the proposed
name, reserve the name with the Registrar of Companies.
(5) An applicant shall not use the name approved under
paragraph (1) for any other purpose, unless the Bank grants the
applicant an authorisation.
7. (1) A person who makes an application for a new product shall
apply to the Bank for an approval of the name of the proposed product
subject to any intellectual property rights that may be in existence.

Approval of product
name.

(2) An applicant shall not use the name approved under
paragraph (1) for any other purpose.
8. (1) The Bank shall assess and approve trustees, significant
shareholders, directors and senior managers in control of a payment
service provider.

Criteria for assessing
suitability

(2) Where the trustee is a corporate entity, the Bank shall assess
the directors and senior management of the corporate entity.
(3) The Bank shall, for the purposes of assessing suitability of
trustees, directors or senior managers in control of a payment service
provider, have regard to the criteria prescribed under the Second
Schedule.
(4) The Bank may specify other criteria for assessing suitability
under this Regulation as and when necessary.
9. (1) An application for renewal of authorization as a payment
service provider shall be made to the Bank at least two months prior to
the expiry of the authorization and shall be(a) in Form 2 as set out in the First Schedule;
(b) accompanied by any other information as the Bank may
require;

Renewal of
authorisation.

696

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

(c) submitted with annual renewal fees as set out in the First
Schedule.
10. (1) The Bank may, by notice to an authorized payment
service provider, suspend an authorization for such period as the Bank
may specify or revoke an authorization, if the authorized payment
service provider—

Revocation and
suspension.

(a) fails to commence business within six months from the date
the authorisation was issued;
(b) ceases or fails to continue operations;
(c) obtains authorisation on the premise of wrong, false,
misleading information or conceals material information
which, if known at the time of evaluation of the application
for the authorisation, the payment service provider would not
be authorised;
(d) applies to the Bank for the revocation or suspension of the
authorisation where good cause has been shown;
(e) fails to comply with any condition of the authorization or
any applicable Law;
(f)

becomes insolvent or is unable to effectively conduct its
operations;

(g) through its activities,the public trust is compromised;
(h) engages in activities either restricted or not permitted under
these Regulations;
(i) is unable or fails to protect the confidentiality of data or
information it collects;
(j) without the consent of the Bank, amalgamates with another
entity or sells or otherwise transfers its business of an
payment service provider to another entity;
(k) has a winding-up order made against it or a resolution for
voluntary winding passed against it;
(l) fails to pay a monetary penalty imposed by the Bank;
(m) fails to comply with the Proceeds of Crime and Anti-Money
Laundering Act, 2009, and the Prevention of Terrorism Act,
2012 and the relevant Regulations and Guidelines;
(n) fails to manage its agents or cash merchants in a manner
consistent with these Regulations;
(o) fails to ensure that the trust account is managed in a manner

No. 9 of 2009
No. 30 of 2012.

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014
consistent with Trust legislation and this regulation;
(p) fails to ensure that the trustees act in the interests of the
beneficiaries; or
(q) fails to produce books of accounts, records, documents,
correspondence, statements or other specified information
without any reason after fourteen days’ notice has been
issued and has not given sufficient cause why the
authorisation should not be revoked;
(r) where the license from the communication services regulator
has been revoked for the case of a mobile payment service
provider.
(2) The Bank shall, before revoking or suspending an
authorization under paragraph (1), give the payment service provider an
opportunity to make representations to the Bank on why the
authorisation should not be revoked or suspended.
(3) The Bank shall take into account the representations made by
the payment service provider under paragraph (2), in its decision on the
matter.
(4) The Bank may require the payment service provider to take
such corrective measures as the Bank may specify and may impose
such monetary penalty or other sanctions as the Bank may decide.
(5) The Bank shall, upon revoking or suspending an authorisation
under this regulation—
(a) immediately inform the payment service provider of the
revocation or suspension; and
(b) take over control of the business of the payment service
provider to safeguard and facilitate distribution of the money in the
Trust Fund.
(6) A payment service provider shall, where its authorization has
been revoked or suspended—
(a) hand over the entire database, electronic records in a
readable format and other relevant information to the Bank
to facilitate the processing of payments to the customers;
(b) within seven days from the date of service of the notice of
revocation, surrender the authorisation certificate to the
Bank; and
(c) cease immediately from carrying out electronic retail
transfers, e-money issuance or any other activity authorised
under these Regulations.

697

698

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

(7) Where the Bank has revoked or suspended an authorization
certificate of a payment service provider, the Bank shall—
(a) notify the public of the revocation or suspension in at least two
newspapers of wide circulation;
(b) cease immediately, any further dealings with the payment
service provider for the purposes of these Regulations;
(c) notify the institution holding the Trust funds to cease
forthwith further dealing with the funds until the institution
receives directions from the Bank; and
(d) notify the communication services regulator.
(8) Where the Bank has revoked or suspended an authorisation
certificate of a payment service provider, the Bank may appoint any
person, including another payment service provider, to distribute the
balances held in the Trust Fund of the revoked payment service
provider at the time of revocation.
(9) Any shortfall in the Trust Fund shall be recoverable directly
from each Trustee.
11. A payment service provider, other than an institution shall at
the time of authorization and at all times, hold a core capital as set out
in the First Schedule;

Capital
requirements.

(2) The Bank may amend the prescribed core capital as set out in
the First Schedule, from time to time in consultation with the
stakeholders.
12. (1) A payment service provider shall, at all times, maintain a
register containing identification details of all customers and the funds
outstanding in their e-money accounts of which the details shall include
the identity card number or the passport number.

Register of
customers.

(2) The identity card number or passport of the customer shall be
independently verified through the Integrated Population Registration
System database or through such other means as the Bank may
approve.
(3) A mobile payment service provider shall ensure that the
subscriber identity module card and mobile phone number of its
customer are registered.
13. (1) A payment service provider who intends to introduce a
substantial change or enhancement in the electronic retail payment or emoney issuance service shall notify the Bank, thirty days prior to the
commencement of the proposed change or implementation.
(2) For the purposes of paragraph (1), a substantial change or
enhancement is the one which expands the scope or changes the nature
of the electronic retail payment or e-money issuance service and may
include—

Changes to the
electronic payment
service or e-money
issuance.

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

699

(a) additional functionality of the electronic retail payment or emoney issuance service such as accessing new electronic
channels;
(b) changing the payment service providers and other major
partners in the business; or
(c) any changes to the documentation provided during the
application process.
14. (1) A payment service provider may appoint an agent to
undertake certain services on its behalf.

Agents.

(2) A payment service provider may enter into an agreement for
the provision of certain services with the agent appointed under
paragraph (1).
(3) An agent may, on behalf of the payment service provider—
(a) send, receive, store or process payments or provide other
services in relation to payment services through any
electronic system;
(b) own, possess, operate, manage or control a public switched
network for the provision of payment services;
(c) process or store data on behalf of the payment service
providers or users of such payment services;
(d) provide cash services; or
(e) provide such other services as the payment service provider
may specify.
(4) A payment service provider is liable to its customers for the
conduct of its agents, performed within the scope of the agency
agreement.
(5) An agency agreement entered into under paragraph (2) shall
not exclude a payment service provider from liability.
15. (1) A payment service provider may appoint an agent or a
cash merchant to perform cash services:
Provided that the payment service provider can execute electronic
retail transfers or e-money issuance that supports the cash services in
real time.
(2) A contract for the provision of retail cash services entered
into between a payment service provider and an agent or a cash
merchant shall not be exclusive.
(3) An agent or cash merchant may provide services to multiple
payment service providers or institutions:
Provided that the agent or the cash merchant –

Agents and cash
merchants.

700

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

(a) has a separate contract with each institution for the provision
of such services; and
(b) has the capacity to manage the transactions for the different
institutions.
16. (1) A payment service provider who intends to enlist a new
agent or cash merchant, shall at least fourteen days prior to
commencement of such agency, notify the Bank.

Enlisting of new
agents and cash
merchants.

(2) A notification under paragraph (1) shall be accompanied by—
(a) the procedure for recruiting agents or cash merchants;
(b) a copy of the proposed agreement with the agent or cash
merchant, which shall provide, amongst others, that the
agent or cash merchant is under an obligation, when
requested to do so by the Bank, to provide information and
access to their premises, systems and records;
(c) the policies and procedures approved by the payment service
provider for the provision of cash services through agents or
cash merchants, including compliance with the Proceeds of
Crime and Anti-Money Laundering Act, 2009, and the
Prevention of Terrorism Act, 2012, and associated
Regulations and guidelines;

No. 9 of 2009.
No. 30 of 2012.

(d) description of the technology to be used by the agent or cash
merchant to deliver cash services;
(e) a risk assessment report of the provision of cash services
through agents or cash merchants including the control
measures applied to mitigate the risks;
(f) the proposed security measures to be adopted for the
premises of agents or cash merchants;
(g) the agent or cash merchant manual and any materials used
for training agents or cash merchants; and
(h) such other information as the Bank may require the payment
service provider to submit.
17. (1) A payment service provider may appoint, through an
agreement, a person as an agent or a cash merchant if that person—
(a) possesses such registration, business license, or permit as
may be required for the performance of its commercial
activities;

Appointment of an
agent or a cash
merchant.

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

701

(b) can lawfully provide the proposed services; and
(c) holds a payment account with a bank, financial institution or
payment service provider.
(2) Where, for the purposes of paragraph (1) (c), the proposed
agent or cash merchant is not an institution, that agent or merchant(a) is financially sound and has provided the payment service
provider with adequate documents; and
(b) has provided evidence to the payment service provider
indicating that its management has the necessary experience
and competence to perform the agency or cash services.
18. A payment service provider may, subject to regulation 17,
appoint a wholesale agent or a wholesale cash merchant to distribute emoney to agents or cash agents.

Wholesale agents
and cash merchants.

19. (1) A payment service provider who uses the services of an
agent or cash merchant to perform cash services shall maintain records
containing—

Maintenance of
records.

(a) the name, physical address, postal address and telephone
numbers of the agents or cash merchants;
(b) the physical address and telephone numbers of each of the
outlets of the agent or cash merchant where it provides cash
services;
(c) the identity of the persons responsible for the management of
the agent or cash merchant; and the Bank may insert this
information in a public electronic register of agents or cash
merchants; and
(d) a register of agents and cash merchants whose services have
been suspended or terminated and the reasons for such
suspension or termination.
(2) A payment service provider shall avail the records and
information maintained under paragraph (1) to the Bank upon request.
(3) A payment service provider who uses the services of an agent
or cash merchant to perform cash services shall–
(a) provide adequate training and support to its agent or cash
merchants, including an agent or cash merchant manual
containing the policies, rules and operational guidelines
needed to ensure safe and efficient provision of services to
customers;

702

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

(b) maintain effective oversight over the activities of its agents
and cash merchants; and
(c) maintain records of the number, volumes and values of
transactions carried out by each agent or cash merchant.

Due diligence.

20. A payment service provider shall, in identifying, selecting
and contracting agents and or cash merchants—
(a) exercise due diligence; and
(b) carry out suitability assessment of the agents or cash
merchants.
21. (1) A payment service provider shall use systems capable of
becoming interoperable with other payment systems in the country and
internationally.

Interoperability.

(2) A payment service provider may amongst other arrangement,
enter into interoperable arrangements.
22. (1) A payment service provider may, for the purposes of
facilitating interoperability, participate in a payment service provider
management body.
(2) A payment service provider management body shall, at
minimum, provide the Bank with—
(a) details of the ownership and governance of the management
body formed to operate the Payment System;
(b) membership rules that are adequate to the operations of the
system;
(c) clear, fair and non-discriminatory access procedures;
(d) policies and procedures in place for evaluating the financial
soundness of operators and participants to identify, monitor
and control any risks associated with the working of the
system to ensure finality of payment and settlement;
(e) details of internal audit function including scope, reporting
lines and the frequency of reporting;
(f) evidence of adequate human resources to ensure adequate
resources to the operation of the system, well trained staff,
competent and knowledgeable in respect of the business
requirements, operational and risk management.
(3) A payment service provider management body shall manage
and regulate, in relation to its members, all matters affecting payment

Payment Service
Provider
Management Body.

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

703

instructions, and in connection with those objects, shall—
(a) act as a channel for communication by its members with the
Government, the Bank, any financial or other exchange,
other public bodies, authorities and officials, the news
media, the general public and other private associations and
institutions; and
(b) deal with and promote any other matter of interest to its
members and foster co-operation among them.
(4) The rules of a payment service provider management body
shall, in addition to any other provisions, empower that body—
(a) to admit members and to regulate, control and with the
approval of the Bank, terminate membership;
(b) to constitute, establish or dissolve anybody, committee or
forum consisting of its members and which has an impact
on, interacts with, has access to or makes use of any
payment, clearing or settlement systems or operations.
23. (1) A payment service provider may enter into an agreement
to outsource its operational functions of provision of payment services.
(2) A payment service provider who intends to outsource its
functions under paragraph (1) shall notify the Bank at least thirty days
before such outsourcing agreement is implemented.
(3) For the purposes of this regulation, a payment service
provider shall not outsource its material operational function in such a
way as to impair—
(a) the quality of internal control of the payments service
provider; and
(b) the ability of the Bank to monitor compliance of the
payment service provider with the Act and these
Regulations.
(4) For the purpose of paragraph (3), an operational function shall
be regarded as material if a defect or failure in its performance would
materially impair–
(a) the continuing compliance of the payment service provider
with the requirements of its authorisation under these
Regulations,
(b) its financial performance; or

Outsourcing.

704

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

(c) the soundness or the continuity of its payment services.
(5) Where a payment service provider outsources a material
operational function under this regulation, the payment service provider
shall ensure that—
(a) the outsourcing does not result in the delegation by senior
management of its responsibilities;
(b) the relationship and obligations of the payment service
provider to its customers under this regulation is not altered;
(c) the outsourcing contract provides that the Bank can exercise
its oversight and supervisory powers under this regulation in
respect of the third parties to who functions are outsourced;
and

(d) the requirements which the payment service provider is

required to comply in order to be authorised and remain so,
including any conditions imposed by the Bank, are not
undermined.

24. For the purposes of risk management, a payment service
provider shall comply with—

Risk management.

(a) any technical standards that may be issued by the Bank from
time to time and;

(b) any other international standards as set out in the Third

Schedule of these Regulations and risk management
guidelines which may be required by the Bank from time to
time.

25. (1) A payment service provider engaged in electronic retail
transfers, e-money issuance as well as other commercial activities shall
establish effective, transparent and adequate governance arrangements
to ensure continued integrity of its service.
(2) The governance arrangements established under paragraph (1)
shall include—
(a) a broad-based board of trustees which consists of people
with calibre, credibility, integrity, and fulfill the fit and
proper criteria as set out in the Second Schedule.
(b) clearly
defined
and
documented
organisational
arrangements, such as ownership and management structure;
(c) segregation of duties and internal control arrangements to
reduce the chances of mismanagement and fraud; and
(d) the separation of payment services by the payment service
provider in a separate business unit from its other business
units, including maintaining a separate management

Governance.

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

705

structure and keeping separate books of account for its
payment services division.
(3) A payment service provider shall—
(a) establish a Trust;
(b) ensure all monies received are held in a Trust Fund;
(c) ensure the balances in the Trust Fund shall not at any time be
less than what is owed to customers;
(d) not transfer the funds to its own account used for normal
business operations;
(e) not commingle the funds with the funds of any person other
than payers and payees on whose behalf the funds are held;
and
(f) employ appropriate risk mitigation strategies to ensure that
the funds held in the Trust Fund are sufficiently diversified
and placed in commercial banks licensed under the Banking
Act or Government of Kenya securities.
(4) A payment service provider shall ensure that the funds held in
Trust Fund under paragraph (3) (f) complies with the limits provided
for under the Fourth Schedule of these Regulations or as advised by the
Bank from time to time.
(5) Any income generated from placement of these trust funds
shall be—
(a) used in accordance with Trust legislation and in consultation
with the Bank.
(b) donated to a public charitable organisation for use for public
charitable purposes.
26. (1) For the trust established under paragraph 25(3)(a) shall
at minimum contain—
(a) principal characteristics of the service provided pursuant to
the Trust;
(b) details of how the fund shall be held and invested;
(c) procedures for nomination of the Trustees;
(d) the duties, responsibilities and the extent of liability of
Trustees;
(e) provisions on discontinuation or termination of the Trust and

Contents of the trust
deed.

706

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014
subsequent handling of the Trust Fund;

(f) procedure of handling of dormant accounts;
(g) procedure of handling accounts of deceased persons;
(h) rights of system participants and beneficiaries;
(i) applicable law and mode of resolution of disputes;
(j) where the trustee is a company, duties of the management
company and key particulars of the management
arrangement; and
(k) use of income generated from the trust fund.
(2) A person who proposes to introduce changes to the Trust
deed shall submit the proposed changes to the Bank for approval.
27. (1) A payment service provider shall establish adequate
operational arrangements for its payment services.
(2) The operational arrangements established under paragraph (1)
shall include—

Operational
arrangements for the
payment service
provider.

(a) rules and procedures setting out the rights and liabilities of
the payment service provider and the user;
(b) the risks the user may incur;
(c) measures to ensure prudent management of the funds
collected from users, including measures to ensure that such
funds are available at all times for repayment to users;
(d) measures to ensure safety, security and operational
reliability of the service including contingency
arrangements; and
(e) the maintenance of separate records and accounts for its emoney activities from other business activities.
28. (1) A payer may not revoke an electronic retail transfer
instruction once it has been received by the payment service provider of
the payee unless the payment service provider has sufficient grounds to
reverse the transaction in line with dispute resolution mechanisms the
payment service provider has in place.
(2) A payment service provider involved in an electronic retail
transfer shall—
(a) transfer the full amount of the payment transaction; and
(b) not deduct charges from the amount transferred, other than
charges—
(i) expressly agreed to by the customer in advance; or

Execution of
payments.

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

707

(ii) which the customer has received notice of in terms of
paragraph 35(1)(c).
(3) A payment service provider shall not be liable to the payer
where—
(a) the electronic retail transfer requires transmission to a second
payment service provider (the payee’s payment service
provider; and
(b) the payment service provider of the payer can prove correct
or proper transmission of the electronic retail transfer to the
second payment service provider.
(4) A payment service provider shall, where it is liable under this
Regulation for non-execution or defective execution of an electronic
retail transfer, without undue delay, restore the debited payment
account to the state in which it would have been had the defective
transaction not taken place, including a refund of the charges imposed.
(5) A payment service provider shall be liable for payment
transactions performed without the knowledge of the customer:
Provided that such liability may be contractually excluded in
circumstances where the payment service provider—
(a) proves an element of fault on the side of the customer in the
use of the service; or
(b) demonstrates at first glance that the payment instruction
was carried out by the legitimate customer.
29.

(1) A payment service provider shall—

(a) use systems which are able to provide an accurate and fully
accessible audit trail of all transactions from the origin of the
electronic transfer payments to its finality; and
(b) keep records of every electronic transfer the payment service
provider processes for a period of at least seven years.
(2) A payment service provider shall, within ten days of the end
of every calendar month, submit to the Bank in the form as set out in
the Fifth Schedule, information regarding—
(a) the volumes, values and geographic distribution of each
electronic retail transfer payment instrument offered by it;
(b) incidents of fraud, theft or robbery;
(c) material service interruptions and major security breaches;
and
(d) complaints reported, including remedial measures taken,
those resolved and those outstanding.

Record keeping and
submission of
reports.

708

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

(3) A payment service provider shall, within three months of the
31st December of every year, submit to the Bank—
(a) audited financial statements covering its activities in Kenya
together with a copy of the auditor’s report;
(b) separate audited financial statements for the payment service
provider and the Trust accounts;
(c) a system security audit report by a reputable independent
audit firm on its payment services; and
(d) any other information required by the Bank with respect to
its payment services.
30. The Bank shall exercise oversight and supervisory powers
over a payment service provider, its agents, or cash merchants.
31. A payment service provider shall use systems capable of
screening transactions for the purposes of complying with Proceeds of
Crime and Anti-Money Laundering Act, 2009, Prevention of Terrorism
Act, 2012, and related legislation.
32. (1) The Bank shall establish a register of all authorised
payment service providers with details of their head office.
(2) The register established under paragraph (1) shall be
accessible to the public.
33. (1) The Bank may—
(a) conduct on-site inspections at the premises of a payment
service provider and its agents and cash merchants;
(b) inspect the books of accounts and other documents of a
payment service provider, its agents and the Trust Fund, at
any time, in order to ensure compliance with the relevant
Laws of Kenya, authorisation terms and conditions,
operating instructions and guidelines, and may(i) institute an audit of an payment service provider;or
(ii) call for an investigation of the payment service provider;
(c) require an officer of the payment service provider to produce
or furnish to the Bank officer making an examination, within
a reasonable time (i) such books of accounts and any other documents in the
custody or power of the payment service provider; or
(ii) statements or information relating to the affairs of the
payment service provider as may be required by the
examining officer;

Bank Oversight and
audit.

Screening of
transactions
No. 9 of 2009.
No. 30 of 2012.

Register of payment
service providers.

Inspection.

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

709

(d) by notice, require a payment service provider to provide
information to the Bank, in such manner and form as the
Bank may specify for the purposes of assessing compliance
with these Regulations;
(e) at any time, enter any premises where a payment service
provider is carrying on business, or any premises where the
Bank reasonably suspects that any business is carried out in
contravention of these Regulations; and
(f) require a payment service provider to put in place remedial
measures as the Bank may consider necessary after an
inspection or investigation under this regulation.
(2) The Bank shall, where a payment service provider fails to
produce books of accounts, records, documents, correspondence,
statements or other specified information without any reason, issue the
payment service provider with a fourteen days’ notice to show cause
why the authorisation to carry on payment services under these
Regulations should not be revoked.
34. (1) A payment service provider shall, at its own expense,
appoint an external auditor who is a member of good standing of the
Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Kenya to carry out an audit
of the transactions in its business.

External Audit.

(2) The Bank may require an auditor appointed under paragraph
(1) to—
(a) submit to the Bank such information or report as the Bank
may require in relation to the audit carried out by the auditor;
(b) extend the scope of an audit of the business and affairs of the
business of the payment service provider and to submit a
report to the Bank; and
(c) carry out any examination or establish any procedure in any
particular case.
(3) The payment service provider shall be responsible for the
remuneration of the auditor for the audit services including the
functions carried out by the auditor under paragraph (2).
35. (1) A payment service provider shall provide—
(a) a clear and understandable description of the services which
it offers and the rates, terms, conditions and charges for such
services and shall publish such information and display it
prominently at all points of service;

Disclosure.

710

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

(b) clear terms to its customers, agents and cash merchants; and
(c) notification to customers, as well as the Bank, of any
material changes in the rates, terms, conditions and charges
at which it offers its services and shall do so at least seven
days before the changes take effect.
(2) A payment service provider shall provide its customers at the
point of service with—
(a) the name of the payment service provider; and
(b) a telephone number or such other contact medium which
provides access to its customer care system.
(3) A payment service provider of the payer shall, without undue
delay after the amount to be transferred through an electronic retail
transfer is debited to the payer’s payment account, provide the payer
with—
(a) a reference enabling the payer to identify each payment
transaction;
(b) the details of the payee and its payment account details, if
any;
(c) the amount of the e-money; and
(d) the date of debit.
(4) A payment service provider of the payee, if any, shall,
without undue delay after the amount transferred through an electronic
retail transfer is credited to the payee’s payment account or paid to the
payee, provide the payee with—
(a) the reference enabling the payee to identify the payment
transaction;
(b) the name of the payer and any information transferred with
the payment transaction;
(c) the amount of the electronic retail transfer; and
(d) the date of credit, where applicable.
(5) All electronic retail transactions shall be executed in real
time—
Provided that where an electronic retail transaction cannot be
completed in real time, the payment service provider shall notify:
(a) the payer of the delay of the execution; and

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

711

(b) the customer of the period within which the transaction shall
be completed or cancelled.
(6) A payment service provider may not charge the customer for
fulfillment of its disclosure and information obligations under these
Regulations.
(7) A payment service provider shall put in place a provision to
issue a statement to a customer upon request.
36. (1) The Bank may, from time to time, publish any
information the Bank considers useful to customers.

Publication of
information.

(2) Information published by the Bank under paragraph (1) may
include, but not be limited to, tariffs, quality of service and statistical
information.
37. A payment
advertisements—

service

provider

shall ensure

that

its

Advertisements.

(a) are precise and easily understood;
(b) are not misleading to consumers; and
(c) are comprehensive enough to properly inform consumers of
the main features and conditions of the product.
38. A payment service provider shall—

Customer care
service.

(a) within a period of six months after commencing the
provision of payment services, establish a customer care
system within which its customers can make inquiries and
complaints concerning its services;
(b) prior to establishing a customer care system under paragraph
(a)—
(i) provide adequate
complaints; and

means

for

customers

to

file

(ii) address such complaints within a reasonable period from
receipt of the complaint;
(c) put in place a clear mechanism to address consumer
complaints due to loss of funds through fraudulent means;
and
(d) provide, at all points of service, easily understood
information about their complaint handling procedure.

712

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

39. (1) A customer who has a complaint against the services of
a payment service provider shall file such complaints with the payment
service provider within a period of fifteen days from the date of
occurrence.

Filing of complaints

(2) A payment service provider shall acknowledge all complaints
filed with it.
(3) A payment service provider shall advise the complainant(a) of the expected actions and timing for investigation and
resolution of the complaint; and
(b) if the payment service provider regards the complaint as
frivolous or vexatious.
(4) If a customer is dissatisfied with the advice given under
paragraph (3), the customer shall have further recourse in accordance
with these Regulations and the Consumer Protection Act, 2012.

No. 46 of 2012.

(5) A payment service provider shall provide reasonable
assistance where a customer specifically requests assistance when filing
a complaint.
(6) A payment service provider shall make adequate provision to
ensure that people with disabilities—
(a) are able to access their complaint handling processes; and
(b) ensure that such customers are easily represented by their
authorised representatives in making a complaint.
(7) A payment service provider shall provide the complaint
handling processes for free.
40. (1) A payment service provider shall resolve all complaints
within thirty days of being filed.
(2) A payment service provider shall put in place processes to
provide a customer with sufficient information and the means to inquire
on the progress of the complaint.
(3) The processes under paragraph (2) may include a complaint
reference number or any other identifier in order to facilitate timely and
accurate responses to subsequent inquiries by the customer.
(4) A payment service provider shall advise a customer of the
outcome of the investigation of the customer’s complaint and any
resulting decision.
(5) Where a customer is not satisfied with the decision of the

Resolution of
complaints.

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014
payment service provider regarding a complaint, the customer may
appeal to the Bank.
41. (1) A payment service provider shall—

713

Customer service
agreements.

(a) enter into a customer service agreement with every customer
to which it renders services;
(b) submit to the Bank a copy of the standard customer service
agreement applicable to each service offered to the public;
(c) in the event of handling a dormant account comply with the
provisions of Unclaimed Financial Assets Act, 2012; and
(d) in the case of a deceased persons’ account, comply with the
Succession Act.
(2) A customer service agreement under paragraph (1)(a) shall, at
a minimum include—
(a) a detailed description of the services offered;
(b) registration requirements for account opening;
(c) procedures for maintaining a customer account;
(d) the privacy policy of the electronic retail service provider;
(e) customer account use and access responsibility;
(f) conditions and procedures for loading, transferring, receiving
and withdrawing funds;
(g) suspension, termination and freezing of accounts;
(h) dispute resolution and the governing law;
(i) warranties and liability;
(j) indemnity;
(k) exclusions or limitations of the service;
(l) disclosure and data retention;
(m) force majeure;
(n) details on how dormant accounts are handled; and
(o) details on how accounts of deceased persons are handled.
42.

(1) A payment service provider, its agents and cash

Confidentiality.

714

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

merchants shall keep the information in respect of services provided to
any customer confidential in accordance with the Act.
(2) Despite paragraph (1), a payment service provider, its agents
and cash merchants shall disclose customer information in respect of
services provided by the payment service provider only—
(a) to the customer concerned;
(b) to the Bank;
(c) when authorised, in writing, by the customer concerned;
(d) as legislated by an Act of Parliament; or
(e) as ordered by a court of law.
(3) A payment service provider, agent or cash merchant who fails
to comply with the requirements of this regulation is liable to a
monetary penalty of not more than one million shillings.
43. (1) E-money issued shall be subject to an individual
transaction limit that shall not exceed seventy thousand shillings and an
aggregate monthly load limit of one million shillings, provided that the
Bank may approve higher limits for specific categories of e-money
issuers.

Transaction Limits

(2) The limits may be amended by the Bank from time to time.
44. (1) E-money shall be redeemed at par value subject to terms
and conditions of the customer service agreement.

Redemption of EMoney.

(2) An e-money issuer shall not earn interest or any other
financial return from the E-Money holder or customer.
45. An e-money issuer, other than an Institution, shall not
engage in any lending or investment activity other than that required
under these Regulations.

Prohibition against
lending

46. (1) A person who issues e-money on a limited scale shall
apply to the Bank for registration as a small e-money issuer.

Registration of small
e-money issuers.

(2) A small e-money issuer may be exempted from complying
with Regulations 4, 5, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21,
22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40,
41, 42, 43 and 44 of these Regulations.
(3) A persons who–
(a) intends to conduct business as small e-money issuers; or

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

715

(b) is directed to do so by the Bank,
shall apply to the Bank to be registered as such.
(4) An application under paragraph (3) shall be submitted in form
as set out in the First Schedule accompanied by information and fees
prescribed therein.
47. The Bank may register a person as a small e-money issuer if
that person—
(a) is a company incorporated in Kenya;

Certificate of
registration.

(b) does not issue e-money accounts with an individual
transaction limit that exceeds twenty thousand shillings or as
may be amended by the Bank from time to time;
(c) does not and shall not have total liabilities with respect to
issuing e-money which exceeds one hundred million
shillings; and
(d) issues e-money which is accepted as a means of payment
only by—
(i) subsidiaries of the e-money issuer which perform
operational or other ancillary functions related to emoney issued or distributed by that e-money issuer; or
(ii) other members of the same group as the e-money issuer,
other than subsidiaries of that e-money issuer.
48. (1) The Bank may, where an applicant complies with the
registration requirements set out in these Regulations, issue a certificate
of registration to a small e-money issuer.

Compliance with
registration.

(2) A certificate of registration issued under paragraph (1) shall
remain in force until suspended or revoked under these Regulations.
49. A small e-money issuer shall, within ten working days at the
end of every calendar month, submit to the Bank in the form as set out
in the Fifth Schedule, information regarding—
(a) the total amount of e-money issued by the small e-money
issuer outstanding as at the end of each month;
(b) the number of e-money accounts held by the small e-money
issuer;
(c) the volumes and values of the e-money transactions of the
small e-money issuer; and

Submission of
reports.

716

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

(d) any incidents of fraud.
50. (1) The Bank may revoke or suspend the certificate of
registration of a small e-money issuer for such period as the Bank may
specify, if the registered small e-money issuer—

Revocation or
suspension of
registration.

(a) ceases to carry on business or goes into liquidation or is
wound up, or is otherwise dissolved; or
(b) fails to comply with the provisions of this regulation.
(2) The Bank shall, before revoking or suspending a registration
under paragraph (1), give a registered small e-money issuer not less
than fourteen days’ notice, to make any representations to the Bank.
(3) The Bank shall take into consideration the representations
made under this regulation in its decision on the matter.
51. (1) The Bank may, in addition to the remedial actions
provided under the Act—
(a) prohibit payment service providers from offering payment
services;
(b) terminate the employment services of an officer or employee
of a payment service provider;
(c) remove a trustee;
(d) prohibit a payment service provider from investing the Trust
Fund;
(e) prohibit a payment service provider from establishing new
branches, appointing new agents or cash merchants or
introduction of new products;
(f) prohibit a payment service provider from engaging in new
activities or from expanding existing activities;
(g) limit the range of activities under paragraph(1)(f) and the
locations in which such activities may be conducted;
(h) prohibit or suspend a payment service provider from any
other activity which the Bank perceives to be contributing to
violation of these Regulations
(2) The Bank shall, before imposing a penalty on any payment
service provider under these Regulations, give the payment service
provider not less than seven days’ notice, requiring the payment service
provider to show cause as to why the penalty prescribed should not be

Remedial actions.

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

717

imposed.
PART III—DESIGNATION OF A PAYMENT SYSTEM OR A
PAYMENT INSTRUMENT
52. (1) The Bank shall determine whether a payment system or
a payment instrument qualifies to be designated in accordance with the
Act.
(2) A person who operates a payment system or issues a payment
instrument that qualifies to be designated as such shall upon
notification by the Bank apply for designation.
(3) An application under paragraph (2) shall be in Form I, and
shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee, as set out in the First
Schedule to these Regulations.
(4) The application under this regulation shall further be
accompanied by—
(a) for new operators, a three year projected financial statements
including statement of financial position, statement of
comprehensive income and cash flow statement, after start of
operations;
(b) the organisation structure of the applicant if the applicant is a
corporate body and declarations signed by every officer as
specified in the application form to establish adequate
governance arrangements which are effective, accountable
and transparent to ensure the continued integrity of such
designated payment system or instrument;
(c) documents
detailing
arrangements—

the

following

operational

(i) rules and procedures setting out the rights and liabilities
of the issuer and the user of the designated payment
system or payment instrument and the risks the user may
incur;
(ii) the name and a detailed description of the designated
payment system or payment instrument, including
payment flow and settlement arrangements;
(iii) measures to ensure prudent management of funds
collected from a user of the designated payment system
or payment instrument, including measures to ensure
that such funds are available for repayment to a user;
(iv) measures to ensure safety, security and operational

Application process.

718

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014
reliability of the designated payment system or payment
instrument including contingency arrangements;
(v) fees and charges imposed by the payment service
provider; and
(vi) outsourcing arrangements, if any;

(d) where the applicant is already in operation, the value and
volumes of transaction in the six months to the date of
application; and
(e) confirmation of the payment fee as set out in the First
Schedule.
53. (1) The Bank shall, by way of a gazette notice, designate a
payment system or payment instrument in accordance with the Act.

Notification by the
Bank.

(2) The Bank shall ensure that a payment system or payment
instrument complies with the Act and any conditions given in the
designation notice.
(3) The Bank shall give notice of designation of a payment
system or a payment instrument in accordance with the Act.
54. (1) A payment service provider shall, where it intends to
introduce a substantial change or enhancement in the designated
payment system or payment instrument, seek approval of the Bank,
thirty days prior to the proposed implementation of the change or
enhancement.
(2) For the purposes of this regulation, a substantial change or
enhancement is the one which expands the scope or changes the nature
of the designated payment system or payment instrument and may
include—
(a) additional functionality of the designated payment system or
instrument such as accessing new electronic channels;
(b) changing the payment service providers and other major
partners in the business; and
(c) any changes to the documentation outlined in regulation
52(4).
55. (1) The Bank may suspend a designation under this
regulation for such period as the Bank may specify or revoke the
designation, if the payment service provider—
(a) ceases operations;
(b) applies to the Bank for revocation by showing a good cause
for revocation;

Changes and
enhancements.

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

719

(c) ceases to meet the designation and operation requirements as
prescribed in this Regulation;
(d) fails to comply with any condition of the designation;
(e) violates the provisions of any applicable law or this
regulation;
(f) becomes insolvent or fails to effectively conduct its
operations;

(g) through its activities the public trust has been
compromised;
(h) fails to comply with any material obligation imposed on it by
or under this regulation;

Revocation and
suspension.

(i) engages in activities which are either restricted or prohibited
under this regulation;
(j) is unable or fails to protect confidentiality of data or
information it collects;
(k) without the consent of the Bank, amalgamates with another
entity or sells, or otherwise transfers its designated payment
instrument business to another entity;
(l) has a winding-up order made against it or a resolution for
voluntary winding passed against it;
(m) fails to pay the annual renewal fee within ninety days after
the anniversary date;
(n) fails to pay monetary penalty imposed by the Bank;
(o) fails to comply with the Proceeds of Crime Act and AntiMoney Laundering Act, 2009, and The Prevention of
Terrorism Act, 2012, and associated Regulations and
guidelines; or
(p) fails to manage its agents or cash merchants in a manner
consistent with the Act and these Regulations.
(2) The Bank shall, before revoking or suspending a designation
under paragraph (1), give the payment system provide an opportunity to
make representations to the Bank why the designation should not be
revoked or suspended.
(3) The Bank shall take into consideration the representations
made under paragraph (2), in its decision on the matter.
(4) The Bank may require the payment service provider to take
corrective measures within such time as the Bank may specify and
may, in addition, impose such monetary penalty or other sanctions as
the Bank deems fit.
(5) The Bank shall, upon revoking or suspending a designation

No. 9 of 2009
No. 30 of 2012.

720

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

under this regulation, immediately inform the payment service provider
of the revocation or suspension.
(6) The Bank shall, where the Bank has revoked a designation, as
soon as possible—
(a) give notice to the payment service provider; and
(b) publish a notice of the revocation in the Gazette.
(7) A payment service provider whose certificate of designation
has been revoked shall surrender the designation certificate to the Bank.
PART IV—GENERAL PROVISIONS
56. Where the Bank has proven that a payment service provider
has contravened or failed to comply with any provision of these
Regulations, it shall forthwith notify the payment service provider and
require the payment service provider to remedy the violation.

Non-compliance

57. The Bank may, where there is no specific penalty prescribed
under these Regulations,
impose monetary fines not exceed one
million shillings on an payment service provider, a trustee, an agent or
a cash merchant for failure to comply with these Regulations.

General penalty.

58. (1) Where a monetary penalty is prescribed under these
Regulations, the penalty shall be paid to the Bank within ten days of
imposition of that penalty unless otherwise stated.

Payment of
monetary penalty

(2) The Bank may, where a payment service provider fails to pay
a penalty, take such other action or make such decision as is permitted
under the Act or these Regulations.
59. (1) Any payment system operated by the Bank that qualifies
to be designated will be deemed to be designated and will be gazetted
in accordance with regulation 53.

Transitional
provisions.

(2) Any payment service provider who commenced delivery of
electronic retail transfer or e-money issuance before the
commencement date of these Regulations shall comply with these
Regulations within six months from the commencement date.
60. A payment service provider and its agents, cash merchants
and wholesale cash merchants shall comply with the Proceeds of Crime
and Anti-Money Laundering Act, 2009, and the Prevention of
Terrorism Act, 2012, and the associated Regulations and Guidelines.

Anti-money
Laundering
measures.
No. 9 of 2009
No. 30 of 2012.

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

721

FIRST SCHEDULE
(rr. 4(2), 4(2)(f), 5(2),(4)(e),(5), 9(1)(a)&(c), 11(1)&(2), 46(4), 52(3)&(4)(e))
Table A: FEE AND CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS
Application Fee
(Kes)

Authorisation Fee
(Kes)

Core Capital
(Kes)

Electronic retail payment
service provider

5,000

100,000

5,000,000.00

Designated payment
instrument issuer

n/a

5,000,000

50,000,000.00

E-money Issuer

5,000

1,000,000

20,000,000.00

Small E-Money Issuer

5,000

100,000

1,000,000.00

Table B: Annual Renewal Fees for Payment Service Providers
Threshold (per annum in Kes)

Annual Renewal Fees (Kes)

Gross value≤ 1 billion

20,000.00

Gross value1 billion - 10 billion

100,000.00

Gross value11 billion - 50 billion

500,000.00

Gross value51 billion - 1
00 billion

1,000,000.00

Gross value101 billion - 500 billion

5,000,000.00

Gross value501 billion to 1000 billion

10,000,000.00

Gross value≥ 1000 billion

15,000,000.00

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

722

FORM 1: APPLICATION FOR AUTHORISATION
PURSUANT to section 6 and section 20 of the National Payment System Act, kindly
provide the following information to facilitate authorisation under the NPS Regulations
2014.
1.

MANDATORY REQUIREMENTS FOR AN APPLICANT

A: This application should be completed in English
B: The application should be addressed to the Governor (see address below) with a
covering letter summarising the profile of the applicant and the authorisation applied for,
C: The application should be accompanied by a sworn affidavit submitting the documents
listed therein in line with the template attached as Annex 1 herein and a detailed Business
plan in line with Annex 2.
2.

AUTHORISATION APPLIED FOR

Use this form for application for any of the following categories:
(a) Provision of Electronic retail transfers
(b) Small Money Issuer
(c) E Money Issuer
(d) Designation of Payment Instrument
(e) Designation of Payment System
3.

NAME OF APPLICANT

(In bold capital letters in the order the names appear on Registration Certificate etc)
Application for (specify category of applicant)____________________________________
4.

APPLICANT’S CONTACTS
4.1. Physical Address_____________________________________________________
Town__________________________

Street/Road______________________

LR No________________________ Floor_____________ Room________
Name of Building _______________________________________
4.2. Postal Address:
P. O. Box _________________________
Post Office Town ____________________
4.3. Phone and Fax Contact:

Postal Code______________________

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

723

Tel. No. _________________________

Fax. No._____________________________

Mobile_________________________

Other Tel. Nos._________________________

4.4. Email Address:_________________________________________________________
5.

OTHER INFORMATION ABOUT THE APPLICANT
5.1. State whether any of the partners/ directors/ shareholders is undischarged bankrupt.
(If so indicate give details)
5.2. State whether any of the partners/ directors/ shareholders have a beneficial interest
in any other business licensed to provide payment services
5.3. Has any previous application by you been rejected or cancelled under the Act?
(If so give details)

6.

REFEREES

The following details should be completed by two different referees who have
known the entity/person in a professional capacity.
1st Referee_________________________________
I certify that the information given in this form is true and correct to the best of my
knowledge
Full Name: ___________________________________________________
(Block letters as the names appear on the ID/Passport)
Postal Address:
P.O. Box: ___________________________ Postal Code: __________________________
Post Office Town: __________________________________________________________
Phone and Fax Contact:
Tel. No.________________________

Fax No. _________________________________

Mobile No.__________________________ Alternative Tel. No. ____________________
Email Address: _________________________________________________________
Occupation:______________________Signature:________________________________
2nd Referee________________________________________________________________
I certify that the information given in this form is true and correct to the best of my
knowledge

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

724

Full Name: _____________________________________________________
(Block letters as the names appear on the ID/Passport)
Postal Address:
P.O. Box: ___________________________

Postal Code: __________________________

Post Office Town: ___________________________________________________________
Phone and Fax Contact:
Tel. No._________________________

Fax No. _____________________________

Mobile No.__________________________

Alternative Tel.._______________________

Email Address: __________________________________________________________
Occupation:
7.

_______________________Signature:__________________________

DECLARATION

I/We hereby certify the information we have provided in this application is true and
correct to the best of my/ our knowledge. I/We also understand that it is an offence under the
Penal Code to give false information in support of any application.
Name……………………………………………………………………
Designation………………………………………………………………
Signature…………………………………………………………………
Date………………………………………………………………………
8.

COMPLETED APPLICATION FORMS SHOULD BE RETURNED TO:

Central Bank of Kenya
Haile Selassie Avenue
P. O. Box 60000- 00200
NAIROBI
Tel: 254-20-2860000
Fax: 254-20- 4242430
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The applicant MEETS/ DOES NOT MEET the Bank’s requirements and is hereby
RECOMMENDED/NOT RECOMMENDED for:
………………………………………………………………………………………..
Name………………………………………………
Designation……………

Signature…………………

Application..……………………

Date………………...........

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

725

ANNEX 1: TEMPLATE OF THE AFFIDAVIT TO BE SUBMITTED
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
IN THE MATTER OF OATHS AND STATUTORY DECLARATIONS ACT
CHAPTER 15, LAWS OF KENYA
AND
IN THE MATTER OF AN APPLICATION FOR AUTHORISATION FROM
THE CENTRAL BANK OF KENYA
AFFIDAVIT
I, ___________________________________________of P.O. Box____________________
(Town)_______________________________ (Postcode) _______________________
do hereby make oath and state as follows:
1.

THAT I am an adult of sound mind and __________________(position/ status in the
applicant entity) of_________________(name of the applicant) and hence
competent to swear this Affidavit.

2.

THAT I am a citizen of the______________________and holder of
National Identity Card No. (or Passport No.)______________________________

3.

THAT______________________(name of the applicant) has resolved to
make an application to the Bank for a _______________________((name of the
authorisation in accordance with the NPS Act) authorisation.

4.

THAT I have submitted the following copies of our documents in support of the said
application:
4.1.

Registration and ownership status:

4.1.1.

For an applicant registered under the Companies Act (Cap 486):

4.1.1.1. Copy of Certificate of Incorporation
4.1.1.2. An original letter from the Registrar of Companies listing Names of
Shareholders, their addresses, their nationalities, shares held by each,
names of directors and whether directors are nominees or not or whether non
shareholder directors- Original Form CR/12
4.1.1.3. Attached original CR/12 for other companies which are
shareholder of the Applicant until all shares are attributed to
individuals.
4.1.2.

A copy of Business Name/ Registration Certificate , or

4.1.4.

If the company is listed in a stock exchange in Kenya, copy of
Certificate from Capital Markets Authority (CMA).

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

726
4.1.5.

For any foreign company which is a shareholder of the Applicant attach
copies certified by a Notary Public of:

4.1.5.1. Certificate of Incorporation of the foreign company/ies and
4.1.5.2. Share Certificate of the foreign company/ies providing details as in 4.1.1.2
above
4.1.6.

Copies of Kenyan National Identity Cards (ID) or Kenyan/Foreign passports
for all Significant Shareholders, Custodial Trustees, Directors and Senior
Managersof the Applicant:

4.1.6.1. Both sides of the ID should be copied onto the same side of an A4 size paper,
and
4.1.6.2. Passport copies should include pages showing the nationality, date of issue
and expiry, name and photograph of holder. Please note that all foreign
passport copies should be notarized.
4.2.

Compliance with Kenya Revenue Authority rules:

4.2.1.

Copy of Personal Identification Number (PIN) card, and

4.2.2.

Copy of Valid Tax Compliance Certificate.

4.3.

A business plan in line with the guideline at Annex 2 below.

5.

THAT I swear that the documents listed in 4 above are authentic copies of the
original documents issued by the relevant authorities to the applicant.

6.

THAT this Affidavit is sworn in support of _______________(Applicant’s name)
application for authorisation.

7.

THAT what is deponed to herein above is true and within my own knowledge.

SWORN at ______________by the said

)

(Deponent)
This_______day of________in the year_________

BEFORE ME

)

)

)
)
COMMISSIONER FOR OATHS

)

Drawn by:
_____________________________________________________________ (law firm)
________________________________________________________ (physical address)
P. O. Box_______________________(postal code) _______________________________
__________________________ (town)

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

727

ANNEX 2: BUSINESS PLAN GUIDELINE
Please provide separately a Business Plan ensuring that the following details are included
in the sequence provided below. Any additional information is encouraged.

1. Executive Summary:
Briefly describe your organisation and the business concept.
2. Technical Information
Provide the proposed system configuration with block diagrams, proposed technology
interface with other licensees, network and terminal equipments and/or customer premise
equipment (CPE) and the standards they conform to etc.
3. Market Information
3.1. Indicate envisioned rollout plan for the first three years:
Year /Number of Customers/Value/Volume/
Year 1
Year 2
Year 3
3.2. Provide a description of each proposed service and how the service is to be accessed
by the public.
3.3. Demonstrate knowledge of the market segment by discussing the competition issueswhat products and companies are likely to compete on the provision of the same or
similar products/services.
4. Billing Information
4.1. Describe the billing system you intend to deploy (and where applicable details
of the software/hardware),
4.2. Describe how customers will be billed indicating whether billing shall be per
transaction or according to value of transaction
4.3 Provide information on the proposed tariff for each service 5. Financial
Information
Provide at least three-year financial projections including Income Statements, Balance
sheet and Cash Flow statement projections as per International Accounting Standards
(IAS)
Note that the income statements should be derived from the product of rollout plan (part
3.1 above) and billing information (part 4 above)
5. Quality of Service Assurance
Describe how you will ensure provision of high quality services and how quality
services will be maintained.
6. Funds Management
Give details on the mechanisms you have put in place to protect users’ funds in the
eventuality of system failure, revocation/suspension of your authorisation and/or
insolvency of your entity.

728
8.

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

APPLICATION ACCEPTANCE SECTION - FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

No.

Application Requirements

1
2
3

Is a covering letter on applicant letterhead included?
Is the application duly completed?
Is the application signed, giving applicant’s name and
designation?
Is the authorisation applied for within the NPS Act?
Is the business plan for the applied authorisation enclosed?

4
5

Receiving
Officer

Checking
Officer

Are the following documents listed on an affidavit sworn by one of the Directors?
No.

Application Requirements

6
7

Copy of Certificate of Incorporation enclosed?
Is/are original CR/12(s) provided indicating names of
shareholders, their addresses, their nationalities, shares
held by each, names of directors and whether directors are
nominees or not or whether non shareholder directors?

8

Copy of Certificate from CMA for listed companies

9

Notarized Copy of Certificate of Incorporation for a
foreign applicant or shareholder of an applicant

10

Notarized Copy of Share Certificate or equivalent of a
foreign applicant or a shareholder of an applicant

11
12
13
14

Copy of Personal Identification Number (PIN) card
Copy of Valid Tax Compliance Certificate
Copies of ID/passport for directors and shareholders
Memorandum and Articles of Association of the
Company;

Receiving
Officer

Checking
Officer

The Receiving and Checking Officers MUST tick ALL the boxes above before
accepting and Filing an application.
Receiving Officer’s Comments: …………………………….………………………….
Receiving Officer’s Name: …………………………………….…………………………
Signature: ……………………………………. Date: ……………………………………
Checking Officer’s Comments: …………………………….………………………….
Checking Officer’s Name: …………………………………….…………………………
Signature: ……………………………………. Date: ……………………………………

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

729

FORM 2:APPLICATION FOR RENEWAL OF AUTHORISATION
1.

AUTHORISATION APPLIED FOR

Please tick the categories of authorisation for renewal. More information on licensing
under the National Payment System Act, 2011 is available on the CBK website
www.centralbank.go.ke
Provision of Electronic retail transfers
Small Money Issuer
E Money Issuer
Designation of Payment Instrument
2.

NAME OF APPLICANT

(In bold capital letters in the order the names appear on Registration Certificate etc)
Application for (specify category of applicant)____________________________________
2. APPLICANT’S CONTACTS
2.1. Physical Address_____________________________________________________
Town__________________________
LR No__________________________

Street/Road____________________
Floor_____________

Room________

Name of Building _______________________________________
2.2. Postal Address:
P. O. Box _________________________ Postal Code______________________
Post Office Town ____________________
2.3. Phone and Fax Contact:
Tel. No. ________________________

Fax. No._____________________________

Mobile________________________

Other Tel. Nos.__________________________

2.4. Email Address:_____________________________________________________
3.

DECLARATION

I/We hereby certify the information we have provided in this application is true and
correct to the best of my/ our knowledge. I/We also understand that it is an offence under the
Penal Code to give false information in support of any application.
Name……………………………………………………………………
Designation………………………………………………………………
Signature…………………………………………………………………
Date………………………………………………………………………
4.

COMPLETED RENEWAL FORMS SHOULD BE RETURNED TO:

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

730
Central Bank of Kenya
Haile Selassie Avenue
P. O. Box 60000
NAIROBI - 00200
Tel: 254-20-2860000
Fax: 254-20- 4242430

FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
The applicant MEETS/ DOES NOT MEET the Bank’s requirements and is hereby
RECOMMENDED/NOT RECOMMENDED for:
………………………………………………………………………………………..
Name………………………...................................................................………………………
Designation…….....................................………

Signature…………………

Application..…………….....................................................………Date…………..............……

ANNEX 1: SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS TO BE SUBMITTED
1.

For a mobile payment service provider, a certified copy of a valid license from the
Communication Services Regulator.

2.

Evidence that the payment service provider holds the initial capital set out in Table A.

3.

Details of changes in:
(a) the applicant’s governance arrangements and internal control mechanisms,
including administrative, risk management and accounting procedures, which
demonstrates that these governance arrangements, control mechanisms and
procedures are proportionate, appropriate, sound and adequate;
(b) the internal control mechanisms which the applicant has established to comply
with its anti-money laundering obligations as set out in the Proceeds of Crime and
Anti-Money Laundering Act (Act No. 9 of 2009), the Prevention of Terrorism Act
(Act No. 30 of 2012) and the relevant Regulations and guidelines;
(c) the applicant’s structural organisation including, where applicable, its intended
use of agents, cash merchants, branches and outsourcing arrangements, and its
participation in a national and or international payment system;

4.

Details of changes in the identity of:
(a) its owners;
(b) its directors and persons responsible for the management of the payment service
provider;

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

731

(c) the custodial trustees holding the cash which is represented in the applicant’s
payment service;
5.

List of volumes and value of transactions for the last 12 months.
1.

THAT I swear that the documents listed above are authentic copies of the
original documents issued by the relevant authorities to the applicant.

2.

THAT what is deponed to herein above is true and within my own
knowledge.
SWORN at ______________
(Deponent)

by the said

This_______day of________in the year_________
)
BEFORE ME )
)

)
)

COMMISSIONER FOR OATHS )
Drawn by:
___________________________________________________ (law firm)
________________________________________________________
(physical address)
P. O. Box_____________(postal code) ____________ (town)__________
6.

Funds Management

Give details on any changes in the mechanisms you have put in place to protect users’
funds in the eventuality of system failure, revocation/suspension of your authorisation
and/or insolvency of your entity.
APPLICATION ACCEPTANCE SECTION - FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
No.

Application Requirements

1

Is a covering letter on applicant letterhead included?

2

Is the application duly completed?

3

Is the application signed, giving applicant’s name and
designation?

4

Is the authorisation applied for within the NPS Act?

Receiving
Officer

Checking
Officer

The Receiving and Checking Officers MUST tick ALL the boxes above before
accepting and Filing an application.
Receiving Officer’s Comments: …………………………….………………………….
Receiving Officer’s Name: …………………………………….…………………………

732

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

Signature: …………………..…………………. Date: ……………………………………
Checking Officer’s Comments: …………………………….………….....……………….
Checking Officer’s Name: …………………………………….…………………………
Signature: ……………..………………………. Date: ……………………………………
SECOND SCHEDULE
(rr. 4(2)(i)&(iv), 8(3), 9(1)(a), 25(2)(a)
CRITERIA FOR ASSESSING SUITABILITY OF SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDERS,
TRUSTEES, DIRECTORS AND MANAGERS IN CONTROL OF PAYMENT
SERVICE PROVIDERS
NOTE:
(a) Read the declaration on Section 6 below before completing this form.
(b) In case the space provided is inadequate, use additional paper.
Significant trustees, directors and management in control of a payment service provider
will be assessed against the following criteria(a) possession of adequate professional credentials or experience or both for the
position for which it is proposed;
(b) probity, diligence, competence and soundness of judgment;
(c) reputation, character, integrity and honesty;
(d) history of any offence involving fraud, dishonesty or violence;
(e) whether that person has engaged in deceitful, oppressive or improper business
practices or any practices which would discredit that person;
(f) whether that person has engaged, associated or conducted himself in a manner
which may cast doubt on the fitness, competence and soundness of judgment
of that person;
(g) whether that person has contravened any provision made by or under any law
designed to protect members of the public against financial loss due to
dishonesty, incompetence or malpractice; and
(h) whether that person has been declared bankrupt.
1. THE APPLICANT DETAILS
(a) Name........................................................................................................................
(b) Type.........................................................................................................................

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

733

2. PERSONAL INFORMATION
(a) Surname............................................................................................................................
Other Names.................................................................................................................. ........
b) Previous Names (if any) by which you have been known: ..............................................
………………………………………...................................................................................
(c) Year and Place of birth: ...................................................................................................
……………………………………………….…………………………..............................
(d) Nationality and how acquired:.........................................................................................
………………………………………………………………………………………….......
(e) Personal Identification Number .......................................................................................
…………………………………………………………………….......................................
(f) Identification Card number and date of issue...................................................................
……………………………………………………………………………………………...
(g) Postal Address: ...............................................................................................................
..............................................................................................................................................
(h) Previous Postal Addresses (if any)...................................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................
(i) Physical Address ..............................................................................................................
(j) Educational Qualifications ...............................................................................................
(k) Professional Qualifications and years obtained...............................................................
…………………………………………………...................................................................
(l) Name(s) of your bankers during the last 5 years.............................................................
………….………………………………………..................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................
...............................................................................................................................................

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

734

3. EMPLOYMENT/ BUSINESS RECORD
Period

1.

Name of
Employer/Business
and address

Positions
held and
dates

Responsibilities

Reasons for
leaving
(where
applicable

DESCRIPTION OF YOUR PAST AND CURRENT ACTIVITIES IN KENYA
AND ABROAD
1.1. SHAREHOLDING (DIRECTLY OWNED OR THROUGH NOMINEES)

Company’s
Name

Date of
incorporation

Amount of
shareholding

% of
shareholding

Past
shareholding
A

Remarks

B

A: Refers to date of sell, transfer, closure or surrender of shares
B: Refers to reasons for sell, transfer, closure or surrender
1.2. DIRECTORSHIP
Company’s
Name

Date of
incorporation

Executive
or Non
Executive

Position
held in
case of
Executive

Past
Directorship

C

C: Refers to date of retirement / cessation
D: Refers to reasons for retirement / cessation

D

Remarks

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

735

1.3. PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS
Name of body

Membership No.

Position Held
(if any)

Past
Directorship
E

Remarks

F

E: Refers to date of retirement / termination of membership.
F: Refers to reasons for retirement or termination of membership
1.4.
Name of
borrower
*

Name of
lending
institution

BORROWINGS
Type
of
facility

Date
of
offer

Terms
of
offer

Security
offered

Value of
security

Current
Outstanding
balance

Rem
arks

* Borrower to indicate individual/personal as well as the private Company shareholdings
in excess of 5%.
2.

QUESTIONNAIRE
2.1. Have you or any entity with which you are associated as director, shareholder or
manager, ever held or applied for a license or equivalent authorisation to carry
on any business activity in any country? If so, give particulars. If any such
application was rejected or withdrawn after it was made or any authorisation
revoked, give particulars.………...........................................................…………
….............................................……………………………………………………
……………………………………………………….................………………
2.2. Have you at any time been convicted of any criminal offence in any
jurisdiction? If so, give particulars of the court in which you were convicted,
the offence, the penalty imposed and the date of conviction

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

736

.…………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………
2.3. Have you, or any entity with which you have been involved, been censured,
disciplined, warned as to future conduct, or publicly criticized by any
regulatory authority or any professional body in any country? If so, give
particulars
...............................................………….................................................................
................................................................................................................................
2.4. Have you, or has any entity with which you are, or have been associated as a
director, shareholder or manager, been the subject of an investigation, in any
country, by a government department or agency, professional association or
other regulatory body? If so, give particulars
……………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………
2.5. Have you, in any country, ever been dismissed from any office or employment,
been subject to disciplinary proceedings by your employer or barred from entry
of any profession or occupation? If so, give particulars.
……………………………………...........................….........................................
................................................................................................................................
2.6. Have you been diagnosed with any mental disability?
……………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………
2.7. Have you failed to satisfy debt adjudged due and payable by you on order of
court, in any country, or have you made any compromise arrangement with
your creditors within the last 10 years? If so, give particulars
……………………………………………………………………………………
………….................................................................................................................
2.8. Have you ever been declared bankrupt by a court in any country or has a
Bankruptcy petition ever been served on you? If so, give particulars
……………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

737

2.9. Have you ever been held liable by a court, in any country, for any fraud or other
misconduct? If so, give particulars
…………………………………………………………………..………………
………………………………………………………………………………..
2.10. Has any entity with which you were associated as a director, shareholder or
manager in any country made any compromise or arrangement with its
creditors, been wound up or otherwise ceased business either while you were
associated with it or within one year after you ceased to be associated with it? If
so, give particulars……………………………………….………………………
…..………………………………………………………………………………
Are you presently, or do you, other than in a professional capacity, expect to be
engaged

in

any

litigation

in

any

country?

If

so,

give

particulars…………………………………………................................................……
……..................................................................................................................................
2.11. Indicate the names, postal and e-mail addresses, telephone numbers and
positions of three individuals of good standing who would be able to provide a
reference on your personal and financial integrity and honesty. The referees
must not be related to you, and should have known you for at least five years.
Name of
Referee

Postal
Address

E-mail
address

Tel no.s

Position
(where
applicable)

Relationship
with
applicant.

1
2
3

2.12. Is there any additional information which you consider relevant for the
consideration of your suitability or otherwise to own share capital of an
institution? The omission of material facts may represent the provision of
misleading information…………………………..................................................
...............................................................................................................................
3.

DECLARATION

I am aware that it is an offence to knowingly or recklessly provide any information,
which is false or misleading. I am also aware that provision of false information in this
regard may result in rejection of this application by the Bank.

738

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

I certify that the information given above is complete and accurate to the best of my
knowledge, and that there are no other facts relevant to this application of which the Bank
should be aware.
I also certify that the capital to be invested is not from proceeds of crime.
I undertake to inform the Bank of any changes material to the applications which arise
while the application is under consideration.
NAME: ……………………..................................................................
DATED AT:.…………..…THIS…………….…DAY OF……....…… 20………….
WITNESSED BEFORE ME:
SIGNED …………………………........ (Applicant)
COMMISSIONER FOR OATHS/MAGISTRATE
Name ………………….........................................................................................................
Signature: ……………..........................................................................................................
Address: ……………………………………………………………………………………
……………………………………………………………………………………………
NB: This form should be accompanied by:
(i) Detailed Curriculum Vitae;
(ii) Any other document as may be required by the Bank.
--------------------THIRD SCHEDULE

1

Standard Setting Body
B.I.S (Bank of International
Settlements)

(r. 24 (b))

The Committee on Payment and Settlement
Systems (CPSS) working under BIS contributes to
strengthening the financial market infrastructure
through promoting sound and efficient payment,
clearing and settlement systems.
The CPSS is a standard setting body for payment,
clearing and securities settlement systems.
The commonly used standards are compliance
with Principles for Financial Market Infrastructure
(PFMI)
It also serves as a forum for central banks to
monitor and analyse developments in domestic

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

739

Standard Setting Body

2

3

ISO (International
Organisation of Standards)

FATF (Financial Action
Task Force)

payment, clearing and settlement systems as well
as in cross-border and multicurrency settlement
schemes.
This is a network of national standards bodies
tasked with developing International Standards.
International Standards give state of the art
specifications for products, services and good
practice, helping to make industry more efficient
and effective.
Examples of ISO standards applicable to payment
systems are ISO 20022 and ISO 8583
It is an inter-governmental body formed to set
standards and promote effective implementation of
legal, regulatory and operational measures for
combating money laundering, terrorist financing
and other related threats to the integrity of the
international financial system.
The FATF has developed a series of
Recommendations that are recognised as the
international standard for combating of money
laundering and the financing of terrorism and
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction

FOURTH SCHEDULE (r. 25(4))
Amount in Trust Account
1

Below Kes 100 Million

2

Above Kes 100 Million

Percentage Holding per
Bank
N/a
Max. 25 per cent of Total
amount in trust account

FIFTH SCHEDULE

No. of banks for
diversification
Strong rated
bank
Min. 2 strong
rated banks

(rr. 29(2)& 49)

OVERSIGHT DATA REQUIREMENT (to be submitted monthly)
PURSUANT to section 16 and section 20 of the National Payment System Act, 2011,
kindly provide the following information to facilitate oversight of your payment service.
(Additional information is provided in the attachments).
PART A: Payment Service Provider Details
1.

Name of the Payment Service Provider…………………………………………….

2. Description of the payment service
separate documentation)

provided (please provide more details on a

………………………………………………………………………………………

Kenya Subsidiary Legislation, 2014

740

3. Please provide the following information about your Payment System / Instrument.
(i) Physical address ……………………………………………..….…….……
(ii) Postal address
(iii) Telephone

…………..…………………………….……………………..

………………………………………….……..………………….

(iv) Registered head office: ………………………………..….…………………..
PART B: Operational Details
1. How many outlets / Agents operate under your establishment ………………
(Provide detailed geographic distribution)
2.

What is the volume and value of your operations during last month?
Aggregate Value ……………………………..
Aggregate Volume ……………………………

3.

What is the value of the trust account operated on behalf of your customers?
Kes. …………………………………….

4.

What is the distribution amount and percentage per bank? (provide a table)

5.

Have you experienced incidents of fraud, theft or robbery?
a)

No

b) Yes
6.

a)

No

b) Yes
7.

(Provide geographical distribution details)?

Have you experienced material service interruptions and major security breaches?
(Provide geographical distribution details)

What security measures have you put in place to prevent service interruptions?
........................................................................................................................................
......................................................................................................................................

8.

Have you received complaints and how have they been resolved?
a) No
b) Yes

(Provide geographical distribution details and resolving mechanisms
can be provided in a separate sheet)

PART C: Declaration
I/We declare that the information provided is true to the best of our knowledge.
Name…………………………..

Name ……………………………

Designation …………………….

Designation ……………………...

Date ……………………………
Made on the 25th July, 2014.

Date ……………………………….
HENRY K. ROTICH,
Cabinet Secretary for the National Treasury

PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY THE GOVERNMENT PRINTER, NAIROBI

