IN EXERCISE of the powers conferred by sections 27, 38, 39, 46K, 66 and 83R of
the Kenya Information and Communications Act, 1998, the Minister for
Information and Communications, in consultation with the Communications
Commission of Kenya, makes the following Regulations:—
THE KENYA INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATIONS (CONSUMER
PROTECTION) REGULATIONS, 2010
1. Citation.
These Regulations may be cited as the Kenya Information and Communications
(Consumer Protection) Regulations, 2010.
2. Interpretation. Cap. 265.
In these Regulations, unless the context otherwise requires—
“child” means any human being under the age of eighteen years;
“commercial code of practice” means the principles, values, standards or rules that
guide or govern the decisions, procedures and systems of an organization in a way
that contributes to the welfare of its key stakeholders, and respects the rights of all
constituents affected by its operations;
“complaint” means any statement of dissatisfaction with the services of a licensee
made by a customer;
“customer” means any person who uses the services or purchases the products of a
particular licensee or vendor, without necessarily being a subscriber to that
licensee or vendor;
“disability” means a physical, sensory, mental or other impairment, including any
visual, hearing, learning or physical incapability, which impacts adversely on
social, economic or environmental participation;
“licensee” means a person licensed under the Act;
“outage credit” means a credit to be paid to a subscriber for a period of time when
the service is not operating for reasons not caused by the subscriber;
“subscriber” means any person who purchases a communications service or agrees
to

receive and pay for the service from a licensee through a subscriber service
agreement;
“subscriber service agreement” means an agreement entered into by a licensee and
subscriber for the provision of the licensed services to the subscriber;
“vendor” means a person who carries out the business of selling, reselling or
distributing ICT terminal equipment used for the provision of licensed services.
3. Rights and obligations of customers.
(1) A customer shall have the right to—
(a) receive clear and complete information about rates, terms and conditions for
available and proposed products and services;
(b) be charged only for the products and services they subscribe to;
(c) where possible, select a service provider and service of the customer’s choice;
(d) personal privacy and protection against unauthorized use of personal
information;
(e) accurate and understandable bills for products and services authorised by the
customer, and to fair prompt redress in the event of a dispute in the provision of the
products and services;
(f) protection from unfair trade practices, including false and misleading
advertising and anti-competitive behaviour by licensees; and
(g) equal opportunity for access to the same type and quality of service as other
customers in the same area at substantially the same tariff limiting variations to
available or appropriate technologies required to serve specific customers.
(2) A consumer shall—
(a) use communications systems and services in the appropriate manner, without
abusing them;
(b) familiarize with and honour their obligations under any contract entered into
with a product supplier or service provider;

(c) make reasonable decisions in exercising their right of choice; and
(d) familiarize with and abide by any safety or security requirements pertaining to
the use of communications systems and services.
4. Safeguards.
(1) A service provider shall take appropriate technical and organizational measures
to safeguard the security of its services.
(2) Where there is a particular risk of a breach of the security of the network, a
licensee shall—
(a) inform the subscribers of the risk; and
(b) where the risk lies outside the scope of the measures that may be taken by the
licensee, of any possible remedies, including an indication of the likely costs
involved.
5. Customer care system.
(1) A licensee shall, within the period specified in its licence or by the
Commission, establish a customer care system within which customers can make
inquiries and complaints concerning its services in such format and containing
such details as may be required by the Commission within the time prescribed in
the licence or within a reasonable time after the grant of a licence, or as may be
specified by the Commission and be available upon commencement of provision of
service to the public.
(2) The Commission may from time to time publish guidelines relating to the
customer care systems that the licensee may establish.
6. Provision of services and sale if ICT terminal equipment.
(1) A vendor shall provide all pertinent information on the equipment it offers for
sale, including among others, the type-approval or type acceptance status and
whether or not such equipment is new or used, to prospective buyers in a clear and
unambiguous manner.
(2) A vendor shall honour all agreements entered into with a buyer, through the
sale of terminal equipment and shall ensure that such equipment is in proper

working order at the time of sale.
(3) A vendor shall ensure that its advertisements relating to the goods regulated
under the Act are unambiguous and factual.
7. Complaint handling procedures of licensees.
(1) A licensee shall provide easily understood information about its complaint
handling processes in various media and formats, including as specifically directed
by the Commission from time to time.
(2) A customer who wishes to lodge a complaint shall reduce the complaint in
writing and lodge it within six months from the date of the incident that the
complaint arises from.
(3) A licensee shall acknowledge the receipt of a complaint filed with it.
(4) A licensee shall where possible, advise a customer at the time of making the
complaint on the expected action, timing for investigation and resolution of the
complaint and in the event that the service provider regards the complaint as
frivolous or vexatious, the consumer shall be informed accordingly.
(5) A licensee shall resolve all complaints made by its customers within a
reasonable time.
(6) A licensee shall put in place a process to provide customer with sufficient
information and the means to inquire on the progress of complaints and the
processes may include complaint reference numbers or other identifiers in order to
facilitate timely and accurate responses to subsequent inquiries by customers.
(7) A licensee shall inform the customer of the outcome of the investigation of
their complaint, and any decision of the licensee.
(8) Where a customer is not satisfied with a decision made on a complaint, the
licensee shall give the customer the option of pursuing an identified escalation
process, where the decision may be examined by a suitably qualified person in the
licensee’s organisation.
(9) Where the consumer has already gone through the licensee’s escalation process
and the complaint has not been resolved to the consumer’s satisfaction, the
customer may refer the complaint to the Commission.

(10) The complaint handling processes shall be provided free of charge.
(11) Notwithstanding paragraph (10), where the investigation of the complaint
requires the retrieval of records more than twelve months old or the retrieval
results in any incremental expense or significant inconvenience to the licensee, a
licensee may impose a reasonable charge for the complaint handling processes.
(12) Any such charges shall be identified by the licensee, be agreed to by the
customer and referred to the Commission before being imposed.
(13) A licensee shall file, with the Commission, such information and statistics on
all complaints reported, including those resolved and those outstanding, on a
quarterly basis in the manner prescribed by the Commission from time to time.
8. Complaints by persons with disabilities.
(1) A licensee shall ensure that persons with disabilities can easily access its
complaint handling processes.
(2) A licensee shall provide reasonable assistance to a customer who specifically
requests for assistance when lodging complaints.
(3) A licensee shall take such measures as may be prescribed by the Commission
to ensure that the requirements and interests of disabled customers are fully
addressed.
(4) A licensee shall fulfill any specific obligations that relate to special services or
special arrangements for customers with disabilities that the Commission may
from time to time impose.
9. Protection of children.
(1) A licensee shall establish mechanisms that enable parents
and legal guardians to block access of children to harmful content.
(2) A licensee who owns promotes, glamorizes or markets alcohol and tobacco
products or other harmful substances that are directed at children commits an
offence.
10. Information for customers.
(1) A licensee shall provide a clear and understandable description of available

services, rates, terms, conditions and charges for such services and publish the
information within such periods as may be determined by the Commission.
(2) The Commission may from time to time publish information that may include,
among others, tariffs and statistical information, it considers useful to customers.
(3) Without prejudice to any other information that may be required by the
Commission, a service provider shall provide customers at the point of sale, where
applicable with—
(a) the name of the service provider;
(b) a toll free consumer service number;
(c) the activation fee or initiation fee, including deposit requirements;
(d) the monthly access fees or base charges tariff provisions for calculating charges
including, among others,(i) minimum charges, units, distances;
(ii) peak, and off peak rates;
(iii) night, weekends and holidays rates;
(iv) international call charges; and
(e) any additional or different prices, rates or unit values applicable, and additional
taxes or fees.
12. Outage credit system.
(1) A licensee shall, within six months from the date of the grant of the licence,
submit to the Commission a system of outage credits to be given to a subscriber,
which upon the Commission’s approval shall become part of the licensee’s
standard subscriber service agreement.
(2) A licensee shall not be responsible to subscribers for scheduled outages arising
in accordance with the terms and conditions of a licence, from an event or effect,
which in the Commission’s view was not reasonably foreseeable or preventable.

13. Code of commercial practice.
(1) A licensee shall submit to the Commission, within six months of being granted
a licence for approval, a commercial code of practice in the prescribed manner.
(2) Upon receiving the code submitted under paragraph (1), the Commission
may—
(a) approve the proposed code;
(b) approve the commercial code of practice with the recommendation that the
licensee makes alterations specified by the Commission;
(c) decline to approve the proposed code and direct that the licensee improves
specified areas or further develops the proposed code; or
(d) extend the period for the review of the proposed code.
(3) The commercial of practice shall include, among others, the licensee’s
complaints handling procedure, advertising policy, system of outage credit and the
emergency safety and assistance services and any other information as the
Commission may determine.
(4) A licensee shall deliver to each subscriber within three months of the
commencement of the service, the commercial code of practice as approved by the
Commission.
(5) The commercial code of practice shall not replace or reduce any benefit of price
assurance provided to the subscriber by the subscriber service contract; and shall(a) supplement the subscriber service contract and not reduce a subscriber’s
consumer rights; and
(b) be consistent with consumer protection laws.
14. Standard subscriber service Agreements.
(1) A licensee shall submit to the Commission, for approval, the standard
subscriber service agreement applicable to each service it offers to the public.
(2) Where a dispute arises between a consumer and a licensee on the interpretation
of the terms of a service agreement that had not been submitted to the Commission

for approval prior to the dispute or complaint and the dispute is submitted to the
Commission for resolution, the decision of the Commission shall prevail over the
provisions in the subscriber service agreement that had not been approved by the
Commission.
(3) For the avoidance of doubt, agreements entered into between terminal
equipment vendors and their customers through the sale of such equipment shall be
subject to these Regulations and shall be enforced by the Commission.
15. Confidentiality.
(1) Subject to the provisions of the Act or any other written law, a licensee shall
not monitor, disclose or allow any person to monitor or disclose, the content of any
information of any subscriber transmitted through the licensed systems by
listening, tapping, storage, or other kinds of interception or surveillance of
communications and related data.
(2) A licensee shall, where applicable, establish mechanisms by which customers
may be able to—
(a) know that information is being collected about them through their use of
various telecommunications services and systems; and
(b) receive conspicuous notice that such information could be used, or is intended
to be used, without authorisation, by the entity collecting the data for reasons
unrelated to the original communications, or that such information could be sold
(or is intended to be sold) to other companies or entities;
(3) Notwithstanding paragraph (2)(b), nothing in this regulation shall be construed
to mean that a licensee may sell or offer for free, to a third party, any information
collected by the licensee without the prior consent of the consumer concerned.
(4) In the case of children, the powers exercised in paragraph (1) and (2) shall be
vested in the parents or lawful guardians on their behalf.
16. Operator assistance.
A licensee shall, where applicable, ensure that all its customers can access operator
assistance services.

17. Unsolicited communications.

(1) A person who uses automated calling systems without human intervention,
facsimile machines or electronic mail for purposes of direct marketing without the
prior consent of the subscriber commits an offence.
(2) A person who sends electronic mail for purposes of direct marketing disguising
or concealing the identity of the sender on whose behalf the communication is
made, or without a valid address to which the recipient may send a request that the
communications cease commits an offence.
(3) Where a natural or legal person legally obtains from its subscribers their
electronic contact details for electronic mail, in the context of a sale of a product or
service, the natural or legal person may use these electronic contact details for
direct marketing of his or its own similar products or services so long as he or it
gives the subscriber an opportunity to object, free of charge and in a simple
manner, to the use of the data when it is collected and on the occasion of each
message in case the subscriber had not initially objected to the use.
(4) All automated direct-marketing schemes to be used in Kenya shall be based on
an opt-in principle, in which potential subscribers shall be accorded the
opportunity to accept or reject inclusion in a marketer’s mailing list.
18. Presentation and restriction of calling and connected line identification.
The Commission shall, from time to time, prescribe through guidelines, the manner
in which calling line identification features shall be available to subscribers
through licensees whose systems have such capabilities.
19. Emergency services.
(1) A licensee shall provide free access to emergency safety mand assistance
services in the manner determined by the Commission from time to time, in
accordance with the written laws in force and international standards.
(2) A licensee shall permit calls to internationally and nationally emergency
numbers to be free of charge.
(3) A licensee shall, where technically possible, forward any useful personal data
to the designated emergency services providers upon connecting emergency calls.
(4) Where there is doubt, the Commission shall determine the numbers that qualify
for toll free access under paragraph (1) and (2).

20. Billing
(1) A licensee shall install a billing system that permits, upon request by a
customer, issuance of bills that identify the rates charged to the subscriber, the
number called, the duration of each call, the charge per call, applicable discounts
and the class of service and any other information as may be stimulated by the
Commission.
(2) The Commission may include in the billing requirements
information relating to—
(a) the name of licensee;
(b) the billing period covered by bill;
(c) change in licensee;
(d) disclosure of any rate or service charge, including those implemented within
the next billing cycle;
(e) a listing of the statement or payment due date;
(f) amount of charges debited to each billed account from the previous cycle;
(g) amount of payments made to each billed account segregated from late
payments;
(h) terms for late payment fees and termination of service;
(i) the licensee’s toll free number or numbers by which customers may make
inquiries about or dispute charges contained on the bill and the methodology used
to quantify charges;
(j) toll free number of the where customers may make inquiries or file complaints;
(k) rental charges; and
(l) any other information that the Commission may from time to time by require to
be included.
(3) A licensee shall put in place a mechanism through which a subscriber to its

service may place a request for an itemized bill, where the service is not issued as a
standard offer and accord each customer the option of receiving itemized bills on a
regular basis if the subscriber so wishes and upon payment of a reasonable charge.
21. Guidelines
(1) The Commission may issue guidelines for the implementation of these
Regulations, the guidelines may, among others, relate to—
(a) standard of conduct for service providers; and
(b) A licensee shall, where technically possible, forward any useful personal data
to the designated emergency services providers upon connecting emergency calls.
(c) Where there is doubt, the Commission shall determine the numbers that qualify
for toll free access under paragraph (a) and (b).
(d) Key performance indicators for both the sector and individual service
providers.
(2) The Commission may review the guidelines made under paragraph (1), to
ensure that the guidelines remain relevant and effective.
22. Monitoring sector performance.
The Commission shall monitor sector performance, conduct consumer satisfaction
surveys and publish its findings at least once in every two years.
23. Offences and penalties.
(1) A licensee who—
(a) fails to perform the measurement, reporting and record keeping tasks within the
required time;
(b) fails to reach a target for any of the parameters stipulated under these
Regulations;
(c) fails to submit, during a time specified by the Commission, information
requested by the Commission pursuant to these Regulations;
(d) submits or publishes false or misleading information about the quality of its
services;

(e) obstructs or prevents an inspection or investigation carried out by the
Commission pursuant to these Regulations;
(f) engages in any act or omission whose effect would be to defeat the purposes of
these Regulations, commits an offence.
(3) A person who commits an offence under these Regulations shall, where no
specific penalty is provided for, is liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding three
hundred thousand shillings or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years
or both.
24. Period of compliance.
(1) A licensee shall put in place such measures, processes or systems necessary to
fully comply with these Regulations within six months of their coming into force.
(2) All existing contracts and codes that have not been filed with and approved by
the Commission as required by these Regulations shall be filed and approval
sought within six months of the coming into force of these Regulations.

Dated the 14th April, 2010
Samuel Poghisio,
Minister for Information and Communications.

