LAWS OF KENYA

THE NATIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEM ACT, 2011

NO. 39 OF 2011

Published by the National Council for Law Reporting
with the Authority of the Attorney-General
www.kenyalaw.org

2

NO. 39

National Payment System

THE NATIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEM ACT, 2011
No. 39 of 2011
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
Section
PART I—PRELIMINARY
1—Short title and commencement.
2—Interpretation.
PART II—PROVISIONS ON DESIGNATION
3—Designation of payment system.
4—Amendment to constitution and rules of designated
payment systems.
5—Inspection of constitution and rules of designated
payment systems.
6—Designation of payment instrument.
PART III—PROVISIONS RELATING TO OPERATORS
7—Recognition of a payment system management body.
8—Objects, etc of recognised payment system management
body.
9—Effecting settlement.
10—Clearing provisions.
11—Payments to third parties.
12—Authorisation of Payment Service Providers (PSP's)
13—Application for authorisation
14—Renewal of authorisation
157—Revocation of authorisation
16—Netting agreements and rules.
PART IV—PROVISIONS ON REGULATION AND SUPERVISION
17—Powers and functions of the Central Bank.
IS—Prohibition of issuance of payment instruments.
19—Participation by the Central Bank.
20—Provision of information to the Central Bank.
21—Settlement of disputes.
22—Power of Central Bank to advise and direct.
23—Audits and inspection.

NO. 39

National Payment System

24—Reports.
PART V—MISCELLANEOUS
25—Utilization of assets of a designated payment system
participant.
26—Retention of records.
27—Use of confidential information for personal gain.
28—Priority of certain instruments on winding up.
29—Misleading advertisements
30—Relief from prosecution.
31—Regulations and guidelines.
32—Transition.
33—Savirlgs.

3

4

NO. 39

National Payment System

THE NATIONAL PAYMENT SYSTEM ACT, 2011
No. 39 of 2011
Date of Assent: 2nd December, 2011
Date of Commencement: By Notice
AN ACT of Parliament to make provision for the regulation
and supervision of payment systems and payment
service providers, and for connected purposes
ENACTED by the Parliament of Kenya, as follows—
PART I—PRELIMINARY
Short title and commencement.
1. This Act may be cited as the National Payment System
Act, 2011, and shall come into force on such date as the Minister
may, by notice in the Gazette, appoint.
Interpretation.
2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
―bank‖ has the meaning assigned to it in the Banking Act,
Cap. 488;
―business day’ means any day, other than a Sunday, a public
holiday declared in accordance with the Public Holidays Act, Cap.
110, or a day declared to be a bank holiday under the Banking Act,
Cap. 488, on which the institutions and the Central Bank are open
to the public for carrying on business functions;
―Central Bank‖ means the Central Bank of Kenya established
under the Central Bank of Kenya Act (Cap. 491);
―Central Bank of Kenya settlement system‖ means a
settlement system established and operated by, or under the
control of, the Central Bank;
―Central Bank of Kenya settlement system participant‖
means—
(a) the Central Bank;

NO. 39

National Payment System

5

(b) a bank, an institution or a branch of a foreign institution; or
(c) a designated payment system operator, that participates
in the Central Bank of Kenya settlement system.
―clear‖ means the exchange of payment instructions, and
―clearing‖ shall be construed accordingly;
―clearing, netting and settlement agreements‖ means written
agreements with regard to clearing, netting or settlement
concluded between the Central Bank of Kenya settlement system
participants or settlement system participants;
―designated payment instrument‖ means
instrument designated in accordance with section 6;

a

payment

―designated payment system‖ means a payment system
designated in accordance with section 3‖;
―designated payment system operator‖ means an operator of
a designated payment system‖ ;
―designated payment system participant‖ means a person
who is―
(a) a participant in a designated payment system; or
(b) a designated payment system operator;
―failure to settle‖ means the inability of a settlement system
participant to meet its settlement obligations in a clearing house;
―institution‖ means a bank, mortgage finance company or a
financial institution as defined in the Banking Act, Cap. 488 or a
deposit-taking microfinance business as defined in the
Microfinance Act, No. 19 of 2006 or any other body which the
Minister may, in consultation with the Central Bank, declare, by
notice in the Gazette, to be an institution for the purposes of this
Act;
―Minister‖ means the minister for the time being responsible
for matters relating to finance;
―netting‖ means the determination of the net payment
obligations between two or more settlement system participants
within a payment clearing house or the determination of the net
settlement obligations between two or more settlement system

6

NO. 39

National Payment System

participants within a settlement system;
―payment clearing house‖ means an arrangement between
two or more Central Bank settlement system participants,
excluding a designated payment system operator, governing the
clearing of payment instructions between those Central Bank
settlement system participants;
―payment clearing house system operator‖ means a person,
other than a designated payment system operator, who clears on
behalf of any two or more Central Bank settlement system
participants;
―payment instrument‖ means any instrument, whether
tangible or intangible, that enables a person to obtain money,
goods or services, or to otherwise make payment;
―payment instruction‖ means an instruction to a settlement
system participant to transfer funds or make a payment;
―payment obligation‖ means an indebtedness that is owed by
one settlement system participant to another as a result of the
clearing of one or more payment instructions;
―payment service provider‖ means:—
(i) a person, company or organisation acting as
provider in relation to sending, receiving, storing or
processing of payments or the provision of other
services in relation to payment services through
any electronic system;
(ii) a person, company or organisation which owns,
possesses, operates, manages or controls a public
switched network for the provision of payment
services; or
(iii) any other person, company or organization that
processes or stores data on behalf of such
payment service providers or users of such
payment services;
―payment system‖ means a system or arrangement that
enables payments to be effected between a payer and a
beneficiary, or facilitates the circulation of money, and includes any
instruments and procedures that relate to the system;

NO. 39

National Payment System

―payment system management body‖ means a body
recognized by the Central Bank in accordance with section 7 ;
―person‖ includes any legal entity including a trust;
―settlement‖ means discharge of settlement obligations;
―settlement instruction‖ means an instruction given to a
settlement system by a settlement system participant or by a
payment clearing house system operator on behalf of a Central
Bank settlement system participant to effect settlement of one or
more payment obligations, or to discharge any other obligation of
one system participant to another system participant;
―settlement obligation‖ means an indebtedness that is owed
by one settlement system participant to another as a result of one
or more settlement instructions;
―system operator‖ means a person, other than a designated
payment system operator, authorized in terms of section 8 (2) (c)
to provide services to any two or more persons in respect of
payment instructions;
―settlement system‖ means a system established and
operated by the Central Bank for the discharge of payment or
settlement obligations, or the discharge of payment and settlement
obligations, between system participants in that system;
―settlement system participant‖ means—
(a) a Central Bank of Kenya settlement system participant; or
(b) a designated payment system participant; and
―systemic risk‖ means the risk that failure of one or more
settlement system participants, for whatever reason, to meet their
payment obligations or their settlement obligations may result in
any or all of the other settlement system participants being unable
to meet their respective payment or settlement obligations.
PART II—PROVISIONS ON DESIGNATION
Designation of a payment system
3. (1) The Central Bank may, by notice in the Gazette,
designate a payment system for the purposes of this Act, if it is of

7

8

NO. 39

National Payment System

the opinion that―
(a) the payment system poses systemic risk;
(b) the designation is necessary to protect the interest of the
public; or
(c) such designation is in the interest of the integrity of the
payment system.
(2) The notice designating a payment system under
subsection (1) shall specify―
(a) the payment system that is the subject of the designation;
(b) the operator of the payment system that is the subject of
the designation; and
(c) any terms and conditions to which the designation may be
subject.
(3) The Central Bank shall give a written notice of designation
of a payment system to the operator of the payment system that is
the subject of designation.
(4) The Central Bank may revoke or vary any designation
made under this section by―
(a) amending or revoking any condition to which the
designation may be subject; or
(b) making the designation subject to a new condition or
conditions.
(5) In determining whether or not to revoke or vary a
designation, the Central Bank may have regard to any or all of the
following matters
(a) failure by the designated payment system to comply with
any condition to which the designation may be subject;
(b) whether or not the designated payment system has
ceased to operate;
(c) whether or not the designated payment system operator
has knowingly furnished information or documents which
are false or misleading in any material respect to the
Central Bank in connection with the designation of the
system;

NO. 39

National Payment System

(d) whether or not it is in the public interest to revoke the
designation;
(e) any other matter that the Central Bank may deem
appropriate.
(6) The revocation of a designation or the variation of the
conditions to which a designation is subject shall not―
(a) have retroactive effect;
(b) affect the validity or enforceability of the rules of the
designated payment system, nor shall it affect any
payment to or out of the account of a payment system
participant or netting or settlement that took place, prior
to the coming into effect of such revocation or variation.
(7) Revocation of designation of a payment system or
variation of conditions thereof, if any, shall be by notice in the
Gazette, and advice thereof shall be given in writing to the
designated payment system operator.
(8) Without prejudice to Section 32 (1), an operator of a
payment system shall, upon advice by the Central Bank to that
effect, and within such period as the Bank may prescribe, apply for
the designation of the payment system under this Act.
(9) A person who, upon receipt of advice from the Central
Bank in accordance with subsection (8)―
(a) fails or refuses to apply for designation of a payment
system in accordance with the advice; and
(b) continues to operate a payment system that has not been
designated under this Act commits an offence.
Amendment to constitution and rules of designated payment
system.
4. No amendment to the constitution of any designated
payment system, or to the rules governing the system, shall have
effect until they have been approved by the Central Bank.

9

10

NO. 39

National Payment System

Inspection of constitution and rules of designated payment
system.
5. The constitution of every designated payment system and
the rules governing the system, together with any amendment to
that constitution and those rules, shall be kept at—
(a) the offices of the Central Bank; and
(b) the head office in Kenya of every participant in the
system,
and shall be open for inspection by members of the public at all
times during normal office hours.
Designation of payment instrument.
6. (1) The Central Bank may, by notice in the Gazette,
designate a payment instrument for purposes of this Act, if the
Bank is of the opinion that—
(a) the payment instrument is of widespread use as a means
of making payment and may affect the payment systems
of Kenya;
(b) the designation is necessary to protect the interests of the
public; or
(c) such designation is in the interest of the integrity of the
payment instrument.
(2) The notice designating a payment instrument under
subsection (1) shall specify—
(a) the payment instrument that is the subject of the
designation;
(b) the issuer of the payment instrument that is the subject of
the designation; and
(c) any terms and conditions to which the designation may be
subject.
(3) Where a payment instrument has been Gazetted for
designation, pursuant to subsection (1) and (2), the issuer of that

NO. 39

National Payment System

payment instrument shall comply with such requirements as the
Central Bank may specify.
(4) The Central Bank shall give a written notice of designation
of a payment instrument to the issuer of the payment instrument
that has been designated pursuant to section 6(1).
(5) The Central Bank may revoke or vary any designation of
a payment instrument granted under section 6(1) if, in the opinion
of the Central Bank, the issuer of designated payment instrument
has—
(a) contravened any of the provisions of this Act or
regulations made thereunder;
(b) contravened any restriction or condition to which the
designation is subject;
(c) failed to comply with any regulations, guidelines, circulars,
notices or standards issued by the Central Bank under
this Act;
(d) made a false, incorrect or misleading statement in the
documents or information submitted under subsection
(3);
(e) ceased issuing the payment instrument for a continuous
period of six months;
(f) goes into liquidation or is wound up or is otherwise
dissolved;
(g) it is in the public interest to vary or revoke the designation;
(h) there exists any other ground which in the opinion of the
Central Bank warrants variation or revocation.
(6) The Central Bank shall, before making a decision to
revoke the designation under subsection (5), offer the issuer of a
designated payment instrument a reasonable opportunity to make
representations.
(7) The revocation of a designation or the variation of
conditions to which a designation is subject shall not have
retroactive effect.

11

12

NO. 39

National Payment System

(8) Revocation of designation of a payment instrument or
variation of conditions thereof, if any, shall be by notice in the
Gazette, and written advice thereof shall be given to the
designated payment instrument issuer.
(9) Without prejudice to section 32 (1), an issuer of a
payment instrument shall, upon written advice from the Central
Bank to that effect, and within such period the Bank may prescribe,
apply for the designation of the payment instrument under this Act.
(10) A person who, upon receipt of advice by the Central
Bank in accordance with subsection (9)—
(a) fails or refuses to apply for designation of a payment
instrument in accordance with the advice commits an
offence and is liable, on conviction, to a fine not
exceeding one million shillings, or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding five years, or both; and
(b) continues to issue a payment instrument that has not
been designated under this Act, commits an offence and
is liable to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand
shillings or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
three years or both.
PART III—PROVISIONS RELATING TO OPERATORS
Recognition of a payment system management body.
7. (1) The Central Bank shall, upon designation of a payment
system under this Act, automatically recognize the management
body of such payment system.
(2) A payment system management body recognized
pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be subject to the
guidelines that may be issued by the Central Bank from time to
time.
(3) Where a payment system management body recognised
under subsection (1) oversees only one designated payment
system, the recognition of the payment system management body
shall stand revoked upon revocation of designation of the payment
system:
Provided that, where a recognised payment system
management body manages several designated payment
systems, the revocation of designation of any one of the payment
systems shall not affect the recognition status of the payment

NO. 39

National Payment System

system management body with respect to the payment systems
whose designation has not been revoked.
Objects, etc of recognized payment system management
body.
8. (1) A recognised payment system management body shall
manage and regulate, in relation to its members, all matters
affecting payment instructions, and in connection with those
objects, shall—
(a) provide a forum for the consideration of matters of policy
and mutual interest concerning its members;
(b) act as a medium for communication by its members with
the Government, the Central Bank, any financial or other
exchange, other public bodies, authorities and officials,
the news media, the general public and other private
associations and institutions; and
(c) deal with and promote any other matter of interest to its
members and foster co-operation among them.
(2) In addition to any other provisions, the rules of a
recognised payment system management body shall empower
that body—
(a) to admit members and to regulate, control and with the
approval of the Central Bank terminate membership;
(b) to constitute, establish or dissolve any body, committee or
forum consisting of its members and which has an
impact on, interacts with, has access to or makes use of
any payment, clearing or settlement systems or
operations;
(c) to—
(i) recommend for approval by the Central Bank criteria
subject to which any person is to be granted limited
membership of the payment system management
body or is to be authorized to act as a system
operator or a payment clearing house system
operator within a payment system; and

13

14

NO. 39

National Payment System

(ii) authorize that person to act as a system operator or
payment clearing house system operator in
accordance with that criteria; and
(d) to recommend for approval by the Central Bank criteria
subject to and in accordance with which a member who
is also a Central Bank settlement system participant may
be authorized to—
(i) allow a bank, an institution or a branch of a foreign
institution that is not a Central Bank settlement
system participant to clear; or
(ii) clear on behalf of a bank, an institution or a branch
of a foreign institution that is not a Central Bank
settlement system participant:
Provided that the member shall settle payment obligations on
behalf of such bank, an institution or branch of a foreign institution
referred to in subparagraphs (i) and(ii).
Effecting settlement.
9. (1) Settlement shall be effected by payment of money or
by means of entries passed through the Central Bank settlement
system or a designated payment system.
(2) A settlement that has been effected by payment of money
or by means of an entry to the credit of the account maintained by
a settlement system participant in the Central Bank settlement
system or a designated payment system shall be final and
irrevocable.
(3) An entry to or payment out of the account of a designated
payment system participant to settle a payment or settlement
obligation in a designated payment system shall be final and
irrevocable.
Clearing provisions.
10. (1) A person shall not clear payment instructions unless
that person is—
(a) a Central Bank settlement system participant; or
(b) a bank, an institution or a branch of a foreign institution
that is allowed to clear in terms of section 8 (2) (d) (i).

NO. 39

National Payment System

(2) A person who contravenes the provisions of subsection
(1) commits an offence and shall be liable, on conviction, to a fine
not exceeding five hundred thousand shillings or imprisonment for
a term not exceeding three years, or both.
Payments to third parties.
11. A person may, as a regular feature of that person’s
business, accept money or payment instructions from any other
person for purposes of making payment on behalf of that other
person to whom that payment is due, if—
(a) the first-mentioned person is the Central Bank, a bank, an
institution or a branch of a foreign institution, a payment
service provider or a designated payment system
operator; or
(b) the first-mentioned person is the Postal Corporation of
Kenya established under the Postal Corporation of Kenya
Act, 1998, No. 3 of 1998, the Kenya Post Office Savings
Bank established under the Kenya Post Office Savings
Bank Act, Cap. 493B, a building society established
under the Building Societies Act, Cap. 489; and
(c) the money is accepted or payment is made in accordance
with directives issued by the Central Bank from time to
time in accordance with section 22.
Authorisation of payment service provider.
12. (1) No person shall, in Kenya conduct the business of a
payment service provider except an authorized payment service
provider.
(2) A person who contravenes the provisions of subsection
(1) commits an offence and shall, on conviction be liable to a fine
not exceeding five hundred thousand shillings, or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding three years, or to both.
Application for authorisation.
13. (1) A person proposing to transact the business of a
payment service provider shall, before commencing such
business, apply to the Bank for authorization.
(2) An application under this section shall be made in the
prescribed form and shall be forwarded to the Bank together with
the prescribed fee.

15

16

NO. 39

National Payment System

(3) In considering an application for authorization, the Bank
may require to be satisfied as to the financial condition and history
of the applicant, the character of its management, the adequacy of
its capital structure and the convenience and needs of the area to
be served and the public interest which will be served by granting
of the authorisation.
(4) The Bank may, subject to the payment of the prescribed
fee and to such conditions as it may consider necessary, grant
authorization to the applicant
(5) Where authorization has been granted under this section,
the Bank may add, vary, or substitute conditions attached thereto.
(6) An authorisation issued under this section shall, unless
earlier revoked, be valid for twelve months next following the date
of issue:
Provided that where an application for its renewal is made
under this section, the authorisation shall be deemed to continue in
force until the application for renewal is determined.
Renewal of authorisation.
14. (1) An authorisation made under section 13 may on
expiry be renewed for a further period of twelve months:
Provided that where an authorised payment service provider
fails to commence business in Kenya within six months of the
grant of authorisation, the authorized payment service provider
shall, if still intending to conduct payment service business in
Kenya, apply for authorization as if the first authorisation had never
been granted.
(2) An application for the renewal of an authorization shall—
(a) be made in the prescribed form and forwarded to the Bank
together with the prescribed fee;
(b) be lodged with the Bank at least two months prior to the
expiry of the authorisation.
(3) An application for renewal of an authorization shall be
considered in accordance with the provisions of section 13.

NO. 39

National Payment System

Revocation of authorisation.
15. (1) Subject to sub-section (2), the Bank may, by notice in
writing to an authorised payment service provider, revoke or
suspend an authorisation for such period as it may specify, if the
authorised payment service provider—
(a) ceases to carry on business in Kenya or goes into
liquidation or is wound up, or is otherwise dissolved;
(b) fails to comply with the provisions of this Act or any
condition attached to an authorisation; or
(c) conducts business in a manner detrimental to the best
interests of the public.
(2) Before revoking or suspending an authorization under this
section, the Bank shall give an authorized payment service
provider, not less than fourteen days notice in writing and shall
consider any representations made to it in writing by the
authorised payment service provider within that period.
Netting agreements and rules.
16. (1) The provisions of this section shall apply despite any
provision to the contrary relating to insolvency in the Companies
Act, Cap. 486, the Banking Act, Cap. 488, the Building Societies
Act, Cap. 489, the Co-operative Societies Act, 1997, No. 12 of
1997 or the Microfinance Act, 2006, No. 19 of 2006.
(2) If a settlement system participant is wound up or placed
under statutory management, or a receiver manager or similar
official is appointed to run a settlement system participant—
(a) any provision contained in a written netting agreement,
the settlement system rules or clearing, netting and
settlement agreements to which that settlement system
participant is a party, or any netting rules and practices
applicable to the settlement system participant in relation
to such agreements shall be binding upon the liquidator,
statutory manager or receiver manager, as the case may
be, in respect of any payment or settlement obligation—
(i) which has been determined through netting prior to
the issue of the winding–up order, or the

17

18

NO. 39

National Payment System

appointment of the statutory manager, or receiver
manager, as the case may be; and
(ii) which is to be discharged on or after the date of the
winding-up order, statutory management order or
the appointment of a receiver manager, as the case
may be, or the discharge of which was overdue on
the date of the winding-up order, receivership order
or appointment of the statutory manager, as the
case may be; and
(b) the liquidator, statutory manager or receiver manager
shall be bound by any payment or settlement that is final
and irrevocable in accordance with section 9 (2) or (3).
(3) A receiver manager or similar official appointed to run a
settlement system participant shall give written notice to the
Central Bank to withdraw such participant’s participation in the
Central Bank settlement system, in which event such settlement
system participant shall no longer be entitled to clear or participate
in the Central Bank settlement system, other than for purposes of
discharging payment or settlement obligations in accordance with
the settlement system rules or clearing, netting and settlement
agreements to which that settlement system participant is a party,
or any rules and practices applicable to the settlement system
participant in relation to such agreements.
(4) When an application for the winding-up of a Central Bank
settlement system participant is made, a copy of—
(a) the application for winding-up as filed in court; and
(c) any subsequent winding-up order, if it is granted,
shall be lodged with the Central Bank as soon as practicable.
(5) Where the Central Bank settlement system participant in
respect of whom an application for winding up is made is a
designated payment system participant, Central Bank shall, as
soon as practicable after having received a copy of the application
for winding up in accordance with subsection (4) (a), notify the
operator of the payment system.
(6) If a settlement system participant is wound up, the
liquidator or similar official is bound by—

NO. 39

National Payment System

(a) any provision contained in the rules of the settlement
system or in clearing, netting and settlement agreements
to which that settlement system participant is a party, or
any rules and practices applicable to the settlement
system participant in relation to such agreements; and
(b) any payment or settlement that is final and irrevocable in
accordance with section 9 (2) or (3).
(7) A settlement system participant in respect of whom a
copy of a winding-up order has been lodged with the Central Bank
in accordance with subsection (4) shall no longer be entitled to
clear or participate in any settlement system, other than for
purposes of discharging payment or settlement obligations in
accordance with the rules of the settlement system or clearing,
netting and settlement agreements to which that settlement system
participant is a party, or any rules and practices applicable to the
settlement system participant in relation to such agreements.
(8) Notwithstanding any other law, a court shall not recognize
or give effect to—
(a) an order of a court exercising jurisdiction under the law of
insolvency in a place outside Kenya; or
(b) an act of a person appointed in a place outside Kenya to
perform a function under the law of insolvency there,
in so far as the making of the order or doing of the act would be
prohibited under this Act for a court in Kenya, or a receiver
manager or similar official, or liquidator or similar official.
PART IV—PROVISIONS ON REGULATION AND SUPERVISION
Powers and functions of the Central Bank.
17. (1) Notwithstanding subsection (2), the Central Bank
shall, in the exercise of its role of formulating and implementing
such policies as best promote the establishment, regulation and
supervision of efficient and effective payment, clearing and
settlement systems, exercise all the powers and perform all the
functions conferred and imposed on it by this Act, the Central Bank
of Kenya Act, Cap. 49, and any other law.

19

20

NO. 39

National Payment System

(2) For the proper exercise of its powers and efficient
performance of its functions under this Act, the Central Bank may,
in writing and on such conditions as it deems necessary—
(a) delegate to any of its officers the exercise of any of its
powers under this Act; or
(b) authorize any such officer to perform any of its functions
under this Act.
(3) Any delegation of a power or the performance of a
function under subsection (2)—
(a) shall not prevent the Central Bank from exercising that
power or performing that function; and
(b) may at any time be withdrawn in writing by the Central
Bank.
Prohibition of issuance of payment instruments.
18. (1) The Central Bank may, by order in the Gazette,
prohibit any person from issuing or using any payment instrument
if—
(a) the issuing or use of the payment instrument is
detrimental to the reliable, safe, efficient and smooth
operation of a national payment system; or
(b) the prohibition is in the interest of the public.
(2) The Central Bank may, in considering whether to prohibit
any person from issuing or using any payment instrument under
subsection (1), inspect the premises, equipment, machinery,
apparatus, books or other documents, or accounts and
transactions of the issuer or user of the payment instrument, upon
giving reasonable written notice to the issuer or user.
(3) The Central Bank shall, before issuing an order of
prohibition under subsection (1), offer the issuer or user of a
payment instrument a reasonable opportunity to make
representations on the impending prohibition.
Participation by the Central Bank.
19. (1) The Central Bank may do all or any of the following in
relation to a designated payment system or to such payment

NO. 39

National Payment System

system and its clearing house—
(a) be a participant and enforce any failure to settle
arrangement;
(b) act as a custodian of a settlement participant’s settlement
assets or act as a settlement agent.
(c) regulate and supervise such system(s).
(2) The Central Bank may provide any additional services it
considers desirable, including facilities for clearing financial effects
to designated payment system participants.
Provision of information to the Central Bank.
20. (1) A person shall, upon being required to do so, provide
the Central Bank with such information relating to a payment
system or payment instrument, in such form and at such times as
the Central Bank may prescribe.
(2) In addition to any information that is required to be
provided to the Central Bank under the Banking Act, Cap. 488
relating to banks, the management of every designated payment
system, and every participant in the system, shall provide the
Central Bank with such reports, returns and other information, at
such times and in such form as the Central Bank may prescribe,
regarding—
(a) the volumes and values of payment instructions cleared in
the system;
(b) the volumes or values of the participant’s payment
obligations and settlement obligations; and
(c) any other information regarding the operation of the
system as the Central Bank may require.
(3) Subject to subsection (4), any information—
(a) obtained by the Central Bank in accordance with
subsection (1); and
(b) identifying a Central Bank settlement system participant,

21

22

NO. 39

National Payment System

shall be confidential and shall not be disclosed by any director or
officer of the Central Bank to any person, except to an officer of
the Central Bank who requires that information for purposes of the
execution of his duties under this Act, the Central Bank of Kenya
Act (Cap. 491), the Banking Act, Cap. 488, the Building Societies
Act, Cap. 489, the Microfinance Act, 2006, No. 19 of 2006 or the
Proceeds of Crime and Anti-Money Laundering Act, 2009, No. 9 of
2009.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (3), the
Central Bank may disclose any information—
(a) of which the disclosure is necessary to protect the
integrity, effectiveness or security of the payment
system, or if required by law to do so; or
(b) to any monetary authority or financial regulatory authority,
within or outside Kenya, where such information is
reasonably required for the proper discharge of the
functions of the Central Bank or the requesting monetary
authority or financial regulatory authority.
(5) A person who contravenes the provisions of subsections
(1), (2) or (3) commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction,
to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand shillings, or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year, or both.
(6) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (5), no duty
to which—
(a) a participant or its officers may be subject, shall be
breached by reason of the disclosure in good faith, of
any information under sub-section (1) and (2) in the
course of the performance of its duties and no action
shall lie against the participant or any of its officers on
account of such disclosure;
(b) the Central Bank or its officers may be subject, shall be
breached by reason of the disclosure in good faith, of
any information under sub-section (4) (a) and (b) in the
course of the performance of its duties and no action
shall lie against the Central Bank or any of its officers on
account of such disclosure.

NO. 39

National Payment System

Settlement of disputes.
21. (1) If any Central Bank settlement system participant
considers itself aggrieved by a decision taken by the Central Bank
under any provision of this Act, the matter shall be deemed to
constitute a dispute between that Central Bank settlement system
participant and the Central Bank, which dispute shall be settled as
provided in this section.
(2) The Central Bank settlement system participant
concerned shall, within ninety days after the decision of the Central
Bank, in writing, furnish the Central Bank with full particulars of the
grievance, and thereafter the Central Bank settlement system
participant and the Central Bank shall endeavour to settle the
dispute within seven business days of the receipt by the Central
Bank of those particulars.
(3) If the Central Bank settlement system participant and the
Central Bank do not settle the dispute as provided for under
subsection (2), they shall refer the dispute to mediation within a
further period of ten business days.
(4) The following provisions shall apply to mediation under
subsection 3—
(a) the Central Bank settlement system participant concerned
and the Central Bank shall agree on a mediator;
(b) the mediator shall familiarize himself with the position held
by the Central Bank settlement system participant
concerned and the Central Bank, respectively;
(c) the mediator, the Central Bank settlement system
participant concerned and the Central Bank shall discuss
the dispute at a meeting attended by them all;
(d) the Central Bank settlement system participant concerned
and the Central Bank shall, at or following such meeting,
and with the aid of the mediator, attempt to settle the
dispute by consensus; and
(e) the Central Bank settlement system participant concerned
and the Central Bank shall share the mediator’s costs in
such proportion as they may agree.
(5) If the Central Bank settlement system participant

23

24

NO. 39

National Payment System

concerned and the Central Bank are unable to settle the dispute by
consensus in accordance with subsection (2) or (4), the dispute
shall be referred—
(a) to a single arbitrator to be agreed upon by the Central
Bank settlement system participant and the Central
Bank; or
(b) failing such agreement, to an arbitrator appointed, at the
request of the Central Bank settlement system
participant or the Central Bank, by a recognised body
concerned with the facilitation and promotion of the
resolution of disputes by means of mediation or
arbitration.
(6) An arbitrator referred to in subsection (5) shall, as far as
possible, be a person appointed on account of his knowledge of
the law and payment systems.
(7) The provisions of the Arbitration Act, 1995, No. 4 of 1995
or any revisions thereof, shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to an
arbitration undertaken in accordance with subsection (5).
(8) The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on
the Central Bank settlement system participant concerned and the
Central Bank.
Power of Central Bank to advise and direct.
22. (1) The Central Bank may, from time to time, issue
directives to any person regarding a payment system or a payment
instrument on the application of the provisions of this Act.
(2) In considering whether or not to issue a directive in
accordance with subsection (1), the Central Bank may have regard
to any or all of the following aspects—
(a) that reasonable grounds exist to believe that any person is
engaging in, or is about to engage in, any act, omission
or course of conduct, with respect to the payment system
or payment instrument, that results or is likely to result in
systemic risk;
(b) that reasonable grounds exist to believe that any person is
engaging in, or is about to engage in, any act, omission
or course of conduct, that compromises or is likely to
compromise the integrity, effectiveness, efficiency or
security of the payment system or payment instrument;

NO. 39

National Payment System

(c) the public interest;
(d) the integrity, effectiveness, efficiency or security of the
payment system or payment instrument;
(e) national financial stability;
(f) any other matter that the Central Bank may consider
appropriate.
(3) The Central Bank may, in writing, over and above any
directive contemplated in subsection (1), issue a directive to a
person requiring the person, to—
(a) cease or refrain from engaging in the act, omission or
course of conduct or perform such other acts as are
necessary to remedy the situation;
(b) perform such acts as are necessary to comply with the
directive or to effect the changes; or
(c) provide the Central Bank with such information and
documents relating to the matter as specified in the
directive.
(4) The Central Bank may cancel, in writing, any directive
issued under this Act.
(5) In considering whether or not to cancel a directive in
accordance with subsection (4), the Central Bank shall have
regard to the factors referred to in subsection (2).
(6) A directive issued by the Central Bank shall not have any
retroactive effect.
(7) Any person who neglects, refuses or fails to comply with a
directive issued under subsection (1) or (3) commits an offence
and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding five
hundred thousand shillings, or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding three years, or both.
(8) A person who receives a directive pursuant to the
provisions of this section shall comply with the directive within such
period as may be specified in the directive.

25

26

NO. 39

National Payment System

Audits and inspection.
23. (1) The Central Bank shall, for the purposes of carrying
out its functions under this Act, conduct audits and inspections of a
designated payment system or of an issuer of a designated
payment instrument.
(2) Every designated payment system participant or the
issuer of a designated payment instrument shall, as may be
required by the Central Bank, assist the Central Bank to the extent
necessary, to enable the Central Bank carry out an audit or
inspection.
Reports.
24. The Central Bank shall prepare and submit to the
Minister—
(a) such reports as the Minister may require; and
(b) such periodic reports, and at such intervals, as it
considers appropriate,
on the operations of every designated payment system or
designated payment instrument.
PART V—MISCELLANEOUS
Utilization of assets of a designated payment system
participant.
25. Despite anything to the contrary in any law relating to
insolvency, any asset of a designated payment system participant
which was provided prior to the issue of any order for that
settlement system participant’s winding-up by that participant to
the Central Bank, or the designated payment system operator, as
security for a loan in respect of its settlement obligations, may be
utilized by the Central Bank or the designated payment system
operator, as the case may be, to the extent required for the
discharge of the settlement obligations of the payment system
participants.
Retention of records.
26. (1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any law
relating to the retention of records, the Central Bank, the Central
Bank settlement system participants, payment clearing house
system operators and system operators, shall retain all records

NO. 39

National Payment System

obtained by them during the course of the operations and
administration of a payment system or the issuance of a payment
instrument, for a period of seven years from the date of each
particular record.
(2) The retention of records under subsection (1) may be
effected by electronic means.
Use of confidential information for personal gain.
27. (1) Subject to subsection (2), if—
(a) any officer or employee of the Central Bank; or
(b) any member or employee of a payment system
management body,
for his personal gain, makes use of any information which he has
acquired in the performance of his functions under this Act, or
under the constitution or rules of any designated payment system,
and which relates to the affairs of a particular institution, he
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding five hundred thousand shillings, or imprisonment for a
term not exceeding one year, or both.
(2) It shall be a defence to a charge under subsection (1) for
the person charged to show that the information which he used
was generally known to members of the public or to a substantial
section of the public.
Priority of certain instruments on winding up.
28. (1) In this section, ―priority payment instruction‖ means a
money order, bank draft or similar payment instruction issued,
directly or indirectly, by a participant in a designated payment
system, but does not include an instrument issued by one such
participant to another for the purpose of effecting a payment
between them.
(2) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Companies Act, Cap. 486 or any law relating to insolvency, but
subject to this section, where a participant in a designated
payment system is wound up under the Companies Act, Cap. 486
unpaid priority payment instructions that were drawn on the
participant and cleared through the payment system before the
making of the winding-up order shall be paid from the participant’s
assets, and shall rank in preference above any other unsecured
claim against the assets.

27

28

NO. 39

National Payment System

(3) No payment shall be made pursuant to subsection (2) in
preference to any other claim against any assets unless a request
for such payment has been made within sixty days after the
making of the winding up order in regard to the participant
concerned.
(4) Subsection (2) shall not be construed as permitting a
payment instruction to be settled in preference to any other claim
against any assets, where the instruction was drawn on or certified
or issued by the participant concerned with a view to giving the
drawee of the instruction a preference over the participant’s other
creditors.
Misleading advertisements
29. (1) Any person who issues an advertisement, brochure,
circular or in any way makes representations inviting any person to
participate in a payment system or in the issuance and usage of a
payment instrument which—
(a) falsely represents that he is designated to operate the
payment system or issue the payment instrument under
the provisions of this Act;
(b) falsely represents that he is recognised to manage a
payment system under the provisions of this Act; or
(c) is issued contrary to the provisions of this Act,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction to a fine not
exceeding five hundred thousand shillings or imprisonment for a
term not exceeding one year, or both.
(2) The Central Bank may at any time direct any person to
withdraw, amend or refrain from issuing any advertisement,
brochure, circular or making or desist from making any other
representation relating to participation in the payment system or
issuance of a payment instrument, which in its sole discretion, it
considers to be misleading.
Relief from prosecution.
30. No action shall lie against the Central Bank or any of its
officers or other persons appointed or authorized to perform any
function under this Act, in respect of anything done or omitted to
be done by him in good faith in the exercise or performance of any
power, authority, or function conferred or imposed on him under
this Act.

NO. 39

National Payment System

Regulations and guidelines.
31. (1) The Minister may make regulations generally for the
better carrying into effect the provisions of this Act.
(2) The Central Bank may—
(a) prescribe anything which under this Act may be
prescribed;
(b) subject to this Act, issue guidelines in respect of any
matter relating to the administration or enforcement of
this Act; and
(c) prescribe monetary fines for payment system operators,
issuers of payment instruments or authorized payment
service providers, which shall not exceed one million
shillings.
Transition.
32. (1) Any person who, immediately before the coming into
force of this Act, was—
(a) operating a system for―
(i) the clearing of payment instructions;
(ii) the netting or settlement of obligations arising from
the clearing of payment instructions; or
(b) issuing a payment instrument; or
(c) conducting the business of a payment service provider.
may continue to operate the system or issue the payment
instrument or conduct the business of a payment service provider
for six months after the commencement of this Act, even if the
system or the payment instrument has not been designated or the
payment service provider has not been authorized by the Central
Bank under this Act:
Provided that, after the commencement of this Act,

29

30

NO. 39

National Payment System

(a) the operator of an undesignated payment system or the
issuer of an undesignated payment instrument shall,
upon advice by the Central Bank, apply to the Central
Bank for designation of the payment system or
instrument and, if his application is declined before the
six-month period has elapsed, the applicant shall cease
to operate the system or issue the instrument forthwith;
and
(b) the provider of an unauthorized payment service shall
apply to the Central Bank for authorisation and if the
application is declined before the six month period has
elapsed, the provider shall cease to conduct the
business of a payment service provider forthwith.
(2) A person who continues to operate an undesignated
payment system, or to issue an undesignated payment instrument,
after the expiry of six months from the date of commencement of
this Act commits an offence and is liable, on conviction, to a fine
not exceeding one million shillings, or to imprisonment for a term
not exceeding five years, or both.
(3) A person who continues to provide an unauthorized
payment service after the expiry of six months from the
commencement of this Act commits an offence and is liable, on
conviction, to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand shillings
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three years or both.
Savings.
33. An issuer of a payment instrument who is licensed under
the Banking Act, Cap. 488, the Building Societies Act, Cap. 489,
the Kenya Post Office Savings Bank Act, Cap. 493B, the Postal
Corporation of Kenya Act, 1998, No.3 of 1998 and the
Microfinance Act, 2006, No.19 of 2006 shall be deemed to have
met the requirements under section 6(4).

