澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

Unofficial Translation

On using facial identification attendance control systems

7 September 2009

(Note: This document is for public reference; it contains excerpts from the Office’s
written responses to enquiries about using facial identification attendance control
systems.)

Regarding the issue of using facial identification attendance control systems
raised in several enquires, this Office holds the following opinions:
First, it should be clarified that, while the law does not prohibit employer
institutions from using biometric attendance devices for attendance control purposes,
the use of the said equipment involves processing of personal data; therefore, the use
is subject to the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act. Employers must
handle employees’ personal data in compliance with the law for their data processing
to be legal. They should observe the principle of good faith, of respecting personal
data privacy, of refraining from data processing for purposes other than that for which
the data are collected, of keeping personal data no longer than their purposes require,
of security and confidentiality of data, etc.
This Office has prepared and made available to the public a guide entitled Issues
Relating to Using Fingerprint / Hand Geometry Devices to Check on Work Attendanc,
and has answered citizens’ enquires about the use of various biometric devices. These
documents are available for download at www.gpdp.gov.mo.
Judging by the characteristics of various devices and the nature of the biometric
data involved, this Office holds that fingerprint or hand-geometry attendance devices
are of a type that intrudes relatively less on the rights and interests of the persons
whose data are concerned. In contrast, while facial data collected with facial
identification attendance control systems may be used in passive data collection,
facial data tend to lend themselves to uses unknown to the data subject. Therefore,
facial identification devices have greater potential impact on people. In addition,
1

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

Unofficial Translation
facial data tend to be more indicative of such data as gender and race, within which
the racial or ethnic origin is sensitive data. Therefore, personal data processing
involving facial data affects people’s rights and interests and privacy to a greater
extent.
In general, the legality of an employer using biometric identification attendance
devices to collect and process employees’ data depends on one of the following three
reasons:
1.
2.
3.

The unambiguous consent of the employees;
The definitive provisions of an employment contract (refer to Item (1) of Article
6 of the Personal Data Protection Act);
In certain special circumstance. the ability of employers to prove that their legal
rights and interests have a priority over the rights, freedom and guarantees of
the employees (refer to Item (5) of Article 6 of the Personal Data Protection
Act).

Under the circumstances listed in the above order, as the data subject, the
employees involved have decreasing control over their personal data, with increasing
intrusion on employee privacy.
Take the circumstance in which the employers claim data processing legitimacy
because of “employees’ explicit consent”. The employees have the maximum
autonomy in that they can at anytime withdraw whatever consent they have given.
Once the employees disagree or withdraw their consent, the employers will have no
legality whatsoever in processing the employees’ data, and will have to turn to other
reasonable means of attendance control. Under the third circumstance, however, the
employees in general are in no position to effectively oppose the processing of their
data, unless they are able to offer substantial and indisputable argument or proof that
their individual rights, interests, freedom and guarantee take the precedence of that of
the employer.
According to the principle of proportionality, employers must have legitimate
reasons to adopt a data collecting approach that is more intruding on their employees’
privacy; failing that requirement, employers should opt for approaches that would
affect employee privacy to a lesser extent.
This Office thinks that where facial data are used only for attendance purposes,
breach of the principle of proportionality is likely to happen. However, it is not
necessarily. For example, it is legitimate for an institution to adopt the use facial
identification attendance control systems because its employees “unambiguously
consent to it”. The employees may choose to agree, they may as well disagree. If they
2

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

Unofficial Translation
disagree, and the employer institution can provide other appropriate attendance
devices, then it is still proportionate. Take a health-care institution for another
example. While it is legitimate for the institution to use biometric attendance devices
on account of “express provisions in the employment contracts”, it is nonetheless
reasonable if it takes the nature of its operations into account and decides to avoid
using fingerprint /hand-geometry devices, in despite of the fact that these devices are
less intruding on personal privacy and rights, in order to prevent their potentially
negative health ramifications. That is also proportionate.
Therefore, when deciding whether to use facial identification attendance control
systems, an employer institution should at least consider the following requirements:
1. Legitimacy: the criteria for making data processing legitimate;
2. Proportionality: Whether it is possible to adopt a processing approach that is
less intruding on the privacy and rights of the data subject.
In view of the fact that facial identification attendance control systems affect
privacy, rights and interests of the data subject to a relatively greater extent, the Office
holds that, where personal data processing does not rely on “employees’ unambiguous
consent” for its legitimacy, the employers involved must have substantial reasons to
claim that their rights and interests or the collective rights and interests outweigh that
of the employees. Where data processing relies on “employees’ unambiguous
consent” for its legitimacy, the employer institution concerned must ensure that
employees may choose to disagree freely, as well as withdraw their consent at any
time; the employer must also offer other reasonable means of attendance control for
the employees to choose from.

3

