澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個人資料保護辦公室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Guidelines on Merchants’ Processing of Identification Documents of
Payment Cardholders

To fulfil the legal obligations laid out in the Guidelines on Money Laundering and the
Financing of Terrorism, or for other reasons like transaction security of payment cards, many
local merchants, when proceeding payment card 1 transactions, may ask their customers to
produce identification documents. Many merchants and customers find it doubtful or
disputable whether the said procedure violates the Personal Data Protection Act (hereinafter as
“PDPA”), in particular some merchants may collect and register cardholders’ identification
data during all these transactions. In view of this, the current Guidelines by the Office for
Personal Data Protection (hereinafter as “GPDP”) intend to be a reference to all sectors of the
community.

I.

Application of the Personal Data Protection Act
According to Articles 4(1)(1) and 3(1) of Law 8/2005(PDPA), customers’ identification

document data collected by merchants and its post-processing should be regulated by the law.

II.

Purposes of Data Processing
Within the current Guidelines, for merchants to collect and register cardholders’

identification data and to further process it, it should serve the purposes of:

1

In the current Guidelines, “payment cards” refer to those the multi-purpose cards under the multi-purpose
payment scheme that offer credit or debit facilities for settling transactions of goods or services through the
payment networks, including multi-purpose stored value cards.

1

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個人資料保護辦公室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

1. Complying with the obligations given by Law 2/2006 (Prevention and

Suppression of the Crime of Money Laundering) and Law 3/2006 (Prevention and
Suppression of the Crime of Terrorism), and abiding by the relevant guidelines set out
by the related supervisory institutions in Macao (hereinafter as the “Guidelines on
Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism”).2
2. Ensuring the transaction security of payment cards.

The current Guidelines are aimed at the personal data processing held for the above
purposes.

The current Guidelines do not apply to cases wherein merchants collect

cardholders’ identification data for other purposes (for instance, a hotel registering customer
data for room arrangement).

III.

Legitimacy of Data Processing
Legitimacy for the processing of personal data is given in Article 6 of the PDPA.
1. Legitimacy in Collecting and Registering Data
Generally merchants could only collect and register cardholders’ identification document

data given the data subject gave his unambiguous consent.
According to Article 4(1)(9) of the law last mentioned, a data subject’s unambiguous
consent should mean this person has been informed when freely giving his specifically
indicated wishes, whereby consent is given to the concerned processing. Therefore, if the
cardholder has been informed that his identification data is collected by a merchant for the
purposes mentioned in Point II above, in conjunction that the data subject is willing to
2

For the purpose as stated in Point 2 above to collect and register customers’ data, the customers concerned are
referred to those given in Article 7(1)(1) of Law 2/2006 and Article 11 of Law 3/2006, but excluding any persons
who are the parties concluded a contract or the gamblers as referred in the said laws.

2

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個人資料保護辦公室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

continue the transaction followed by handing his identification document to the merchant for
registration, then this is regarded as giving unambiguous consent.
On the contrary, if a data subject refuses to continue the transaction or refuses to submit
his identification document to the merchant for registration, it is deemed as consent is not
given by the cardholder. As a consequence, the merchant should not collect I.D. data from
this cardholder. Under this circumstance, the merchant has to evaluate the legal and security
risks from the payment card transaction, before deciding whether or not to continue the
transaction. As in line with the related regulations given in Article 7 (1)(3) of Law 2/2006 and
Article 11 of Law 3/2006, both specify that if a data subject refuses to provide data, then the
merchant should refuses to carry out any activities.
As a wide variety of payment cards are accepted in Macao, different laws may apply as
card issuers come from different countries and regions. Under special circumstances, the
payment card which a client holds could have special provisions, for example, the contract
concluded between the cardholder and the card issuer stipulates that the former has to provide
identification data to the merchant for certain transactions. Despite the legitimacy, as given in
Article 6(1) of the PDPA, in personal data processing could arise from the “contract
performance”, GPDP is of the opinion that, as situation changes all the time, it is safer and
more feasible for merchants to first acquire the data subject’s unambiguous consent. If the
cardholder refuses to provide his identification data, he should aware that, subject to the
contract concluded between him and the issuer, the transaction will not be accepted.

2. Legitimacy in the Post-processing of Data
As regards the cardholders’ identification data the merchants collected, generally it will be
kept for a period of time and might be provided to relevant organizations according to law.

3

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個人資料保護辦公室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Given that the data subject has already given his unambiguous consent to the collection
and registration of his data, hence its post-processing is deemed to be based upon the said
unambiguous consent. In addition, data processing like storage, forwarding, and so forth,
which is taken in conformity with Guidelines on Money Laundering and the Financing of
Terrorism; or passing data to enforcement authorities, acquiring banks or card issuers in cases
of fraudulent transactions, and so forth, legitimacy in both these cases arises from the
“fulfilment of legal obligations” given in Article 6(2) or from the “legitimate interests” in
Article 6(5) of the of the PDPA.

IV.

Proportionality of Data Processing
For the principles of personal data processing, a number of which have been laid down in

Article 5 of the PDPA, including the principle of purpose and the principle of proportionality.
In other words, a merchant should collect personal data for specific, explicit, legitimate
purposes and to which his activities are directly related, and the post-processing should not
depart from such purposes as well. Data collection and processing should be appropriate and
in proportion, without exceeding the purposes of data collection and post-processing.
Therefore, based on the purposes referred in Point II of the current Guidelines, merchants
should not in all transactions collect and register cardholders’ identification documents.
Generally speaking, only under the following circumstances merchants can undertake
collection:
1. In situations where Guidelines on Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism
requires registering customers’ data in certain transactions, otherwise no transactions
should be carried out; as such the merchants could make the collection.

4

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個人資料保護辦公室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

2. Some payment cards are subject to special transaction security regulations, which
require merchants of certain types or of certain businesses to collect cardholders’ data
under certain circumstances; otherwise transaction should not be processed. Such
requirement imposed on merchants is usually made by the payment card organizations,
acquiring banks, etc.

Merchants from those businesses involving anti-money

laundering and anti-terrorism financing, or prone to be abused by the law-breakers for
payment card crimes, more likely they have to undertake the said requirement. When a
cardholder is using a payment card to settle a transaction whereby is deemed as a
situation aforementioned, then the merchant is allowed to collect data.
3. In many security regulations for payment card transactions, merchants are obliged to
undertake responsibilities to verify the authenticity of payment cards and cardholders.
If there is an obvious indication of doubts over a cardholder’s identity or the
authenticity of the payment card, the merchant can collect the data, for instance, an
apparent male customer using a payment card that should belong to a female
cardholder. Generally speaking, merchants who are regulated by the Guidelines on
Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, and merchants of certain types or
of certain businesses to whom the related security regulations for payment card
transactions apply, as subject to higher fraud risks, they are more likely to collect
cardholders’ identification data.
Under the circumstances referred in Points 1 and 2 aforementioned, merchants processing
personal data are mainly to adhere with the guidelines and requirements of the supervisory
institutions, card payment organizations, acquiring banks, etc. The merchants should organize
and prepare well these guidelines and requirements, and provide appropriate staff trainings, so
staff members could better follow these regulations, which could also be used as reference in
case of any GPDP’s investigations of personal data processing.

5

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個人資料保護辦公室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

In respect of the types of data to be collected, in GPDP’s views, one should comply with
the principle of minimal intervention, i.e., collecting the necessary data only. The mentioned
guidelines and requirements have put forward the general specifications for data collection.
Even under circumstances as noted in Point 3 last said, the types of data collected should not
exceed what the payment card organizations and acquiring banks demand as mentioned in
Point 2. If the requirements the payment card organizations and acquiring banks, and so forth,
laid down, as referred in Point 2, have not clearly identified the types of data, the types of the
data collected should not exceed those required by the supervisory institutions as noted in
Point 1 above.
With regard to collecting and post-processing data, GPDP reminds merchants of the
following:
1. Except as otherwise specified, identification document copies should not be collected.
To GPDP’s knowledge, currently the guidelines and requirements given by
supervisory institutions, card payment organizations, acquiring banks, etc., normally
do not expressly stipulate merchants to collect identification document copies from
customers using payment cards for their transactions. If otherwise specified in the said
guidelines and requirements, GPDP will analyze the case based on the proportionality
principle.
2. Except as required by Guidelines on Money Laundering andthe Financing of Terrorism
or guidelines by other competent institutions to record complete identification numbers,
generally this should not be collected as such, thereby “X” can be used to replace at
least two digits.
3. Using automatic means to record relevant identification data should be avoided. As
this kind of data recording may imply the transaction is subject to supervision or high
risks, or may indicate suspicion about the authenticity of the payment card or its holder.
6

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個人資料保護辦公室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Using automatic means to record the identification data not only poses potential threats
to or affects the data subjects’ interests or rights, also the concerned organizations may
have to face higher information security risks, for instance, information leaks caused
by computer hacking.
4. Except as specifically stipulated in the Guidelines on Money Laundering and the
Financing of Terrorism or in the guidelines issued by payment card organizations,
acquiring banks, and so forth, data of customer’s identification and payment card
transactions should be kept separately. If stored together, from the perspective of
payment card data security, customer’s identification data and payment card data, both
being independent data of low risks nature, combined into a kind of high risk data,
which is prone to be targeted by law-breakers. If this combined data is leaked, data
subjects’ rights and interests will be more potentially affected and at higher risks,
including the risk of payment card security.
V. Data Security and Duration of Data Retention
Merchants are obliged to ensure data processing security. Since merchants have already
set out measures for the security of transaction data, GPDP recommends merchants protect
other personal data arises from transactions appropriately, by referring to measures for the
security of transaction data that is already in place. Except when supervisory institutions,
payment card organisations, or acquiring banks, etc., in their guidelines and requirements, or
laws, set forth data forwarding, no third parties should be forwarded. When collecting data, it
is best to use specialized independent forms, in order to avoid any inconsistent methods, which
may pose threats to data security, of collecting and retaining the concerned data.
Trainings and reminders should be constantly provided to employees, reminding them to
strictly abide by the regulations for information security the merchants imposed and to comply

7

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個人資料保護辦公室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

with their duties of professional secrecy. For example, staff members should be informed that
any violations of the PDPA caused by failing the obligation of professional secrecy or
accessing information improperly, they could be imposed with maximum three years of
imprisonment. Likewise, anyone’s improper handling of data during data processing could
also damage the merchants’ interests, or even found liable to legal responsibilities.
Pursuant to Article 5(1)(5) of the PDPA, only during the period designed to achieve data
collection or post-processing purposes, data should be kept in a form which permits
identification. Therefore, merchants should set out a retention period, and should preserve the
data within a reasonable period that fulfils the purposes of data processing. The justifications
for merchants to set out a data retention period are mainly based on: relevant laws and legal
provisions(for example, Law 2/2006 and Law 3/2006, etc.), guidelines issued by the
competent institutions(including the relevant Guidelines on Money Laundering and the
Financing of Terrorism, or guidelines or requirements issued by payment card organizations,
acquiring banks, etc.).
1. Merchants should follow the retention period(i.e. the maximum retention period) for
which laws, legal provisions, or guidelines stipulated.
2. Merchants should set forth a maximum retention period based on the relevant purposes
of data processing if laws, legal provisions, or guidelines only stipulate the minimum
retention period. Normally the maximum retention period expires three months after
the minimum retention period ended.
3. In case data of judicial proceedings is involved, a special retention period could be
established, but normally data should be destroyed six months after a judgement has
become definite.
VI . Rights of Data Subject

8

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個人資料保護辦公室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

The rights of data subjects are provided for in Articles 10 to 14 of the PDPA. Merchants
should ensure the rights, especially the right to information, of the data subjects in accordance
with the law.
Merchants should, according to Article 10 of the PDPA, adopt a Personal Data Collection
Statement which allows the cardholder(s) whose information is collected to have access to. At
the same time, prior to the collection of identification information from a cardholder, it should
ensure that the data subject has been informed of the purposes of data processing.
It is a good practice for a merchant to establish his own specialized, independent forms, in
which a “Personal Data Collection Statement” is contained. Such forms should be filled by
the cardholder(s) before it is verified by the merchants. After the cardholder(s) understood the
collection purposes and the content of the form, the merchants’ staff could help filling it if
asked by the cardholder(s).

VII. Summary
The Personal Data Protection Act has set out the legal regime for personal data processing
and protection. When merchants collect and process the identification data of cardholder(s),
they should strictly abide by the PDPA, in particular to the following:
1. The processing purposes laid out in the current Guidelines should be limited to
the compliance of legal obligations given in the Guidelines on Money
Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism, or ensuring the security of payment
card transactions.
2. The legitimacy to collect and record personal data should be based on the
unambiguous consent of the data subject.

9

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個人資料保護辦公室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

3. Data collection should be appropriate, and no excessive data should be collected,
in particular no identification copies should be collected when there are no
sufficient grounds.
4. Security and confidentiality of the data should be ensured.
5. Data subjects’ right to information should be ensured.
The current Guidelines aim to provide practical recommendations to merchants, and to
clarify queries from a legal and practical point of view and attempt to provide reference to all
sectors of the community. Each merchant, being an entity responsible for personal data
processing, should set out a policy for personal data processing after considering its own
circumstances, so as to adhere to the obligations given in the Personal Data Protection Act.
GPDP also encourages the payment card organizations and acquiring banks to jointly set up
relevant guidelines, rules and good practices in order to better safeguard the interests of all
parties.

Office for Personal Data Protection
17th April, 2013

Annex I: Q&A
Annex II: Personal Data Collection Statement (sample)

10

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Annex I

Guidelines on Merchants’ Processing of Identification Documents of
Payment Cardholders
Q&A
The content of the current Q&A is based on the Guidelines on Merchants’ Processing
of Identification Documents of Payment Cardholders. Its application is limited to the
personal data processing as referred in the same document.
Q1: Are merchants in all transactions allowed to collect and register cardholders’
identification document data?
A: Normally they are not allowed. Please refer to the principle of proportionality in data
processing, as laid out in Point 4 of the titled Guidelines.
Q2. Apart from the data processing purposes given in the Guidelines, are merchants
allowed to collect and register identification data for other purposes?
A: Yes, for example, hotels register customers’ data for room arrangement. It should
be noted that the Guidelines only apply to the legal obligations given in Law 2/2006 and
Law 3/2006 for the compliance with those related guidelines issued by the supervisory
institutions, and to process personal data by ensuring transaction security of payment cards;
but not for data processing of other purposes.
Q3: Could merchants provide the data collected and registered to the competent
institutions?
A: Yes. When complying with the Guidelines on Money Laundering and the Financing
of Terrorism, or forwarding or providing data to competent institutions because of any
fraudulent payment card transactions, etc., consequentially data processing legitimacy
arises from the “fulfilment of legal obligations” or “legitimate interests”, as found in
Article 6(2) and Article 6(5) of the PDPA respectively.
1

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Q4: Is it only when unambiguous consent is received, merchants are allowed to collect
and register cardholders’ identification data?
A: Merchants generally could only collect and register a cardholder’s identification data
upon his unambiguous consent. Identification data from a customer should not be
collected, if he refuses to continue the transaction or refuses to submit his identification
document for registration by the merchant.

Q5: To continue with the previous question, when a data subject disagrees and a
merchant is obliged to discern, how should this be handled?
A: In accordance with the relevant provisions of Law 2/2006 and Law 3/2006, to fulfil
the obligations concerning anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism financing, merchants
should ask customers for their identification data according to the concerned provisions.
For instance, when there are signs of possible money laundering or terrorism financing, or
when there involves large-amount transactions.
A merchant should not collect identification data from a cardholder if he disagrees so.
Then, the merchant should evaluate the legal and security risks from the payment card
transaction, for instance, whether to refuse the transaction or not. As also referred in
Article 7(1)(3) of Law 2/2006 and Article 11 of Law 3/2006, a merchant should abstain
from all activities if a data subject disagrees to provide his data.
Q6: What is the principle of minimal intervention?

How should a merchant process

data to avoid violating the principle of proportionality?
A: The principle of minimal intervention means when someone processes personal data,
he should only process the data that is necessary for achieving the purposes needed, and
beyond which violates the principle of proportionality. For example, unless law, legal
provisions, or guidelines specify, no ID copies should be collected.
Q7. To continue with the previous question, should merchants not to collect ID copies
under all circumstances?
A: No. A merchant could collect ID copies if it is expressly provided for. But in case only
specified by guidelines or requirements from supervisory institutions, payment card
2

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

organisations or acquiring banks, the GPDP will analyse, with the principle of
proportionality, on a case-by-case basis.
Generally speaking, in collecting ID copies the principle of proportionality is possibly
met only when involving payment cards issued by countries or areas outside Macao and
where the local laws there or the guidelines of the supervisory institutions there set forth,
or the contract concluded between the card issuers and the cardholder(s) stipulated the
latter, for certain transactions, have to provide his ID copies to the former. The
precondition is that, after all, these requirements do not violate the PDPA.
Also to be noted is merchants should find out whether the said collection of ID copies
is mandatory. If only optional, the merchant should consider whether it is necessary to
collect.
Q8: What does avoiding recording identification data by automatic means refer to?
A: This refers to avoid using automatic means, for example, computer, to record the
identification data collected from cardholder(s). This could mean the transaction
proceeded is subject to monitoring or high risks, or could imply suspicion over the
authenticity of the cardholder(s) or the payment card(s). Such recording not only poses
potential influence or risks to the cardholders’ interests or rights, also the concerned
institutions have to bear higher risks and serious consequences for their information
security, particularly data leakage caused by illegal system hacking.
Q9: How to establish a retention period? What is the minimum period mentioned in the
Guidelines?
A: According to Article 5(1)(5) of the PDPA, only during the period designed necessary
for the data-collection or post-processing purposes data should be retained. In other
words, merchants should devise a retention period for achieving the data processing
purposes.
When laws, legal provisions, or guidelines do not stipulate for such a period, the data
controllers should, according to the time needed to achieve the processing purposes, devise
a data retention period. Contrarily, controllers could comply with the stipulations given in
the relevant laws, legal provisions, or guidelines.
The minimum retention period is referred as the minimum period which a merchant
3

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

should retain the data. If laws, legal provisions, or guidelines stipulated the minimum
retention period, merchants should devise the maximum retention period for the concerned
data processing purposes, normally such period ends three months after the minimum
period expires.
For any questions about the retention period, merchants are recommended to inquire
the relevant institutions.
Q10: How could merchants ensure the right to information of data subjects?
A: Article 10 of the PDPA regulates the right to information of data subjects. To satisfy
and ensure such a right, one of the methods is to adopt a Personal Data Collection
Statement, which is also a legal obligation of data controllers. The content of the right to
information aims to inform the data subjects about the controllers’ identity and processing
purposes, etc, which are simple and general information. Such information includes, for
instance, the identity of the organisations, processing purposes and the data recipients.
Q11: To continue with the previous question, whether the provision of the right to
information means allowing revealing facts of offences to customers or any third persons?
A: No. As mentioned above, right to information aims to inform the data subject of
simple, general information, like data controllers’ identities, purposes, etc. As a
consequence, this does not involve any particular case and has no relations to reporting
facts of offences. In fact, according to Article 7(4) of Law 2/2006 and Article 11 of Law
3/2006, it is forbidden for anyone to reveal any facts, which someone aware of while
performing his duties and are related to the legal obligations given in paragraphs (5) and (6)
of Article 7(1), Law 2/2006, to his customers or any third parties.

4

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

Annex II
Declaration of the Office for Personal Data Protection
This sample below is for reference only. Merchants should formulate their own
“Personal Data Collection Statement” in accordance with their own specific
processing circumstances.

Personal Data Collection Statement
by (Merchant XX)
(sample)

To fulfill the legal obligations and ensure transaction security of payment cards,
we may require proof of identity by asking identification documents from a customer
who settles his/her transaction with a payment card. In addition, we may also record
some of his/her identity details. The processing of such personal data is regulated by
the Personal Data Protection Act and other related laws. Data recipients are limited
to acquiring banks, card issuers, and those entities shall be informed according to laws.
If a customer refuses to comply with these requirements, we may refuse to process
such payment card transaction.

