Circular No. 016/B/2019-DSB/AMCM
Date: 18 December 2019

Guideline on Cyber Resilience
The Monetary Authority of Macao (AMCM), under the powers conferred by Article 9 of the
Charter approved by Decree-Law No.14/96/M of 11th March and by Article 6 of the Financial
System Act of Macao approved by Decree-Law No. 32/93/M of 5th July, establishes the
following:
1.

INTRODUCTION
1.1. With new cyber threats emerging every day, new cyber risks are introduced
to institutions’ environment. Financial sector is considered as one of the
industries with high cyber risks and impact. Financial institutions across
the globe have been taking proactive steps to address cyber risks. Over the
years, recognizing the increasing cyber-attacks on the financial industry
around the world, financial institutions have continuously placed additional
effort to enhance their cyber resilience and benchmark its cybersecurity
implementation with reference to industry practices and international
standards with an aim to understand the cyber risk exposure and
effectiveness of cybersecurity controls to protect the organization.
1.2. Given that threats of cyber-attacks are evolving, this Guideline is
established for the authorized institutions 1 in order to provide a set of
cybersecurity controls and measures for the Macao financial sector
regarding cyber risk management and to enhance the capability in
defending cyber attacks. Apart from existing regulatory requirements and
guidelines2, authorized institutions should always take into account of the
latest industry standards and practices 3 to ensure a sound cyber risk
management practice.
1.3. Authorized institutions are expected to conduct regular assessment in
relation to the following supervisory requirements. Since the technologies
adopted by the financial industry and cyber threats are evolving rapidly, it

Credit institutions and the institutions mentioned herein are collectively referred to as “authorized institutions”.
Including but not limited to “Guideline on Risk Management of Electronic Banking” (Circular no. 003/B/2008DSB/AMCM), “Guideline on Outsourcing” (Circular no. 032/B/2009-DSB/AMCM), “Guideline on Business
Continuity Management” (Circular no. 033/B/2009-DSB/AMCM) and Incident Reporting Measures for Major
Emergencies (Circular no. 012/B/2016-DSB/AMCM).
3
Refer to Appendix B for references of industry standards and practices.
1
2

1

should be noted that the recommendations suggested in this Guideline
should not be considered definitive. Authorized institutions should always
take into account the other relevant industry standards and practices to
ensure that their cyber risk management are sufficient and consistent with
the nature and scale of authorized institutions’ business.
1.4. This Guideline sets forth the key principles in managing the risks associated
with cybersecurity. All authorized institutions are expected to adopt the
key principles that will assist them in establishing a sound and robust cyber
risk management process. The Guideline is applicable to the following
financial institutions authorized under the provisions of the Financial
System Act (FSA) approved by Decree-Law no. 32/93/M of 5th July:
(a) credit institutions either locally incorporated or being branches of
overseas banks in Macao;
(b) financial intermediaries and other financial institutions.
The Guideline is also applicable to the following financial institutions
authorized under the provisions of specific laws and regulations other than
the FSA:
(c) finance companies authorized under Decree-Law no. 15/83/M of 26th
February; and
(d) institutions authorized under Decree-Law no. 15/97/M of 5th May to
carry out cash remittance activities in Macao.
1.5. The AMCM has taken into account of the risk management principles and
sound practices in similar cyber resilience standards, guidelines and
frameworks from other regulatory authorities and international standards4,
when developing this guideline. Domains similar to those used in such
standards, guidelines and frameworks have been adopted to organize
4

Reference of cyber resilience standards, guidelines and frameworks from other regulatory authorities and
international standards, for example:

“Guidance on cyber resilience for financial market infrastructures” (June 2016) issued by Committee on
Payments and Market Infrastructures and Board of the International Organization of Securities Commissions
(CPMI-IOSCO)
 “Cybersecurity assessment tool” (May 2017) issued by United States Federal Financial Institutions
Examination Council (FFIEC)
 “Fundamental elements of cybersecurity for the financial sector” (October 2016) issued by Group of 7 (G7)
 “Framework for improving critical infrastructure cybersecurity” (April 2018) issued by United States
National Institute of Standard and Technology (NIST)
 “Cyber resilience oversight expectations for financial market infrastructures” (December 2018) issued by
European Central Bank

2

related requirements. Authorized institutions are also encouraged to read
and understand the main principles of these documents.

2. RISK MANAGEMENT CHALLENGES POSED BY CYBERSECURITY
2.1. As echoed by various risk management principles and sound practices, the
cyber risk should be managed as a part of the authorized institution’s
overall operational risk management framework. Some unique
characteristics of cyber risk present challenges to authorized institutions’
traditional operational risk management frameworks.
2.2. Firstly, a distinguishing characteristic of sophisticated cyber-attacks is the
persistent nature of a campaign conducted by a motivated attacker. The
presence of an active, persistent and sometimes sophisticated adversary in
cyber-attacks means that, unlike most other sources of risk, malicious
cyber-attacks are often difficult to be identified or fully eradicated and the
breadth of damage is as well difficult to be determined.
2.3. Secondly, there is a broad range of entry points through which an
authorized institution could be compromised. As a result of their
interconnectedness, cyber-attacks could come through linked financial
institutions, service providers, vendors and vendor products. Authorized
institutions themselves could become a channel to further propagate cyberattacks – for example, via the distribution of malware to interconnected
entities. Unlike physical operational disruptions, cyber risks posed by an
interconnected entity are not necessarily related to the degree of that
entity’s relevance to the authorized institution’s business. From a
cybersecurity perspective, the small-value or small-volume participant or a
vendor providing non-critical services may be as risky as a major
participant or a critical service provider 5 . Internally, the risk of insider
threat arising from rogue or careless staff opens up additional channels for
possible compromises.
2.4. Thirdly, certain cyber-attacks can render some risk management and
business continuity arrangements ineffective. For example, automated
system and data replication arrangements that are designed to help preserve
sensitive data and software in the event of a physical disruptive event might
in some instances fuel the propagation of malware and corrupted data to
backup systems. Overall, a cyber-attack’s potential to cause significant
5

Service provider who support critical business functions.

3

service disruptions to the broader financial system dictates the urgency of
having an effective approach in place to response to such attack, and it
requires a prudent incident response mechanism to minimise the probability
that service resumption will introduce additional cyber risks to the
institution.
2.5. Fourthly, cyber-attacks can be stealthy and propagate rapidly within a
network of systems. For example, the attacker can exploit unknown
vulnerabilities and weak links in systems and protocols to cause disruptions
and/or infiltrate an authorized institution’s internal network. Malwares
designed to take advantage of such latent vulnerabilities may circumvent
controls. To minimise the impact of such attacks, authorized institution
should equip with capabilities to swiftly detect, respond to, contain and
recover from such attacks.

3. CYBER RISK MANAGEMENT DOMAINS
3.1. This Guideline is presented in eight domains that should be addressed
across an authorized institution’s cybersecurity resilience framework. They
are summarized below and discussed more specially in Sections 4 to 11.
a)

Governance. Consistent with effective management of other forms
of risk faced by an authorized institution, sound governance is the
key to good cyber risk management. Authorized institution should
establish, implement and enhance its approach to managing cyber
risks. Therefore, a clear and comprehensive cyber resilience
framework should be established and guided by a cyber resilience
strategy, which define the cyber resilience objective and set out
people, process and technology requirements to achieve such
objective. It is also important that clear roles and responsibilities
of the board6 and senior management are established, with a good
culture of recognizing the importance of cybersecurity. The
requirements are further elaborated in Section 4.

b)

Identification. Without a proper understanding of the authorized
institution’s ecosystem, authorized institutions may risk having an

In the case of branches of overseas incorporated banks, the reference to the “board of directors / the Board” in
this Guideline refers to, depending on the circumstances, either the branches’ local management or, the
management at the head office responsible for the operations of the branches. In the case of a Macao incorporated
bank, the reference to the “board of directors / the Board” in this Guideline includes any director or committee
that is assigned to handle matters that require the board’s review / approval but arise between full board meetings.
6

4

inadequate coverage when implementing cybersecurity controls.
Authorized institutions should develop an organizational
understanding to identify and classify business processes, systems,
people, assets, data, and external dependencies. Understanding the
business context, the resources that support critical functions, and
the related cyber risks enables authorized institutions to focus and
prioritize its efforts and align with its risk management strategy.
The requirements are further elaborated in Section 5.
c)

Protection. Without an effective security controls on the system
and processes, the confidentiality, integrity and availability of data
and system could be compromised. Authorized institutions should
implement appropriate safeguards to ensure delivery of critical
services and to contain the impact of a potential cybersecurity
event. The requirements are further elaborated in Section 6.

d)

Detection. Timely detection allows authorized institutions to have
proper lead time to deploy countermeasure against cybersecurity
event. Authorized institutions should define the appropriate
activities to identify the occurrence of a cybersecurity event. The
requirements are further elaborated in Section 7.

e)

Respond and recovery. It is important for authorized institutions
to contain and reduce the impact of a cybersecurity incident.
Authorized institutions should maintain plans for responding to
cybersecurity events as well as for resilience and recovery of any
services that were impaired during a cybersecurity incident. The
requirements are further elaborated in Section 8.

f)

Testing. The elements of authorized institutions’ cyber resilience
framework should be rigorously tested to determine their overall
effectiveness. Authorized institutions should adopt sound testing
mechanisms to identify gaps against stated resilience objectives
and to provide credible and meaningful inputs to authorized
institutions’ management of cyber risks. The requirements are
further elaborated in Section 9.

g)

Situational awareness. Strong situational awareness can
significantly enhance an authorized institution’s ability to
understand and pre-empt cyber events, and to effectively detect,
respond to and recover from cyber-attacks that are not prevented.
Authorized institutions should proactively monitor the cyber threat
5

landscape and participate in the information-sharing initiatives to
further enhance authorized institutions’ approach in cyber
resilience. The requirements are further elaborated in Section 10.
h)

Learning and evolving. As cyber threat is evolving quickly, it is
important for authorized institutions to have an adaptive cyber
resilience framework. Authorized institutions should instil a
culture of cyber risk awareness and perform ongoing re-evaluation
and improvement activities of the cyber resilience posture at every
level within the organisation. The requirements are further
elaborated in Section 11.

4. GOVERNANCE
4.1. Board and Senior Management
4.1.1.

Board and Senior Management Responsibilities. The primary
responsibilities for cyber risk management rests with the board and
senior management of authorized institutions. The board should
establish and approve the cyber risk tolerance by defining the level
of cyber risk that the authorized institution is willing to assume.
The Board should also ensure that senior management takes the
steps necessary to monitor and control cyber risk. The board and
senior management should have a good understanding of the
authorized institution’s cybersecurity posture and latest
cybersecurity threat, and fully support and have effective oversight
on key cybersecurity initiatives and objectives.
Hence,
cybersecurity should be very visible at the board level, and
cybersecurity reporting should be provided to the board regularly
and immediately if there are any material change to the cyber risk.
Such reporting should be discussed in the board with appropriate
action taken.

4.2. Strategy
4.2.1.

Cybersecurity Strategy. Cybersecurity strategy should be riskbased with the aim of enhancing cybersecurity posture. It should
be reviewed regularly by all business stakeholders, senior
management and the board. The strategy should be sufficiently
detailed with supporting plans to explain the why, what, how, when
for each major initiative.

6

4.3. Cyber Risk Management
4.3.1.

Embedding cyber risk management into enterprise risk
management. Cyber risk management should be an integral part of
the enterprise operational risk management framework. A function
should be established to manage cyber risk within the authorized
institution. Policies, procedures and controls between cyber risk
and other areas of risks should be aligned as necessary.

4.3.2.

Cyber Risk Tolerance. Authorized institutions should define their
cyber risk tolerance with endorsement from board and senior
management. Authorized institutions should also perform regular
review on the cyber risk tolerance.

4.4. Cyber Resilience Framework
4.4.1.

Cyber Resilience Framework consists of the policies, procedures
and controls an authorized institution has established to identify,
protect, detect, respond to and recover from the plausible sources
of cyber risks it faces. Authorized institutions should have a cyber
resilience framework that clearly articulates how it determines its
cyber resilience objectives and cyber risk tolerance, as well as how
it effectively identifies, mitigates, and manages its cyber risk to
support its objectives. It should be aligned with the authorized
institution’s organization-wide risk management framework. Such
framework should be endorsed by the board.

4.4.2.

Ownership of Cyber Resilience Framework. Cyber resilience
framework and its supporting policies should be owned by senior
management who has sufficient knowledge and experience, and
the authority to consistently enforce implementation of the
framework. The supporting policies should be fully aligned with
the cyber resilience framework.

4.4.3.

Scope and availability. Cyber resilience framework should cover
all processes and technology components within the authorized
institution. IT and business stakeholders should be engaged to
ensure the practicality of the cyber resilience framework and
supporting policies throughout the development and review
processes. It should be well communicated across the organization
as an on-going basis.

7

4.4.4.

Monitoring of effectiveness. Formally defined and documented
process should be established for measuring, tracking, and
monitoring compliance with the cyber resilience framework and
supporting policies. Identification, tracking, and monitoring of gap
remediation should also be continuously conducted by the risk
management function (or equivalent).

4.4.5.

Review and Updates. Proper review and update should be
conducted for the cyber resilience framework and supporting
policies under a formal process regularly to address latest cyber
threat and to align with industry standards, legal and regulatory
requirements. The review process should be performed annually,
and more often if a significant cybersecurity event or incident
warrants an immediate update.

4.5. Accountability
Accountability and importance of cybersecurity should be clearly
understood and accepted within the authorized institution. Roles
and responsibilities of cyber risk management should be
established with clear reporting line. Authorized institutions should
also consider the independence requirement of the reporting line in
the management model (such as three lines of defence model). It is
important that accountability of cybersecurity management is
upheld and relevant staff performance should be regularly assessed
against defined roles and responsibilities.
4.6. Resources
4.6.1.

Budget and Resources Allocation. To support proper
implementation of the Cybersecurity measures, authorized
institutions should have proper budget and resources allocation
(e.g. staffing, cybersecurity tools, external expertise) supporting
the execution of Cybersecurity management. In addition, a proper
budgeting process should be in place to support regular and ad-hoc
funding.

4.6.2.

Qualified Staffing. Authorized institutions should ensure that the
relevant personnel (including board, senior management and staff)
with cybersecurity responsibilities have adequate knowledge and
experience. Staff with cybersecurity responsibilities should also
have relevant qualifications to perform the necessary tasks relevant
to his position.

8

4.7. Third Party Management7
4.7.1.

Third Party Management Program. A third party management
program should be established with proper ownership and
accountability. The program should cover, but not be limited to,
third party risk assessment, third party selection process and third
party evaluation. Authorized institutions should establish
responsibilities and process for effective incident handling and
disaster recovery.

4.7.2.

Risk Assessment. Third party risk should be covered in the
organization-wide risk agenda for senior management’s discussion.
Risk assessment should be performed for vendor prior to adoption
and regularly for the existing vendor. Cybersecurity and data
privacy should be a key area for the assessment.

4.7.3.

Contractual Agreements. The importance of cybersecurity and data
privacy should be communicated to all third parties in formal
documents. All third party contractual agreements should include
standard clauses concerning security requirements and annual
review requirements on third party vendors.

4.8. Audit and Compliance
4.8.1.

Independent Audit Function. In order to assist the board and senior
management to assess and measure the adequacy and effectiveness
of the authorized institution’s cyber resilience framework, an
independent audit function (or equivalent) with adequate
qualification should perform the review and report the finding to
the board and senior management. The identified findings and
relevant remediation action should be properly tracked.

4.8.2.

Audit Approach. Authorized institutions should assess regularly
the audit approach based on the latest inherent risk profile and
cyber threat landscape.

7

When the third party falls into the scope of outsourcing, authorized institutions should also refer to relevant
regulatory requirements regarding outsourcing (see also “Guideline on Outsourcing”).

9

5. IDENTIFICATION
5.1. IT Asset Management
5.1.1.

IT Asset Management Process. Authorized institutions should
establish an IT asset management process. There should be a
centralized and updated asset inventory with critical assets
identified, including interconnections with other internal and
external systems. Authorized institutions should also understand
what business functions and processes that the assets are
supporting. Information assets provided to third parties should also
be clearly identifiable in the inventory.

5.1.2.

IT Asset Inventory Checking. Regular checking on the IT asset
should be conducted to identify any unregistered assets and
unauthorized changes.

5.1.3.

Information Asset Inventory. To ensure appropriate security
measures are implemented to protect critical data, authorized
institutions should maintain an inventory of their information
assets with proper classification.

6. PROTECTION
6.1. Data Protection
6.1.1.

Data Protection Program. A data protection program should be
established to protect sensitive data at rest, in transit and at use.
The program should be reviewed regularly using results of internal
or external assessments or audits. Access to sensitive data should
be logged and actively monitored for appropriateness. Sensitive
data should be encrypted at-rest and in-transit when transmitted
across public or untrusted networks. Encryption of sensitive data
should also be considered when transmitted across private
connections and within the institution’s trusted zones.

6.1.2.

Data Inventories and Data Flows. Data inventories should include
structured and unstructured repositories. Data architecture and
sensitive data flows should be maintained, and used to ensure that
data protection program provides adequate coverage across the
authorized institution and third parties.

10

6.1.3.

Data Classification. Authorized institutions should develop a
formal policy on how to handle data based on the classification.
Appropriate personnel such as the operation and compliance team
should review the classification regularly.

6.1.4.

Data Transfer. Authorized institutions should establish data
transfer guidelines that provide clear guidance on security practices
of data transfer. There should be measures established to identify
and remediate insecure data transfers.

6.1.5.

Data Protection Tools. Tools (such as Data Loss Prevention
solution) should be considered for adoption to detect and block
unauthorized transmission of sensitive data.

6.2. Access Control
6.2.1.

Policies for Access Control. Authorized institutions should
formally establish policies for access control. The policy should
cover user account management, privileged account management,
monitoring, account review and physical access management.

6.2.2.

User Account Management. Physical and logical access to system
should be restricted for individuals who are authorized.
Authorized institutions should implement reliable controls such as
role-based access, segregation of duties and strong authentication
(e.g. multifactor authentication) to restrict system access.
Authorized institutions should consider adopting an automatic
provisioning and de-provisioning of user access based on changes
required. Meanwhile, for changes triggered from employment
termination or resignation, authorized institutions should consider
adopting automated de-provisioning to be driven by Human
Resource system.

6.2.3.

Privileged Account Management. Authorized institutions should
implement strong controls over privileged system access by strictly
limiting and closely supervising staff with elevated system access
entitlements. All privileged accounts and shared accounts should
be centrally managed, and their passwords should be managed
using a password vault solution that automatically changes
passwords after checkout. Based on a risk-based approach, multi-

11

factor authentication should be used for privileged access to highrisk systems and access to sensitive or confidential data.
6.2.4.

Monitoring of User Accounts and Privileged Accounts. Monitoring
of user accounts and privileged accounts should be implemented to
detect any unauthorized access. Authorized institutions should
consider to incorporate such monitoring into organization-wide
security monitoring solution with the use of security event
correlation and alerting capabilities.

6.2.5.

Access Reviews. Authorized institutions should conduct access
review on a regular basis to identify any excessive privileges and
obsolete accounts to prevent unauthorized access.

6.2.6.

Physical Access Management. Physical access control should be
implemented to prevent unauthorized access to organization assets.
Access control mechanisms should be used to monitor the entry or
exit points. Physical protection mechanisms should be protected
from tampering and should be actively monitored. Sensitive areas
should have additional locks or alarms.

6.3. Network Security
6.3.1.

Policies and Processes. Authorized institutions should establish
relevant policies and processes for network security covering areas
such as network access management, network protection,
configuration management, vulnerability management, etc.

6.3.2.

Network Access Management. Proper network access control
should be implemented and strong authentication should be
adopted for critical network asset. Network activities should be
properly logged and monitored. All incoming and outgoing thirdparty connections, and their related trust levels should be properly
set, documented and regularly reviewed. Remote access to
administrative systems should be restricted. Authorized
institutions should also implement controls to prevent unpatched
and unauthorized device connecting to the network.

6.3.3.

Network Protection. Network should be properly protected and
segmented. Internal network should be properly segregated into
different trust / security zones to mitigate attacks. Network
perimeter defense tools (e.g. border router and firewall) should be

12

used. Intrusion detection system (IDS) and intrusion prevention
system (IPS) should be adopted and properly configured to detect
and block potential intrusions. Authorized institutions should also
implement adequate solution to prevent and mitigate disruptive
cyber attacks (e.g. Denial-of-service attack). Wireless networks
should also be strongly protected by proper encryption and
segmentation.
6.3.4.

Configuration Management. All changes to the network
infrastructure should be implemented by following a documented
end-to-end change management process and approval. Firewall
rules should be adequately configured and preferably administered
centrally. The administrative access to the network device should
be properly confined and monitored to prevent unauthorized
change.

6.3.5.

Vulnerability Management. Periodic review should be performed
that scan the network for security vulnerabilities. Network devices
should be regularly patched and kept up-to-date.

6.3.6.

Network Architecture. Detailed network architecture should be
maintained and updated regularly.

6.4. Anti-virus / Anti-malware. Anti-virus and anti-malware tools should be
adopted with up-to-date definitions.
6.5. System Development
6.5.1.

System Development Life Cycle (SDLC). Authorized institutions
should establish a formal SDLC process which incorporates the
principle of secure development. It should include specific
checkpoints to assess security risks and identify mitigation
strategies in different phases of the SDLC including systems
analysis and requirements definition, systems design, development,
integration and testing, acceptance, installation, deployment,
maintenance, evaluation, and disposal.

6.5.2.

Secure Coding Practice. Secure coding practices should be
established with reference to industry standard. Vulnerabilities
identified from vendor, security tools, penetration testing and
vulnerability scanning should be considered when developing and
updating such practices.

13

6.5.3.

Secure Development Environment. Authorized institutions should
consider setting up development environments which have similar
security controls implemented in production environment.

6.5.4.

Change Management. Change management processes should be
integrated with baseline configuration standards, such that any
technology changes may trigger update of such standards. System
change and update should be validated before applied to
production.

6.5.5.

a)

During the system development process, secure
configuration and risks associated with the technology
components should be considered and assessed against a
threat model. Third party components should be evaluated
for stability, security and overall risk before they are
adopted.

b)

During the testing phase, relevant security testing (such as
penetration testing, source code review, vulnerability
assessment) should be performed before implementing in
production environment.

System Developed by Third Parties. For system developed by third
parties, authorized institutions should also perform review on their
security impact similar to the requirement for developing in-house.
Authorized institutions should also maintain a list of the third
parties service provider and consider implementing relevant
security controls as recommended in the Third Party Management.

6.6. Software Security
6.6.1.

Software Acquisition. Software should be evaluated for security
risk before acquisition, and relevant security testing (such as
penetration testing) should be performed prior to implementation.

6.6.2.

Continuous Monitoring and Improvement. Authorized institutions
should implement control to prevent unauthorized change to
software as recommended in the Detection domain. The software
should be continuously tracked for security update. For end-of-life
support software, authorized institutions should regularly assess
the security impact of continuing the use of such software.

14

6.7. Patch Management
6.7.1.

Patch Management Process. Patch management process should be
formally defined and documented. Change management controls
should be incorporated in the patch management process. Testing,
and risk and vulnerability mitigation evaluation should be
performed throughout the process. The process should be reviewed
regularly to ensure compliance.

6.7.2.

Patch Checking. Authorized institutions should identify exceptions
on configuration and patch handling. Authorized institutions
should consider using scanning tools or automated tools for
identifying exceptions. Exceptions should be mitigated or resolved
in a timely manner or within the defined timeframe.

6.7.3.

Remediation. Authorized institutions should maintain the
requirements for patch management on an on-going basis.
Timeframe should be set for patches with different criticality.
Remediation plans should be developed for non-compliance, and
are tracked and monitored for completion by the defined deadlines.

6.8. Configuration Management
6.8.1.

Baseline Configuration. Authorized institutions should establish
and enforce baseline system configuration and perform review
regularly as per industry standard and cyber threat.

6.8.2.

Configuration Change. Any change to the configuration should
follow change management process with proper control and
monitoring. Authorized institutions should consider implementing
technical solution to prevent unauthorized change of configuration
on critical systems.

6.9. Mobile Devices Management
6.9.1.

Mobile Devices Management. Authorized institutions should
establish relevant security controls to protect the use of mobile
device (for both corporate and personal device), especially if
sensitive data is able to be accessed from mobile device. Checking
should be conducted regularly for compliance.

15

6.9.2.

6.10.
6.10.1.

Wiping of Mobile Devices. Authorized institutions should
implement controls to allow wiping of mobile devices remotely
when the device is missing or stolen.
Physical and Environmental Protection
Authorized institutions should prevent unauthorized damage and
interference to their data centres and other information processing
facilities. In particular, protection and monitoring controls should
be implemented against natural disasters, malicious attack and
accidents.

7. DETECTION
7.1.1.

Security Monitoring Processes. Security monitoring processes and
procedures should be formally defined and documented, and
consistently followed. Documentation should be reviewed and
updated to reflect changes in processes or procedures.

7.1.2.

Logging. Logging should be implemented to enable security
monitoring and anomalous activities detection. Logging practice
should be formally defined and documented with regular review.
The logging practice should include, but not be limited to, types of
log to be recorded, retention period, disposal methods, masking
requirement of logs, and the frequency of log collection and review.
Authorized institutions should have a logging mechanism which
enable better security monitoring and log protection.

7.1.3.

Monitoring. Authorized institutions should take a risk-based
approach to monitoring that covers multiple components (e.g.,
monitoring of the high-risk network, host, privileged access, filelevel etc.). Monitoring should be accomplished via automated
alerts (e.g., emails, text messages) that are sent to designated
response personnel for pre-defined events (e.g., high risk, low
likelihood of false positive events). These alerts should be properly
monitored and reviewed. Security monitoring reporting should be
provided to management and other audiences as required on a
regular basis.

7.1.4.

Security Information and Event Management. Authorized
institutions should implement relevant process and tool to

16

effectively perform security monitoring. Authorized institutions
should consider adopting tools to consolidate logs from different
sources such as application logs, access logs, logs from network
devices, access to sensitive data and intelligence feeds from thirdparty sources and vulnerability scanning results to perform
correlation analysis and identify potential security threats.
Authorized institutions should also establish detection capability
regarding simultaneous attacks. Such intelligence feeds should be
regularly updated.
7.1.5.

Security Monitoring Team. A qualified team (e.g. Security
Operation Center) should be dedicated to monitor security events.
Roles and responsibilities of security monitoring team members
should be formally documented and communicated.

8. RESPONSE AND RECOVERY
8.1. Business Continuity Planning 8
8.1.1.

Crisis Management Plan. Authorized institutions should formally
develop Crisis Management Plan for handling disruptive and
unexpected cyber events. Roles and responsibilities should be
included in the Crisis Management Plan. Crisis escalations and
incident management protocols should be established and
consistently followed.

8.1.2.

Business Continuity Management Program. Authorized
institutions should set up a Business Continuity Management
Program and a committee consisting of senior management and
relevant stakeholders from business and IT to take the ownership
and responsibility of the program. Roles and responsibilities
should be fully established and endorsed by the committee. The
Business Continuity Management Program framework and policy
should be operationalized across the authorized institution.

8.1.3.

Business Impact Analysis. Business impact analysis, risk
assessments and gap analysis should be conducted to update the
Business Continuity Management program. Business impact
analysis results should be used to prioritize the recovery of services.

8

Authorized institutions should also refer to the relevant requirements regarding Business Continuity
Management (e.g. “Guideline on Business Continuity Management”).

17

Gap analysis should be conducted to identify the discrepancies
between the Recovery Time Objective (RTO) and Recovery Point
Objective (RPO) and the existing recovery capabilities. Key
findings, and threats and vulnerabilities from the gap analysis
should be reviewed and acknowledged by the senior management.
8.1.4.

Resources Management. Teams for business continuity and
disaster recovery should be identified, trained and made aware of
their roles. Relevant budget should be planned and allocated at
least annually to align with the planned Business Continuity
Management initiatives as approved by the respective committee.

8.1.5.

Disaster Recovery Plan. A Disaster Recovery Plan should be
established for the authorized institution to recover the IT functions
during disaster. Testing plays an important role in identifying the
room for improvement in the Disaster Recovery Plan and making
stakeholders familiarized with the Disaster Recovery Plan.
Disaster recovery drill should be integrated and functional in
nature - business, IT and third-party service providers should
participate in the drill. The Disaster Recovery Plan should be
updated at least annually based on the drill results.

8.2. Incident Management
8.2.1.

Incident Management Program. Authorized institutions should
maintain an incident management program, which provides the
visibility to board and senior management, and for their ongoing
oversight and support. The program should cover different areas
such as incident identification, reporting, classification, handling,
notification and recording.

8.2.2.

Incident Management Procedures. A formal chain of custody
procedures (including forms, log, procedures, etc.) should be
defined, documented and communicated to all members of the
incident response (“IR”) team as well as other relevant internal and
external stakeholders (e.g., staff, contractors, vendors, suppliers,
etc.). Decision criteria should be fully defined and documented and
consistently used in the triage process of incidents. Additional
procedure to facilitate forensic investigation (e.g. digital evidence
handling) should also be considered to support the incident
response.

18

8.2.3.

Incident Classification Matrix. Incident classification matrix
should be established for clear incident classification in order to
execute the corresponding handling and reporting procedures.
Different scenarios should be taken into consideration during the
design of incident classification matrix.

8.2.4.

Incident Communication and Reporting. Incident communication
and reporting requirements should cover both internal and external
parties. External reporting requirements (such as regulatory or
legal) should be identified, documented and communicated to all
responsible parties. Regulatory reporting requirements should also
be reviewed by subject matter experts (e.g., compliance, legal, etc.)
to ensure accurate interpretation. Specific procedures should be
defined to guide actions so that compliance can be achieved and
errors or delays can be avoided.

8.2.5.

Reporting to AMCM. Authorized institutions should report such
incident according to the requirement in “Incident Reporting
Measures for Major Emergencies”.

8.2.6.

Testing. Authorized institutions should perform regular testing of
their incident response plan. When there is significant change in
the incident response plan, testing should be performed to ensure
that the change does not affect business availability and still meet
the business needs. Authorized institutions should consider
involving critical third parties in the testing. The results of the
testing should be used to improve the incident response plan.

8.2.7.

Incident Management Team and Resources. A cross-functional IR
team should be assembled to ensure the right skills and expertise
exist to support incidents in scope of the program. The team should
have relationships with functional authorities and industry groups
to leverage when needed. The board of the authorized institution
should take the final accountability for all incidents. Roles and
responsibilities should be reviewed regularly to identify and fill
gaps in capabilities.

8.2.8.

Up-to-date Incident Management Programme. Authorized
institutions should keep the incident management programme upto-date with emerging threats and technologies. Recent cases of
cyber incidents and attacks could be used to continuously improve
the programme. Apart from the program, supporting components
19

of the program such as testing scenario and resource arrangement
should be updated.
8.2.9.

Incident Response. Incident response processes should interface
with other parts of the authorized institution (e.g., Crisis
Management team) to ensure timely remediation and
communication with internal and external stakeholders.

9. TESTING
9.1. Testing Programme
9.1.1.

Authorized institutions should establish a testing programme to
validate the effectiveness of their cybersecurity management on a
regular basis. Relevant and latest cyber threat intelligence should
be employed when designing (or updating) the testing programme.
When designing (or updating) such programme, authorized
institutions should involve key stakeholders such as board and
senior management and relevant business line management, and
consider the involvement of external stakeholders such as critical
third-party. The condition of triggering and frequency of such
testing should be identified. Authorized institutions should also
establish the set of measures so that their production systems will
not be affected during the testing. The level of independence
required of the testing should be determined and the testing
programme should enable ongoing improvement of cybersecurity
management.

9.2. Testing Methodologies and Practices
9.2.1.
Vulnerability Assessment. Authorized institutions should perform
vulnerability assessment regularly to identify and assess security
vulnerabilities in the systems. Processes should be established to
prioritise and remediate issues identified in vulnerability
assessment and validate the remediation.
9.2.2.

Penetration Testing. Authorized institutions should perform
penetration testing on their assets such as applications,
infrastructure, internal and external network, and endpoint devices,
which should simulate actual attack scenario on the systems, to
identify vulnerabilities in business processes and technical controls.
The testing should be performed on the asset before they are placed

20

into production and after major changes to the asset. There should
be a risk-based schedule to test existing assets. The scope of the
testing on existing assets should be compared against an
established asset inventory to ensure coverage. Apart from the
white-box9 penetration testing approach, other testing approaches
such as black-box10 and grey-box10 style testing can also be
considered. Results of the penetration testing should be used to
enhance the system development as part of the secure coding
practice and cybersecurity management.
9.2.3.

Red Team Testing 10 . Authorized institutions should consider
adopting red team testing to simulate adversarial attempt to
compromise their business process to obtain a comprehensive
assessment of the security capabilities of the information system
and organization, including the potential vulnerabilities and the
respective effectiveness of detection and response.

9.2.4.

Scenario-based Testing. Scenario-based testing, such as incident
response testing should be conducted to test the ability of staff and
processes to respond to different scenarios in order to achieve
stronger operational resilience.

9.3. Remediation Management Process. Authorized institutions should have a
formal remediation management process for handling the vulnerabilities
identified from the testings stated in Section 9.2. A mechanism to centrally
track the remediation of vulnerabilities through their lifecycle should also
be established. Ownership for vulnerability remediation should be assigned
and recorded properly. Re-assessment of all remediated vulnerabilities
should be performed before they are considered closed. The status of the
remediation should be reported regularly to senior management.

9

White-box, black-box and grey-box testing: White-box Testing - A test methodology that assumes explicit and
substantial knowledge of the internal structure and implementation detail of the assessment object. Black-box
Testing – It is in contrast to the white-box testing, in which the tester has no knowledge at all. Grey-box Testing
– It is a test methodology in between white-box and black-box, in which the tester has some knowledge of the
assessment object.
10
Red team exercise, reflecting real-world conditions, that is conducted as a simulated adversarial attempt to
compromise organizational missions and/or business processes to provide a comprehensive assessment of the
security capability of the information system and organization.

21

9.4. Qualified Tester. Authorized institutions should ensure that the testing is
conducted by tester with adequate knowledge, experience and
qualification11.

10. SITUATIONAL AWARENESS
10.1.
10.1.1.

10.2.
10.2.1.

Situational Awareness of Authorized institution
Threat Intelligence. Authorized institutions should identify cyber
threats that could materially affect their ability to perform or to
provide services as expected, or that could have significant impact
on its ability to meet its own obligations or have knock-on effects
within its ecosystem. Authorized institutions should consider
threats to the confidentiality, integrity, availability of their business
processes and data, and to their reputation that could arise from
internal and external sources. Threats from cyber events which are
considered unlikely to occur or have never occurred in the past
should be considered. Such analysis should be performed regularly
of which the results should be applied to the authorized
institution’s cybersecurity posture at the strategic, tactical and
operational levels.
Situational Awareness of Staff
Security Awareness Program. Authorized institutions should
develop a security awareness program to enhance the security
awareness of their staff members. Program should be designed
with different focus for different target groups covering new and
existing staff. Apart from the traditional security subject matters,
authorized institutions should continuously enhance the program,
taking into consideration the subject matters such as newly
developed technology and recent cyber-attacks. Authorized
institutions should also consider requiring third parties which
handle and/or process personal information or other sensitive data
to complete such program.

11

Refer to Appendix A for the example of professional cybersecurity qualifications on penetration testing and
red team testing.

22

10.2.2.

Effectiveness of the Program. Authorized institutions should
measure the effectiveness of the cybersecurity awareness program.
The completion of training should be tracked to ensure compliance.
Apart from traditional way of measuring the effectiveness (e.g.
training quiz), authorized institution may consider to periodically
send out simulated phishing emails, or use other appropriate
methods, in testing the awareness of staff.

11. LEARNING AND EVOLVING
11.1.
11.1.1.

11.2.

Ongoing Learning
Staff competence and training. The cybersecurity function of the
authorized institution should be adequately staffed and they should
have sufficient knowledge and skills to execute their
responsibilities. Cybersecurity staff should be trained regularly to
keep their knowledge and skill level up-to-date with emerging
threats, trends, and technologies.
Continuous Benchmarking

11.2.1.

Cybersecurity Metrics. Cybersecurity metrics should be
established to aid the authorized institution in understanding the
effectiveness of cyber resilience framework and how the
framework can support the cyber risk management. Such metrics
should allow trend analysis. The use of cybersecurity metrics
should allow institution to identify gap in the cyber resilience
framework and achieve continuous improvement toward the cyber
resilience objective.

11.2.2.

Reporting to Board and Senior Management. Cybersecurity
metrics, updates, and issues should be actively discussed at the
Board and Senior Management level on a regular basis. The Board
should have a good understanding of the authorized institution 's
cybersecurity posture, and actively provides input into the metrics.
Strategic level metrics should be developed and presented to
management regularly, especially to the Board and Senior
Management. The Board and Senior Management should have a
good understanding of the Cyber Resilience Framework at a
strategic level, through the metrics. Feedback on the metrics in
23

demonstrating strategic security posture should be obtained
regularly, and incorporated into improving the metrics program.
11.2.3.

Risk assessment on Cybersecurity Management. Authorized
institutions should conduct risk assessment on cybersecurity
management at least every two years or when there are substantial
changes which may affect the cyber risk profile. The objective of
the risk assessment is for the authorized institution to identify cyber
risk and non-compliance issues, and to assess the level of change
to the cyber risk profile. The risk assessment should be performed
by person(s) with the necessary capabilities who can be internal
staff or external party. The results should be approved by senior
management and the report should be submitted to AMCM upon
request.

11.2.4.

Independent Assessment on Cybersecurity Management. The
independent assessment should, at a minimum, cover paragraphs 4
to 11 of this Guideline and be performed upon notification from
AMCM or if the result of the risk assessment as mentioned in
11.2.3 indicates that an independent assessment is necessary. The
person(s) performing the independent assessment should have, and
be able to demonstrate, the necessary expertise 12 in the relevant
fields. He/she should be independent from the parties that develop
or administer the system and should not be involved in the
operations to be reviewed or in selecting or implementing the
relevant control measures to be reviewed. He/she should be able to
report findings freely and directly to the authorized institution’s
senior management. As long as the assessor meets the above
criteria, he/she can be internal staff (e.g. internal auditors) or
external party (e.g. an external auditor or other third-parties service
providers). The results should be approved by senior management
and the report should be submitted to AMCM which should include
at least the following items:
a) time of assessment;
b) scope and approach adopted, including descriptions of the
system components, internal networks and network equipment
that are covered;
c) the assessors’ findings and recommendations; and

12

Refer to Appendix A for the example of professional cybersecurity qualifications on independent assessment
on cybersecurity management.

24

d) management responses.
Self-assessment as mentioned in 11.2.3 is not required in the year
when independent assessment is performed.
11.3.

Reference to Industry Standards and Practices

11.3.1.

Authorized institutions could refer to different industry standards
and practices as a benchmark to evaluate and enhance their
cybersecurity controls.

12. SUPERVISORY APPROACH
12.1. The AMCM expects authorized institutions to develop and implement
effective cybersecurity management that is consistent with the abovementioned principles and key processes.
12.2. While this guideline does not dictate the means or specific technologies
to implement relevant control, the AMCM expects authorized institutions
to implement relevant controls or demonstrate effective means to fulfil
such controls in accordance to the cyber risk profile of the authorized
institution. Authorized institutions should consider the following area
when evaluating their cyber risk profile:
(a) Technologies and Connection Types
(b) Delivery Channels
(c) Online / Mobile Products and Technology Services
(d) Organizational Characteristics
(e) External Threats
12.3. In cases which the authorized institutions are branches of overseas
incorporated banks adopting the support from head / regional office to
execute the roles and responsibilities of cybersecurity management, they
are still expected to demonstrate that such approach can fulfill the
requirement and does not undermine the cybersecurity management of the
authorized institution. Depending on the circumstances, authorized

25

institutions should take note that the responsibilities of Governance may
still require branches’ local management for execution.
12.4. Prior to the launch of the relevant services or major enhancements to
existing system or services, authorized institutions are expected to have
adequate cybersecurity management in accordance to this Guideline, or
have completed relevant remediation if there are any major noncompliance / cybersecurity incident.
12.5. The AMCM will, in the course of its onsite examinations and offsite
reviews, determine as appropriate the adequacy of authorized institutions’
cybersecurity management based on the requirements set out in this
Guideline. Authorized institutions are expected to comply with this
Guideline as soon as practicable.

26

APPENDIX A: REFERENCE ON PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS

Independent Assessment on Cybersecurity Management








ISACA CSX Fundamentals Certificate
ISACA CSX Practitioner Certificate (CSX-P)
ISACA Certified Information Systems Auditor (CISA)
ISACA Certified Information Security Manager (CISM)
ISACA Certified in Risk and Information Systems Control (CRISC)
ISACA Certified in the Governance of Enterprise IT (CGEIT).
ISC² Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP)

Penetration Testing / Red Team Testing











CREST Certified Simulated Attack Manager
CREST Certified Simulated Attack Specialist
CREST Certified Infrastructure Tester
CREST Certified Web Applications Tester
GIAC Penetration Tester (GPEN)
GIAC Exploit Researcher and Advanced Penetration Tester (GXPN)
Offensive Security Certified Expert (OSCE)
Offensive Security Exploitation Expert (OSEE)
Offensive Security Web Expert (OSWE)
Offensive Security Certified Professional (OSCP)

27

APPENDIX B: REFERENCES ON INDUSTRY STANDARDS AND PRACTICES








Control Objectives for Information and Related Technology (COBIT)
o http://www.isaca.org/cobit/pages/default.aspx
SANS Top 20 Critical Security Controls (CSC)
o https://www.sans.org/critical-security-controls/
Information Security Forum – Standard of Good Practice for Information Security
o https://www.securityforum.org/
ISO/IEC 27001 Information security management
o https://www.iso.org
ISO/IEC 27002 Information technology – Security techniques – Code of practice for
information security controls
o https://www.iso.org
ISO/IEC 27035, Information technology – Security techniques – Information security
incident management
o https://www.iso.org

28

