澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個人資料保護辦公室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

Issues Relating to Using Fingerprint/ Hand Geometry Devices
to Check on Work Attendance
Recently the Office for Personal Data Protection (hereafter referred to as “this
Office”) has received inquiries from various entities, asking if the employer is
allowed to use fingerprint/ hand geometry devices to track employee time and
attendance.
The abovementioned fingerprint/ hand geometry devices serve the purpose of
checking on work attendance by authenticating the identities of employees using
biometric technologies and keeping records. Relevant operations involve collecting,
in advance, the employee’s fingerprints, three-dimensional hand geometry
information or features acquired by infrared-ray scan, etc, which will be converted
into digital data compatible to the specific device and stored in the database. An
attendance record is done as the employee puts his/her finger or hand on the surface
of the device, which converts the features captured into digital data and compares it
with the preregistered digitalized physiological data in the database, authenticates and
verifies the identity of the employee and records the time.
This Office’s opinions are as follows:

General Views
Generally speaking, this Office believes:
According to Number 1(1), Article 4, Act 8/2005 (“Personal Data Protection
Act”), fingerprints and hand geometry are personal data, as they are unique biometric
features – information relating to an identified natural person. Article 3 of the same
Act provides that the processing of such data is regulated by the “Personal Data
Protection Act”.
If employers record employee attendance using fingerprint/ hand geometry
devices due to operational and internal management needs of the organization, the
intention is lawful. However, according to Article 5 of the “Personal Data Protection
Act”, which stipulates that employers also have to ensure that personal data is
processed lawfully, tracking employee time and attendance using fingerprint/ hand
geometry devices is only lawful when the employer ensures that fingerprint/ hand
geometry data is “processed lawfully” with respect for the principle of good faith and
individual privacy, and not further processed in a way exceeding or incompatible with
the purposes for which they are collected, as well as making sure that such data is
kept for no longer than is necessary, etc.

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個人資料保護辦公室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

Concerning criteria for making fingerprint/ hand geometry data processing
legitimate, Article 6 of “Personal Data Protection Act” provides that Personal data
may be processed only if the data subject has unambiguously given his/her consent or
under circumstances that are laid down in (1)-(5), Article 6 of the same Act. So for the
employer there are two ways of making collecting and subsequent processing of the
employee’s fingerprint/ hand geometry data legitimate: 1) obtaining unambiguous
consent from the employee; 2) basing on unambiguous terms laid down in the
employment contract [see Number 1(1), Article 6 of “Personal Data Protection Act”].
In some special situations, when the employer can prove that it has legitimate interests
not overridden by the interests for fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees of the
data subject, it can also make it legitimate.
Articles 10-12 provide that employers are obligated to ensure that the
employees can exercise their right to information, right of access and right to object as
they process employees’ fingerprint/ hand geometry data. Concerning the right to
information, the employer should inform the employee of the purposes of collecting
his/her fingerprint/ hand geometry data, the recipients or categories of recipients, the
existence of the rights the employee enjoys and the conditions for exercising the
rights. This Office recommends that employers can provide employees with the
abovementioned information through the “Personal Data Collection Statement”.
Concerning the right to object, the data subject has the right to object at any
time on compelling legitimate grounds relating to his/her particular situation to the
processing of data relating to him/her. In other words, the employee has the right to
object on compelling legitimate grounds to the processing of his/her fingerprint/ hand
geometry data, and where there is a justified objection, the employer should no longer
process relevant data. As whether an objection is justified is a case-by-case issue, this
Office recommends that when the employee objects, the employer and the employee
should do their best to reach consensus. In case no consensus can be achieved, the
parties concerned can seek opinions from this Office.
Also, recording employees’ check in and check out time using fingerprint/
hand geometry devices is considered automated processing of personal data. In
accordance with Article 21 of “Personal Data Protection Act”, this Office must be
notified of such processing of data. Relevant forms of notification can be downloaded
from this Office’s website (www.gpdp.gov.mo) or picked up from this Office.

Concrete Suggestions:
This Office is also providing some suggestions for employers and employees.

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個人資料保護辦公室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

In addition to the general views mentioned above, employers also need to
observe the following:
1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

For the purpose of checking on work attendance, the biometric data
relevant device involves should be confined to fingerprints and hand
geometry (including shape of the hand and features acquired by infraredray scan) and should not be extended to features of the face, voice and iris
etc, which are generally used for entrance restrictions requiring relatively
high security.
The employer is obligated to ensure relevant devices are working properly
with a high degree of accuracy. Otherwise relevant devices will be
considered unreliable devices that cannot serve the purpose of attendance
check. And the employer may as a result violate the “accuracy of
information” principle stated in Number 1 (4) of Article 5 of the “Personal
Data Protection Act” and can be found guilty of administrative offence and
fined up to MOP$40,000.
Biometric data such as fingerprints and hand geometry collected and
processed for the purpose of attendance check only cannot be used for
other purposes. Failing to comply with this rule is a criminal offence and
the offender can be sentenced up to 1 year in prison or 120 “day fines”. If
it is indeed necessary to use the data for other purposes, authorization from
this Office must be obtained in advance.
Generally speaking, the employer should not transfer biometric data such
as fingerprints and hand geometry to other persons or organizations. In
case such a transfer can happen under certain circumstances, the employer
must ensure its legitimacy and inform the employee of the existence of
such a possibility at the time when relevant data is collected.
Biometric data collected for the purpose of attendance check must not be
kept indefinitely and should be erased permanently as soon as possible
after the employee leaves office. If it is technically possible, such data
should be erased permanently on the day the employee leaves office.
To ensure information security, fingerprint and hand geometry data should
be stored in independent storage devices to prevent data loss or
inappropriate data processing. Staff members processing relevant data
should be subjected to certain regulations and given adequate training.
They should also be warned that inadequate processing of personal data
can be a criminal offence and the offender can be sentenced to up to 4
years in prison or 480 “day fines”.
When the processing of fingerprint and hand geometry data is carried out
by an outsourced supplier (subcontractor), the controller must pay
attention to relevant laws and regulations, choose the supplier carefully,
sign an information security and confidentiality agreement with the
supplier and conduct adequate monitoring of the supplier’s work.
Employers and relevant persons in charge must remember that they are
responsible for information security and confidentiality and they need to

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個人資料保護辦公室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

9.

bear responsibilities for relevant irregularities and malpractice, including
bearing liability for compensation, liability for administrative offence and
criminal liability etc.
Without sufficient and feasible technical support for security measures,
employers should not consider using devices involving biometric
information such as fingerprints and hand geometry to check on work
attendance. While looking at the convenience these devices may bring, the
employer should also take costs such as legal risks, employer-employee
relationships and technical investment etc. into account.

Employees need to pay attention to the following:
1. If the employer uses relevant attendance check devices, the employee should
take the needs of his/her workplace into account and make a balanced decision.
Generally speaking, employers record employee attendance using fingerprint/
hand geometry devices is due to operational and internal management needs of
the organization. The intention is lawful. As long as the employer abides by
the “Personal Data Protection Act”, such data will be processed lawfully.
2. The employee should evaluate how the use of such devices can affect his/her
privacy, as well as looking at the reliability of his/her employer and
protections currents laws can provide. In Macao, the “Personal Data Protection
Act” regulates the processing of personal data. This Office is the “public
authority” mentioned in the Act responsible for monitoring the
implementation of the Act in Macao. In accordance with the Act, the employer
or any other person unlawfully processes fingerprint/ hand geometry data
collected for the purpose of attendance check may face administrative and
criminal charges and can be sentenced to up to 4 years in prison or 480 “day
fines”. The employee who has suffered damage as a result is entitled to claim
compensation from the controller.
3. The employee should get to know some features of such devices. For example,
relevant devices collect and process data such as fingerprint/ hand geometry
information electronically and you are not required to place your
fingerprints/palm prints on paper; relevant devices usually can only verify
your identity electronically and cannot print out your fingerprints/palm prints.
4. The employee should demand his/her employer to produce a relevant
“Personal Data Collection Statement” or privacy policy, become acquainted
with information related to the ways the employer handles fingerprint/ hand
geometry data and get to know his/her own rights.
5. The employee can find out from his/her employer or from this Office if his/her
employer has notified and registered the biometric attendance check system
with the authority.
6. The employee should constantly keep watch for the reliability of relevant
devices. In case of the machine authenticates identities wrongly or fail to
authenticate identities, the employee should report the problem to his/her
employer promptly.

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個人資料保護辦公室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

7. As the employee leaves office, he/she should check and confirm with his/her
employer about when his/her fingerprint/hand geometry data is to be erased
permanently.
8. Employees can submit inquiries to this Office when they have questions; can
make complaints to this Office when their personal data is processed
unlawfully. This Office will follow up relevant cases and protect the lawful
rights and interests of the data subjects.

In relation to the issue of checking on work attendance using biometric
devices, this Office will conduct further analyses and researches, work out and
promulgate relevant regulatory guidelines.

Office for Personal Data Protection
December 2008

