澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

Office for Personal Data Protection
Authorization No. 01/2011
Exemption from the Notification Obligations
Processing of Recruitment Data
The present Authorization is published pursuant to Articles 21(2) and 21(3) of
Law 8/2005. Related entities, when processing personal data within the scope of the
present Authorization, do not have to discharge the notification obligations as given in
Article 21(1) of the said Law.

Article 1
Purposes of Processing
This exemption only applies to the automated processing of applicants’ personal
data for the purpose of recruitment.

Article 2
Types of Personal Data
The processing of personal data for the purpose referred in the previous Article is
limited to the following categories:
(1) Identification information: name; age or date of birth; place of birth; gender;
nationality; address; phone number; fax number; e-mail address; education;
commonly used language; type and number of identity document;
(2) Resume information;
(3) Other information: information collected according to other laws or with the
consent expressed by the data subject.

1

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

Article 3
Period for Retention
1. For the purpose referred to in Article 1, the longest retention period of data
referred in the previous Article finishes two years after the end of the recruitment
activity, or finishes two years after the applicant last provided his information.
2. For the need of the judicial proceedings, the period referred in the last
paragraph may be extended for six months after the transfer to the judicial authorities
or the judgment became definitive.

Article 4
Recipients of Data
The recipients of the data include:
(1) Entities shall be informed according to law;
(2) Entities of whom the data subject consents to be informed and within the
purpose referred to in Article 1.

Chan Hoi Fan,
Coordinator of the Office for Personal Data Protection,
at the Office for Personal Data Protection
November 7th, 2011

2

