澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

Authorization No. 01/2008
Exemption from the Obligation of Notification
Personal Data Processing Relating to Billing and Contact Information of Clients,
Suppliers and Service Providers
This authorization is promulgated in accordance with Numbers 2 and 3, Article
21, Act 8/2005. The controllers concerned can carry out personal data processing
within the scope of this authorization, with exemption from the obligation of
notification as stated in No. 1, Article 21 of the above Act.
Article 1
Purposes of the Processing
The authorization of exemption applies to the automated processing of personal
data concerning clients, suppliers and service providers for the following purposes:
1. Billing and account management;
2. Contact with the persons and agencies mentioned above.
Article 2
Categories of Personal Data
The personal data processed for the purposes stated above is confined to the
following categories:
1. Identification data: Name, age or date of birth, sex, language used, address,
telephone number, fax number, email address, photograph, taxation number
and bank account number;
2. Other Data: forms of payment, financial agency, and the related insurance
company and insurance number if compensation is to be claimed from the
insurance company for the purposes mentioned in Article 1;
3. Documents containing data stated in Numbers 1 and 2 above, which are
kept in accordance with the Commercial Code.

澳 門 特 別 行 政 區 政 府
Governo da Região Administrativa Especial de Macau
個 人 資 料 保 護 辦 公 室
Gabinete para a Protecção de Dados Pessoais

Article 3
Duration for Data Preservation
1. The maximum duration for keeping the data listed in Numbers 1 and 2 of
Article 2 above is five years after the termination of relationship between
the controller and the client, supplier or service provider;
2. For the data being kept in accordance with the Commercial Code, the
duration of preservation is regulated by the Commercial Code.
3. The duration mentioned in Numbers 1 and 2 above may be extended, as
necessitated by judicial proceedings, for six months after the data is handed
over to the judiciary or after the final verdict.
Article 4
Data Recipients
Data recipients include:
1. Entities to be informed in accordance with legal provisions;
2. Entities to be informed with the consent of the data subject for purpose
mentioned in Article 1.
Chan Hoi Fan, Coordinator of the Office for Personal Data Protection
22 February 2008

