Personal Data
Protection Code
Of Practice

For The Banking And
Financial Sector

January 2017
on —SSCSCSCCCs

 
 

 

 

PESURUHJAYA PERLINDUNGAN
DATA PERIBADI

 

Ref. Ne.
CoP_BAN<

 

 

 

 

IN exercise of the powers canferrnd by Section 23(3} of the Personal Data
Protection Act 2010 {Act 709}, | hereby register the Cade of Practice for the
Banking and financial institution Class of Data User and it is applicable to all data

users under the said class with immediate effect.

Dated; 14 January 2017

 

 

(MAZM.ALEK BIN "WOHAMAD)
Personal Data Protection Commissioner, Malaysia

4

 

 
 

 

 

PESURUHJAYA PERLINDUNGAN
DATA PERIBADI

No. Ruj. |

CoF_BANK

PADA menjalankan kuasa yang diberikan oleh Seksyen 23(3} Akta Perlindungan
Data Peribadi 2010 ([Akta 709), saya dengan ini mendaftarkan Tataamalan bagi
Golungan Pengguna Data Perbankan dan institusi kewangan dan terpakai
kepada semua pengeuna data di bawah golongan tersebul berkuatkuasa serta-

merta.

Bertarikh pada:} q Januari 2017

 

(MAZMALEK BIN NIQHAMAD)
Pesurubjaya Perlindungan Data Peribadi, Malaysia

 

 

 

 

 
Table Of Contents

 

 

PART

TITLE

PAGE

 

Introduction

- Foreword

- Objectives of the Code

- Scope of the Code

- Code Administration

- Acceptance of the Code by the Commissioner
- &ffective Date

- Legal Force and Effect of the Code

 

Definitions & Interpretation

- Definitions
- Interpretation

 

General Principles Applicable To The Data User And Data
Subject Relationship

- General Principle

- Notice and Choice Principle
- Disclosure Principle

- Security Principle

- Retention Principle

- Data Integrity Principle

- Access Principle

10

 

 

 

Specific Issues Relevant To The Members Of The Banking
and Financial Sector

- Personal Data

- Sensitive Personal Data

-  Pre-Existing Data

- Direct Marketing

- Credit Reporting Agencies

- Permitted Databases

- Contacting the Data Subject

- Certificate of Registration

- Photography During Corporate Events
- Transfer of Personal Data Abroad

 

33

 

 
 

PART

TITLE PAGE

 

Rights Of Data Subjects 48

- Right of Access to Personal Data

- Right to Correct Personal Data

- Right to Prevent Processing Likely to Cause Damage
or Distress

- Right to Withdraw Consent

- Right to Prevent Processing for Purposes of Direct
Marketing

 

Employees 64

- Policies and Procedures Development
- Employee Training and Awareness
- Control System

 

 

 

Code Compliance, Monitoring, Review And Amendment 66

- Code Compliance

- Monitoring

- Amendment of the Code

- The Data User Forum And Commissioner

- Consequences of Non-Compliance with the Code

 

 

Schedules

PwNnNe

Rights of Data Subjects
Privacy Notice (for Customers)
Data Access Request Form
Data Correction Request Form

Appendix

Schedule 11 of the Financial Services Act 2013

 
 

1.1

1.1.1

1.1.2

1.1.3

1.1.4

1.1.5

1.2

1.2.1

PART 1
INTRODUCTION

FOREWORD

The Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (“the Act”) was passed by the Parliament of
Malaysia for the purpose of regulating the processing of personal data in commercial
transactions. The Act confers rights on individuals (“Data Subjects”) in relation to the
collection, use and/or retention (“processing”) of their personal data, and places
obligations on those persons/entities processing the same (“Data Users”). The terms
“Data Subject”, “Data User” and “processing” are more fully defined in Part 2 of this
Code of Practice.

The Act is built around a core of personal data protection principles which state in
broad terms the type of conduct that is permitted under the Act.

In recognition of the fact that separate sectors/industries may have specific industry
practices in relation to the manner in which personal data is handled, and/or may
have deployed unique technologies which require specific data protection rules, the
Act permits the formation and designation by the Commissioner of data user forums,
and the preparation of codes of practice for specific sectors/industries.

This Code of Practice is specific to the persons/parties licensed in Malaysia that are
engaged in the banking and financial sector of Malaysia, namely all banks and
financial institutions licensed under the Financial Services Act 2013, the Islamic
Financial Services Act 2013 and the Development Financial Institution Act 2002, and
has been developed by The Association of Banks in Malaysia (ABM) as the duly
appointed Data User Forum for the banking and financial sector, with the
participation and assistance of the Malaysian Investment Banking Association
(MIBA), the Association of Islamic Banking Institutions Malaysia (AIBIM), and the
Association of Development Finance Institutions of Malaysia (ADFIM).

Banks and financial institutions that are licensed under the Labuan Financial Services
and Securities Act 2010 and the Labuan Islamic Financial Services and Securities Act
2010, as the case may be, are not considered to be Data Users for the purpose of this
Code of Practice and are as such not required to comply with the same.
Nevertheless, they may choose to comply with the Code of Practice of their own free
will, though the penalties stated herein will not be applicable to them.

OBJECTIVES OF THE CODE

This Code of Practice (“Code”) for the banking and financial sector is intended to:-
 

1.2.2

1.3

1.3.1

1.3.2

(i) set minimum standards of conduct in respect of personal data that are
expected of Data Users;

(ii) stipulate measures to be deployed by Data Users in order to ensure that the
processing of personal data does not infringe a Data Subject’s rights under
the Act;

(iii) stipulate matters for the consideration of Data Users in order to ensure that
the risk to the personal data of Data Subjects is minimised; and

(iv) establish the administrative framework to oversee and enforce compliance of
Data Users with this Code.

Notwithstanding the objectives set out above, this Code also sets out the rights of
individuals under the PDPA. Please refer to Schedule 1 for an overview of the rights
of individuals as "Data Subjects" (defined at 1.3.2 and 1.3.3 below) under the PDPA.

SCOPE OF THE CODE

Upon registration of this Code by the Commissioner, this Code shall apply to all
licensed banks and licensed investment banks under the Financial Services Act 2013,
all licensed Islamic Banks and licensed International Islamic Banks under the Islamic
Financial Services Act 2013 and all development financial institutions under the
Development Financial Institutions Act 2002.

This Code shall apply to all relations between Data Users and individuals whose
personally-identifiable information is processed by the Data User as part of or in
contemplation of one or more commercial transactions. This includes, but is not
limited to, relationships between Data Users and the following individuals:-

(i) individuals who are (or were) customers of Data Users;

(ii) individuals that represent customers of Data Users (e.g. parents of minors,
trustees and authorised representatives);

(iii) individuals that have been identified as potential customers of Data Users;

(iv) individuals that have applied to be customers of a Data User, whether
successfully or otherwise;

(v) individuals who are not customers of a Data User but utilise (or have utilised)
the facilities or services provided by the Data User; and
 

1.3.3

1.3.4

1.3.5

1.3.6

1.3.7

1.3.8

(vi) individuals that have entered into ancillary arrangements with a Data User
(e.g. guarantors or third party security providers) on account of or for the
benefit of another individual or entity.

The individuals identified in 1.3.2 above, shall collectively be referred to as “Data
Subjects”.

In so far as organizations/companies are concerned, where the information of their
officers, employees, authorised signatories, directors, individual shareholders,
individual guarantors, individual security providers, suppliers/vendors and/or related
parties (“said individuals”), are provided by the said organizations/companies to
Data Users for the purpose of any commercial transactions between these
organizations/companies and the said Data Users, the said information shall be
treated as information that the said organization/company is authorised to provide
to the Data User.

For the avoidance of doubt, Data Users are not required to obtain consent from the
said individuals in order to process the said information for the purpose of the
commercial transaction between the Data User and the said organizations /
companies and the right to withdraw consent under 5.4 shall not be applicable to
the said individuals whether during or after their employment with the said
organizations / companies.

Other than the above, this Code shall also apply to the relationship between Data
Users and the following parties:

(i) data processors appointed by the Data User, for example, where the Data
User outsources certain functions (e.g. debt collection, printing of
statements) to a supplier/vendor and provides the said supplier/vendor with
the relevant personal data of Data Subjects of the Data User; and

(ii) the employees of Data Users, but only in so far as it is relevant to the
processing of personal data of Data Subjects by the employees of the Data
User.

With reference to 1.3.6(ii), CMSRL holders may be hired by Data Users as employees
of the Data User, in which case all the provisions of this Code relating to employees
will be applicable to the said CMSRL holders. In instances where CMSRL holders are
not the employees of a Data User, they shall be treated as independent third parties
that are Data Users in themselves. In the case of the latter instance, their relations
with their individual customers shall not fall within the ambit of this Code.

This Code shall apply to personal data that is:

(i) collected, used, retained and/or deleted, whether automatically or
otherwise, via the use of electronic devices of the Data User; and/or
 

1.3.9

1.3.10

1.4

1.4.1

1.4.2

1.4.3

1.5

1.5.1

(ii) collected and recorded as part of a manual filing system (“relevant filing
system”) or with the intention that it should form part of the said manual
filing system. Examples of this would include a physical filing system where
Data Subjects are identified alphabetically or through some other identifier.

This Code shall apply to all personal data and sensitive personal data that are in the
possession or under the control of Data Users, irrespective as to the date of the said
personal data/sensitive personal data being collected or otherwise “processed”.

For the avoidance of doubt, deceased individuals are not recognised by the
Commissioner as Data Subjects under the Act, Regulations and this Code.

CODE ADMINISTRATION

The Association of Banks in Malaysia (“ABM”), as the appointed Data User Forum for
the banking and financial sector, shall administer this Code.

The Commissioner may, upon an application by ABM, revoke, amend or revise this
Code, whether in whole or in part, as addressed in more detail in section 26 of the
Act.

The Commissioner and ABM shall meet at least once annually or as and when
required to discuss issues relating to compliance with the Act by the banking and
financial sector, enforcement actions under the Act, complaints lodged against Data
Users, proposed initiatives of the Commissioner and any other matter relevant to
either party.

ACCEPTANCE OF THE CODE BY THE COMMISSIONER

This Code has been accepted by the Commissioner pursuant to section 23(4) of the
Act, wherein:-

(i) the Code is consistent with the provisions of the Act;

(ii) the purpose for the processing of personal data by Data Users has been taken
into consideration;

(iii) the views of the Data Subjects or groups representing Data Subjects have
been taken into consideration;

(iv) the views of the regulator of the Banking sector (i.e. Bank Negara Malaysia)
have been taken into consideration; and
 

1.6

1.6.1

1.7

1.7.1

1.7.2

1.7.3

(v) the Code offers an adequate level of protection for the personal data of the
Data Subjects concerned.

EFFECTIVE DATE

Pursuant to section 23(4) of the Act, this Code shall be effective upon registration of
the Code by the Commissioner in the Register of Codes of Practice.

LEGAL FORCE AND EFFECT OF THE CODE

 

All Data Users dealing with personal data are bound to comply with this Code by
virtue of section 25 of the Act.

A Data User that fails to comply with any mandatory provision of this Code commits
an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred
thousand ringgit or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one year or to both as
stipulated in section 29 of the Act.

Compliance with this Code shall be a defence against any action, prosecution or
proceeding of any nature, brought against a Data User, whether in court or
otherwise, for one or more alleged breaches of the Act and/or Regulations.
 

2.1 DEFINITIONS

PART 2
DEFINITIONS & INTERPRETATION

 

2.1.1 For the purpose of this Code, the various words and terms used throughout this
Code shall have the same meaning as in the Act, unless specified otherwise.

 

 

CMSRL holders | means the holder of a Capital Markets Services Representative’s
Licence issued pursuant to the Capital Markets and Services Act
2007.

Code means this Code of Practice as may be revised from time to

time.

 

Code of Practice

means this personal data protection code of practice in respect
of the persons/parties engaged in the banking and financial
sector of Malaysia, namely all banks and financial institutions
licensed under the Financial Services Act 2013, the Islamic
Financial Services Act 2013 and the Development Financial
Institutions Act 2002, as registered by the Commissioner
pursuant to section 23 of the Act.

 

Collect

means in relation to personal data, an act by which personal
data enters into or comes under the control of a Data User.

 

Commercial
transaction

means any transaction of a commercial nature, whether
contractual or not, which includes any matters relating to the
supply or exchange of goods or services, agency, investments,
financing, banking and insurance, but does not include a credit
reporting business carried out by a credit reporting agency
under the Credit Reporting Agencies Act 2010.

 

Commissioner

means the Personal Data Protection Commissioner appointed
pursuant to the Act.

 

DAR

has the meaning ascribed to the term in 5.1.1.

 

Data processor

means any person, other than an employee of the Data User,
who processes the personal data solely on behalf of the Data
User, and does not process the personal data for any of his own
purposes.

 

Data Subject

 

 

means an individual who is the subject of personal data and for
the purposes of this Code includes (without limitation) the

 

6

 
 

 

individuals identified in 1.3.2.

 

Data User

means a person who either alone or jointly or in common with
other persons processes any personal data or has control over
or authorizes the processing of any personal data (but does not
include a data processor), and for the purposes of this Code,
shall specifically refer to the persons identified in 1.1.4.

 

DCR

has the meaning ascribed to the term in 5.2.1.

 

Disclose

in relation to personal data, means an act by which such
personal data is made available by a Data User.

 

Expression of
opinion

means an assertion of fact which is unverifiable or in all
circumstances of the case is not practicable to verify.

 

Opt-in

refers to instances where a Data Subject does not receive
services and/or marketing communications of the Data User
until such time as the Data Subject makes a positive choice to
receive or subscribe to the said services and/or marketing
communications.

 

Opt-out

refers to instances where a Data Subject, based on a pre-
existing relationship, automatically receives services and/or
marketing communications, until such time the Data Subject
takes the positive step of choosing to unsubscribe or not to
receive the said services and/or marketing communications.

 

 

Personal data

 

means any information in respect of commercial transactions,
which —

(a) is being processed wholly or partly by means of equipment
operating automatically in response to instructions given for
that purpose;

(b) is recorded with the intention that it should wholly or partly
be processed by means of such equipment; or

(c) is recorded as part of a relevant filing system or with the
intention that it should form part of a relevant filing system,

that relates directly or indirectly to a Data Subject, who is
identified or identifiable from that information or from that and
other information in the possession of a Data User, including
any sensitive personal data and expression of opinion about the
Data Subject, but does not include any information that is
processed for the purpose of a credit reporting business carried
on by a credit reporting agency under the Credit Reporting

 

 
 

 

Agencies Act 2010.

 

Processing /
process

in relation to personal data, means collecting, recording, holding
or storing the personal data or carrying out any operation or set
of operations on the personal data, including —

(a) the organization, adaptation or alteration of personal data;

(b) the retrieval, consultation or use of personal data;

(c) the disclosure of personal data by transmission, transfer,
dissemination or otherwise making available; or

(d) the alignment, combination, correction, erasure or
destruction of personal data.

 

Privacy Notice

means the written notice, howsoever described, that a Data
User is required to make available to a Data Subject in
compliance with section 7 of the Act and shall include any
privacy statement or privacy policy.

 

Regulations

refer to the regulations made by the Minister pursuant to
section 143(1) of the Act.

 

Relevant filing
system

means any set of information relating to individuals to the
extent that, although the information is not processed by means
of equipment operating automatically in response to
instructions given for that purpose, the set of information is
structured, either by reference to individuals or by reference to
criteria relating to individuals, in such a way that specific
information relating to a particular individual is readily
accessible.

 

Sensitive
personal data

means any personal data consisting of information as to the
physical or mental health or condition of a Data Subject, his
political opinions, his religious beliefs or other beliefs of a
similar nature, the commission or alleged commission by him of
any offence or any other personal data that the Minister may
determine by order published in the Gazette.

 

The Act

means the Personal Data Protection Act 2010 and includes all
modifications and amendments thereto and the accompanying
regulations.

 

 

Third party

 

means any person other than -

(a) a Data Subject;
(b) a relevant person in relation to a Data Subject;
(c) a Data User;

 

 
 

2.2

2.2.1

2.2.2

2.2.3

 

(d) a data processor; or
(e) a person authorized in writing by the Data User to process
the personal data under the direct control of the Data User.

 

 

 

 

Writing / includes type writing, printing, lithography, photography,

written electronic storage or transmission (e.g. via electronic channels)
or any other method of recording information or fixing
information in a form capable of being preserved (e.g. digital
voice recordings).

INTERPRETATION

For the purpose of this Code:

(i) the singular includes the plural and vice versa except where the context
otherwise requires;

(ii) references to "includes" or "including" are to be construed without limitation;

(iii) references to “person” or “persons”, are to be read to include parties in the
form of entities; and

(iv) references to any statute include reference to every order, instrument,
regulation, direction or plan having the force of law made thereunder or
deriving validity therefrom and any amendment or re-enactment of the same
from time to time in force.

Examples provided in this Code are not intended to be exhaustive but are included
for context and illustration purposes only.

Recommendations provided in this Code are not mandatory and merely serve as a

guide on

good practice that Data Users are encouraged to adopt.

 
 

3.1

3.1.1

3.1.2

PART 3
GENERAL PRINCIPLES APPLICABLE TO THE DATA USER AND THE DATA SUBJECT
RELATIONSHIP
GENERAL PRINCIPLE
Consent
Data Users are permitted to “process” (e.g. to collect, use, modify, store and/or
dispose of) personal data, either with or without consent, as detailed in 3.1.2 and

3.1.3 below.

Data Users are permitted to process personal data without obtaining the consent of
Data Subjects where the processing is necessary for the following purposes:

(i) the performance of a contract with a Data Subject; or

 

Example: Where a Data Subject enters into an agreement with a Data
User in order to secure a loan/financing or a credit card, open a savings or
current account, open a fixed deposit facility and/or to transmit monies
using a money transfer service.

 

 

 

(ii) the fulfilment of a pre-contractual request of the Data Subject; or

 

Example 1: Where a Data Subject requests that the Data User mail/e-mail
one or more financial services product brochures to the Data Subject.

Example 2: Where the Data Subject makes an application for a facility
with the Data User, and the Data User conducts the necessary pre-
contractual credit, anti-money laundering and risk management checks.

Example 3: Where an automobile dealer, acting as the agent for the Data
Subject, submits a Data Subject’s personal data to a Data User in order to
obtain the Data User’s best rate and terms.

Example 4: Where a real estate agent or developer, acting as the agent
for the Data Subject, submits a Data Subject’s personal data to a Data
User, requesting the Data User to contact the Data Subject on available
financing packages.

 

 

 

(iii) in order to comply with any non-contractual legal obligation that the Data
User is subject to; or

10
 

(iv)

(vi)

 

 

Example 1: Where the Data User is required to provide personal data of
Data Subjects to Bank Negara Malaysia, Inland Revenue Board or other law
enforcement authorities in order to comply with the regulatory reporting
requirements of the Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorism Financing
and Proceeds of Unlawful Activities Act 2001.

Example 2: Where the Data User is required to provide the personal data of
Data Subjects to Bank Negara Malaysia in fulfilment of its obligations
under the Financial Services Act 2013 or for the purpose of complying with
the regulations or guidelines of Bank Negara Malaysia.

 

 

in order to protect the vital interests of the Data Subject; or

 

 

Example: Where the Data User discloses the personal data of the Data
Subject to relevant third parties such as the police or to the Data Subject’s
next-of-kin in matters relating to life, death or security of a Data Subject.

 

 

for the administration of justice in accordance with the requirements set out
by the law; or

 

Example 1: Where the Data User is obligated to disclose the personal data
to an officer authorized under any written law for the purpose of
investigations or prosecution.

Example 2: Where the Data User is obligated to process the personal data of
the Data Subject based on a court order (e.g. a garnishee order) served on
the Data User.

Example 3: Where the Data User is required to disclose such personal data
as necessary in connection with a bankruptcy action.

 

 

 

for the exercise of any functions conferred upon any person by the law.

 

 

Example: Where a Data User is empowered by an Act of Parliament to
carry out certain statutory functions.

 

 

3.1.3 In all other circumstances, Data Users are required by the Act to obtain the consent
of the Data Subject before “processing” the said personal data.

11
 

3.1.4

3.1.5

3.1.6

3.1.7

3.1.8

3.1.9

Form And Type Of Consent

Where consent needs to be obtained from Data Subjects, the form and type of
consent that needs to be obtained prior to processing personal data has not been
specified in the Act. However, the Personal Data Protection Regulations
(“Regulations”) provide that consent must be capable of being “recorded” and
"maintained". As such, subject to the foregoing, consent may be express or implied.

Examples of forms of consent that are acceptable under the Act for the purpose of
commencing or continuing a contract between the Data User and the Data Subject
are:

(i) signatures or ticks indicating consent; or
(ii) opt-in consent; or

(iii) deemed consent; or

(iv) verbal consent,

subject to fulfilment of the requirements of the Regulations as to consent being
capable of being “recorded” and “maintained”.

Subject to compliance with the Notice and Choice principle as addressed in 3.2
below, “deemed consent” means where consent can be understood to have been
given by the Data Subject to the Data User in instances where the Data Subject:

(i) does not object to the Data User processing his/her personal data; or
(ii) proceeds to volunteer his/her personal data; or
(iii) proceeds/continues to use the facility/service of the Data User.

Where applicable, consent may be obtained either on paper or on electronic
mediums utilised by Data Users including but not limited to electronic channels such
as SMS, e-mail, and other internet/social/application based messaging systems.

Where verbal consent is being recorded, it is recommended that the said consent be
recorded either digitally (e.g. via the use of call logger and recorder software) or by
issuing a communication to the Data Subject confirming the verbal consent given
(e.g. via the issuance of a letter or an e-mail to the Data Subject).

For the avoidance of doubt, any consent given to a Data User by the authorised
representatives of the Data Subject, including but not limited to the holders of any
power of attorney, trustees, guardians or persons/parties duly empowered by the
Data Subject, shall bind the respective Data Subject.

 

Example: In instances where the Data Subject is a minor, the Data Subject shall be
bound by the actions of the Data Subject’s guardians.

 

 

 

12
 

Processing Personal Data

3.1.10 Other than the issue of consent, the Act also sets out parameters for the processing
of personal data, wherein personal data shall not be processed unless:

(i) the personal data is processed for a lawful purpose directly related to an
activity of the Data User;

(ii) the processing of personal data is necessary for or directly related to that
purpose; and

(iii) the personal data is adequate but not excessive in relation to that purpose.

3.1.11 The criteria set out above are to be read conjunctively and to be complied with by
the Data User over and above the consent requirements of the General Principle.

3.1.12 In the context of this Code:

(i) “directly related to that purpose” means a purpose closely associated to the
primary purpose;
(ii) “necessary for ... that purpose” means without which the Data User would be

unable to achieve the purpose; and
(iii) “adequate but not excessive” means just enough to enable the Data User to
achieve the purpose.

3.1.13 As such, in order to comply with the Act, a Data User needs to ensure that the
personal data sought and held is:

(i) relevant in relation to the purpose(s) for which it has been collected;
(ii) adequate in relation to the purpose(s) for which it has been collected; and

(iii) not excessive in relation to the purpose(s) for which it has been collected.

3.1.14 The following examples illustrate the above:

 

Example 1: When filling in an application form to open a personal savings account,
the obligatory requirement for the Data Subject to provide the names of the other
members of the Data Subject’s family to the Data User (other than in the context of
providing an emergency contact) would not be relevant to the purpose and would
be excessive in relation to the opening or operating a savings account.

Example 2: When filling in an application form, the obligatory requirement for the
Data Subject to indicate whether the Data Subject is married or not would not be
excessive to the purpose that it is collected for as Data Users are complying with a
reporting requirement of Bank Negara Malaysia.

Example 3: When filling in a loan/financing application form, the obligatory
requirement for the Data Subject to disclose social demographics (example, marital

 

 

 

13
 

 

status, education level and/or race) would not be excessive for the purpose that it is
collected for credit assessment, risk profiling and regulatory reporting.

Example 4: The voluntary provision of personal data indicating the interests and
hobbies of Data Subject would not be excessive as the personal data is being
provided voluntarily by the Data Subject.

 

 

 

3.1.15 It is recommended that Data Users:

3.2

3.2.1

3.2.2

3.2.3

(i) be clear in application forms, the contractual terms and conditions and/or
Privacy Notices about the purpose or purposes for which they collect and
hold personal data of a customer; and/or

(ii) indicate in their application forms whether the individual fields of personal
data requested are obligatory or voluntary.

NOTICE AND CHOICE PRINCIPLE

 

Data Users are required to make available a written notice, also known as a Privacy
Notice, to Data Subjects prior to or as soon as possible after the collection of their
personal data. A template Privacy Notice is set out at Schedule 2 for reference
purposes.

In essence, the Privacy Notice is a publicly available statement clearly expressing the
privacy practices of how a Data User uses, manages, discloses and provides Data
Subjects with access to personal data collected by that particular Data User. It is a
general non-exhaustive statement about the privacy practices of the Data User that
should result in individuals having greater confidence in how Data Users will deal
with their personal data.

Content Of The Privacy Notice

The Notice and Choice Principle specifically requires Data Users to provide Data
Subjects with a notice stating:

(i) that personal data of the Data Subject is being processed by the Data User
and providing the Data Subject with a description of the personal data being
processed by the Data User;

(ii) the purpose(s) for which the personal data is being collected and processed;

(iii) the source of the personal data;

14
 

3.2.4

3.2.5

3.2.6

3.2.7

3.2.8

(iv) the Data Subject’s right to access and correct the personal data and the
contact details to which a Data Subject may send the data access and/or
correction request;

(v) the class of third parties the personal data is disclosed or may be disclosed to;

(vi) the choices and means available to the Data Subject to limit the processing of
his/her personal data;

(vii) whether it is obligatory or voluntary for the Data Subject to provide the
personal data; and

(viii) where it is obligatory personal data, the consequences of failing to provide
such obligatory personal data.

Where the Data User is a subsidiary within a larger group of companies, it is
permissible for the Privacy Notice to be issued by the group of companies instead,
particularly in instances where there is shared infrastructure, back-end systems and
operations.

In addition to the above, Data Users may also address matters such as the security
and retention of personal data of Data Subjects in order to provide the Data Subject
with a more complete idea as to the overall protection of his/her personal data.
However, this is not a requirement of the Act or the Regulations and each Data User
will need to determine whether or not to incorporate the same within its Privacy
Notice.

The Privacy Notice needs to be provided in Bahasa Malaysia and the English
language. The provision of the Privacy Notice in only one language will not fulfil the
requirements of the Notice and Choice Principle.

Communicating The Privacy Notice
The Privacy Notice is to be communicated by the Data User to the Data Subject

either when the personal data is first collected, when the Data User first requests
the Data Subject for the personal data, or as soon as practicable thereafter.

 

Example: The provision of an opportunity to view or read the applicable Privacy
Notice via a website address/link, prior to the submission of a web form
containing the personal data of the Data Subject.

 

 

 

In the case of Data Subjects whose personal data was collected prior to the
enforcement of the Act, the Notice and Choice Principle requires Data Users to
provide Data Subjects with a Privacy Notice prior to the Data User:

15
 

3.2.9

3.2.10

(i) using any part of the said personal data for a purpose other than the purpose
it was collected for in the first place (for instance when intending to market
insurance services to loan/financing applicants); or

(ii) disclosing any part of the said personal data to any third party (including the
third parties that have been indicated within the Data User’s Privacy Notice).

The recommended course of action in instances where personal data was collected
prior to the enforcement of the Act is to communicate the Privacy Notice to all Data
Subjects, whether existing or new. This recommendation is made in order to avoid
the administrative burden involved in keeping track of the purposes that it was
originally collected for, and keeping track of its potential disclosure to third parties.

Modes Of Communicating The Privacy Notice

Data Users may communicate their Privacy Notices to Data Subjects by one or more
of the following methods:

(i) by posting a printed copy of the Privacy Notice to the last known address of
the Data Subject; or

(ii) by posting the Privacy Notice on the website(s) of the Data User; or

(iii) by issuing a SMS message to Data Subjects with a website address/link to the
Privacy Notice and/or a telephone number in order to request for the Privacy
Notice and/or further information; or

(iv) by issuing an e-mail to Data Subjects with a website address/link to the Data
User’s Privacy Notice and/or telephone number to contact for further
information; or

(v) by issuing an electronic message to Data Subjects providing a website
address/link to the Data User’s Privacy Notice and/or telephone number to
contact for further information via such other electronic channels utilised by
Data Users; or

(vi) by inserting a summary notice in regular communications with Data Subjects
(e.g. in monthly billing statements) with a website address/link to the Privacy
Notice and/or a telephone number to contact in order to request for the
Privacy Notice and/or further information; or

(vii) by prominently displaying a summarised version of the Privacy Notice at the

premises of the Data User’s place of business (e.g. at the notice board, at the
counter desk that Data Subjects come to and/or at a prominent location in

16
 

3.2.11

the banking hall), and making available the full Privacy Notice either upon a
request being made at the counter or to the personnel of the Data User; or

(viii) by displaying a message on the screens of Automated Teller Machines

(ATM)/Cash Deposit Machines (CDM) with a website address/link to the
Privacy Notice, a telephone number to contact for further information and/or
stating that the Privacy Notice is available at the branch of the Data User; or

(ix) by inserting a statement in application/registration forms referencing the

Privacy Notice, which may be accessed at a given website address/link, or by
making a request to the personnel of the Data User, or by calling a telephone
number provided in the application/registration form; or

(x) by printing out copies of the Privacy Notice and providing it to Data Subjects

at the Data User’s premises; or

(xi) any other mode of communicating the Privacy Notice as approved by the

Commissioner or that serves to bring the Privacy Notice to the attention of
the Data User.

In selecting the mode of communication of the Privacy Notice, Data Users need to
determine the most appropriate ways of reaching as many of their clientele as
possible, especially bearing in mind that some of them may not be computer literate.
As such it is recommended that Data Users utilise a mix of the modes of
communication as indicated above in order to ensure that the Privacy Notice is
communicated to as many Data Subjects as possible.

3.2.12 The Regulations require Data Users to maintain records of having communicated the

Privacy Notice to its Data Subjects. The maintenance of the evidence of a process of
communicating the Data Users Privacy Notice to its Data Subjects shall be sufficient
to fulfil this requirement.

 

 

Example 1: Where the Privacy Notice is communicated to Data Subjects by
prominently displaying a summarised version of the Privacy Notice at the premises
of the Data User’s place of business and making available the full Privacy Notice at
the counter, the production of the summarised Privacy Notice and the full Privacy
Notice, shall be sufficient to prove that the Privacy Notice has been communicated
to Data Subjects.

Example 2: Where the Privacy Notice is communicated by e-mail to Data Subjects,
the production of the relevant e-mail referencing the Privacy Notice, the Privacy
Notice in itself and the provision of the names of Data Subjects that the e-mail
was sent to, shall be sufficient to prove that the Privacy Notice has been
communicated to Data Subjects.

 

 

17
 

3.2.13

3.2.14

3.3

3.3.1

3.3.2

3.3.3

3.3.4

 

Example 3: Where the Privacy Notice is communicated by SMS to Data Subjects,
the production of the text of the relevant SMS referencing the Privacy Notice, the
Privacy Notice in itself and the process for the communication of the SMS to Data
Subjects, shall be sufficient to prove that the Privacy Notice has been
communicated to Data Subjects.

 

 

 

Acceptance Of Privacy Notice

For the avoidance of doubt, each time the Data Subject utilises the Data User’s
services/facilities and is provided the Data User’s Privacy Notice by way of any of the
modes identified in 3.2.10 above, the Privacy Notice shall be deemed to have been
communicated afresh to the Data Subject.

Proof of the Privacy Notice having been received and/or accepted by the Data
Subject is not required under the Act.

DISCLOSURE PRINCIPLE

The term “disclosure” has not been defined by the Act and as such should be
interpreted utilising the normal dictionary meaning.

A Data User can be taken to have “disclosed” personal data when it releases,
communicates or disseminates the personal data of the Data Subject to third parties,
whether intentionally or otherwise. The communication of the personal data may be
in written or verbal form.

The Disclosure Principle is closely tied to the Notice and Choice Principle in that the
purpose declared by the Data User for the collection of the Data Subject’s personal
data is of central importance.

Permitted Disclosures

The Disclosure Principle provides that Data Users may disclose personal data to third
parties where:

(i) the disclosure is for the purpose declared at the point of the collection of the
personal data as stated in the Data User’s Privacy Notice; or

 

Example: Where a Data Subject provides his/her information for the purpose
of making a credit card application, and as a part of the process of
approving and providing the credit card to the Data Subject, the Data
Subject’s personal data needs to be provided to one or more third parties to
whom the Data User has outsourced parts of its operations (subject to
technical and organizational security measures being in place in order to

 

 

 

18
 

(ii)

(iii)

 

ensure the security of the personal data).

 

 

 

the disclosure is for a purpose directly related to the purpose declared in the
Privacy Notice at the point of the collection of the personal data (i.e. a
purpose closely associated to the primary purpose); or

 

Example: Where the Data Subject defaults on payments under a
loan/financing agreement, leading the Data User to appoint a solicitor/debt
collection agent to recover the amounts outstanding. Where the
solicitor’s/debt collection agent’s letters of demand are returned due to the
Data Subject having moved, the solicitor/debt collection agent may make
their own inquires as to the Data Subject’s whereabouts without disclosing
details of the claim against the Data Subject. The disclosure of such limited
personal data while making inquiries is permissible as it is directly related to
the primary purpose of providing the Data Subject with the said
loan/financing. For the avoidance of doubt, any new information obtained
regarding the whereabouts of the Data Subject may be utilised by the Data
User and/or disclosed to its solicitors/debt collection agents for the purpose
of debt collection/loan recovery.

 

 

 

the disclosure is being made to a third party mentioned in the Privacy Notice
or to a class or category of third parties as identified in the Privacy Notice
(without derogating from any laws, regulations, standards, guidelines and/or
obligations applicable to Data Users).

 

Example: Third parties that may be identified within the Privacy Notice are (a)
organizations and agents of the Data User that assist in fulfilling the
transactions requested by the Data Subject, (b) parties authorised by the Data
Subject (e.g. auditors, financial advisers), (c) merchants and strategic partners
of Data Users, and/or (d) credit reference agencies.

 

 

 

3.3.5 Data Users are to note that the Regulations require Data Users to maintain a listing
of the disclosures made to the various classes/categories of third parties as detailed
in their respective Privacy Notices.

3.3.6

Other than the disclosures permitted based on the Privacy Notice as detailed in
3.3.4, the Act provides that Data Users may disclose personal data of Data Subjects
should the following circumstances arise:

(i)

the disclosure has been consented to by the Data Subject; or

19
 

(ii)

(iii)

 

Example: Where the Data User realises that consent is required and proceeds
to write to the Data Subject requesting for such consent, which is then
provided by the said Data Subject.

 

 

 

the disclosure is necessary for the purpose of preventing or detecting a crime,
or for the purpose of investigations; or

 

Example 1: Where there has been a security breach within the Data User’s
organization and the Data User proceeds to disclose the information to a
forensics specialist for an internal investigation.

Example 2: Where personal data is released to the police for the purpose of
their criminal investigations.

Example 3: Where information regarding individuals suspected of fraud, or
abetting the same, is disclosed to one or more Data Users in order to
prevent and/or detect future attempts to defraud the Data User.

 

 

 

the disclosure is required or authorized by the Financial Services Act 2013 or
the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013 or under any other law or by an order
of a court; or

 

Example 1: Where certain disclosures of information (which may include
personal data) are authorised or permitted by an Act of Parliament, e.g. the
Financial Services Act 2013. The said Act states that information relating to
the affairs or accounts of any customer of a financial institution shall not be
disclosed to another person, other than in certain circumstances as detailed
in Schedule 11 of the said Act, which is annexed to this Code as Appendix 1.
By way of illustration, Schedule 11 permits the disclosure of information
regarding the affairs/accounts of a customer (i) to a person appointed as
the legal representative of a customer in instances where the customer is
incapacitated, or (ii) to persons named in an order of Court served on the
financial institution requiring such disclosure.

Example 2: Where disclosures are made to authorities having jurisdiction
over the Data User or its group members and/or service providers appointed
by the Data User or its group members in meeting obligations, requirements
or arrangements, whether compulsory or voluntary to comply with, or in
connection with any law, regulation, judgment, court order, voluntary code,
sanctions regime, within or outside Malaysia, existing currently and in the
future.

 

 

 

20
 

3.3.7

3.3.8

(iv) the Data User acted in the reasonable belief that it had in law the right to
disclose the personal data to the other person; or

 

Example: Where an injunction is served on the Data User in respect of a
Data Subject’s account, requesting the Data User to disclose personal data
of the Data Subject.

 

 

 

(v) the Data User acted in the reasonable belief that it would have had the
consent of the Data Subject if the Data Subject had known of the disclosure
of the personal data and the circumstances of such disclosure; or

 

Example: Where the Data Subject is medically incapacitated and the Data
User discloses the Data Subject’s personal data to his immediate next of kin
subject to an indemnity agreement being entered into.

 

 

 

(vi) the Minister determines the disclosure as being justified in the public
interest.

In respect of 3.3.6(ii) above, Data Users should be aware that in instances where
personal data is disclosed for the prevention or detection of crime or for purposes of
investigation (whether internal or external), the Act exempts Data Users from
providing the Data Subject with any information pertaining to the said disclosure
even where a data access request is filed with the Data User.

For the sake of completeness, Data Users are to note that the processing of personal
data in certain instances have been excluded from compliance with the Disclosure
Principle. These instances are briefly highlighted here:

(i) where personal data is processed for the prevention or detection of crime or
for the purpose of investigations; or

(ii) where personal data is processed for the apprehension or prosecution of
offenders; or

(iii) where personal data is processed for the assessment or collection of any tax
or duty or any other imposition of a similar nature; or

(iv) where personal data is processed for the preparation of statistics or carrying
out research (subject to the personal data not being processed for any other
purpose and the resulting statistics or the results of the research being
anonymised); or

(v) where personal data is processed for the purpose of or in connection with
any order or judgment of a court; or

21
 

3.3.9

3.3.10

3.3.11

3.4

3.4.1

3.4.2

3.4.3

(vi) where personal data is processed for journalistic, literary or artistic purposes.

Apart from disclosures pursuant to the circumstances as detailed above, or as may
otherwise be permitted by applicable laws, regulations and/or guidelines, no other
disclosures are permitted under the Act.

Requests For Personal Data

Data Users may receive requests from third parties for the disclosure of personal
data of Data Subjects. When they do, Data Users will need to determine whether:

(i) the intended disclosure would fall within the ambit of the permitted
disclosures as stated in the Privacy Notice as detailed in 3.3.4 and 3.3.6; or

(ii) the intended disclosure is otherwise exempted under the Act as detailed in
3.3.8.

In order to streamline the obligations of Data Users vis-a-vis disclosure, it is
recommended that each Data User put in place a disclosure policy (or incorporate
the same within their relevant internal documentation) detailing the various
instances where disclosure is permitted or otherwise, as well as the process and
procedures that need to be adhered to when dealing with third party requests for
disclosure of personal data.

SECURITY PRINCIPLE

The Act does not prescribe the specific measures that need to be taken to secure the
personal data within the control of Data Users, but instead requires Data Users to
take “practical steps” to protect personal data from “any loss, misuse, modification,
unauthorized or accidental access or disclosure, alteration or destruction”.

What these “practical steps” amount to in real terms will vary from case to case,
depending on the nature of personal data being processed by the Data User in
question and the degree of sensitivity attached to the personal data or harm that the
Data Subject might suffer due to its loss, misuse, modification, unauthorized or
accidental access or disclosure, alteration or destruction.

The Act however does prescribe the elements that Data Users need to take into
consideration when determining what practical measures need to be taken when
securing their Data Subjects’ personal data. The prescribed elements are:

(i) the nature of the personal data and the harm that would result from such

loss, misuse, modification, unauthorized or accidental access or disclosure,
alteration or destruction;

22
 

3.4.4

3.4.5

3.4.6

(ii) the place or location where the personal data is stored;

(iii) any security measures incorporated into any equipment in which the
personal data is stored;

(iv) the measures taken for ensuring the reliability, integrity and competence of
personnel having access to the personal data; and

(v) the measures taken for ensuring the secure transfer of the personal data.

Data Users within the banking and financial sector are required to comply with Bank
Negara Malaysia’s guidelines on security as a condition of their banking licenses
under the Financial Services Act 2013 and the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013.
Further, the employees of Data Users are bound by the rules on secrecy in the
Financial Services Act 2013 and the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013. As such, Data
Users are in most, if not all respects already compliant with the Security Principle as
embodied in the Act.

In complying with the Security Principle, it is recommended that Data Users assess,
as and when necessary, whether their existing security policies or such other internal
documentation as may be applicable, address the following key factors:

(i) Organizational Security

(a) Data classification

(b) Access control

(c) Bring Your Own Devices (BYOD) Confidentiality
(d) Supervision/monitoring of personnel

(ii) Technical Security

(a) Physical document security

(b) Physical access to IT facilities

(c) Physical access to IT systems and communications equipment

(d) Access authorisation systems

(e) Limiting access to technologies that may be used to disseminate personal
data

(f) Back-ups

(g) Anti-virus and anti-malware software

(h) Encryption and other forms of securing access

Additionally, Data Users are required to have in place disaster recovery plans and
business continuity plans in order to effectively secure the personal data of Data
Subjects against disasters and business interruption which Data Users may
experience. Data Users are required to test their disaster recovery and business
continuity plans from time to time and maintain records of the same.

23
 

3.4.7

3.4.8

3.4.9

3.4.10

3.4.11

Data Processors

The Security Principle also addresses the processing of personal data by data
processors for and on behalf of Data Users.

Typically, data processors such as outsourcing service providers or any vendors
(including but not limited to security, transportation, accounting, postal service
providers and debt collecting agents for the purposes of debt recovery) are
appointed to process the personal data of Data Subjects for and on behalf of the
Data User alone and pursuant to the instructions of the Data User. In this context,
the word “process” should be interpreted as per the definition in the Act.

The Security Principle permits the processing of personal data by data processors,
but requires the Data User to take certain minimum measures in order to ensure
that the personal data of Data Subject is not subject to the risk of loss, misuse,
modification, unauthorized or accidental access or disclosure, alteration or
destruction. These measures include:

(i) the data processor giving the Data User “sufficient guarantees in respect of
the technical and organizational security measures governing the processing
to be carried out”; and

(ii) the Data User taking “reasonable steps to ensure compliance with those
measures”.

The range of technical and organizational security measures that Data Users may
require data processors to provide vis-a-vis personal data, are briefly identified in
3.4.5 above. In practice, it is more likely that Data Users will need to raise and
negotiate the technical and organizational security measures required by the Data
Users for the purposes of fulfilling the Security Principle. Data Users should
determine in each case which of the technical and organizational security measures
apply to the data processor.

It is recommended that Data Users use their reasonable efforts to ensure that their
agreements with data processors (whether in the form of contracts or letters of
engagement or otherwise) address the following matters:

(i) the data processor’s agreement to ensure that neither itself nor its
employees disclose the personal data to any third party without the
authorisation of the Data User;

(ii) the data processor’s agreement to deploy the agreed technical and

organizational security measures, as well as the obligation to inform the Data
User should any of the measures be breached;

24
 

3.4.12

3.4.13

3.4.14

3.5

3.5.1

3.5.2

3.5.3

(iii) the data processor’s agreement to otherwise conduct itself in such a manner
so as to not cause the Data User to breach the Act;

(iv) the obligation of the data processor to return all the personal data upon
expiry or termination of the agreement term; and

(v) the right of the Data User to ascertain the technical and organizational
security measures deployed by the data processor (e.g. by way of an on-site
audit, issuing a questionnaire or securing a declaration) should it so require.

Data Users should note that Data processors may be based either locally or abroad,
and should adjust their agreements or binding letters or any other relevant
documentation appropriately.

Commissioner’s Security Standards

Data Users must also comply with any security standards as may be set out by the
Commissioner from time to time.

For the avoidance of doubt, in the event of a conflict between the Commissioner’s
security standard, this Code, any security standard(s) (or their equivalent) set by the
regulators of the banking and financial sector, and/or any security standard(s) (or
their equivalent) as may be prescribed by law, the document setting the higher
standard will prevail to the extent of the conflict.

RETENTION PRINCIPLE

The Act places a responsibility on Data Users to hold personal data only for as long as
necessary for the fulfilment of the purpose. The Act also provides that upon the
purpose being fulfilled, Data Users are required to permanently destroy/delete the

personal data.

This requirement applies to both physical and electronic copies of documents
containing personal data.

To Be Read Together With Other Applicable Acts

While the Act appears to be clear as to the duration that personal data may be
retained for, namely:

(i) that personal data processed for a particular purpose, is not to be retained by

the organization for longer than is necessary for the fulfilment of the said
purpose; and

25
 

3.5.4

3.5.5

3.5.6

3.5.7

(ii) that when the personal data is no longer needed for its purpose, the Data
User is required to destroy or permanently delete the personal data,

the Act does not override other applicable statutory provisions that require the
retention of data/records/information for a specified minimum duration. The Act
and such other applicable legislation must be read together.

Applicable Retention Periods

As a general rule, Data Users are permitted to retain the personal data of Data
Subjects from the date of application for the opening of accounts/facilities with Data
Users, until a period of seven (7) years has elapsed from the date of non-approval,
closure or termination of the said accounts/facilities.

However, Data Users are allowed to retain such personal data for more than seven
(7) years from the date of non-approval, closure or termination of the said
accounts/facilities in the following circumstances:

(i) if it is required by the law;

(ii) if it is an obligation under the law for a Data User to report, disclose or verify
a Data Subject’s details, in which case the retention period allowed in the said
circumstances shall be until the disposal of the matter;

(iii) the Data User can establish sufficient grounds to retain the said personal
data; or

(iv) the Data User is required by its regulators (e.g. Bank Negara Malaysia,
Securities Commission) to continue maintaining the said personal data.

In order to assist Data Users to keep track of the various retention periods as may be
applicable to the various types of personal data processed by them, it is
recommended that Data Users identify all applicable retention periods and ensure
that they are reflected in the appropriate retention policy(ies) of the Data User.

In instances in which Data Users may be required to retain personal data beyond a
specified statutory period, Data Users must be able to demonstrate a reasonable
need to retain personal data beyond the applicable statutory period and (if available)
provide evidence of their need to the same. The commencement of legal
proceedings involving the customer or a Data User's obligation to comply with a law,
regulation, judgment or court order, voluntary code, sanctions regime or an
agreement affecting the Data User (whether local or foreign), or an obligation to
report, disclose or verify the Data Subjects' details, would qualify as grounds for
continuing to maintain the said personal data until the disposal of the matter and
the expiry of the retention period specific to the matter itself.

26
 

3.5.8

3.5.9

3.5.10

3.5.11

3.5.12

3.5.13

3.5.14

For the purposes of this Code and subject at all times to 4.3.3 below, the Retention
Principle does not apply to backup media and/or electronic archives, for so long as
the Data User restricts access to the same to authorised personnel only and for
backup or archival purposes respectively.

Destruction / Permanent Deletion of Personal Data

The Act requires the “destruction” (applicable to physical/paper based personal
data) and “permanent deletion” (applicable to electronic personal data) of personal
data once the conditions of disposal are met.

In respect of physical/paper based personal data, the disposal of the personal data
by throwing it into a waste paper basket does not suffice to constitute “destruction”
as there is no guarantee as to what will occur to the discarded personal data. Data
Users will need to utilise proper means to “destroy” the personal data, e.g. using a
paper shredder or incinerating the discarded personal data. In terms of personal
data stored on an electronic medium, the “permanent deletion” of the personal data
will require the electronic media (e.g. hard drive or a USB thumb drive) to be wiped
clean once the data has been deleted. Data Users are to note that deletion alone is
not sufficient to remove the personal data from the electronic media.

For the avoidance of doubt, Data Users are to note that personal data that are
physically archived are still subject to the provisions of the Act and will continue to
remain so until they are destroyed/permanently deleted or anonymized. Bearing in
mind the volume of records containing personal data that are required to be
destroyed/permanently deleted or anonymized, Data Users respective retention
policies shall address the restricted access to and the destruction of such personal
data.

The destruction of personal data itself falls under the definition of “processing”
under the Act, and as such, the destruction of data should also be in compliance with
other relevant principles of the Act. For example, where the destruction of personal
data belonging to the Data User is carried out by a data processor, the Data User is
to take practical steps pursuant to the Security Principle in order to ensure that
personal data is destroyed and is not misused or mishandled by the Data Processors.

As an alternative to destroying or permanently deleting the personal data, Data User
may wish to consider the process of anonymizing the personal data instead. Where
properly anonymized, the anonymized data will not fall within the ambit of the
definition of “personal data” as it will no longer contain any linkage to the individual
in question.

Commissioner’s Retention Standards

 

Data Users must also comply with any retention standards as may be set out by the
Commissioner from time to time.

27
 

3.5.15 For the avoidance of doubt, in the event of a conflict between the Commissioner’s

3.6

3.6.1

3.6.2

3.6.3

retention standard, this Code, any retention standard(s) (or their equivalent) set by
the regulators of the banking and financial sector, and/or any retention standard(s)
(or their equivalent) as may be prescribed by law, the document setting the higher
standard will prevail to the extent of the conflict.

DATA INTEGRITY PRINCIPLE

The Act provides that a Data User is to take “reasonable steps” to ensure that the
personal data processed by the Data User is “accurate, complete, not misleading and
kept up-to-date”, in relation to the purpose as well as the directly related purpose.

By way of illustration, the Act requires a Data User to take reasonable steps in order
to ensure that the personal data processed in relation to a Data Subject is:

(i) accurate/correct (meaning that the personal data is captured without any
inaccuracies, such as erroneously recording the Data Subject’s agreement to
receive direct marketing materials for other products of the Data User);

(ii) complete (meaning that information in relation to the Data Subject has not
been omitted, which for example may lead the Data User to make
unfavourable decision in relation to a Data Subject’s application for a credit
card);

(iii) not misleading (meaning that the personal data processed by the Data User
should not - through error, omission, oversight, etc. — result in an inaccurate
or false reflection of the status of the Data Subject); and

(iv) kept up-to-date (meaning that the personal data of the Data Subject should
reflect the latest verified information in respect of the Data Subject, for
example a change of address or capturing a loan/financing instalment
payment made by the Data Subject).

What amounts to “reasonable steps” will differ from case to case, depending on the
circumstances of each case as well as on the purpose and directly related purposes
that the personal data was obtained for. For example, where personal data is
maintained by the Data User for the purpose of issuance of monthly credit card
statements, it would be reasonable for the Data User to ensure that the personal
data that it has collected remains correct and that it is kept up-to-date. However,
where the personal data is collected for the purpose of a one-off transaction and the
record of the same is being maintained for regulatory reporting purposes, it would
be unreasonable to expect the Data User to continue ensuring that the address of
the Data Subject is kept up-to-date.

28
 

3.6.4

3.6.5

3.6.6

3.6.7

3.6.8

3.6.9

Data Users would need to assess the personal data of Data Subjects that they are
currently processing as well as other relevant factors (e.g. the purposes of the
processing being carried out and the frequency of communications with the Data
Subject), in order to determine the specific measures that need to be implemented
in order to comply with the Data Integrity Principle.

This Code does not specify the means of complying with the Data Integrity Principle
and leaves it to the discretion of Data Users. Nevertheless, the adoption of the
following steps may be considered by Data Users:

(i) provision of personal data update forms at branches of the Data User and
at/via other points of contact with Data Subjects; and/or

(ii) availability of a call centre in order for Data Subjects to update their personal
data.

Notwithstanding the foregoing, Data Users are entitled to treat the personal data
provided by Data Subjects as accurate, complete, not misleading and up-to-date.

The Act shall not override any agreement between the Data User and Data Subject
which specifies that it shall be the duty of the Data Subject to provide complete and
accurate information and inform the Data User of any change to the Data Subject’s
information (such as a new address or telephone number), and the Data User shall
not be found to be in breach of the Data Integrity Principle where the Data User has
not been so informed by the Data Subject.

Similarly, where the Data User provides a self-update facility to the Data Subject
which permits the Data Subject to update his/her personal data, the Data User shall
not be found to have breached the Data Integrity Principle should the Data User act
based on the wrong personal data provided by the Data Subject.

For the avoidance of doubt, the following are not breaches of the Data Integrity
Principle:

(i) maintenance of personal data which is historical in nature (for example, the
previous address that the Data Subject used to reside at when he/she first
became a Data Subject of the Data User), subject to the same being accurate;
and

(ii) maintenance of personal data that records events that happened in error,
subject to those records not being misleading about the facts (for instance
where a Data Subject’s application for a loan/financing was wrongfully
rejected but has since been reinstated, the Data User would be permitted to
retain the said records as it accurately reflect the error on the part of the
Data User).

29
 

3.6.10 Without prejudice to the above, where a Data Subject is under a duty to notify a

3.6.11

3.6.12

3.7

3.7.1

3.7.2

3.7.3

Data User of any changes to his/her information provided to the Data User (such as
correspondence address) but has failed to do so, the said Data User (or the
appointed Data Processor) shall be entitled to seek the Data Subject’s updated
information via other channels, both physical and electronic, e.g. information
obtained from a site visit to the Data Subject’s old address or from information
obtained from third parties such as credit reporting agencies.

Commissioner’s Data Integrity Standards

Data Users must also comply with any data integrity standards as may be set out by
the Commissioner from time to time.

For the avoidance of doubt, in the event of a conflict between the Commissioner’s
data integrity standard, this Code, any data integrity standard(s) (or their equivalent)
set by the regulators of the banking and financial sector, and/or any data integrity
standard(s) (or their equivalent) as may be prescribed by law, the document setting
the higher standard will prevail to the extent of the conflict.

ACCESS PRINCIPLE
The Act provides Data Subjects with the right:
(i) to request access to his/her personal data held by Data Users; and/or

(ii) to correct his/her personal data where the personal data is inaccurate,
incomplete, misleading or not up-to-date,

unless the request is one which Data Users may deny as stated in the Act.

Data Users are obliged to respond accordingly to these data access and data
correction requests within fixed timelines as detailed in Part 5, in order to remain
compliant with the Act.

Data Users have the right not to comply with a data access request where Data
Users:

(i) have not been supplied with sufficient information (as reasonably required,
i.e. name, identification card number, address, and such other related
information as the Commissioner may determine) in order to establish the
relevant person’s identity, establish the identity of the Data Subject, or
establish the relevant person’s connection to the Data Subject; or

(ii) have not been supplied with sufficient information as they may reasonably
require to locate the personal data to which the data access request relates;
or

30
 

3.7.4

3.7.5

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vii)

are unable to comply with the data access request without disclosing another
person’s personal data (unless the other person has consented to the
disclosure of the personal data to the relevant person); or

are of the view that the burden or expense of providing access is
disproportionate to the risks to the Data Subject’s privacy in relation to the
personal data requested for via the data access request; or

are at risk of violating a court order should they provide access to the Data
Subject or the relevant person; or

are of the view that providing access would disclose confidential commercial
information of the Data User; or

are of the view that access to the said personal data is regulated by another
law.

Other than the above, Data Users are to note that the processing of personal data in
certain instances have been excluded from compliance with the Access Principle.
These instances are briefly highlighted here:

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vii)

where personal data is processed for the prevention or detection of crime or
for the purpose of investigations; or

where personal data is processed for the apprehension or prosecution of
offenders; or

where personal data is processed for the assessment or collection of any tax
or duty or any other imposition of a similar nature; or

where personal data is processed for the preparation of statistics or carrying
out research (subject to the personal data not being processed for any other
purpose and the resulting statistics or the results of the research being
anonymised); or

where personal data is processed for the purpose of or in connection with
any order or judgment of a court; or

where personal data is processed for the purpose of discharging regulatory
functions; or

where personal data is processed for journalistic, literary or artistic purposes.

Please refer to Part 5 where the Data Subject’s rights of access and correction are
further addressed. A template data access request form and a template data

31
PDP Code Of Practice For The Banking And Financial Sector Part 3

 

correction request form are set out at Schedule 3 and Schedule 4 respectively, for
reference purposes.

32
 

4.1

4.1.1

4.1.2

4.1.3

PART 4

SPECIFIC ISSUES RELEVANT TO THE BANKING AND FINANCIAL SECTOR

PERSONAL DATA

The banking and financial sector processes a substantial amount of data in its day to
day operations, some of which can be considered to be personal data, while others
are not considered as personal data due to the data not meeting one or more
requirements of the Act.

The following listings are provided in order to indicate the types of data which fall
within the definition of “personal data” (as contained in section 4 of the Act) for the
purposes of the Act, as well as the types of data that fall outside the ambit of the Act
and are as such not considered to be “personal data”.

(i) Personal data:

e The personal particulars of an individual, whether obtained from the
individual directly or derived from any other data that the Data User has
access to

e The details an individual provides on an application to obtain a
loan/financing, credit card, or other financial product or service

e The details of an individual’s account balance information, credit history,
income and spending patterns

e The details of an individual’s ownership of properties or assets

e The employment information of an individual

e The details of an individual obtained through credit evaluation or
assessment

e The details of individuals and their browsing session(s) captured via the
use of website cookies

e The details of the individual as listed within a manual or electronic
database

(ii) Not personal data:

e Data relating to organizations/companies (as referred to in 4.1.3 below)

e Data relating to deceased individuals

e Data pertaining to individuals that has been aggregated and/or
anonymised in such a manner as to render the individual non-identifiable

In so far as organizations/companies are concerned, where the information of their
officers, employees, authorised signatories, directors, individual shareholders,
individual guarantors, individual security providers, suppliers/vendors and/or related
parties, are provided by the said organizations/companies to Data Users for the

33
 

4.1.4

4.1.5

4.1.6

4.2

4.2.1

purpose of any commercial transactions between these organizations/companies
and the said Data Users, the said information shall be treated as information that the
said organization/company is authorised to provide to the Data User, provided that:

(i) the organization/company warrants to the Data User that it has obtained or
shall obtain the consent of the said individuals for the use of their personal
data; and

(ii) the Data User shall process personal data of the said individuals only for the
purpose of commercial transactions between the Data User and the said
organizations/companies.

For the avoidance of doubt, and subject to 4.1.3 above, Data Users are not required
to obtain consent from the said officers, employees, authorised signatories,
directors, individual shareholders, individual guarantors, individual security
providers, suppliers/vendors and/or related parties, in order to process the said
information for the purpose of the commercial transaction between the Data User
and the said organizations/companies.

However, in instances where the Data User utilises the data of the officers,
employees, authorised signatories, directors, individual shareholders, individual
guarantors, individual security providers, suppliers/vendors and/or related parties of
the company/organization for a commercial purpose not related to the
company/organization (for example, offering an employee of a company one or
more credit card facilities in his personal capacity), the said officers, employees,
authorised signatories, directors, individual shareholders, individual guarantors,
individual security providers, suppliers/vendors and/or related parties shall be
considered to be Data Subjects and shall be entitled to rights under the Act.

Where Data Users make available application forms of third party service providers
(e.g. insurance/takaful providers) at their premises and do not in any way process
the personal data of Data Subjects on the completed third party application forms
(e.g. where the completed application form is inserted into a post box accessible to
the third party service provider only), the act of making available such application
forms shall not fall within the ambit of the Act.

SENSITIVE PERSONAL DATA

The Act defines sensitive personal data as “any personal data consisting of
information as to the physical or mental health or condition of a data subject, his
political opinions, his religious beliefs or other beliefs of a similar nature, the
commission or alleged commission by him of any offence or any other personal data
as the Minister may determine by order published in the Gazette”.

34
 

4.2.2

4.2.3

4.2.4

4.2.5

4.2.6

4.2.7

An example of sensitive personal data that may be collected in the course of
providing an insurance product to Data Subjects includes the collection of personal
health or medical history of a customer. Where this is done, the Data User
concerned would be in possession of sensitive personal data pertaining to the health
of the customer. In these instances, the “explicit consent” of the customer is
required under the Act.

Section 40 of the Act provides that a Data User shall not process the sensitive
personal data of a Data Subject, unless the Data Subject has given his/her “explicit
consent” or where, for example, the processing is necessary for:

(i) the purpose of any legal proceedings; or

(ii) the purpose of obtaining legal advice; or
(iii) establishing, exercising or defending legal rights.

In the context of the banking and financial sector, the collection of NRIC information
is central to the opening of accounts for customers of Data Users and for the on-
going management of their accounts. Frequently, this takes the form of:

(i) photocopying the NRIC, returning the NRIC itself to the customer and
retaining the copy of the NRIC; and/or

(ii) electronically reading all the information (inclusive of the religion of the
customer) on the chip on the NRIC, returning the NRIC to the customer and
retaining the information obtained from the chip in an electronic format.

In these instances, the “explicit consent” of the customer would be required under
the Act.

Processing Of Sensitive Personal Data Where The Data Subject Provides Explicit
Consent

The Act does not define what is meant by “explicit consent”.

However, the Regulations provide that any “consent” obtained must be capable of
being “recorded” and “maintained”. As such, it may be presumed that at the
minimum, the same requirements that apply to consent for processing personal
data, apply to sensitive personal data as well.

Form Of Explicit Consent

Verbal explicit consent would arise in instances where a Data Subject provides a
verbal statement giving consent for the processing of his/her sensitive personal data.
Bearing in mind the stipulations of the Regulations in relation to consent (i.e. that
consent must be capable of being “recorded” and “maintained”), it is recommended

35
 

that any verbal explicit consent given by the Data Subject should be recorded, for
example via an audio recording, in order to fulfil the requirements specified within
the Regulations.

 

Example: Where a Data User collects personal data from a Data Subject, the Data
User must ask a clear question to the Data Subject as to whether the Data Subject
agrees with the processing of his/her personal data. The Data Subject must then
answer in a clear statement that the Data Subject agrees to the processing of
his/her personal data.

Suggested question by the Data User:
Do you agree to the processing of your personal data?

Suggested answer by the Data Subject:
Yes, | agree.

 

 

 

4.2.8 Explicit consent can also be obtained via the conduct of a Data Subject. Examples of
conduct amounting to explicit consent include where the Data Subject:

(i) proceeds to volunteer his/her sensitive personal data (e.g. submitting the
Data Subject’s NRIC for reading at the stage of applying for a
facility/service/product of the Data User); or

(ii) continues to utilise the services of the Data User,
subject to compliance with 3.2.

4.2.9 All other forms of explicit consent given by the Data Subject would need to be in
writing (as per the definition in Part 2) and indicate the Data Subject’s consent to the

processing of his/her personal data, e.g. by way of a signature or tick of the Data
Subject indicating his/her consent.

 

Example: Where a Data Subject fills up an application form when applying for an
insurance product with the Bank, the customer provides his/her explicit consent by
signing the application form or ticking the relevant part of the application form,
thereby enabling the Data User to process his/her sensitive personal data (e.g. the
medical history of the customer).

 

 

4.3 PRE-EXISTING DATA
4.3.1 This Code shall apply to all personal data and sensitive personal data that are in the

possession or under the control of Data Users, irrespective as to the date of the said
personal data/sensitive personal data being collected or otherwise “processed”.

36

 
 

4.3.2

4.3.3

4.4

4.4.1

4.4.2

4.4.3

Notwithstanding the foregoing paragraph:

(i) where the personal data/sensitive personal data relates to inactive, closed,
dormant or archived accounts, Data Users shall utilise their commercially
reasonable efforts to comply with the Act and this Code; and

(ii) where data is held in electronic archives and/or in backup media, the said
data shall not be subject to the Act for so long as the Data User restricts
access to the data to authorised personnel only and for backup or archival
purposes respectively.

In instances where the personal data relate to accounts that are active or to data
that has been reinstated from the backups or the electronic archives of the Data
User, Data Users are required to fully comply with the Act and this Code.

DIRECT MARKETING

As a general rule and subject to direct marketing being addressed within each Data
User’s Privacy Notice, Data Users may conduct direct marketing of products and
services, unless the Data Subject has not consented to or has withdrawn its consent
to the receipt of such direct marketing.

Examples of direct marketing activities include any form of communication to data
subjects for the promotion of products and/or services, such as:

(i) making phone calls to Data Subjects for the promotion of the Data User’s
new products and/or services;

(ii) sending text messages, email, voice message or via other electronic channels
to Data Subjects for the promotion of new products and/or services; and

(iii) providing promotional material to Data Subjects selected on the basis of their
savings account balance.

For the avoidance of doubt, communicating with Data Subjects in respect of the
reminder for renewal of services/facilities (e.g. the reminder for renewal of an
annual automobile insurance policy) already subscribed to shall not be considered to
be direct marketing.

Notwithstanding the above, marketing materials that are not directed at particular
individuals but are instead sent to all customers of a Data User or to an entire
category/type of customers (e.g. all current account customers of a Data User) of a
Data User, will not be considered direct marketing for the purposes of this Code.

37
 

4.4.4

4.4.5

4.4.6

4.4.7

 

Example 1: Including marketing/promotional inserts in bank statements issued to
all current account customers of a Data User (i.e. to individuals, companies,
partnerships), shall not amount to direct marketing for the purposes of the Act.

Example 2: Including promotional banners on the website of the Data User which
are visible to all internet banking customers of the Data User (i.e. to individuals,
companies, partnerships), shall not amount to direct marketing for the purposes of
the Act.

Example 3: Directing promotional material to selected Data Subjects with a current
account balance of more than RM1,000 shall amount to direct marketing for the
purposes of the Act.

 

 

 

Further, it is critical to note that not all marketing falls under the scope of the Act.
Where advertising or marketing material is communicated without knowledge of
who the actual recipients are, for example where mails are sent to “the occupant” of
residences within a neighbourhood and the sender has no knowledge as to the
identity of the respective individuals, the Act will clearly not be applicable.

Data Subject’s Right To Refuse Direct Marketing

Data Users need to provide all Data Subjects with the right to refuse the use of their
personal data for direct marketing purposes.

Such requests may be made:-

(i) via the initial application form when signing up for new products/services
through an opt-out of direct marketing tick-box; or

(ii) via a separate form made readily available to the Data Subject by the Data
User; or

(iii) via such other mode of communication as notified by the Data User or as may
be acceptable to the Data User,

and is to be provided to the Data Subject without charge.

A systematic approach is to be adopted by the Data User to effectively comply with a
Data Subject’s request to cease direct marketing. Data Users need to maintain a
system, database, procedure or process whereby such requests are captured. The
said system, database, procedure or process will serve as a point of reference in the
future to ensure that marketing materials are not sent to the Data Subjects listed
therein.

38
 

4.4.8

4.4.9

4.4.10

4.4.11

4.4.12

4.4.13

It is recommended that Data Users develop policies and procedures for its marketing
staff to adhere to in relation to accessing and updating the said system, database,
procedure or process and complying with Data Subjects’ requests.

Right To Prevent Processing Of Personal Data For Purposes Of Direct Marketing

A Data Subject has the right at any time, by notice in writing to the Data User, to
require the Data User to either cease or not begin processing his/her personal data
for purposes of direct marketing. A Data User is required to comply with the written
notice at the end of such period as is reasonable in the circumstances.

This is further addressed in Part 5 of this Code.
Consent And Notice

Data Users are governed by Bank Negara Malaysia’s mandated requirements under
the Product Transparency & Disclosure Guidelines (“PTDG”) in relation to disclosing
personal data to:

(i) companies within the Data User’s group of companies for the purpose of
cross-selling; and

(ii) companies outside of the Data User’s group of companies for the purposes of
marketing and promotions.

In cases where the personal data collected is to be disclosed to other companies
within the Data User’s group of companies for the purpose of cross-selling, Data
Users are to be guided by Bank Negara Malaysia’s PTDG, which provides:

 

The FSP wishing to share customer information with other companies within the
financial group must inform the customer to whom the information may be
disclosed to and the purpose for such disclosure. However, the FSP shall not share
the information of any customer who has objected to such disclosure for purposes
of cross-selling. For new customers, the FSP must give the customer the opportunity
to “opt-out” for such disclosure for purpose of cross-selling. For existing customers,
the FSP should communicate on the discretion provided to the customer to “opt-
out” and provide the means for customers to do so.

 

*FSP has been defined by the PTDG as “financial service providers”.

 

In cases where the personal data collected is to be disclosed to merchants and/or
strategic partners of the Data User for the purpose of direct marketing, Data Users
are to be guided by Bank Negara Malaysia’s PTDG, which provides:

 

The FSP wishing to share customer information (excluding information relating to
the affairs or account of customer) with third parties, such as strategic alliances for

 

 

39

 

 
 

 

marketing and promotional purposes, must obtain the express consent of the
customer. Towards this end, the FSP must give the customer the opportunity to “opt
in” for such disclosure of the information to the parties specified by the FSP. For
avoidance of doubt, in the event that a customer who has “opted in” subsequently
communicates his objection to sharing his information with third parties, such
communication shall supersede any earlier consent given to FSP.

 

 

 

4.4.14 As such, for the purposes of this Code and based on the requirements of Bank

4.4.15

4.4.16

Negara Malaysia’s PTDG, it shall be sufficient for Data Users to notify their Data
Subjects, via their respective Privacy Notices, of marketing activities conducted by:-

(i) the Data Users themselves (and provide that Data Subjects may opt-out of
such direct marketing activities);

(ii) companies within the Data User’s group of companies for the purpose of
cross-selling (and provide that Data Subjects may opt-out of such cross-selling
marketing activities); and

(iii) companies outside of the Data User’s group of companies (e.g. merchants
and strategic partners) for the purposes of marketing and promotions (and
provide that unless Data Subjects opt-in to such marketing activities, they will
not receive such marketing materials).

Data Users communicating advertising or marketing material directed to particular
Data Subjects, through the utilisation of the Data Subject’s personal data (e.g. name,
address, mobile phone numbers, e-mail address) which was provided by:-

(i) the Data Subject in the course of signing up for products or services of the
Data User; or

(ii) Data Subjects who are not customers of the Data User but who have
expressed an interest in the products or services of the Data User (for
example, where the Data Subject calls up the customer service department of
a Data User making enquiries in respect of its products and services),

are required to either have already notified the Data Subjects of the same via their
respective Privacy Notices (as detailed in 4.4.16 below), or in cases where their
Privacy Notices are silent as to the issuance of such advertising or marketing
material, are required to obtain the consent of the Data Subject prior to
commencing direct marketing.

Specifically, Data Users conducting direct marketing are required to notify their Data
Subjects:-

(i) that their personal data will be used for the purposes of direct marketing;

40
 

4.4.17

4.4.18

4.4.19

4.4.20

4.4.21

(ii) of the class of third parties the personal data is disclosed or may be disclosed
to, (e.g. the Data User’s strategic business associates, preferred merchants);
and

(iii) of the right of Data Subjects to refuse such use (for direct marketing/cross
selling purposes) of their personal data at any time by way of providing a
notice in writing to the Data User.

Data Users must provide such notifications to Data Subjects via their respective
Privacy Notices which need to be communicated to Data Subjects in compliance with
the requirements of the Notice and Choice Principle. Please refer to 3.2 for further
details on the content of the Privacy Notice.

Each Data User is required to maintain an internal list of the third parties to whom
personal data is disclosed to, and to update the said internal list on a regular basis.

Obtaining Personal Data From Other Sources

If the Data Users obtained personal data of individual for the purpose of direct
marketing from any third party or any other sources other than the Subject Data
himself, the Data Users are required to take practical steps to ensure that the
necessary notices and/or the relevant consents of the said individual for the
disclosure of their personal data to the Data User for the purposes of direct
marketing have been obtained.

Data Users shall also take the following action:

(i) in the case of commercial arrangements with third parties, by entering into
written agreements with such third parties, wherein adequate
representations and warranties are provided by the third parties, i.e. that the
relevant consent to disclose personal data has been obtained from the Data
Subject prior to its disclosure to the Data User; and

(ii) in the case of Data Subjects that are customers of the Data User, by obtaining
warranties (whether written or verbal) from the Data Subjects that they have
secured the necessary consent from the said individuals in order for the Data
User to market their products/services to the said individuals.

Using or processing personal data sourced from publicly available sources of
information (such as the Companies Registry at the Suruhanjaya Syarikat Malaysia,
the National Land Registry, personal Facebook pages or the World Wide Web) for
the purpose of direct marketing to individuals is prohibited, as the Data Subject has:

(i) provided the said personal data for purposes other than direct marketing;
and

41
 

4.4.22

4.4.23

4.5

4.5.1

4.5.2

(ii) not been notified of or consented to receiving direct marketing.
Appointment Of Marketing Agents

Where a Data User engages a third party (i.e. a Data Processor) to conduct direct
marketing on its behalf, for example a mailing house to mail out its direct marketing
materials, the Data Users are to impose certain requirements upon the Data
Processor as laid out in 4.4.23 below.

The Data User shall on a reasonable efforts basis ensure that any processing of
personal data by the Data Processor takes place subject to a contract between the
Data User and the Data Processor which specifies:

(i) the conditions under which the personal data may be processed;

(ii) the representations, undertakings, warranties and/or indemnities which are
to be provided by the Data Processor;

(iii) the technical and organizational security measures governing the processing
to be carried out;

(iv) steps to ensure compliance with those measures (e.g. the conduct of paper
based audits); and

(v) the deletion, destruction and/or the return of the personal data upon
completion or termination of the contract.

CREDIT REPORTING AGENCIES

 

Information regarding Data Subjects obtained from credit reporting agencies is
considered to be personal data falling under the ambit of the Act.

Access To Consumer Credit Data

 

Data Users may access the credit data of a Data Subject held by a credit reporting
agency (“CRA”) (e.g. through a credit report provided by the CRA), for example in the
process of:-

(i) considering the grant of an application (e.g. application for a loan/financing)
for the Data Users’ products/services by conducting appropriate checks for

credit-worthiness and for fraud checking; or

(ii) a review of an existing product/service granted to the Data Subject (e.g.
where there is a request for an increase in credit amount); or

42
 

4.5.3

4.5.4

4.5.5

4.6

4.6.1

4.6.2

(iii) the renewal of an existing product/service granted to the Data Subject,

subject to notification being provided to Data Subjects on the collection of consumer
credit data and the purpose for doing so (e.g. conducting checks for credit-
worthiness) via their respective Privacy Notices and/or obtaining the consent of Data
Subjects.

Disclosure of Credit Data
Data Users are permitted to disclose the personal data of Data Subjects to CRAs:-

(i) upon an application for a product and/or service (e.g. application for credit
cards/loan/financing facilities);

(ii) upon the Data Subject defaulting in payment; and/or
(iii) upon the termination of the Data Subject’s account.

Data Users may obtain the consent of Data Subjects for the collection and processing
of consumer credit data by inserting appropriate consent clauses (e.g. obtaining the
consent of Data Subjects to the CRA’s release of the Data Subjects’ credit report to
the Data User) within the terms and conditions governing the Data User’s relevant
services / facilities.

Data Users may also insert tick boxes into relevant application forms requesting Data
Subjects to consent and authorize Data Users to conduct credit checks with any
CRAs and corporations set up for the purpose of collecting and providing consumer
credit information.

PERMITTED DATABASES

Pursuant to section 45(2)(a)(i) of the Act, Data Users are permitted to maintain one
or more databases (or their equivalent, whether electronic or paper based) of
individual applicants and customers that have attempted to obtain services, or have
obtained services, from Data Users based on inaccurate, fraudulent and/or
deliberately misleading information, in order to detect future applications from said
individuals and to mitigate the risk of fraud to Data Users.

Each Data User is permitted to maintain its own database of individual applicants
and customers that have attempted to obtain services, or have obtained services,
from Data Users based on inaccurate, fraudulent and/or deliberately misleading
information and may disclose the information to any other Data User and/or receive
such information from other Data Users for the purpose of the detection of fraud.

43
 

4.6.3

4.6.4

4.6.5

4.6.6

4.6.7

4.7

4.7.1

4.7.2

Data Users are permitted to maintain their own database(s) on defaulting customers
in order to detect future applications from such said individuals and to facilitate debt
collection by the respective Data Users. Data Users are not permitted to use the
personal data for any other commercial purpose.

Further to the above, Data Users are permitted to process information from publicly
available information (e.g. the Malaysia Department of Insolvency) as to individuals
that are bankrupt and therefore not qualified to open or maintain accounts/facilities
with Data Users provided that the Privacy Notice clearly indicates that the Data
Users are permitted to process information from such publicly available sources or
registries.

Data Users are also permitted to maintain lists/databases of individuals that have
been sanctioned by local and/or foreign regulators, governmental authorities and
international organizations in order to avoid breaching any laws, regulations or
treaties that are applicable to Data Users provided that Data Users shall not use the
personal data for any other commercial purpose.

Data Users are permitted to maintain lists/databases of individuals that qualify as
“connected parties”, "politically exposed persons", etc, pursuant to the applicable
guidelines of Bank Negara Malaysia. However, the Data Users shall ensure, in the
event such individuals no longer qualify pursuant to the applicable guidelines of Bank
Negara Malaysia, that the personal data of the particular individual contained in the
said lists/databases is permanently deleted subject to any applicable guidelines of
Bank Negara Malaysia and provided that the personal data may be retained for a

longer period in the circumstances set out in 3.5.5 and 3.5.7.
Data Users are permitted to reference the said databases/lists upon applications for

banking and financial services/facilities being lodged with Data Users and in the
management and operation of their respective banking businesses.

CONTACTING THE DATA SUBJECT

 

In the management and operation of the Data Subject’s accounts/facilities with the
Data User, occasion may arise where the Data User needs to get in touch with the
Data Subject via the telephone.

Where the Data User contacts the Data Subject on the Data Subject’s given
telephone numbers and the call is received by someone other than the Data Subject,
it is permissible for the Data User to inform the said recipient of the call of the
identity of the Data User, to inquire as to when the Data Subject be available and to
state that the Data User will call back later.

44
 

4.7.3

4.8

4.8.1

4.8.2

4.8.3

4.9

4.9.1

4.9.2

Data Users are not permitted to disclose any other details regarding the Data
Subject, the Data Subject’s accounts/facilities with the Data User, and/or the status
of the said accounts/facilities, to the recipient of the call.

CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION

 

Data Users are required by the Regulations to display:

(i) the original Certificate of Registration issued by the Commissioner pursuant
to the Act at the Data User’s headquarters; and

(ii) copies of the Certificate of Registration that have been certified by the
Commissioner at each of the branches of the Data User,

(hereinafter collectively referred to as “Certificates”).

Data Users may display the Certificates in their respective banking halls, on
electronic displays, on the screens of self-service terminals and/or on the websites of
Data Users. Where the Certificates are displayed at the relevant premises on
electronic screens or their equivalent, Data Users are hereby exempted from
displaying the actual certificate, but will be required to produce the same for the
purposes of inspection by the Commissioner.

Not displaying one or more Certificates shall not be an offence under the Act or its
Regulations where the Certificates have been applied for but have yet to be issued
by the Commissioner subject at all times to the provision of the proof of filing or the
relevant receipt.

PHOTOGRAPHY DURING CORPORATE EVENTS

 

Photos and images of individuals taken by or for Data Users fall within the ambit of
the Act where the individuals are identifiable.

In instances where Data Users organise an event at which individuals will be
photographed and such photographs published in the publicity materials, internal
magazines and/or the intranet of Data Users, it is recommended that Data Users
adopt the following measures:-

(i) if the event is by invitation, the invitation card clearly states that photographs
of attendees will be taken at the event and that the images may be used for
publication by the Data User; or

(ii) if the event is open to the public, an obvious notice is put up at the entrance
or reception of the event venue to inform attendees that photographs of

45
 

attendees will be taken at the event and that the images may be used for
publication by the Data User.

4.10 TRANSFER OF PERSONAL DATA ABROAD

4.10.1 The Act prohibits the transfer of personal data outside of Malaysia unless the
transfer is to a country with sufficient data protection laws, as specified by the
Minister in a Government Gazette, which will be based on the Commissioner’s
recommendation to the Minister.

4.10.2

4.10.3

Notwithstanding the above-mentioned prohibition, the Act expressly permits the
transfer of personal data abroad where:

(i)
(ii)

(iii)

(iv)
(v)
(vi)

(vii)

(viii)

the Data Subject has consented to the transfer; or

the transfer is necessary for the performance of a contract between the Data
User and the Data Subject (for example where a customer gives the Data User
an order to transfer money into the account of a third party); or

the transfer is necessary to perform or conclude a contract between the Data
User and third party which has been entered into at the request or in the
interest of the Data Subject; or

the transfer is for legal proceedings or obtaining legal advice; or

the Data User has reasonable grounds for doing so; or

the Data User has taken reasonable precautions to ensure the personal data
will not be processed in any manner which contravenes the Act; or

the transfer is necessary to protect the vital interests of the Data Subject (this
would relate to matters of life and death as defined in the Act); or

the transfer is necessary as being in public interest as determined by the
Minister.

Based on the above, it is recommended that Data Users:

(i)

(ii)

address the issue of the transfer of personal data abroad either within their
respective Privacy Notices or by addressing the same within the contract
between the Data User and Data Subject; and

ensure that binding letters are exchanged or appropriate contractual clauses
are inserted into contracts with overseas recipients of personal data, in order
to safeguard the transferred personal data as required by the Act, as expanded
in 4.10.4 below.

46
 

4.10.4 It is recommended that Data Users use their reasonable efforts to secure the
following representations and warranties from the said recipient of the personal

data:

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vii)

to provide all information and cooperation regarding the processing of
personal data as the Data User may reasonably require to enable the Data
User’s compliance with the Act;

to carry out the processing of the Data Subject’s personal data only as
necessary to fulfil its contractual obligations to the Data User;

not to divulge the whole or any part of the Data Subject’s personal data to any
person, except to the extent necessary to fulfil its contractual obligations to
the Data User;

to implement and maintain the necessary technological and organizational
security measures, and provide details of the same to the Data User if
requested, in order to protect the Data Subject’s personal data from loss,
misuse, modification, unauthorized or accidental access or disclosure,
alteration or destruction;

not to retain the Data Subject’s personal data for longer than is necessary for
the fulfilment of its contractual obligations to the Data User;

to permit the Data User and/or its representatives (subject to agreeable
confidentiality undertakings), to conduct either physical or paper-based audits
of the recipient’s personal data processing facilities and activities in order to
ensure compliance with the Act if necessary; and

to return or destroy all of the Data Subject’s personal data to the Data User

upon the end of the relationship/the recipient’s business goes out of
business/upon request.

47
 

5.1

5.1.1

5.1.2

5.1.3

5.1.4

5.1.5

PART 5
RIGHTS OF DATA SUBJECTS

RIGHT OF ACCESS TO PERSONAL DATA

Under the Access Principle, a Data Subject has the right to lodge a data access
request (“DAR”) with the Data User and to receive a reply from the Data User within
the time period set in the Act.

A DAR may also be made on behalf of the Data Subject by the following persons:

(i) in the case of a Data Subject who is below the age of eighteen years, the
parent, guardian or person who has parental responsibility for the Data
Subject; or

(ii) in the case of a Data Subject who is incapable of managing his own affairs, a
person who is appointed by a court to manage those affairs, or a person
authorized in writing by the Data Subject to act on behalf of the Data Subject;
or

(iii) in any other case, a person authorized in writing by the Data Subject to make
a data access request, data correction request, or both such requests, on
behalf of the Data Subject,

(collectively referred to as the “Relevant Persons” and for the purpose of this Part 5,
the Data Subject or the Relevant Person making the DAR or DCR (defined in 5.2.1
below) shall be referred to as the "Requestor").

Ambit Of ADAR
A DAR may be made in respect of personal data that is currently within the various
electronic and physical systems of the Data User as provided by the Data Subject to

the Data User.

Data Users are required to ensure that a copy of the personal data is provided to the
Requestor in an intelligible form.

 

“intelligible form” has not been defined in the Act, and as such should be
interpreted to mean that the information provided by the Data User should be
capable of being understood by a Requestor. For example, where a Data User holds
personal data in specific abbreviations, codes or other undefined terms, the same
must be explained to the Requestor in a manner a layperson is able to understand.

 

 

 

For the avoidance of doubt, personal data being retained for backup and electronic
archival purposes are not subject to the Access Principle.

48
 

5.1.6

5.1.7

5.1.8

5.1.9

Making A DAR

The Regulations provide that where a Requestor does not require a copy of the
personal data, the Requestor must inform the Data User in writing of the
Requestor’s intention of making a DAR. This would presuppose that Data Users are
required to provide the Requestor with a choice at the point of making a DAR, of
either:

(i) confirming whether or not the Data User retains any personal data in respect
of the said Data Subject; or

(ii) providing the Requestor with a copy of the personal data that the Requestor
is seeking as per 5.1.3.

A DAR needs to be specific as to the personal data that is being sought. In this
context, a request for “all personal data” shall not be considered to be a proper DAR.

Where a Data Subject has separate accounts with a Data User, separate DARs may
be required by the Data User for each account.

Format Of A DAR

A DAR does not have to be in a particular format. However, there are prerequisites
that a Requestor must fulfil when making a DAR:-

(i) the DAR must be in writing (as defined in Part 2);

(ii) the payment stipulated by the Regulations needs to be enclosed together
with the DAR, except where it is waived by the Data User;

(iii) the necessary information and documentation as may be required by the
Data User in order to locate the personal data being requested (e.g. name,
NRIC/passport number, address, account number and personal data being
sought);

(iv) the DAR must be specific as to the personal data that is being sought; and

(v) relevant certified documentation is to be submitted in order to establish the
Requestor’s right to make a request.

If any one of these prerequisites is not fulfilled, the Data User may return the DAR to

the Requestor and ask for the omitted information/payment/copies to be
resubmitted by the Requestor.

49
 

5.1.10

5.1.11

5.1.12

5.1.13

5.1.14

5.1.15

5.1.16

5.1.17

Data Users may require the use of a standardised form for a DAR to be made by a
Requestor. A standardised form will assist Data Users in determining the type of
access request that the Requestor is making, the specific personal data being sought
and how the response is to be communicated to the Requestor, amongst others.
Additionally, it will assist the Requestor by making clear what information and
documentation is required to be submitted together with the DAR.

Data Users cannot make it mandatory that such standardised forms are to be used in
order to make a DAR. Any request in writing lodged with a Data User, whether in the
form of a letter, e-mail or a memo, will qualify as a valid DAR, as long as the
minimum criteria specified in 5.1.9 are fulfilled.

In instances where a Data User receives a verbal request for access to personal data,
the Data User is not required to respond to the request. However, the Data User
should guide the Requestor on the proper manner of making a valid DAR and provide
whatever assistance as may be required by the Requestor to make a DAR.

Receipt And Processing Of A DAR

In line with the Regulations, a Data User is to provide written acknowledgement of
having received the DAR, upon the submission of the relevant processing fee(s), if
any (for DAR in respect of a Data Subject's personal data, the maximum fee
prescribed is RM10 with a copy and RM2 without a copy of the personal data; for
DAR in respect of a Data Subject's sensitive personal data, the maximum fee
prescribed is RM30 with a copy and RMS without a copy of the sensitive personal
data), if any.

The Data User will apply its identity verification processes in order to verify that the
DAR is from the Requestor. The Data User may reject the request if the Data User is
not able to verify the identity of the person making the request. The Data User is
required to state the reason for the rejection to the Requestor.

Where the Data User is unclear as to the specific personal data that is being sought
by the Requestor, the Data User may request (depending on the Data User’s
respective policies) for further information, e.g. account numbers, dates of specific
transactions, or description of the interaction with the Data User.

Once the Data User has all the necessary information required in order to process
the DAR, the personal data being sought is to be located and provided to the
Requestor in question, except for instances in which such DARs may be rejected as
provided for in the Act and further elaborated below.

Data Users are required by the Act to comply with the DAR within twenty-one (21)
days from the date of receipt (i.e. date of acknowledged receipt) of the DAR. Where
the initial twenty-one (21) days is insufficient, Data Users are required to inform the
Requestor in writing of the delay before the expiration of the twenty-one (21) days,

50
 

5.1.18

5.1.19

5.1.20

5.1.21

the reason for the delay and to comply with the DAR to the extent that the Data User
is able to do so. The Data User is under a statutory duty to comply fully with the DAR
within the extension period of fourteen (14) days.

In relation to the communication of video and audio personal data to Requestors
who have made a DAR, Data Users may utilise the following means of
communication as may be available to them:

(i) audio recordings may be communicated as written transcripts or provided in
audio form (e.g. .wmv or mpeg); and/or

(ii) video recordings (inclusive of CCTV images) may be communicated as a
chronological set of image captures which are then printed, or as an edited
video recording where all other persons’ identities have been removed or
masked.

Refusal To Comply With A DAR

The Act recognises that Data Users may legitimately refuse to comply with a DAR in
some circumstances as detailed in section 32 of the Act.

Where a Data User does not comply with a DAR based on the reasons provided in
section 32 of the Act, the Data User is to provide the Requestor with written
notification of the refusal to comply and supporting reasons within twenty-one (21)
days from the date of receipt of the DAR. In the event refusal to comply with a DAR is
due to any other Data User's control over the processing of the personal data so as to
prohibit the Data User from complying, the Data User shall inform the Requestor of
the name and address of the other Data User concerned.

Pursuant to section 32 of the Act, Data Users have the right not to comply with a
DAR where:

(i) the Data User has not been supplied with sufficient information as
reasonably required (e.g. the name, identification card number, address, and
such other related information as the Commissioner may determine) in order
to establish the identity of the Requestor, or establish the identity of the Data
Subject in relation to whom the Requestor claims to be the Relevant Person
and that the Requestor is in fact the Relevant Person in relation to the Data
Subject; or

(ii) the Data User has not been supplied with sufficient information as it may
reasonably require to locate the personal data to which the DAR relates (e.g.
where a Data Subject of a bank has requested access to his/her CCTV images
but has not identified the branch visited and the date of the visit or in the
Data Subject’s request for audio recording of the Data Subject’s call to the

51
 

(iii)

(iv)

(vi)

Data User’s call centre, the Data Subject did not indicate the date and
approximate time of Data Subject’s call); or

the Data User is unable to comply with the DAR without disclosing a third
party’s personal data (unless the other person has consented to the
disclosure of the personal data to the Requestor). The Data User is required
to in this situation balance the Data Subject’s rights of access to personal
data against the third party’s privacy rights in relation to their personal data.
In doing so, the Data User may consider the following steps:-

® anonymising the personal data of the third party (i.e. omitting names or
not disclosing the names or other identifying particulars of the third

party);

e seeking the consent of the third party if practical (e.g. where the third
party is easily locatable); or

e determining whether or not it will be reasonable in all the circumstances
to comply with the DAR without the consent of the third party; or

the Data User is of the view:-

e that the burden or expense of providing access is disproportionate to the
risks to the Data Subject’s privacy in relation to the personal data
requested via the DAR (e.g. the time, staff and cost that the Data User
would need to spend on dealing with the DAR and retrieving the
requested data far outweigh the significance of the data to the person
making the DAR); or

e that the repetitive or trivial nature of the requests would unreasonably
burden the operations of the Data User; or

providing access would constitute a violation of a court order; or
providing access would disclose the confidential commercial information of

the Data User, meaning that the provision of the personal data to the
Requestor could possibly harm the competitive position of the Data User; or

 

Examples of what amounts to “confidential commercial information”
include the Data User’s methodology, systems, internal policies, processes
and procedures for managing its business including its formulations as to
the creditworthiness of a Data Subject, its internal controls, risk
management, fraud detection/prevention/investigation, information
security, anti-money laundering/terrorism financing and other regulatory

 

 

compliance policies, processes and procedures or disclosure of the fact that

 

52
 

5.1.22

5.1.23

5.1.24

5.1.25

5.2

5.2.1

 

confidential negotiations are ongoing, which might be of value to a
competitor of the Data User or which may compromise the Data User’s
controls against fraud or other criminal activities.

 

 

 

(vii) | access is regulated by another law other than the Act, e.g. the Anti-Money
Laundering, Anti-Terrorism Financing and Proceeds of Unlawful Activities Act
2001.

Where an exemption applies to the DAR, a Data User may choose to either refuse
the provision of all or some of the personal data requested, depending on the
circumstances.

Administrative

Data Users are required by the Act to maintain a record of all DARs that they have
received as well as the decisions reached in respect of granting or refusing the
respective DARs, in order to be able to respond to further queries from the
Requestor or to justify to the Commissioner the reasons for non-compliance with a
Requestor’s DAR, in the event of an enquiry or investigation being commenced by

the Commissioner.

It is recommended that Data Users should maintain a file for each DAR with the
following information:-

(i) a copy of the DAR;

(ii) a record of the verification of the identity of the Requestor;

(iii) copies of all correspondences relevant to the DAR;

(iv) a record of any decision made in relation to the DAR; and

(v) a copy of the personal data that was sent to the Requestor in question.

In handling DARs for joint accounts, the joint account mandate will apply. For
example if the joint account mandate requires all account holders to sign, the DAR

must be issued by all the joint account holders or by their jointly appointed Relevant
Person.

RIGHT TO CORRECT PERSONAL DATA

 

Pursuant to the Access Principle, where personal data of a Data Subject is processed
by a Data User and that:

53
 

5.2.2

5.2.3

5.2.4

5.2.5

(i) a copy of the personal data has been supplied to the Requestor in compliance
with a DAR, and the Requestor considers that the personal data is inaccurate,
incomplete, misleading or not up-to-date; or

(ii) the Data Subject knows that his/her personal data is inaccurate, incomplete,
misleading or not up-to-date,

the said Requestor has the right to lodge a data correction request (“DCR”)
requesting that one or more corrections be made to the Data Subject's personal
data.

Ambit Of A DCR
A DCR may be made in respect of personal data that is currently within the various
electronic and physical systems of the Data User as provided by the Data Subject to

the Data User.

Subject to 5.1.21 above, any expressions of opinion held by a Data User may also be
the subject of a DCR.

Format Of A DCR

A DCR does not have to be in a particular format. However, there are prerequisites
that a Requestor must fulfil when making a DCR:-

(i) the DCR must be in writing (as defined in Part 2);

(ii) the necessary information and documentation as may be required by the
Data User in order to trace and correct the personal data (e.g. name,
NRIC/passport number, address, account number) as notified by the
Requestor;

(iii) the DCR must be specific as to the personal data that is being corrected; and

(iv) relevant documentation is to be submitted in order to establish the
Requestor’s right to make a request.

If any one of these prerequisites is not fulfilled, the Data User should return the DCR
to the Requestor and ask for the omitted information/copies to be resubmitted by
the Requestor.

Data Users may require the use of a standardised form for a DCR to be made but are

not permitted to make it mandatory that such standardised forms are to be used
when making a DCR.

54
 

5.2.6

5.2.7

5.2.8

5.2.9

5.2.10

5.2.11

In instances where a Data User receives a verbal request for a correction to be made
to personal data, the Data User is not required to respond to the request. However,
the Data User should guide the Requestor on the proper manner of making a valid
DCR and provide whatever assistance as may be required by the Requestor to make
a DCR.

No fees are chargeable for making a DCR.
Receipt And Processing Of A DCR

Data Users are required to provide written acknowledgement of having received a
DCR upon its receipt by the Data User.

The Data User will apply its identity verification processes in order to verify that the
DCR is from the Requestor. The Data User may reject the request if the Data User is
not able to verify the identity of the person making the request. The Data User is
required to state the reason for the rejection to the Requestor.

Data Users are required by the Act to comply with the DCR and revert in writing to
the person making the DCR within twenty-one (21) days from the date of receipt (i.e.
date of acknowledged receipt) of the DCR. Where the initial twenty-one (21) days is
insufficient, Data Users are required to dispatch a letter before the expiration of the
twenty-one (21) days to the said Requestor informing them of the delay, the reason
for the delay, and complying with the DCR to the extent that the Data User is able to
do so. The Data User is under a statutory duty to comply fully with the DCR within
the extension period of fourteen (14) days.

Refusal To Comply With A DCR

Pursuant to section 36 of the Act, a Data User has the right not to comply with a DCR
where:

(i) the Data User is not supplied with sufficient information as reasonably
required (e.g. the name, identification card number, address, and such other
related information as the Commissioner may determine) in order to
establish the identity of the Requestor, or establish the identity of the Data
Subject in relation to whom the Requestor claims to be the Relevant Person
and that the Requestor is in fact the Relevant Person in relation to the Data
Subject; or

(ii) the Data User is not supplied with sufficient information as it may reasonably
require in order to ascertain how the personal data in question is inaccurate,

incomplete, misleading or not up-to-date; or

(iii) the Data User is not satisfied that the personal data in question is in fact
inaccurate, incomplete, misleading or not up-to-date; or

55
 

5.2.12

5.2.13

5.2.14

 

Example: Where the Data Subject alleges that the monthly bill issued by
Data User is wrong but internal investigations prove otherwise.

 

 

 

(iv) the Data User is not satisfied that the correction requested is accurate,
complete, not misleading or up-to-date.

 

Example: Where a Data Subject seeks a change to his/her address but the
Data User has grounds to believe the new address provided by the Data
Subject to be an attempt in order to avoid the service of a summons on the
Data Subject.

 

 

 

(v) any other Data User controls the processing of the personal data (to which
the DCR relates) so as to prohibit the Data User from complying with the DCR.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Data User shall comply with the DCR to
the extent that the Data User can without contravening the prohibition
concerned.

Where appropriate, Data Users may request for supporting evidence from
Requestors prior to effecting the change requested in their respective DCRs.

Where the Data User does not comply with a DCR based on any of the reasons
provided in 5.2.11 above, the Data User is required to provide the Requestor
concerned with a written notification of the refusal to comply with the DCR and the
Data User’s supporting reasons. Where the refusal was due to reason set out at
5.2.11(v) above, the Data User is required to provide the name and address of the
other Data User concerned.

Where the DCR relates to an expression of opinion held by a Data User not involving
any matters addressed in 5.1.21 above, it is open to the Data User to disagree that
the said expression of opinion is inaccurate, incomplete, misleading or not up-to-
date. However, the Data User is obligated to:

(i) make a note as to how the expression of opinion is considered by the
Requestor submitting the DCR to be inaccurate, incomplete, misleading or
not up-to-date;

(ii) either annex the note to the personal data in question (e.g. annexing the note
to the physical file containing the personal data of the Data Subject) or
maintain the note separately;

(iii) ensure that the expression of opinion cannot be used by any person without

the note being drawn to the attention of that person and being available for
inspection (e.g. by inserting a system pop-up notifying the person accessing

56
 

5.2.15

5.2.16

5.2.17

5.3

5.3.1

5.3.2

the personal data of the differing opinions regarding the personal data in
question); and

(iv) attach a copy of the note to the letter to the Requestor refusing to act on the
DCR.

Administrative

Data Users are required by the Act to maintain a record of all DCRs that they have
received as well as the decisions reached in respect of complying or refusing to
comply with the respective DCRs, in order to be able to respond to further queries
from the Requestor or to justify to the Commissioner the reasons for non-
compliance with a Requestor’s DCR, in the event of an enquiry or investigation being
commenced by the Commissioner.

It is recommended that Data Users should maintain a file for each DCR with the
following information:-

(i) a copy of the DCR;

(ii) a record of the verification of the identity of the Requestor;
(iii) copies of all correspondences relevant to the DCR;

(iv) a record of any decision made in relation to the DCR; and

(v) a copy of the corrected personal data that was sent to the Requestor in
question.

In handling DCRs for joint accounts, the joint account mandate will apply. For
example if the joint account mandate requires all account holders to sign, the DCR
must be issued by all the joint account holders or by their jointly appointed Relevant
Person.

RIGHT TO PREVENT PROCESSING LIKELY TO CAUSE DAMAGE OR DISTRESS

A Data Subject has the right to request a Data User in writing (referenced in the Act
as a “Data Subject Notice”) to cease or not to begin processing personal data in
relation to the Data Subject, where the processing causes or is likely to cause the
Data Subject or another person substantial damage/distress and the said
damage/distress is unwarranted.

The Act does not define what is meant by “unwarranted” and “substantial damage
or distress”. However, in most cases:

57
 

5.3.3

5.3.4

(i) “substantial damage” includes financial loss or physical harm suffered by the
Data Subject or another person;

(ii) “substantial distress” includes emotional or mental pain suffered by the Data
Subject or another person; and

(iii) “unwarranted” means that the damage or distress suffered by the Data
Subject or another person is not justifiable.

However, the Act recognises certain limitations to this right by specifically providing
that a Data Subject does not have the right to prevent the processing of personal
data where:-

(i) the Data Subject has consented to the processing;

(ii) the processing is necessary:

° for the performance of a contract that the Data Subject has entered
into; or
° to take steps at the request of the Data Subject with a view to

entering into a contract; or

° for compliance with legal obligations that apply to the Data User,
other than a contractual obligation; or

° to protect the Data Subject’s “vital interests”, which is defined by the
Act to mean “matters relating to life, death or security of a data
subject”; or

(iii) in such other cases as may be prescribed by the Minister by order published
in the Gazette.

Upon receiving a Data Subject Notice, the Data User is required to, within twenty
one (21) days of such receipt, provide the Data Subject concerned with a written
notice:-

(i) stating that the Data User has complied with or intends to comply with the
Data Subject Notice; or

(ii) if the Data User does not intend to comply with the Data Subject Notice, to
provide reasons for the decision; or

(iii) stating reasons why the Data User finds the Data Subject Notice unjustified or

to any extent unjustified and the extent to which the Data User has complied
or intends to comply (if any).

58
 

5.3.5

5.3.6

5.3.7

5.4

5.4.1

5.4.2

5.4.3

It is recommended that a Data User takes the following factors into consideration
when making a decision on whether to comply with a Data Subject Notice:-

(i) Does the Data Subject Notice set out how the processing is causing damage
or distress? The Data Subject will have to provide legitimate reasons. The
damage or distress caused will have to be “substantial”, before the Data User
is obliged to comply.

(ii) Is the damage or distress unwarranted? In the event the Data User feels that
any damage or distress caused to the Data Subject is warranted, it is unlikely
that the Data User will have to comply with the objection. However, the Data
User is required to provide the Data Subject with legitimate reasons for the
refusal.

Where the Data Subject is dissatisfied with the failure of the Data User to comply
with a Data Subject Notice, whether in whole or in part, the Data Subject may submit
an application to the Commissioner to require the Data User to comply with the Data
Subject Notice.

Where the Commissioner is satisfied that the application from the Data Subject is

justified, the Commissioner may require the Data User to comply with the Data
Subject Notice.

RIGHT TO WITHDRAW CONSENT

 

A Data Subject has the right to withdraw his/her consent for the processing of
his/her personal data, at any time, by providing the Data User with a written notice.
However, this right is restricted to instances where consent has been given by the

Data Subject.

Where the Act allows for the processing of personal data without the consent of the
Data Subject (see 3.1.2), no consent is required from the Data Subject and as such,
no consent can be withdrawn by the Data Subject.

 

Example: Where a Data Subject enters into a contract with a Data User, the Data
Subject cannot withdraw his/her consent to process personal data necessary for
the performance of the contract as Section 6(2)(a) of the Act allows for the
processing of personal data (within this context) without the consent of the Data
Subject.

 

 

 

The following are examples of situations in which a Data Subject cannot withdraw
his/her consent to the processing of personal data:

59
 

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

Where the personal data is required for the performance of a contract
between the Data User and Data Subject;

 

 

Example 1: Where a Data Subject enters into an agreement with a Data
User in order to secure a loan/financing or a credit card, and the Data
User processes his/her personal data in relation to the loan/financing or
credit card, the Data Subject is not entitled to withdraw his/her consent to
process personal data necessary for the performance of the contract as
Section 6(2)(a) would be applicable in this instance.

Example 2: Where a Data User follows up with the Data Subject for
overdue payments or issues letters of demand to the Data Subject or
commences legal proceedings against the Data Subject in order to recover
the monies owed, the Data Subject is not entitled to withdraw his/her
consent for the processing of his/her personal data as the recovery of
monies by the Data User is part of the performance of the contract, and as
such Section 6(2)(a) would be applicable in this instance.

 

 

Where the personal data has been provided by the Data Subject to the Data
User in order that the Data User may fulfil a pre-contractual request of the
Data Subject;

 

 

Example: Where the Data Subject makes an application with the Data
User for the opening of an account or for the provision of facility or
services, and the Data User conducts the necessary pre-contractual due
diligence credit, anti-money laundering and risk management checks, the
Data Subject is not entitled to withdraw his/her consent to process
personal data as Section 6(2){b) of the Act would be applicable in this
instance.

 

 

Where the Data User is required to comply with any non-contractual legal
obligation that the Data User is subject to.

 

 

Example 1: Where the Data User is required to provide personal data of
Data Subjects to Bank Negara Malaysia, Inland Revenue or other law
enforcement authorities in order to comply with the regulatory reporting
requirements of the Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorism Financing
and Proceeds of Unlawful Activities Act 2001, the Data Subject is not
entitled to withdraw his/her consent to process personal data as Section
6(2){c) of the Act would be applicable in this instance.

Example 2: Where the processing of personal data is for purposes of
compliance with relevant BNM’s Guideline pursuant to powers conferred
to BNM by the Financial Services Act, the Data Subject is not entitled to

 

 

60
 

 

withdraw his/her consent to process personal data as Section 6(2)(c) of
the Act would be applicable in this instance.

 

 

 

5.4.4 The following are instances in which a Data Subject may withdraw his/her consent to

5.4.5

5.4.6

the processing of his/her personal data by the Data User:

 

Example 1: Where a Data Subject provides his/her consent to the Data User to
market its other products/services to the Data Subject, the Data Subject has the
right to withdraw his/her consent in relation to marketing at a subsequent date
as the marketing of other products/services of the Data User is not relevant to
the performance of the contract between Data Subject and the Data User.

Example 2: Where the Data Subject has provided the Data User with details of his
interests as part of his loan application to the Data User, the Data Subject may
withdraw his consent for the Data User to continue retaining personal data in
relation to his interests as it is not relevant to the performance of the contract
between Data Subject and the Data User.

Example 3: Where the Data Subject has provided the Data User with information
in relation to the identity and ages of his/her children to the Data User, the Data
Subject may withdraw his consent for the Data User to continue retaining such
personal data if it is not relevant to the performance of the contract between
Data Subject and the Data User.

Example 4: Where the Data User maintains records of several telephone numbers
and e-mails that the Data Subject may be contacted on, the Data Subject may
choose to withdraw his consent for the Data User to continue retaining all the
said telephone numbers and/or e-mails, other than as necessary for the purposes
of communication and the forwarding of notices to the Data Subject as per the
contract between Data Subject and the Data User.

 

 

 

For the avoidance of doubt and further to 4.1.3 and 4.1.4, the right to withdraw
consent to process personal data shall not be applicable to the information of
officers, employees, authorised signatories, directors, individual shareholders,
individual guarantors, individual security providers, suppliers/vendors and/or the
related parties of an organization/company, where such information has been
provided to a Data User by the said organization/company for the purpose of one or
more commercial transactions between the said organization/company and the Data
User.

Upon the receipt and confirmation of a Data Subject’s notice withdrawing consent to

process his/her personal data (“relevant personal data”), the affected Data User is
required to:

61
 

5.4.7

5.5

5.5.1

5.5.2

5.5.3

5.5.4

5.5.5

(i) cease processing the Data Subject’s relevant personal data;

(ii) remove the Data Subject’s relevant personal data from the Data User’s
electronic and physical systems, as far as reasonably possible;

(iii) remove the relevant personal data from any marketing initiatives or lists of
the Data User;

(iv) remove the relevant personal data from the control of data processors to the
extent applicable; and

(v) archive the relevant personal data for the applicable statutory period.

Data Users are required to implement the above measures within a reasonable
period of time. Any processing of personal data conducted from the receipt of the
notice withdrawing consent to process a Data Subject’s personal data until the above
measures have been fully implemented shall not result in a breach of the Data
Subject’s rights.

RIGHT TO PREVENT PROCESSING FOR PURPOSES OF DIRECT MARKETING

Pursuant to the Act, a Data Subject has the right at any time, by notice in writing to
the Data User, to require the Data User to either cease or not begin processing
his/her personal data for purposes of direct marketing.

For the purpose of the Act, “direct marketing” has been defined as “communication
by whatever means of any advertising or marketing material which is directed to
particular individuals”.

The permitted practices of the banking and financial sector are addressed in greater
depth in Part 4 of this Code.

Any written request from a Data Subject to cease or not to begin processing his/her
personal data for purposes of direct marketing is to be communicated throughout
the organization in order to ensure that the latest instruction of the Data Subject
prevails within the organization. A Data Subject’s most recent instruction regarding
receipt of marketing material shall override his/her previous instructions.

 

Example: Where a Data Subject provides his/her consent to an agent of the Data
User to refer his/her name and contact number to the said Data User to introduce
its product/services to the Data Subject, this consent shall override his/her previous
decision to opt-out of receiving direct marketing materials from the Data User.

 

 

 

A Data User needs to comply with the Data Subject’s written request not to use the
Data Subject’s personal data for the purposes of direct marketing within three (3)

62
 

5.5.6

months of receiving the request from the Data Subject. Where there is a need for
the Data User to update relevant systems and databases in order to reflect the Data
Subject’s instructions, Data Users are expected (in normal circumstances) to comply
with the Data Subject’s request within a period of up to three (3) months.

Where Data Subjects make a written request to Data Users stating their choice to
receive some direct marketing materials and not others (e.g. direct marketing
materials for credit card offers and not property loans/financing), Data Users are
permitted to not provide Data Subjects with all direct marketing materials (barring
marketing communications that are not specifically targeted as addressed in 4.4.3),
should their systems be incapable of distinguishing between the differing types of
financial products so marketed.

63
 

6.1

6.1.1

6.1.2

6.2

6.2.1

6.2.2

6.2.3

PART 6

EMPLOYEES

POLICIES AND PROCEDURES DEVELOPMENT

It is recommended that Data Users develop and implement policies and procedures
specifying the dos and don’ts and standards expected of employees in their day-to-
day work when dealing with Data Subjects’ personal data.

In developing and implementing policies and procedures, Data Users should take the
following points into consideration:-

(i) the policies and procedures are to be communicated to employees;

(ii) relevant employees be provided with training in relation to policies and
procedures, the Act, Regulations and this Code;

(iii) employees’ access to Data Subjects’ personal data is to be restricted in
accordance with its data access control policy and procedures;

(iv) confidentiality clauses and possible sanctions against a breach are required
to be built into the employment agreement or employment
manual/handbook; and

(v) procedures in the event of a breach and appropriate action to be taken
against an employee responsible for the breach.

EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND AWARENESS

Upon the development of policies and procedures, Data Users are required to put in
place appropriate training and/or awareness mechanisms for employees to ensure
that the employees understand the relevance of policies and procedures to their
roles.

Relevant employees of the Data User are required to receive training on the
application of the policies and procedures developed, on security and fraud
awareness, as well as on compliance with the Act, Regulations and this Code.

Personal data training is required to be provided to employees as and when
required. The said training needs to take into consideration the latest developments
in the law and any relevant standards (or updates to the same) issued by the
Commissioner.

64
 

6.3

6.3.1

6.3.2

6.3.3

6.3.4

6.3.5

CONTROL SYSTEM

Data Users are required to have control systems in place to prevent personal data
loss in situations where policies and procedures are not followed by employees.

An effective control system should cover:-

(i) an employee’s access rights to Data Subjects’ personal data;

(ii) the implementation of technical and organizational security measures to
prevent personal data breaches by employees; and

(iii) the maintenance of a database of dismissed employees,

as elaborated upon below.

Access Rights

In order to mitigate data security risks, employees’ access to Data Subjects’ personal
data is to be controlled by Data Users adhering to their existing data access control
policy and procedures for its employees.

Technical and Organizational Security Measures

Data Users are required to implement technical and organizational security
measures in order to prevent personal data breaches by employees when dealing
with Data Subjects’ personal data.

Database of Ex-Employees

Data Users may collectively organise the maintenance of a database of ex-employees
that have been dismissed by Data Users for disciplinary infractions or otherwise
breaching their employment terms, or where police reports remain on record
against the said ex- employee, in order to ensure that the risk to Data Users and Data
Subjects’ personal data is minimised. Data Users may refer to such a database prior
to offering employment to an applicant who will have access to the personal data of
Data Subjects.

65
 

7.1

711

7.2

7.2.1

7.2.2

7.2.3

7.2.4

7.3

7.3.1

PART 7

CODE COMPLIANCE, MONITORING, REVIEW AND AMENDMENT

CODE COMPLIANCE

Data Users are required to develop and implement appropriate compliance policies
and procedures (compliance framework) in order to ensure compliance with the Act
and the Code.

MONITORING

It is recommended that Data Users continuously monitor their compliance with this
Code, the Act, policies and procedures by:-

(i) implementing an internal monitoring framework; and
(ii) conducting self-audits.

It is recommended that Data Users implement a reporting mechanism within the
organization in order that its relevant officers may report on the status of
implementation of the Act, Code, the implementation and enforcement of policies
and procedures, and the monitoring of issues, shortcomings or of any progress made.

It is recommended that Data Users should carry out periodic self-audits at such
intervals as deemed necessary in order to identify issues in relation to compliance
with the Act, the Code and the Data Users procedures and policies.

On the identification of any shortcomings and weaknesses in the implementation of
the compliance framework, the Data User should ensure that appropriate remedial
action is taken as soon as possible.

AMENDMENT OF THE CODE

Amendments to the Code may be made in instances where:-
(i) there are amendments to the Act and Regulations;
(ii) the Commissioner makes amendments on his own accord; and/or

(iii) the Data User Forum makes recommendations for amendments to the
Commissioner based on the results of the Code review.

66
 

7.3.2

7.3.3

7.3.4

7.4

7AL

7.4.2

7.5

7.5.1

The Data User Forum must make an application to the Commissioner to make
amendments to the Code. The Commissioner shall consult relevant and interested
persons such as the Data Users prior to making amendments to the Code.

Upon approval of the amendments, the Commissioner shall enter the particulars of
the amendments in the Register of Code of Practice and make it available to the
public.

All amendments to the Code shall become effective upon registration of the same in

the Register of Code of Practice.

THE DATA USER FORUM AND COMMISSIONER

 

The Data User Forum is required to liaise with the Data Users at least twice every year
in respect of updates to the Code and other related matters (such as amendments to
the Code and personal data protection developments within the banking and financial
sector).

The Data User Forum shall meet with the Commissioner at least once a year in order
to discuss the sufficiency of the Code, any proposed amendments to the Act,
Regulations or Code, the number and nature of the complaints made to the
Commissioner in respect of Data Users, the resolution of the same, and anything else
that may be relevant to the Act and its implementation in the banking and financial
sector.

CONSEQUENCES OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE

Pursuant to the Act, a failure by the Data User to comply with the provisions of the
Code, shall upon conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand
ringgit (RM100,000.00) or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding one (1) year or
to both.

67
 

SCHEDULE 1
RIGHTS OF DATA SUBJECTS

[This Schedule has been drafted for the benefit of Data Subjects. In this Schedule, we will
refer to Data Users as the "Bank" for the Data Subject’s ease of reference. The Data Subject
will be referred to as “your” or “you”. ]

1. As a data subject under the Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (the "PDPA"), you are
entitled to have your personal data processed! by the Bank strictly in compliance
with the Personal Data Protection principles. The principles (each of which will be
explained briefly below) are:

(i) General Principle;

(ii) Notice and Choice Principle;
(iii) Disclosure Principle;

(iv) Security Principle;

(v) Retention Principle;

(vi) Data Integrity Principle; and
(vii) | Access Principle.

2. In addition to the above principles, the PDPA prohibits the transfer of your personal
data outside of Malaysia, unless the transfer is pursuant to permitted circumstances
under the PDPA.

3. You are also entitled under the PDPA to specific rights. For example, you may find
out what personal data the Bank holds about you, and you are entitled to correct it if
it is inaccurate. A summary of these specific rights are as follows (each of which will
be explained briefly below):

(i) Right of Access to Personal Data;

(ii) Right to Correct Personal Data;

(iii) Right to Prevent Processing likely to Cause Damage or Distress;
(iv) Right to Withdraw Consent; and

(v) Right to Prevent Processing for Purposes of Direct Marketing.

4. Please note that this Schedule is intended to provide only a concise overview of your
rights as a "data subject" under the PDPA.
PART | - YOUR RIGHTS PURSUANT TO THE PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION PRINCIPLES

(A) GENERAL PRINCIPLE

 

1 “orocessed” is an all encompassing term which includes the collection, retention, modification and deletion
of personal data.
2 The PDPA has seven principles at its core, as to be described in this Schedule.
 

10.

11.

Your consent must be obtained before the Bank is able to collect and process your
personal data.

However, your consent is not required under certain exempted circumstances, as set
out in the PDPA. Examples of such exemptions include:

(i) where processing of your personal data is necessary for the performance of a
contract which you have entered into with the Bank;

(ii) where it is pursuant to the fulfilment of your inquiries or requests for
information from the bank, prior to entering into a contract with the Bank; or

(iii) where it is pursuant to a legal obligation of the Bank (e.g. the obligation to
disclose your personal data pursuant to any requirements of Bank Negara
Malaysia guidelines, or pursuant to a request by the Malaysian police force).

Your consent, whether express or implied, must be capable of being recorded and
maintained by the Bank. There are various ways that your consent may be obtained
by the Bank, e.g. one or more clauses in the terms and conditions of the account that
you are opening with the Bank, checking a tick-box or signing on an application form
indicating your consent, deemed consent or verbal consent (subject to it being
recorded).

Your consent is "deemed" to have been obtained by the Bank where after you have
been given notice by the Bank as to its intended processing of your personal data:

(i) you do not object to the Bank processing your personal data;
(ii) you proceed to volunteer your personal data to the Bank; or
(iii) you proceed/continue to use the facility/service of the Bank.

Your consent may be obtained either on paper or on electronic mediums (including
but not limited to SMS, e-mail, and other internet/social/application based
messaging systems).

Any consent which is given to the Bank by your authorised representatives (e.g. the
holders of any power of attorney, trustees, guardians or persons/parties duly
empowered by yourself), shall be binding on you.

Your personal data may only be processed by the Bank:

(i) for a lawful purpose directly related to an activity of the Bank (e.g. to process
your application or to provide you with products or services of the Bank);
 

(B)

12.

13.

14.

15.

16.

(Cc)

17.

18.

(ii) where processing of your personal data is necessary or directly related to the
purpose (e.g. where the Bank discloses your personal data to another party in
order to continue providing you with its products or services); and

(iii) where the personal data collected by the Bank is adequate, and not
excessive, in relation to the purpose.

NOTICE AND CHOICE PRINCIPLE

 

You are entitled to be provided with a written notice (also known as a Privacy
Notice) prior to or as soon as possible after the collection of your personal data by
the Bank.

The Privacy Notice is a publicly available statement clearly expressing the privacy
practices of how the Bank uses, manages, discloses and provides you with access to
personal data collected by the Bank.

You are entitled to be provided with the Privacy Notice in both Bahasa Malaysia and
the English language.

You are entitled to be given a copy of the Privacy Notice at the time when the Bank
first collects your personal data, whether in physical or electronic format, when the
Bank first requests you for your personal data, or as soon as practical after that.

Where your personal data was collected prior to the enforcement of the PDPA (i.e.
before 15 November 2013), you are entitled to be given a copy of the Privacy Notice
before the Bank:

(i) uses any part of your personal data for a purpose different than originally
declared to you; or

(ii) discloses any part of your personal data to any third party (including the third
parties indicated in the Bank's Privacy Notice).

DISCLOSURE PRINCIPLE

Your personal data cannot be disclosed by the Bank to any third parties, unless such
disclosure is permitted by the PDPA or by any other applicable laws, regulations
and/or guidelines.

Under the PDPA, your personal data may only be disclosed by the Bank without your
consent where the disclosure is:

(i) for any of the purposes declared to you at the point of the collection of the
personal data (e.g. as stated in the Bank’s Privacy Notice);
 

19.

20.

21.

(D)

22.

(ii)

(iii)

for a purpose closely associated to the primary purpose(s) declared to you in
the Bank’s Privacy Notice; or

made to a third party or a class or category of third parties as identified in the
Bank’s Privacy Notice.

In addition to the above, your personal data may be disclosed by the Bank should the
following circumstances arise:

(i)
(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

you have consented to the disclosure;

the disclosure is necessary for the purpose of preventing or detecting a
crime, or for the purpose of investigations;

the disclosure is required or authorized by the Financial Services Act 2013,
the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013, the Development Financial
Institutions Act 2002, or under any other law or by an order of a court; or

the Bank acted in the reasonable belief that it had in law the right to disclose
your personal data to the other person.

In respect of 19(ii) above, where your personal data is disclosed for the prevention
or detection of crime or for purposes of investigation (whether internal or external),
the Bank is not required to provide you with any information in relation to the said
disclosure, even where you have filed a data access request with the Bank.

Your personal data may also be disclosed by the Bank to third parties, without your
consent, under the following circumstances (including but not limited to):

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

where your personal data is processed for the apprehension or prosecution
of offenders;

where your personal data is processed for the preparation of statistics or
carrying out research (subject to your personal data not being processed for
any other purpose and the resulting statistics or the results of the research
being anonymised); or

where your personal data is processed under any order or judgment of a
court.

SECURITY PRINCIPLE

You are entitled to have your personal data in the possession of the Bank protected
from any loss, misuse, modification, unauthorized or accidental access or disclosure,
alteration or destruction.
 

23.

24.

25.

26.

(E)

27.

Your personal data must be protected by the Bank. The Bank must take into account:

(i) the nature of your personal data and the harm that would result from any
loss, misuse, modification, unauthorized or accidental access or disclosure,
alteration or destruction of your personal data;

(ii) the place or location where your personal data is stored;

(iii) whether the equipment in which your personal data is stored incorporates
any security measures;

(iv) the measures taken for ensuring the reliability, integrity and competence of
the Bank's personnel having access to your personal data; and

(v) the measures taken for ensuring the secure transfer of your personal data.

In order to further ensure security of your personal data, the Bank is required to
comply with Bank Negara Malaysia’s guidelines on security as a condition of its
banking license. Further, your personal data will be kept secret and confidential by
the employees of the Bank, who are bound by the rules on secrecy under the
Financial Services Act 2013, the Islamic Financial Services Act 2013, or the
Development Financial Institutions Act 2002.

Where your personal data is processed by another party acting on behalf of the Bank
(a "data processor"), your personal data will be subject to certain minimum security
measures in order to mitigate the risk of loss, misuse, modification, unauthorized or
accidental access or disclosure, ateration or destruction to your personal data. These
measures include:

(i) the data processor giving the Bank “sufficient guarantees in respect of the
technical and organizational security measures governing the processing to
be carried out”; and

(ii) the Bank taking “reasonable steps to ensure compliance with those
measures”.

Your personal data will also be subject to the Bank's compliance with the security
standards? as set out by the Commissioner.

RETENTION PRINCIPLE

Your personal data may only be kept by the Bank for as long as necessary for the
fulfilment of the purpose for which your personal data was collected and processed.

 

3 The security standards set out in the Personal Data Protection Standards 2015, or as revised or amended by
the Commissioner from time to time.
 

28.

29.

30.

31.

(F)

32.

33.

34.

Upon the said purpose being fulfilled, your personal data must be permanently
destroyed/deleted by the Bank.

However, this is subject to any other applicable statutory provisions that require the
further retention of your personal data. The PDPA and such other applicable
legislation must be read together.

As a general rule, your personal data will be retained by the Bank for the period in
which you maintain accounts/facilities with the Bank, and a further seven (7) years
from the date of closure of your accounts/facilities with the Bank. However, your
personal data may be retained by the Bank for more than seven (7) years in certain
circumstances, e.g. where further retention of your personal data is required by the
law, where it is an obligation under the law for the Bank to report, disclose or verify
your details, in which case the Bank shall retain your personal data until the disposal
of the matter, where the Bank can establish sufficient grounds to retain the said
personal data, where it is in compliance with the Bank’s internal requirements, or
where the Bank is required by its regulators (e.g. Bank Negara Malaysia, Securities
Commission) to continue maintaining your personal data.

Your personal data which are kept in any backup media and/or electronic archives of
the Bank shall not be subject to the PDPA (i.e. the Bank may retain the personal data
without having to destroy/delete the same), provided the Bank restricts access to
the same to its authorised personnel only and for backup or archival purposes
respectively only.

Your personal data will also be subject to the Bank's compliance with the retention
standards‘ as set out by the Commissioner.

DATA INTEGRITY PRINCIPLE

You are entitled to have your personal data kept accurate, complete, not misleading
and up-to-date by the Bank.

If the terms of the agreement between the Bank and yourself provide for it, it shall
be your duty to provide complete and accurate information and inform the Bank of
any change to your information (such as a new address or telephone number).
Should you choose not to provide the Bank with your information which is complete
and accurate, the Bank shall not be found to be in breach of the Data Integrity
Principle.

Your personal data will also be subject to the Bank's compliance with the data
integrity standards? as set out by the Commissioner.

 

4 The retention standards set out in the Personal Data Protection Standards 2015, or as revised or amended by
the Commissioner from time to time.
 

(G)

35.

36.

37.

(H)

38.

39,

ACCESS PRINCIPLE
You are entitled under the PDPA:
(i) to request access to your personal data held by the Bank; and/or

(ii) to correct your personal data where the personal data is inaccurate,
incomplete, misleading or not up-to-date,

unless there are grounds for the Bank to refuse access/correction as permitted under
the PDPA.

You are entitled to receive a response from the Bank in respect of your data access
and data correction requests within fixed prescribed timelines.

Your rights to access and/or correct your personal data which is held by the Bank is
further detailed in Part II (A) and (B) below).

TRANSFER OF PERSONAL DATA ABROAD

Your personal data may not be transferred by the Bank outside of Malaysia unless

the transfer is to a country with sufficient data protection laws, as specified by the

Minister in a Government Gazette.

However, your personal data may be transferred abroad where:

(i) you have consented to the transfer;

(ii) the transfer is necessary for the performance of a contract between the Bank
and yourself (for example, where you have given the Bank an order to
transfer money into the account of a third party);

(iii) the transfer is necessary to perform or conclude a contract between the Bank
and third party (where the contract was entered at your request or it is in

your interests);

(iv) the transfer is for legal proceedings or obtaining legal advice or for
establishing, exercising or defending legal rights;

(v) the Bank has reasonable grounds for doing so;

(vi) the Bank has taken reasonable precautions to ensure the personal data will
not be processed in any manner which contravenes the PDPA; or

 

5 The data integrity standards set out in the Personal Data Protection Standards 2015, or as revised or
amended by the Commissioner from time to time.
 

(vii) | the transfer is necessary in order to protect your vital interests.

PART It - YOUR SPECIFIC RIGHTS PURSUANT TO THE PDPA

(A)

40.

41.

42.

43.

44.

RIGHT OF ACCESS TO PERSONAL DATA

You have the right to lodge a data access request (“DAR”) with the Bank and to
receive a reply from the Bank within twenty-one (21) days from the date of the
Bank’s receipt (i.e. date of acknowledged receipt) of the DAR.

Where the twenty one (21) day period is insufficient for the Bank to fulfil your
request, the Bank is entitled to a fourteen (14) days extension period, subject to
giving you written notice.

You may also lodge a DAR on behalf of other persons under the following
circumstances:

(i) where it involves a minor (below the age of eighteen years), and you are the
parent, guardian or person who has parental responsibility over the minor; or

(ii) where it involves a person who is incapable of managing his own affairs, and
you are the person appointed by a court to manage those affairs, or
authorized in writing to act on behalf of the person; or

(iii) in any other case, where you are the person authorized in writing by the data
subject to make a data access request, data correction request, or both such
requests, on behalf of the data subject.

Receipt And Processing Of A DAR

You are entitled to receive a written acknowledgement from the Bank upon the Bank
receiving your DAR.

Some Banks may charge you fees for requesting a DAR. Where they do, the
applicable fees are RM10 with a copy and RM2 without a copy of the personal data;
for DAR in respect of sensitive personal data®, the maximum fee prescribed is RM30
with a copy and RMS without a copy of the sensitive personal data.

Refusal To Comply With A DAR

 

© "sensitive personal data" means any personal data consisting of information as to the physical or mental
health or condition of a data subject, his/her political opinions, religious beliefs or other beliefs of a similar
nature, or the commission or alleged commission of any offence.
 

45.

(B)

46.

47.

48.

The Bank is entitled to refuse to comply with your DAR in the following instances
(including but not limited to):

(i) you have not supplied the Bank with sufficient information as reasonably
required (e.g. the name, identification card number, address, and such other

related information) in order to establish your identity;

(ii) you have not supplied the Bank with sufficient information as it may
reasonably require to locate the personal data to which the DAR relates;

(iii) where it involves a third party’s personal data, unless the other person has
consented to the disclosure of the personal data to you;

(iv) the Bank is of the view that the burden or expense of providing you access is
disproportionate to the risks to privacy in relation to the personal data;

(v) providing access would constitute a violation of a court order;
(vi) providing access would disclose the confidential commercial information; or

(vii) | access is regulated by another law other than the PDPA.

RIGHT TO CORRECT PERSONAL DATA

 

Where:

(i) a copy of personal data has been supplied to you in compliance with a DAR
(as out at Part II(A) above), and you consider that the personal data is
inaccurate, incomplete, misleading or not up-to-date; or

(ii) as a data subject, you know that your personal data is inaccurate,
incomplete, misleading or not up-to-date,

you have the right to lodge a data correction request (“DCR”) requesting that one or
more corrections be made to the personal data.

You are entitled to a response to your DCR within twenty-one (21) days from the
date of the Bank’s receipt (i.e. date of acknowledged receipt) of the DCR.

Where the twenty one (21) day period is insufficient for the Bank to fulfil your
request, the Bank is entitled to a fourteen (14) days extension period, subject to

giving you written notice.

Receipt And Processing Of A DCR
 

49.

50.

51.

(Cc)

52.

53.

You are entitled to be given a written acknowledgement of the Bank having received
your DCR.

No fees are chargeable for making a DCR.
Refusal To Comply With A DCR
The Bank is entitled to refuse to comply with your DCR in the following instances:

(i) you have not supplied the Bank with sufficient information as reasonably
required in order to establish your identity;

(ii) you have not supplied the Bank with sufficient information as it may
reasonably require in order to ascertain how the personal data in question is
inaccurate, incomplete, misleading or not up-to-date;

(iii) the Bank is not satisfied that the personal data in question is in fact
inaccurate, incomplete, misleading or not up-to-date;

(iv) the Bank is not satisfied that the correction requested is accurate, complete,
not misleading or up-to-date; or

(v) some other party controls the processing of the personal data (to which the
DCR relates). However, the Bank shall comply with your DCR to the extent
that the Bank can without contravening the prohibition concerned.

RIGHT TO PREVENT PROCESSING LIKELY TO CAUSE DAMAGE OR DISTRESS

You have the right to request the Bank in writing (the request shall be referred to as

a "Data Subject Notice") to cease or not to begin processing your personal data,

where the processing causes or is likely to cause you or another person substantial

and unwarranted damage/distress.

However, you do not have the right to prevent the processing of personal data
where:-

(i) you have consented to the processing;

(ii) the processing is necessary:

° for the performance of a contract that you have entered into;
° to take steps at your request with a view to entering into a contract;
° for compliance with the Bank's legal obligations; or

10
 

54.

(D)

55.

56.

57.

(E)

58.

59.

60.

° In order to protect the vital interests of the data subject;

(iii) in such other cases as may be prescribed by the Minister by order published
in the gazette

You are entitled to receive from the Bank, within twenty one (21) days of such
receipt of the Data Subject Notice, a written notice:-

(i) stating that the Bank has complied with or intends to comply with the Data
Subject Notice; or

(ii) stating reasons why the Bank finds the Data Subject Notice unjustified or to
any extent unjustified and the extent to which the Bank has complied or

intends to comply (if any).

RIGHT TO WITHDRAW CONSENT

 

You have the right to withdraw your consent for the processing of your personal
data, at any time, by providing the Bank with a written notice. However, this right is
restricted to instances where consent has been given by you and not exempted
circumstances (see item 6 above).

Where the PDPA allows for the processing of your personal data without your
consent (e.g. for the prevention or detection of crime or for the purpose of
investigations, for the purpose of or in connection with any court order or
judgment), no consent is required from you and as such, no consent can be
withdrawn by yourself.

For the avoidance of doubt, where you work for an organisation and your personal
data has been provided to the Bank for the purpose of one or more commercial
transactions between the organization and the Bank, you do not have the right to
write to the Bank to withdraw your consent to process your personal data. In this
instance, your right lies strictly between you and the organisation that you work for.

RIGHT TO PREVENT PROCESSING FOR PURPOSES OF DIRECT MARKETING
You have the right at any time, by notice in writing to the Bank, to require the Bank
at the end of a reasonable period to either cease or not begin processing your

personal data for purposes of direct marketing.

For the purpose of the PDPA, “direct marketing” has been defined as
“communication by whatever means of any advertising or marketing material which
is directed to particular individuals”.

Where you have made a written request to the Bank stating your choice to receive
some direct marketing materials and not others (e.g. direct marketing materials for

11
PDP Code Of Practice For The Banking And Financial Sector Schedule 1

 

credit card offers and not property loans/financing), the Bank may not be able to
provide you with any direct marketing materials at all, should the Bank's system be
incapable of distinguishing between the differing types of financial products so
marketed.

[The remaining of this page has been intentionally left blank]

12
 

SCHEDULE 2
PRIVACY NOTICE (FOR CUSTOMERS)

[This template privacy notice is for reference purpose. Data Users may revise/amend the template
accordingly and where applicable.]

At [insert name of Data User], we value your privacy and strive to protect your personal information in
compliance with the laws of Malaysia.

[Data User] will only collect and use your personal information in accordance with the relevant data protection
laws (including the Personal Data Protection Act 2010), this Privacy Notice and the privacy terms in your
agreement(s) with any [Data User's group] entity that you may have contracted with.

Your privacy matters to us, so please take the time to get to know our privacy practices:

What Kind Of Personal Information We Collect And How We Use Your Personal Information

 

For us to complete our transactions with you, to deal with your inquiries, open and operate an account/facility
for you, generally provide you with our products and services, and to carry out other purposes required to
operate and maintain our business with you, we need to collect and process personal information about you,
including information relating to your identity, background, financial standing, creditworthiness and/or
suitability for any of our products/services as applied for.

We may obtain this information from yourself and from a variety of sources, including from third parties
connected with you (e.g. employers, joint account holders, security providers, etc), and from such other

sources to which you have given your consent to disclose your personal information.

Disclosure Of Your Personal Information

 

As part of providing you with our products and services, we may need to disclose information about you
and/or your accounts and/or facilities with us to third parties such as our agents, affiliates, professional
advisers, service providers, business partners, other banks and/or financial institutions, within or outside
Malaysia, where necessary, and subject at all times to any laws (including regulations, guidelines and/or
obligations) applicable to the [Data User].

Your Rights To Access And Correct Your Personal Information

We can assist you to access and correct your personal information held by us. Where you wish to have access
to or where you wish to correct any of your personal information (including personal information of such
persons related to you or those which are identified from your personal information), you may make a request
to us via our Data Access Request Form or Data Correction Request Form respectively. These forms are
available at our branches as well as at [insert website link of Data User].

Exercising Choices Over The Disclosure, Retention And Use Of Your Personal Information

 

Subject always to our contractual rights and obligations under relevant laws and regulations, you may exercise
your choice in respect of the use or the extent of use of your personal information. Should you wish to do so,
kindly contact us at the address/telephone number/e-mail address given at the end of this Privacy Notice.

What If Personal Information Provided By You Is Incomplete?

Where indicated (for example in application forms or account opening forms), it is obligatory to provide your
personal information to us to enable us to process your application for our products or services. Should you
decline to provide such obligatory personal information, we may not be able to process your
application/request or provide you with our products or services.
 

Contacting [Data User] About Your Privacy And How We Handle Your Personal Information

Should you have any query in relation to this Privacy Notice or how we handle your personal information,
kindly contact our [Customer Service Department] at the following contact points:

Telephone
Fax
E-Mail
Address

 

 

 

 

J
we]
we]

J

Our complete and detailed Privacy Notice is available by request from our branch service counter and/or via
our website at [insert website link of Data User]. Please review our detailed Privacy Notice prior to providing us
with your personal information.
 

[Bahasa Malaysia translation]
NOTIS PRIVASI (BAGI PELANGGAN)

Di [masukkan nama Pengguna Data], kami menghargai privasi anda dan berusaha untuk melindungi maklumat
peribadi anda selaras dengan undang-undang Malaysia.

[Pengguna Data] hanya akan mengumpul dan menggunakan maklumat peribadi anda berdasarkan undang-
undang perlindungan data yang relevan (termasuk Akta Perlindungan Data Peribadi 2010), Notis Privasi ini dan
juga terma-terma privasi dalam perjanjian(-perjanjian) anda dengan mana-mana entiti [Data User's group)
yang anda mungkin berkontrak dengan.

Hal privasi anda penting bagi kami, oleh demikian sila mengambil masa untuk memahami amalan privasi kami:

Apakah Jenis Maklumat Peribadi Yang Kami Kumpulkan Dan Bagaimana Kami Menggunakan Maklumat
Peribadi Anda

Bagi membolehkan kami melengkapkan transaksi kami dengan anda, menangani sebarang pertanyaan anda,
membuka dan mengendalikan akaun/kemudahan untuk anda, dan secara amnya bagi membekalkan anda
dengan produk dan perkhidmatan kami, dan untuk menjalankan tujuan-tujuan lain yang perlu bagi
mengendalikan dan mengekalkan hubungan perniagaan kami dengan anda, kami perlu mengumpul dan
memproses maklumat peribadi mengenai anda, termasuk maklumat yang berkaitan dengan identiti, latar
belakang, status kewangan, kedudukan kredit dan/atau  kesesuaian anda untuk mana-mana
produk/perkhidmatan kami yang dipohon oleh anda.

Kami mungkin memperoleh maklumat ini daripada anda sendiri atau daripada pelbagai sumber, termasuk
daripada pihak ketiga yang berhubungkait dengan anda (contohnya majikan, pemegang akaun bersama,
pemberi jaminan, dan lain-lain), dan daripada sumber-sumber lain kepada mana anda telah memberikan
kebenaran untuk mendedahkan maklumat peribadi anda.

Pendedahan Maklumat Peribadi Anda

Sebagai sebahagian dari pembekalan produk dan perkhidmatan kami kepada anda, kami mungkin perlu
mendedahkan maklumat mengenai anda dan/atau akaun anda dan/atau kemudahan anda dengan kami
kepada pihak-pihak ketiga seperti ejen, pihak bersekutu, penasihat profesional, pembekal perkhidmatan,
rakan perniagaan, bank-bank dan/atau institusi kewangan yang laim, sama ada di dalam atau di luar Malaysia,
sekiranya perlu, dan tertakluk pada setiap masa kepada mana-mana undang-undang (termasuk peraturan,
garis panduan dan/atau obligasi) yang berkenaan dengan [Pengguna Data].

Hak Anda Untuk Mengakses Dan Membetulkan Maklumat Peribadi Anda

Kami boleh membantu anda untuk mengakses dan membetulkan maklumat peribadi anda yang dipegang oleh
kami. Sekiranya anda ingin mempunyai akses kepada atau di mana anda ingin membetulkan mana-mana
maklumat peribadi anda (termasuk maklumat peribadi individu-individu yang berhubungkait dengan anda atau
individu-individu yang boleh dikenalpasti melalui maklumat peribadi anda), anda boleh membuat permintaan
kepada kami melalui Borang Permohonan Akses Data atau Borang Permohonan Pembetulan Data masing-
masing. Borang-borang ini boleh didapati di cawangan kami dan juga di [masukkan pautan laman web
Pengguna Data].

Membuat Pilihan Berkenaan Pendedahan, Penyimpanan dan Penggunaan Maklumat Peribadi Anda

Tertakluk sentiasa kepada hak kontrak dan obligasi kami di bawah undang-undang dan peraturan yang
berkenaan, anda boleh membuat pilihan berkenaan penggunaan atau tahap penggunaan maklumat peribadi
anda. Sekiranya anda ingin berbuat demikian, sila hubungi kami di alamat/nombor telefon/alamat e-mel yang
diberikan pada akhir Notis Privasi ini.
 

Bagaimana Jika Maklumat Peribadi Yang Anda Bekalkan Tidak Lengkap?

Di mana ia dinyatakan (contohnya dalam borang-borang permohonan atau borang-borang pembukaan akaun),
ia adalah wajib untuk memberikan maklumat peribadi anda kepada kami bagi membolehkan kami memproses
permohonan anda untuk produk atau perkhidmatan kami. Jika anda enggan memberikan maklumat peribadi
yang diwajibkan tersebut, kami mungkin tidak dapat memproses permohonan/permintaan anda atau
membekalkan anda dengan produk atau perkhidmatan kami.

Menghubungi [Pengguna Data] Mengenai Privasi Anda Dan Bagaimana Kami _Mengendalikan Maklumat
Peribadi Anda

Sekiranya anda mempunyai sebarang pertanyaan berkaitan dengan Notis Privasi ini atau bagaimana kami
mengendalikan maklumat peribadi anda, sila hubungi [Jabatan Khidmat Pelanggan] kami di butiran
perhubungan berikut:

Telefon f Lacceescseessecetseeseee
Faks f [ecseeseessesesseseeceeseeseees
E-Mel rf

Alamat iL

 

Notis Privasi lengkap dan terperinci kami boleh didapati melalui permintaan dari kaunter perkhidmatan
cawangan kami dan/atau melalui laman web kami di [masukkan pautan laman web Pengguna Data. Sila
semak Notis Privasi kami yang terperinci sebelum membekalkan kami dengan maklumat peribadi anda.
 

SCHEDULE 3
DATA ACCESS REQUEST FORM

[This template data access request form is for reference purpose. Data Users may revise/amend
the template according to their own business needs and where applicable.]

 

GUIDE FOR MAKING A PERSONAL DATA ACCESS REQUEST (“DAR”)

 

 

FOR THE PURPOSE OF THIS FORM:

e a Data Subject is an individual who is requesting access to his/her personal data; and

e a Third Party Requestor is another individual/entity that is requesting access to the personal
data of the Data Subject.

SECTIONS TO FILL:

e Sections applicable to requests made by a Data Subject personally: 1,3,4&5
e Sections applicable to requests made by a Third Party Requestor: 2,3,4&5

SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS REQUIRED:
e For Data Subjects — Copy of National Registration Identification Card (NRIC) or passport, bearing
the signature of the Data Subject.

e For Third Party Requestors — Certified true copies of identity of Third Party Requestor as well as
documents evidencing the right/authority of the Third Party Requestor to the information of the
Data Subject.

PROCESSING FEE:

A processing fee, which will depend on the type of request being made as per Table 1 below, is
payable and should be submitted with this form. Your request will be processed within [21 days] of
receipt of payment.

 

 

 

 

 

Table 1:
Item Type of Request Fees (RM)

1 DAR for Data Subject’s personal data with a copy 10

2 DAR for Data Subject’s personal data without a copy 2

3 DAR for Data Subject’s sensitive personal data* with a 30
copy

4 DAR for Data Subject’s sensitive personal data* without 5
a copy

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

MODE OF PAYMENT

The processing fee may be paid to [Data User] via [insert mode of payment]

RESTRICTED INFORMATION:

Please note that [Data User] will not be able to comply with your request in certain circumstances,
e.g. where we are provided with insufficient information to locate the personal data requested for or
where the request relates to personal data which is commercially confidential to [Data User], but we
will notify you of any such decision.

COMPLETED FORM:

Please send in all completed forms to the following address:

[INSERT ADDRESS]

CONTACT US:

Should any advice or guidance be required in completing this form, please contact the finsert
contact].

* “Sensitive personal data encompasses sensitive personal information which relates to
information relating to your health, political opinion, religious beliefs or other beliefs of a similar
nature and the commission or alleged commission of an offence.

 

 

PERSONAL DATA ACCESS REQUEST

 

Please tick [V] one of the following:
[ ] Iam/ was a customer of [Data User] and 1 would like to access my personal data
(Please proceed to Section 1 of this form)
[ ] lIam/ was a business associate of [Data User] and I would like to access my personal data

(Please proceed to Section 1 of this form)
[ ] Iam making a request for the personal data of another person
(Please proceed to Section 2 of this form)

For all other requestors, please contact us directly.

 

 

SECTION 1: PARTICULARS OF DATA SUBJECT
*anly to be filled by the data subject himself / herself

 

 

Full name (as per NRIC)

NRIC/Passport Number

 
 

Data Subject’s Reference
(e.g. visitor registration
number, client reference
number, etc)

Telephone number

E-mail address (if any)

 

 

SECTION 2: THIRD PARTY REQUESTER
*anly to be filled by a third party requester

 

(A) DETAILS ON REQUEST

 

My request is based on : Please tick [V] one of the following:

[ ] 1am acting under the Data Subject’s authorization / mandate / Power of
Attorney

[ ] Iam the legal / personal representative of the Data Subject

[ ] Ihave a Warrant / Court Order allowing access to the Data Subject’s
personal data

[ ] 1am the executor/administrator of the Data Subject’s estate

[ ] Others (Please specify)

 

 

Purpose of Request

 

(B) PARTICULARS OF DATA SUBJECT

 

Full name (as per NRIC)
NRIC / Passport Number

Data Subject’s Reference
(e.g. visitor registration
number, client reference
number, etc)

 

(C) PARTICULARS OF THIRD PARTY REQUESTER

 

Full Name / Company
Name

NRIC / Passport Number
/ Company Registration
Number

Address
Telephone number

E-mail address (if any)

 

 

SECTION 3: THE PERSONAL DATA SOUGHT

 

 

Please provide us with a description and the specifics of the personal data that is being requested:

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

*Please note that too general a description (e.g. ‘all personal data’) may result in us being unable to process
your request due to our inability to locate the specific personal data to which this request relates.

I hereby also request the following:
[ ] to be informed whether or not {Data User] holds any such personal data
[ ] to be supplied with a copy of such personal data requested
(Please proceed to Section 4 below)
[ ] to be supplied with personal data requested without a copy

(Please proceed to Special Request in Section 4 below)

 

 

SECTION 4: FORM OF PERSONAL DATA SOUGHT

 

I would like my personal data in the following form :

[ ] Hardcopy (please provide mailing address):

 

 

 

[ ] E-mail (please provide e-mail address):

 

 

 

[ ] Special Request:

 

 

 

 

 

SECTION 5: DECLARATION

 

 

I, hereby certify that the information given
in this form and any documents submitted enclosed are true and accurate. I understand that (i) it will be

necessary for [Data User] to verify my / the Third Party Requestor’s identity, and (ii) that [Data User] may
contact me for more detailed information in order to locate the personal data requested.

I also understand that any and/or all personal data provided by me in this Personal Data Access Request Form
will be collected and processed by [Data User] as personal data in accordance with the Personal Data
Protection Act 2010.

Signed:

 

Date:

 

 

 

 
PDP Code Of Practice For The Banking And Financial Sector Schedule 4

 

SCHEDULE 4
DATA CORRECTION REQUEST FORM

[This template data correction request form is for reference purpose. Data Users may
revise/amend the template according to their own business needs and where applicable. ]

 

GUIDE FOR MAKING A PERSONAL DATA CORRECTION REQUEST (“DCR”)

 

 

FOR THE PURPOSE OF THIS FORM:

° a Data Subject is an individual who is requesting to correct his/her personal data; and

° a Third Party Requestor is another individual/entity that is requesting to correct the personal data of the
Data Subject.

SECTIONS TO FILL:

e Sections applicable to requests made by a Data Subject personally: 1, 3,4&5
e Sections applicable to requests made by a Third Party Requestor: 2, 3,4&5

SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS REQUIRED:

e For Data Subjects — Copy of National Registration Identification Card (NRIC) or passport, bearing signature
of Data Subject.

e For Third Party Requestors — Certified true copies of identity of Third Party Requestor as well as documents
evidencing the right/authority of the Third Party Requestor to the information of the Data Subject.

COMPLIANCE WITH REQUESTS:

Please note that [Data User] may not be able to comply with your request in certain circumstances, e.g. where
[Data User] is not satisfied that the personal data to which your request relates is inaccurate, incomplete,
misleading or not up-to-date in the first place, or where [Data User] is of the view that the update requested is
inaccurate, incomplete or misleading. However, we will notify you of any such decision.

COMPLETED FORM:
Please send in all completed forms to the following address:

[INSERT ADDRESS]

CONTACT US:

Should any advice or guidance be required in completing this form, please contact the [insert contact].

 

 
 

 

PERSONAL DATA CORRECTION REQUEST

 

Please tick [Vv] one of the following:

[] lam / was a customer of [Data User] and | would like to access my personal data
(Please proceed to Section 1 of this form)

[] lam / was a business associate of [Data User] and | would like to access my personal data
(Please proceed to Section 1 of this form)

[] lam making this correction request in respect of the personal data of another person (Please
proceed to Section 2 of this form)

For all other requestors, please contact us directly.

 

 

SECTION 1: PARTICULARS OF DATA SUBJECT
*only to be filled by the data subject himself / herself

 

Full name (as per NRIC)

NRIC/Passport Number
(copy to be attached)

Data Subject’s Reference
(e.g. visitor registration
number, client reference
number, etc

Telephone number

E-mail address (if any)

 

 

SECTION 2: THIRD PARTY REQUESTER

*only to be filled by a third party requester

 

 

 

(A) DETAILS ON REQUEST
My request is based on : Please tick [v] one of the following:
[] lam acting under the Data Subject’s authorization / mandate / Power of
Attorney
[] lam the legal / personal representative of the Data Subject
[] | have a Warrant / Court Order allowing access to the Data Subject's

personal data
[] | am the executor/administrator of the Data Subject’s estate

[] Others (Please specify)

 

 

 

 
 

Purpose of Request

 

(B) PARTICULARS OF DATA SUBJECT

 

Full name (as per NRIC)
NRIC / Passport Number

Data Subject’s Reference
(e.g. visitor registration
number, client reference
number, etc

 

(C) PARTICULARS OF THIRD PARTY REQUESTER

 

Full Name / Company
Name

NRIC / Passport Number
/ Company Registration
Number

Address
Telephone number

E-mail address (if any)

 

 

SECTION 3: CORRECTION OF PERSONAL DATA

*Please indicate the personal data to be corrected and attach additional sheets where necessary.

 

Personal Data Item (e.g. name, Before Correction

postal address, telephone number,
etc.)

After Correction

 

 

 

 

 

SECTION 4: ADDITION OF PERSONAL DATA

* Please indicate the personal data to be added and attach additional sheets where necessary.

 

Personal Data Item (e.g. name, postal address,

telephone number, etc.)

Personal Data to be added

 

 

 

 

SECTION 5: DELETION OF PERSONAL DATA

* Please indicate the personal data to be deleted and attach additional sheets where necessary.

 

 

Personal Data Item (e.g. name, postal address,

telephone number, etc.) to be deleted

 

Reason(s) for Deletion

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

SECTION 6: FORM OF PERSONAL DATA SOUGHT

 

| would like my personal data in the following form :

 

 

 

 

 

 

[] Hardcopy (please provide mailing address):
[] E-mail (please provide e-mail address):
[] Special Request:

 

 

 

 

 

SECTION 7: DECLARATION

 

 

lL, hereby certify that the information given
in this form and any documents submitted enclosed are true and accurate. | understand that (i) it will be
necessary for [Data User] to verify my / the Third Party Requestor’s identity, and (ii) that [Data User] may
contact me in order to verify the personal data to be corrected.

| also understand that any and/or all personal data provided by me in this Personal Data Correction Request
Form will be collected and processed by [Data User] as personal data in accordance with the Personal Data
Protection Act 2010.

Signed:

 

Date:

 

 

 

 
 

Appendix 1

Financial Services Act 2013 (Act 758)
Schedule 11

PERMITTED DISCLOSURES

 

First column
Purposes for or circumstances in which
customer documents or information may be
disclosed

Second column
Persons to whom documents or
information may be disclosed

 

1. Documents or information which is
permitted in writing by the customer, the
executor or administrator of the
customer, or in the case of a customer
who is incapacitated, any other legal
personal representative.

Any person permitted by the
customer or, as the case may be, the

 

2. In connection with an application for a
Faraid certificate, grant of probate,
letters of administration or a distribution
order under the Small — Estates
(Distribution) Act 1955 [Act 98] in respect
of a deceased customer’s estate.

executor, administrator or legal
personal representative.
Any person whom a_ financial

institution in good faith believes is
entitled to obtain a Faraid certificate,
the grant of probate, letters of
administration or a_ distribution
order.

 

3. In a case where the customer is
declared bankrupt, is being or has been
wound up or dissolved in Malaysia or in
any country, territory or place outside
Malaysia.

All persons to whom the disclosure is

necessary in connection with the
bankruptcy or winding up or
dissolution.

 

4. Any criminal proceedings or civil

proceedings between a__ financial
institution and-
(a)its customer, his surety or

guarantor relating to the customer’s
transaction;

All persons to whom the disclosure is
necessary for the purpose of the
criminal proceedings or civil
proceedings.

 
 

 

First column
Purposes for or circumstances in which
customer documents or information may be
disclosed

Second column
Persons to whom documents or
information may be disclosed

 

(b)two or more parties making
adverse claims to money in a
customer’s account where the
financial institution seeks relief by
way of interpleader; or

(c) one or more parties in respect of
property in or over which some right
or interest has been conferred on
the financial institution.

 

5. Compliance by a licensed bank or
licensed investment bank which has been
served a_ garnishee order attaching
moneys in the account of a customer.

All persons to whom the disclosure is
required to be made under the
garnishee order.

 

6. Compliance with a court order made by
a court not lower than a Sessions Court.

All persons to whom the disclosure is
required to be made under the court
order.

 

7. Compliance with an order or request
made by an enforcement agency in
Malaysia under any written law for the
purposes of an_ investigation or
prosecution of an offence under any
written law.

An_ investigating officer authorized
under the written law to investigate
or any officer authorized to carry out
prosecution or any court.

 

8. Performance of functions of the
Malaysia Deposit Insurance Corporation.

Any director or officer of the
Malaysia Deposit Insurance
Corporation or any other person,
authorized by the Malaysia Deposit
Insurance Corporation to receive the
documents or information.

 

9. Disclosure by a licensed investment
bank for the purpose of performance of

Securities
stock

officer of the
approved

Any
Commission,

 
 

 

First column
Purposes for or circumstances in which
customer documents or information may be
disclosed

Second column
Persons to whom documents or
information may be disclosed

 

relevant functions of-
(a) the Securities Commission under
the securities laws as defined in the
Securities Commission Act 1993;
(b) the stock exchange or derivatives
exchange approved under the
Capital Markets and Services Act
2007;
(c)the clearing house approved
under the Capital Markets and
Services Act 2007; or
(d) the central depository approved

under the Securities Industry
(Central Depositories) Act 1991 [Act
453].

exchange or derivatives exchange,
approved clearing house under the
Capital Markets and Services Act
2007 or approved central depository
under the Securities Industry (Central
Depositories) Act 1991 authorized to
receive the documents or
information.

 

10. Disclosure by a licensed bank or
licensed investment bank for the purpose
of performance of functions of an
approved trade repository under the
Capital Markets and Services Act 2007.

Any officer of the approved trade
repository authorized to receive the
documents or information.

 

11. Documents or information is required
by the Inland Revenue Board of Malaysia
under section 81 of the Income Tax Act
1967 for purposes of facilitating exchange
of information pursuant to taxation
arrangements or agreements having
effect under section 132 or 132A of the
Income Tax Act 1967.

Any officer of the Inland Revenue
Board of Malaysia authorized to
receive the documents or
information.

 

12. Disclosure of credit information of a
customer to a credit reporting agency
registered under the Credit Reporting
Agencies Act 2010 [Act 710] for purposes
of carrying on credit reporting business as
defined in the Credit Reporting Agencies

Any officer of the credit reporting
agency authorized to receive the
documents or information.

 
 

 

First column
Purposes for or circumstances in which
customer documents or information may be
disclosed

Second column
Persons to whom documents or
information may be disclosed

 

Act 2010.

 

13. Performance of any supervisory
functions, exercise any of supervisory
powers or discharge any of supervisory
duties by a relevant authority outside
Malaysia which exercises functions
corresponding to those of the Bank under
this Act.

Any officer of the relevant authority
authorized to receive the documents
or information.

 

14. Conduct of centralized functions,
which include audit, risk management,
finance or information technology or any
other centralized function within the
financial group.

The head office or holding company
of a financial institution whether in or
outside Malaysia or any other person
designated by the head office or
holding company to perform such
functions.

 

15. Due diligence exercise approved by
the board of directors of the financial
institution in connection with-

(a) merger and acquisition;

(b) capital raising exercise; or

(c) sale of assets or whole or part of

business.

Any person participating or otherwise
involved in the due diligence exercise
approved by the board of the
financial institution.

 

16. Performance of functions of the
financial institution which are outsourced.

Any person engaged by the financial
institution to perform the outsourced
function.

 

17. Disclosure to a consultant or adjuster
engaged by the financial institution.

Consultant or adjuster engaged by
the financial institution.

 

18. A financial institution has reason to
suspect that an offence under any written
law has been, is being or may be

Any officer of another financial
institution or the relevant
associations of financial institutions

 
 

 

First column
Purposes for or circumstances in which
customer documents or information may be
disclosed

Second column
Persons to whom documents or
information may be disclosed

 

committed.

authorized to receive the documents
or information.

 
