REGULATION FOR BANKS ON PREVENTION OF MONEY
LAUNDERING AND FINANCING OF TERRORISM
(unofficial English translation)

1

REGULATION FOR BANKS ON PREVENTION OF MONEY
LAUNDERING AND FINANCING OF TERRORISM
CHAPTER ONE
PRELIMINARY
Introduction

1.

This Regulation is issued pursuant to paragraph (a) subparagraph
(3) of section 75 of Law No. 10/2014 (Prevention of Money
Laundering and Financing of Terrorism Act.

Short title

2.

This Regulation shall be cited as “Regulation for Banks on
Prevention of Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism.”

Commencement

3.

This Regulation shall come into effect from 15th January 2015.

Applicability

4.

Unless expressly provided otherwise in this Regulation, this
Regulation applies to all Banks licensed under the Maldives
Banking Act.

Responsibility
for compliance

5.

(a)

Each Bank shall comply with the provisions of this
Regulation and the board of directors shall ensure that its
subsidiaries, branches, employees, Agents and third
parties to whom it outsources any of its functions,
complies with this Regulation.

(b)

A Bank may comply with the requirements of this
Regulation on a risk-based approach.
CHAPTER TWO

CUSTOMER DUE DILIGENCE
Prohibition

When customer
due diligence is
required

6.

7.

(a)

Banks shall not keep anonymous accounts, or accounts in
obviously fictitious names.

(b)

A Bank shall not enter into or continue business relations
with banks registered in jurisdictions where they are not
physically present or are not being regulated by a
competent regulatory authority. Banks shall terminate any
such relationships established when this Regulation comes
into effect.

Each Bank shall perform customer due diligence measures
provided in this Regulation when:
(a)

establishing business relationship with a customer;

2

Identification of
customers,
beneficial
owners and
third parties

8.

(b)

carrying out a Single Transaction of an amount equivalent
to 50,000 (fifty thousand) Maldivian Rufiyaa and above,
whether such transaction is conducted as a single
transaction or several transactions that appear to be linked.
If the amount of the transaction is unknown at the time of
the operation, the customer due diligence measures shall
be performed as soon as the amount becomes known or
the threshold is reached;

(c)

carrying out a domestic or international transfer of funds;

(d)

there is suspicion of money laundering or financing of
terrorism activities, regardless of the amount, and
notwithstanding that the Bank would otherwise not be
required under this Regulation to perform customer due
diligence measures;

(e)

doubts exist about the veracity or adequacy of previously
obtained customer identification data.

(a)

Where a Bank is required to perform customer due
diligence under this Regulation, the Bank shall:

(b)

(1)

identify the customer and verify the identity of the
customer;

(2)

identify beneficial owner in relation to a customer,
and shall verify the identity of the beneficial owner
using reliable, independent sources; and

(3)

ascertain the nature or intended purpose of the
Business Relationship.

When a customer appoints a person to act on behalf in
establishing a Business Relationship or carry out a Single
Transaction, the Bank shall:
(1)

identify the person that acts on behalf of the
customer and verify the identity using reliable,
independent sources; and

(2)

verify the authority of such person to act on behalf
of the customer and retain copies of documents
used to verify such authority (such as copy of a valid
power of attorney or equivalent document or the
official document) and shall ensure that such copies

3

are copies of the original.
(c)

(d)

For the purpose of identification requirement in
paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the Bank shall obtain and
record information of the customer, beneficial owner and
third party, including but not limited to the following:
(1)

full name, including any aliases;

(2)

identification number (e.g. identity card number,
passport number, Visa number, where the customer
is not a natural person the incorporation number or
business registration number);

(3)

current residential and permanent residential,
registered or business address, and contact
information; and

(4)

nationality or place of incorporation or registration.

Where a Bank, acting on the instructions of a wire transfer
originator in sending funds by wire transfers, shall:
(1) identify the wire transfer originator and verify
identity;
(2) collect and record adequate details of the wire
transfer, including but not limited to, details of the
originator, wire transfer beneficiary, beneficiary
institution, and date of the wire transfer, type and
amount of currency involved; and
(3) include in the transfer message or payment
instruction that accompanies or relates to the
transfer, the name, address, and unique identification
number of the originator, and originator’s account
number or unique reference number assigned to the
transaction.

(e)

Bank whose activities include money or value transfer
services, acting on the instruction of originator in sending
funds shall:
(1) identify the originator and verify identity;
(2) collect and record adequate details of the transfer,
including but not limited to, details of the originator,

4

beneficiary, beneficiary institution, and date of the
transfer, type and amount of currency involved; and
(3) include in the transfer message or payment
instruction that accompanies or relates to the
transfer, the name, address, and national identity
number or passport number or the work permit
number of the originator, and originator’s account
number or unique reference number assigned to the
transaction.
(f)

Where a Bank act as a beneficiary institution that receives
funds on the account of a beneficiary, including wire
transfer beneficiary, shall formulate and implement
appropriate internal polices, procedure and controls for
identifying the beneficiary and handling receiving
transfers.

(g)

Where a Bank is an intermediary in a transfer payment
chain, the Bank in passing onward the message or
payment instruction, shall maintain all the required
originator information with the transfer.

(h)

Where a customer is a legal entity or a partnership, Banks
are required to understand the nature of the customer’s
business and its ownership structure.

(i)

Where a customer is a legal entity, Bank shall, apart from
identifying the customer, identify the directors of the
company.

(j)

Where a customer is a partnership, Bank shall, apart from
identifying the customer, identify the partners of the
partnership.

(k)

Where a customer is a legal arrangement, Bank is required
to understand the nature of the customer’s business and its
ownership structure. In addition, Bank shall, apart from
identifying the customer, identify and verify the identity
of beneficial owners.

(l)

Where the customer or beneficial owner in relation to a
customer is a government entity, the Bank shall only be
required to obtain such information as may be required to
confirm that the customer is a government entity as
asserted, unless it suspects that the transaction is
connected with money laundering or financing of
5

terrorism.
(m)

Banks may, apply simplified customer identification and
due diligence measures on Business Relationships or
Single Transactions that they consider low risk of money
laundering or financing of terrorism.

(n)

Banks shall update and verify customers’ identification
information and monitor customers’ financial transactions
on an ongoing basis to detect extra-ordinary or unusual
financial activities.

(o)

Banks shall ensure compliance to Section 16 (k) of the
Act before establishing a cross-border correspondent
banking relationship.

Each Bank shall verify the identity of the customer and the
beneficial owner using reliable independent sources.

Verification of
Identity

9.

Timing of
Verification

10. (a)

Each Bank shall verify the identity of the customer and
beneficial owner, before or during, the course of
establishing a Business Relationship, and before
conducting a Single Transaction.

(b)

A Bank may establish a Business Relationship before
completing the verification of the identity of the customer
and the beneficial owner, if:

(c)

Failure to
Complete
Customer Due

(1)

the deferral of completion of the verification of the
identity of the customer and beneficial owner is
essential so as not to interrupt the Bank’s normal
conduct of business;

(2)

the risk of money laundering and financing of
terrorism can be effectively managed; and

(3)

there is no suspicion of money laundering and
financing of terrorism.

Where a Business Relationship is established before
verification of the identity of the customer or beneficial
owner, the Bank shall complete such verification process
as soon as is reasonably practicable.

11. If a Bank cannot fulfil the obligation of due diligence measures
provided in this Regulation, it shall not establish or continue the
business relationship or complete a Single Transaction and, if
6

Diligence

circumstance warrant, shall submit a suspicious transaction
report to the Financial Intelligence Unit.

Customer not
physically
present for the
Business
Relationships
and
transactions

12. Each Bank shall establish policies and procedures and take
adequate measures to address the risk of money laundering and
financing of terrorism when establishing Business Relationships
and conducting transactions where the customer is not physically
present for the Business Relationship or transaction.

Enhanced due
diligence
measures

13. (a)

In addition to the due diligence measures provided in this
Regulation, Each Bank shall perform enhanced due
diligence measures in relation to business relations and
transactions that may pose high risk of money laundering
and financing of terrorism.

(b)

Each Bank shall classify customers and transactions that
are assessed as high risk for money laundering and
financing of terrorism. The following customers and
transactions shall be classified as high risk customers and
transactions.
(1) politically exposed persons;
(2) persons from countries that have inadequate
measures for prevention of money laundering and
financing of terrorism;
(3) customers not physically present for establishing
business relationships and transactions; and
(4) any other customer and transaction that may be
stipulated by the Authority.

(c)

Each Bank shall exercise enhanced due diligence
measures where money laundering or financing of
terrorism risk are assessed as high risk. Enhanced due
diligence measures shall include, but not limited to the
following.
(1) obtaining additional information on customer and
the beneficial owner;
(2) establishing, by appropriate and reasonable means,
the source of wealth and source of funds of the
customer and the beneficial owner;
7

(3) obtaining approval from the senior management of
the Bank before establishing, or continuing for
existing customer, Business Relationship with the
customer;
(4) conducting enhanced monitoring of the Business
Relationship with the customer and regularly
updating the identification information of the
customer and the beneficial owner.
On-going due
diligence

Monitoring
transactions

14. (a)

Each Bank shall perform on-going due diligence on the
Business Relationship with its customers, and monitor
transactions that are carried out in order to ensure that
they are consistent with their knowledge of their
customer, commercial activities, risk profile and where
required, the source of fund.

(b)

The frequency of the on-going due diligence shall
commensurate with the level of money laundering or
financing of terrorism risks posed by the customer based
on the risk profiles and nature of the transactions.

15. (a)

Each Bank shall examine with particular care all
extraordinary, unusually large transactions and all
transactions with unusual patterns, which have no
apparent economic or visible lawful purpose.

(b)

Each Bank shall pay special attention to transactions with
persons or legal entities, residing in countries that do not
apply the relevant international standards to combat
money laundering and financing of terrorism. The
Financial Intelligence Unit shall provide information of
such countries to the Banks.

CHAPTER THREE
RECORD KEEPING
Record keeping

16. (a)

Each Bank shall maintain relevant records and
documentation including business correspondence and
transactions, in particular those obtained during customer
due diligence process. These include copies of documents
used to verify the identity of customers, beneficial owners
and those persons required under this Regulation.

8

(b)

In addition to the information specified in paragraph (a),
each Bank shall keep the following information and
documentation.
(1) identification information and copies of documents
collected to verify the identity;
(2) records and documentation collected for the
internal analysis conducted on matters that are
considered suspicious;
(3) records of suspicious transaction reports submitted
to the Financial Intelligence Unit; and
(4) information collected pursuant to Section 16 (k) of
the Act before establishing a cross-border
correspondent banking relationship.

(c)

The following record-keeping periods shall apply for the
records kept under this Section:
(1) records and documents collected for a Single
Transaction, 5 (five) years following the
completion of
the Single Transaction. This
includes, but not limited to the customer
identification information and any other
information and documents relating to the
respective Single Transaction.
(2) records and documents collected for Business
Relationships, 5 (five) years following the
termination of a Business Relationship. This
includes, but not limited to the customer
identification information, transaction history, and
any other information and documents related to the
respective Business Relationship.
(3) suspicious transaction reports and information and
documents related to such reports, unless the
Financial Intelligence Unit has instructed
otherwise, 5 (five) years following the report was
made to the Financial Intelligence Unit.

9

CHAPTER FOUR
REPORTING AND MONITORING
Information to
the Financial
Intelligence
Unit

17. Each Bank shall provide any such information requested by the
Financial Intelligence Unit in carrying out its functions under the
Act.

Reporting
suspicious
transactions

18. (a)

A Bank that suspects or has grounds to suspect that funds
or property are the proceeds of crime, or are related to
money laundering or the financing of terrorism, is
required to submit a report setting forth its suspicion to
the Financial Intelligence Unit, as soon as practicable and
not later than 3 (three) working days after forming such
suspicion or grounds for suspicion.

(b)

A Bank that suspects or has grounds to suspect that funds
or property are of or related to the following, shall submit
a report setting forth its suspicion to the Financial
Intelligence Unit, as soon as practicable and not later than
3 (three) working days after forming such suspicion or
grounds for suspicion.

Suspension of
Transactions

19.

(1)

any party designated by the United Nations
Security Council pursuant to Resolutions issued
under Chapter VII of the UN Charter; and

(2)

any other party determined by the Financial
Intelligence Unit.

(a)

Each Bank shall inform the Financial Intelligence Unit,
any transaction which they suspect to be related to money
laundering or financing of terrorism or the proceeds of
crime, and shall follow the instructions of the Financial
Intelligence Unit in relation to the said transaction.

(b)

Where the seriousness or urgency of the case warrants, the
Financial Intelligence Unit may, order the suspension of a
transaction reported under paragraph (a) of this Section
for a period not exceeding 72 (seventy two) hours.

(c)

Where refraining from carrying out the transactions set
out in paragraph (a) of this Section is impossible or is
likely to frustrate the efforts to identify the beneficiary of
a suspected transaction, the Bank may execute the
transaction and shall inform the Financial Intelligence
10

Unit immediately afterwards.
Reporting Cash
transactions

20. Each Bank shall submit a weekly report to the Financial
Intelligence Unit of all cash transactions of 200,000 (two
hundred thousand) Rufiyaa or more or its equivalent in a foreign
currency, or any other amount designated by the Authority, as a
single or several transactions that appear to be linked. For the
purposes of this provision, cash transactions shall mean those
transactions made using cash and other bearer negotiable
instruments such as cheques, bank drafts, traveler’s cheques and
other negotiable instruments in bearer form.

Fund transfer
reporting

21. (a)

Each Bank shall submit a weekly report to the Financial
Intelligence Unit of all domestic and international fund
transfers, in an amount equivalent to 200,000 (two
hundred thousand) Maldivian Rufiyaa or more or its
equivalent in a foreign currency, or any other amount
designated by the Authority. This report shall include
transactions conducted via electronic means and wire
transfers.

(b)

The following transactions are not required to be reported
under paragraph (a) of this Section

Prohibition
against tipping
off

22.

(1)

transfer between Banks where both the originator
and the beneficiary are Banks acting on their own
behalf; or

(2)

transfers between the Bank and the Authority
where the transfer originator is a Bank acting on its
own behalf and the beneficiary is the Authority and
vis-a-vis.

A Bank, its director, officer or an employee, shall not disclose to
its customers or a third party that information of a customer is
being, was or will be provided to the Financial Intelligence Unit,
or that a report concerning money laundering or financing of
terrorism is being, was or will be submitted to the Financial
Intelligence Unit, or that a money laundering or financing of
terrorism investigation is being carried out or will be carried out.

11

CHAPTER FIVE
EXEMPTION FROM LIABILITY
Exemption from 23.
liability for
reporting
suspicious
transaction in
good faith

No criminal, civil, disciplinary or administrative proceedings for
breach of banking or professional secrecy or contract may be
instituted against Banks or their directors, officers or employees
who in good faith submit reports or provide information in
accordance with the provisions of this Regulation.

Exemption from 24.
liability for
executing
suspicious
transactions

(a)

No criminal action of money laundering and financing of
terrorism shall be brought against Banks, or their
directors, officers or employees in connection with the
execution of a suspicious transaction where a suspicious
transaction report was made in good faith in accordance
with the Act and this Regulation.

(b)

The exemption from liability provided in this Section
shall apply if a person carries out a transaction at the
request of the law enforcement authorities, acting in the
manner specified in Sections 27(d)(1) and 44 of the Act.
CHAPTER SIX

PROGRAMS TO COMBAT MONEY LAUNDERING AND FINANCING OF
TERRORISM
Programs to
combat money
laundering and
financing of
terrorism

25.

(a)

Each Bank shall develop and implement internal
programs for the prevention of money laundering and
financing of terrorism. Such programs shall include but
not limited to the following:
(1)

establishing internal policies, procedures and
controls to ensure high standards in hiring
employees, and prescribe compliance management
arrangements and adequate screening procedures;

(2) carrying out internal audit arrangements to check
conformity, compliance with and effectiveness of
the measures taken to implement the Act and this
Regulation.
(3) internal control measures to ensure safety and
security of the systems and records.

12

(b)

Each Bank shall ensure that its employees and Agents
appointed to act on its behalf are trained on:
(1) the Act and this Regulation, and the Bank’s internal
policies and procedures on prevention of money
laundering and financing of terrorism;
(2)

customer
due
diligence
measures,
and
identification of customers and their beneficiaries;

(3) the detecting
transactions;

and

reporting

of

suspicious

(4) duties and responsibility of the employees and
Agents in preventing money laundering and
financing of terrorism;

Administrative
penalties

26.

(c)

Each Bank shall designate a compliance officer at
management level for the implementation of the Act and
this Regulation within the Bank, and shall inform the
name and contact details of the officer to the Financial
Intelligence Unit.

(a)

The Financial Intelligence Unit may impose any of the
following administrative penalties, against a Bank, its
directors, officers or employees who fail to comply with
any of the provisions of this Regulation.
(1) issue a notice in writing to comply within a
specified period;
(2) impose a fine between 10,000.00 (ten thousand)
Maldivian Rufiyaa and 500,000.00 (five hundred
thousand) Maldivian Rufiyaa;
(3) impose a daily fine of amount between 10,000.00
(ten thousand) Maldivian Rufiyaa and 100,000.00
(one hundred thousand) Maldivian Rufiyaa until
compliance is obtained, where failing to comply
within the specified period,

(b)

The Authority may publish any administrative action
taken for non-compliance pursuant to paragraph (a)
above.

13

CHAPTER SEVEN
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS
Existing
Customers

27.

Each Bank shall, within 3 (three) months following the
commencement of this Regulation, perform customer due
diligence measures stipulated in this Regulation for existing
customers when this Regulation comes into effect.

Definitions

28.

The terms and expressions used in this Regulation shall, except
where expressly defined below in this Regulation or where the
context otherwise requires, have the same respective meaning as
in the Act.
“Agent” means any natural or legal person or entity that
carries out any function or obligation of a Bank at its
request with a formalized agreement.
“Bank” has the meaning assigned to it in the Act;
“Beneficiary” in relation to wire transfer or value transfer
means the person to whom or for whose benefit the funds
are sent.
“Beneficiary Institution” means the Bank that receives the
funds on the account of the beneficiary including wire
transfer beneficiary.
“Beneficial Owner” has the same meaning assigned to it
in the Act.
“Business Relationship” means a business, professional
or commercial relationship, with an element of duration,
between a Bank and a customer, which is expected by the
Bank at the time when the relation is established.
“Financial Intelligence Unit” or “Unit” refers to the
Financial Intelligence Unit established under Section 27
of the Act.
“the Act” means the law No. 10/2014 (Prevention of
Money Laundering and Financing of Terrorism Act).
“Legal Arrangement” shall mean express trusts and other
similar legal arrangements.
“Maldives Monetary Authority” or “Authority” refers to
Maldives Monetary Authority established under the Law
14

no 6/81 (Maldives Monetary Authority Act)
“Originator” means the party who initiated the transfer of
funds.
“Politically exposed person” has the same meaning
assigned to it in the Act.
“Proceeds of Crime” has the meaning assigned to it in the
Act;
“Single Transaction” means a transaction that is carried
out outside a business relationship;
“Wire Transfer” means any transaction carried out on
behalf of an originator through an institution by electronic
means with a view to making an amount of funds
available to a beneficiary person at a beneficiary
institution, irrespective of whether the originator and the
beneficiary are the same person.

15

