PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
(ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR)

[ S.L.586.01

1

SUBSIDIARY LEGISLATION 586.01
PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
(ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR)
REGULATIONS
15th July, 2003
LEGAL NOTICE 16 of 2003, as amended by Legal Notices 153 of 2003,
522 of 2004, 109 of 2005, 426 of 2007, 198 of 2008, 239 of 2011 and 429 of
2013.

1. (1) The title of these regulations is the Processing of
Personal Data (Electronic Communications Sector) Regulations.
(2) These regulations implement the provisions of Directive
2002/58/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12
July 2002 concerning the processing of personal data and the
protection of privacy in the electronic communications sector
(directive on privacy and electronic communications), as amended
by Directive 2009/136/EC of the European Parliament and of the
Council of 25 November 2009 amending Directive 2002/22/EC on
universal service and users’ rights relating to electronic communications
networks and services, Directive 2002/58/EC concerning the processing
of personal data and the protection of privacy in the electronic
communications sector and Regulation (EC) No 2006/2004 on
cooperation between national authorities responsible for the
enforcement of consumer protection laws.

Citation.
Amended by:
L.N. 522 of 2004;
L.N. 429 of 2013.

(3) These regulations also implement, and are to be read in
conjunction with, the requirements of Commission Regulation (EU) No
611/2013 of 24 June 2013 on the measures applicable to the
notification of personal data breaches under Directive 2002/58/EC of
the European Parliament and of the Council on privacy and electronic
communications.
2. (1) Unless otherwise stated in these regulations, the
definitions in the Electronic Communications (Regulation) Act and
the Data Protection Act shall apply.
(2)

In these regulations, unless the context otherwise requires:

"Act" unless otherwise stated in these regulations, means the
Data Protection Act;
"Authority" means the Malta Communications Authority;
"Commissioner" means the Data Protection Commissioner;
"communication" means any information exchanged or
transmitted between a finite number of parties by means of a
publicly available electronic communications service. This does
not include any information conveyed as part of a broadcasting
service to the public over a electronic communications network
except to the extent that the information can be related to the
identifiable subscriber or user receiving the information;

Definitions.
Amended by:
L.N. 522 of 2004;
L.N. 239 of 2011.
Cap, 399.
Cap. 586.
Cap. 586.

2

[ S.L.586.01

PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
(ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR)

"consent" means consent by a user or subscriber and corresponds
to the consent given by a data subject in accordance with article 2
of the Act;
"controller" means the controller of personal data and shall have
the same meaning as under the Act;
"directory of subscribers" or "directory" means a directory of
subscribers to publicly available electronic communications
services, whether in printed form or in electronic form (a) which is available to the public or a section of the
public, or
(b) information which is normally provided by a directory
enquiry service;
"electronic mail" means any text, voice, sound or image message
sent over a public communications network which can be stored in
the network or in the recipient’s terminal equipment until it is
collected by the recipient;
Cap. 426.

"information society service" shall have the same meaning as
under the Electronic Commerce Act;
"location data" means any data processed in an electronic
communications network or by an electronic communication
serv ice, ind icatin g t he geo grap hic p ositi on o f t he t erm inal
equipment of a user of a publicly available electronic
communications service;
"Minister" unless otherwise stated in these regulations means the
Minister responsible for data protection;
"person" includes any body corporate and any body of persons
whether or not it has a legal personality distinct from that of its
members;
"personal data breach" means a breach of security leading to the
accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised
disclosure of, or access to, personal data transmitted, stored or
otherwise processed in connection with the provision of a publicly
available electronic communications service;
"processing" and "processing of personal data" mean any
operation or set of operations which is taken in regard to personal
data, whether or not it occurs by automatic means, and includes the
collection, recording, organisation, storage, adaptation, alteration,
retrieval, gathering, use, disclosure by transmission, dissemination
or otherwise making information available, alignment or
combination, blocking, erasure or destruction of such data;
"traffic data" means any data processed for the purpose of the
conveyance of a communication on a electronic communications
network or for the billing thereof;
"user" means any natural person using a publicly available
electronic communications service, for private or business
purposes, without necessarily having subscribed to such service;
"value added service" means any service which requires the

PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
(ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR)

[ S.L.586.01

3

processing of traffic data or location data other than traffic data
beyond what is necessary for the transmission of a communication
or the billing thereof.
PART I - Processing of Personal Data

Added by:
L.N. 198 of 2008.

3.
These regulations shall apply to the processing of personal
data in connection with the provision of publicly available
electronic communications services in public communications
netw orks i n Malt a and an y o th er coun try, i ncl udi ng pu bli c
communications networks supporting data collection and
identification devices, as the Minister may after consultation with
the Minister responsible for communications, designate by notice
in the Gazette.

Application.
Amended by:
L.N. 522 of 2004;
L.N. 239 of 2011.

3A. (1) In the case of a personal data breach, the provider of
publicly available electronic communications services shall,
without undue delay, notify the personal data breach to the
Commissioner.

Security of
processing.
Added by:
L.N. 239 of 2011.

(2) When the personal data breach is likely to adversely affect
the personal data or privacy of a subscriber or individual, the
provider shall also notify the subscriber or individual of the breach
without undue delay.
(3) Notification of a personal data breach to a subscriber or
individual concerned shall not be required if the provider has
demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that he has
implemented appropriate technological protection measures, and
that those measures were applied to the data concerned by the
security breach. Such technological protection measures shall
render the data unintelligible to any person who is not authorised to
access it.
(4) Without prejudice to the provider’s obligation to notify
subscribers and individuals concerned, if the provider has not
already notified the subscriber or individual of the personal data
breach, the Commissioner, having considered the likely adverse
effects of the breach, may require him to do so.
(5) The notification to the subscriber or individual shall at least
include the nature of the personal data breach and the contact
points where more information can be obtained, and shall
recommend measures to mitigate the possible adverse effects of the
personal data breach. The notification to the Commissioner shall,
in addition, include the consequences of, and the measures
proposed or taken by the provider to address, the personal data
breach.
(6) The Commissioner shall encourage the drawing up of
guidelines and, where necessary, issue instructions concerning the
circumstances in which providers are required to notify personal
data breaches, the format of such notification and the manner in
which the notification has to be made.
(7) Service providers shall maintain an inventory of personal
data breaches comprising the facts surrounding the breach, its
effects and the remedial action taken which shall be sufficient to

4

[ S.L.586.01

PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
(ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR)

enable the Commissioner to verify compliance with the provisions
of this regulation.
Confidentiality of
communications.

4. (1) Without prejudice to regulation 10 no person other than
the user, shall listen, tap, store or undertake any other form of
interception or surveillance of communications and of any related
traffic data, without the consent of the user concerned.
(2) This regulation shall not affect any legally authorised
recording of communications and the related traffic data in the
course of lawful business practice for the purpose of providing
evidence of a commercial transaction or of any other business
communication.

Access to
information stored
in terminal
equipment.
Amended by:
L.N. 522 of 2004.
Substituted by:
L.N. 239 of 2011.

5. (1) The storing of information or the gaining of access to
information stored in the terminal equipment of a subscriber or user
shall only be allowed on condition that the subscriber or user
concerned has given his consent, having been provided by the
controller with clear and comprehensive information in terms of
article 19 of the Act.
(2) The requirements contained in this regulation shall not
prevent the technical storage or access for the sole purpose of
carrying out or facilitating the transmission of a communication
over an electronic communications network or as may be strictly
necessary in order for the service provider to provide an
information society service explicitly requested by the subscriber
or user to provide the service.

Traffic data.
Amended by:
L.N. 522 of 2004.

6. (1) Without prejudice to sub-regulations (2), (3) and (4),
traffic data relating to subscribers and users processed for the
purpose of the transmission of a communication and stored by a
undertaking which provides publicly available electronic
communications services or by an undertaking which provides a
public communications network shall be erased or made
anonymous when it is no longer needed for the purpose of the
transmission of a communication.
(2) Traffic data necessary for the purposes of subscriber billing
and interconnection payments may be processed provided that such
processing shall only be permissible up to the end of the period
during which the bill may lawfully be challenged or payment
pursued.
(3) For the purpose of marketing its own electronic
communications services or for the provision of value added
services to the subscriber, the undertaking which provides publicly
available electronic communications services may process the data
referred to in sub-regulation (1) to the extent and for the duration
necessary for such services, provided the subscriber has given his
consent.
(4) The undertaking which provides publicly available
electronic communications services shall inform the subscriber or
user of the types of traffic data that are processed and of the
duration of such processing for the purposes mentioned in subregulation (2) and, prior to obtaining consent, for the purposes

PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
(ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR)

[ S.L.586.01

5

mentioned in sub-regulation (3).
(5) Processing of traffic data in accordance with subregulations (1) to (4) shall be restricted to persons acting under the
authority of the undertakings which provides publicly available
electronic communications and of the undertakings which provide a
pu bl i c c om m un i c a t io ns n e t wo rk ha n d li ng b i ll in g o r t ra ff i c
management, customer enquiries, fraud detection, marketing the
electronic communications services of the provider or providing a
value added service, and shall be restricted to what is necessary for
the purposes of such activities.
(6) Nothing in this regulation shall preclude the furnishing of
traffic data to any competent authority for the purposes of any law
relating to the settling of disputes, in particular interconnection and
billing disputes.
7. (1) Where location data other than traffic data, relating to
users or subscribers of public communications networks or of
publicly available electronic communications services can be
processed, such data may only be processed when it is made
anonymous, or with the consent of the users or subscribers to the
extent and for the duration necessary for the provision of a value
added service.

Location data.
Amended by:
L.N. 522 of 2004.

(2) Prior to obtaining the consent of the users or subscribers,
the undertaking which provides publicly available electronic
communications services shall inform them of the following:
(a) the type of location data other than traffic data, which
shall be processed,
(b) the purposes and duration of the processing, and
(c) whether the data shall be transmitted to a third party
for the purpose of providing the value added service:
Provided that at any time users or subscribers may
withdraw their consent for the processing of location data other
than traffic data.
(3) Where consent of the users or subscribers has been obtained
for the processing of location data other than traffic data, the user
or subscriber shall continue to have the possibility, using a simple
means and free of charge, of temporarily refusing the processing of
such data for each connection to the network or for each
transmission of a communication.
(4) The processing of location data other than traffic data in
accordance with sub-regulations (1), (2) and (3) shall be restricted
to persons acting under the authority of the undertaking which
provides publicly available electronic communications services or
of the undertaking which provides a public communications
network or of the third party providing the value added service, and
shall be restricted to what is necessary for the purposes of
providing the value added service.
8. (1) Any person who produces a directory of subscribers
shall, without charge to the subscriber and before any personal data
relating to the subscriber is included in the directory, ensure that -

Directory of
subscribers.

6

[ S.L.586.01

PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
(ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR)
(a) the subscriber is informed about the purposes of such a
directory of subscribers and of any usage possibilities
based on search functions embedded in the electronic
version of the directory;
(b) no personal data are included in such a directory
without the consent of the subscriber. In giving his
consent the subscriber shall determine which data is to
be included in the directory, to the extent that such
data is relevant for the purpose of the directory as
determined by the provider of the directory service.
Subscribers shall be given the opportunity to verify,
correct or withdraw such personal data from the
directory; and
(c) the personal data in such a directory relating to a
subscriber is limited to what is necessary to identify
the subscriber and the number allocated to him, unless
the subscriber has given his additional consent to the
provider of the directory service authorising him to
include in the directory additional personal data of the
subscriber:

Provided that the above shall apply only to subscribers who
are natural persons.
(2) This regulation shall not apply to an edition of a directory
that has been already produced or placed on the market in printed
or off-line electronic form before the coming into force of these
regulations.
(3) Where the personal data of subscribers to fixed or mobile
public voice telephony services has been included in a public
s ub s c r i b e r d i r e c t o r y b e f o r e t h e c om i n g i nt o f o r c e o f t h e s e
regulations, the personal data of such subscribers may remain in
this public directory in its printed or electronic versions, including
versions with reverse search functions, unless subscribers indicate
otherwise, after having received complete information from the
provider of the directory services about the purposes and options in
accordance with this regulation.
Unsolicited
communications.
Amended by:
L.N. 522 of 2004;
L.N. 109 of 2005.
Substituted by:
L.N. 239 of 2011.

9. (1) A person shall not use, or cause to be used, any
publicly available electronic communications service to make an
unsolicited communication for the purpose of direct marketing by
means of (a) an automatic calling machine; or
(b) a facsimile machine; or
(c) electronic mail,
to a subscriber or user, irrespective of whether such subscriber or
user is a natural person or legal person, unless the subscriber or
user has given his prior consent in writing to the receipt of such a
communication.
(2) Notwithstanding sub-regulation (1), where a person has
obtained from his customers their contact details for electronic mail
in relation to the sale of a product or a service, in accordance with

PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
(ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR)

[ S.L.586.01

7

the Act, that same person may use such details for direct marketing
of its own similar products or services:
Provided that customers shall be given the opportunity to
object, free of charge and in an easy and simple manner, to such use
of electronic contact details at the time of their collection and on
the occasion of each message where the customer has not initially
refused such use.
(3) A person who uses or causes to be used any other means of
communication other than those stated in sub-regulations (1) and
(2) for the purpose of direct marketing shall, at no charge to the
subscriber or user, ensure that any such communications to a
subscriber or user are not sent if the subscriber or user requests that
such communications cease.
(4) In all cases the practice of sending electronic mail for the
purposes of direct marketing disguising or concealing the identity
of the sender on whose behalf the communication is made, which
contravene the provisions of regulation 6 of the Electronic
Commerce (General) Regulations, or which do not have a valid
address to which the recipient may send a request that such
communications cease, or which encourage recipients to visit
websites that contravene such regulation, shall be prohibited.
10. The provisions of regulations 4, 5, 6 and 7 shall not apply
when a law specifically provides for the provision of information as
a necessary measure in the interest of:

S.L. 426.02

Non-applicability
of certain
regulations.

(a) national security;
(b) defence;
(c) public security;
(d) the
prevention,
investigation,
detection
and
prosecution of criminal or administrative offences, or
of breaches of ethics for regulated professions;
(e) an important economic or financial interest including
monetary, budgetary and taxation matters;
(f)

a monitoring, inspection or regulatory function
connected, even occasionally, with the exercise of
official authority referred to in paragraphs (c), (d) and
(e); or

(g) the protection of the subscriber or user or of the rights
and freedoms of others.
11. (1) A person who suffers any loss or damage because of
any contravention of these regulations by any other person shall be
entitled to take action before the competent court seeking
compensation from that other person for that loss or damage.

Compensation for
failure to comply
with regulations.

(2) The period of limitation provided for in article 46 (2) of the
Act shall apply to an action under sub-regulation (1).
12. The Commissioner shall ensure compliance with the
provisions of these regulations.

Enforcement.

8

[ S.L.586.01

PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
(ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR)

Administrative
fines and
sanctions.
Amended by
L.N. 153 of 2003;
L.N. 426 of 2007.

13. Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with these
regulations shall be liable to an administrative fine not exceeding
twenty-three thousand and two hundred and ninety-three euro and
seventy-three cents (23,293.73) for each violation and two
thousand and three hundred and twenty-nine euro and thirty seven
cents (2,329.37) for each day during which such violation persists,
which fine shall be determined and imposed by the Commissioner.

Appeals from
decisions of the
Commissioner.

14. Any person aggrieved by a decision taken by the
Commissioner in accordance with these regulations and having a
legal interest to contest such a decision may appeal to the Data
Protection Appeals Tribunal.

Advice and
consultation with
the Authority.

15. The Commissioner may seek the advice of, and shall where
appropriate consult with, the Authority in the exercise of his
functions under these regulations.

Request that the
Commissioner
exercise his
enforcement
functions.

16. Where it is alleged that any of these regulations have been
contravened, the Authority or any aggrieved person may request
the Commissioner to exercise his enforcement functions in respect
of that contravention:
Provided that nothing in this regulation shall be interpreted
as a limitation on the discretionary powers of the Commissioner.
Part II – Retention of Data

Added by:
L.N. 198 of 2008.
Definitions.
Added by:
L.N. 198 of 2008.

17.

In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires -

"cell ID" means the identity of the cell from which a mobile
telephony call originated or in which it terminated;
"data" means traffic data and location data and the related data
necessary to identify the subscriber or user;
"Police" means the Commissioner of Police and includes any
officer of the Police designated by the Commissioner to act on his
behalf;

Cap. 391.

"security service" means the Security Service as defined in the
Security Service Act;

Cap. 399.

"serious crime" means any crime which is punishable by a term
of imprisonment of not less than one year and for the purposes of
these regulations includes the crimes mentioned in articles 48(1)(d)
and 49 of the Electronic Communications (Regulation) Act;
"subscriber" means any natural or legal person who is party to a
co nt rac t w it h th e p ro vid er of publicly available electronic
communications services or of a public communications network,
for the supply of such services, and includes a pre-paid customer of
such provider;
"telephone service" means calls (including voice, voicemail and
conference and data calls), supplementary services (including call
forwarding and call transfer) and messaging and multi-media
services (including short message services, enhanced media
services and multi-media services);
"unsuccessful call attempt" means a communication where a

PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
(ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR)

[ S.L.586.01

9

telephone call has been successfully connected but not answered or
there has been a network management intervention;
"user" means any legal entity or natural person using a publicly
available electronic communications service, for private or
business purposes, without necessarily having subscribed to that
service;
"user ID" means a unique identifier allocated to persons when
they subscribe to or register with an Internet access service or
Internet communications service.
18. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of regulations 4, 5, 6
and 7, a service provider of publicly available electronic
communications services or of a public communications network
shall retain the data specified in regulation 20 to the extent that
those data are generated or processed by such providers in the
process of supplying the communications services concerned.

Obligation to retain
data.
Added by:
L.N. 198 of 2008.

(2) The obligation to retain the data as provided in subregulation (1) shall, to the extent that such data are generated or
processed, and stored (as regards telephony data) or logged (as
regards internet data) be applicable to unsuccessful call attempts:
Provided that such obligation shall not be applicable in
relation to unconnected calls.
(3) No data revealing the content of any communication may
be retained pursuant to these regulations.
19. (1) Data retained under this Part shall be disclosed only to
the Police or to the Security Service, as the case may be, where
such data is required for the purpose of the investigation, detection
or prosecution of serious crime.

Access to data.
Added by:
L.N. 198 of 2008.

(2) When data retained under this Part is required, such data
shall be provided by a service provider of publicly available
electronic communications services or of a public communications
network, from whom it is required, in an intelligible form and in
such a way that it is visible and legible.
(3) A request for data shall be made in writing and shall be
clear and specific:
Provided that where the data is urgently required, such
request may be made orally, so however that the written request
shall be made at the earliest opportunity.
(4) Data retained under this Part shall, following the request,
be provided without undue delay.
20. Service Providers are required to retain the following
categories of data:
(1) data necessary to trace and identify the source of a
communication:
(a) concerning fixed network telephony and mobile
telephony:
(i)

the calling telephone number;

Categories of data
to be retained.
Added by:
L.N. 198 of 2008.

10

[ S.L.586.01

PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
(ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR)
(ii) the name and address of the subscriber or
registered user;
(b) concerning Internet access,
Internet telephony:

Internet e-mail and

(i) the user ID allocated;
(ii) the used ID telephone number allocated to any
communication entering the public telephone
network;
(iii) the name and address of the subscriber or
registered user to whom an Internet-Protocol
address, user ID or telephone number was
allocated at the time of the communication;
(2) data necessary
communication:

to

identify

the

destination

of

a

(a) concerning fixed network telephony and mobile
telephony:
(i)

the telephone number or numbers dialled or
called and, in cases involving supplementary
services such as call forwarding or call transfer,
the number, or numbers to which the call is
routed;
(ii) the name and address of the subscriber or
registered user;
(b) concerning Internet e-mail and Internet telephony:
(i)

the user ID or telephone number of the intended
recipient of an Internet telephony call;
(ii) the name and address of the subscriber or
registered user and user ID of the intended
recipient of the communications;
(3) data necessary to identify the date, time and duration of a
communication:
(a) concerning fixed network telephony and mobile
telephony, the date and time of the start and end of the
communication;
(b) concerning Internet access,
Internet telephony:

Internet e-mail and

(i)

the date and time of the log-in and log-off of the
Internet access service, based on a certain time
zone, together with the Internet Protocol
address, whether dynamic or static, allocated by
the Internet access service provider to a
communication, and the user ID of the
subscriber or registered user;
(ii) the date and time of the log-in and log-off of the
Internet e-mail service or Internet telephony
service, based on a certain time zone;
(4)

data necessary to identify the type of communication:

PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
(ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR)

[ S.L.586.01

11

(a) concerning fixed network telephony and mobile
telephony, the telephone service used;
(b) concerning Internet e-mail and Internet telephony, the
Internet service used;
(5) data necessary to identify users’ communication equipment
or what purports to be their equipment:
(a) concerning fixed network telephony, the calling and
called telephone numbers;
(b) concerning mobile telephony:
(i) the calling and called telephone numbers;
(ii) the International Mobile Subscriber Identity of
the calling party;
(iii) the International Mobile Equipment Identity of
the calling party;
(iv) the International Mobile Subscriber Identity of
the called party;
(v) the International Mobile Equipment Identity of
the called party;
(vi) in the case of pre-paid anonymous services, the
date and time of the initial activation of the
service and the location label (Cell ID) from
which the services was activated;
(c) concerning Internet access,
Internet telephony:

Internet e-mail and

(i)

the calling telephone numbers for dial-up
access;
(ii) the digital subscriber line or other end point of
the originator of the communication;
(6) data necessary to identify the location
communication equipment:

of mobile

(a) the location label (Cell ID) at the start of the
communication;
(b) data identifying the geographic location of cells by
reference to their location labels (Cell ID) during the
period for which communications data are retained.
21. The categories of data specified in regulation 20 shall be
retained by the service providers for the following periods:
(a) communications data relating to Internet Access and
Internet e-mail for a period of six months from the
date of communication;

Periods of
retention.
Added by:
L.N. 198 of 2008.

(b) communications data concerning fixed network
telephony, mobile telephony and Internet telephony for
a period of one year from the date of communication.
22. (1) The Police may, in addition to the request for data
under regulation 19, issue a conservation order in relation to the
data.

Conservation
order.
Added by:
L.N. 198 of 2008.

12

[ S.L.586.01

PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
(ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS SECTOR)

(2) The conservation order shall be served on the service
provider within the retention period applicable under regulation 21.
(3) Where a conservation order has been issued, the service
provider shall conserve the data (a) either for a period of six months in addition to the
original or extended applicable retention period which
period shall not, without an order of a Magistrate or of
a competent Court, exceed a total period of two years;
or
(b) where criminal proceedings have been commenced
within the applicable retention period or within such
period as extended in accordance with paragraph (a),
for such time as may be necessary for the conclusion
of the criminal proceedings where the data is required
to be produced as evidence; such conclusion shall be
deemed to occur when the judgement in the
proceedings becomes final and conclusive, whichever
is the longer period.
Data security.
Added by:
L.N. 198 of 2008.

23. Data retained under this Part shall comply with the data
security principles established under the Act and shall as a
minimum (a) be of the same quality and subject to the same security
and protection as the data on the network;
(b) be subject to appropriate technical and organisational
measures to protect the data against accidental or
unlawful destruction, accidental loss or alteration, or
unlawful storage, processing, access or disclosure;
(c) be subject to appropriate technical and organisational
measures to ensure that they can be accessed by
specially authorised personnel only;
(d) except for such data as are the subject of a
conservation order, be destroyed at the end of the
applicable retention period.

Statistics.
Added by:
L.N. 198 of 2008.

24. (1) Service providers shall, in relation to the retention of
data under this Part, provide on an annual basis, the following
information to the Data Protection Commissioner (a) the cases in which information was provided under
this Part;
(b) the time elapsed between the date on which the data
were retained and the date on which the transmission
of the data was requested;
(c) any cases where requests for data could not have been
met.
(2) Any statistics provided under this regulation shall not
contain any personal data.

