RESTRICTION OF THE DATA PROTECTION
(OBLIGATIONS AND RIGHTS)

[ S.L. 586.09

1

SUBSIDIARY LEGISLATION 586.09
RESTRICTION OF THE DATA PROTECTION
(OBLIGATIONS AND RIGHTS) REGULATIONS
1st June, 2018
LEGAL NOTICE 177 of 2018.

1.
The title of these regulations is the Restriction of the
Data Protection (Obligations and Rights) Regulations.

Citation.

2.
requires:

Interpretation.

In these regulations, unless the context otherwise

"Act" means the Data Protection Act;

Cap. 586

"Commissioner" shall have the same meaning as is assigned to
it in article 3 of the Act; and
"Regulation" means Regulation (EU)
European Parliament and of the Council of 27
protection of natural persons with regard to
personal data and on the free movement of such
Directive 95/46/EC.

2016/679 of the
April 2016 on the
the processing of
data, and repealing

3.
The scope and purpose of these regulations is to apply
restrictions to certain obligations and rights provided for in Article 23
of the Regulation.

Scope and purpose.

4.
Any restriction to the rights of the data subject referred
to in Article 23 of the Regulation shall only apply where such
restrictions are a necessary measure required:

Restrictions.

(a)
for the safeguarding and maintaining of
national security, public security, defence and the international
relations of Malta;
(b)
for the prevention, detection, investigation and
prosecution of criminal offences, including measures to
combat any money laundering activity, and the execution of
criminal penalties;
(c)
for the administration of any tax, duty, fines,
fees or other money due or owing to the State, under the
Income Tax Act, the Income Tax Management Act, the Value
Added Tax Act, the Customs Ordinance, the Excise Duty Act
and the Fees Ordinance, and any other law allowing for
generating revenue in any manner for the Government of
Malta;

Cap.123.
Cap. 372.
Cap. 406.
Cap. 37.
Cap. 382.
Cap. 35.

2

[ S.L. 586.09

Cap. 318.

RESTRICTION OF THE DATA PROTECTION
(OBLIGATIONS AND RIGHTS)
(d)
for the administration of social security benefits
in accordance with the Social Security Act and where such data
has been obtained in confidence when carrying out an
investigation against fraud;
(e)
for the establishment, exercise or defence of a
legal claim and for legal proceedings which may be instituted
under any law;
(f)
for the performance of the functions of the
Commissioner;
(g)
for the delivery of professional services in
relation to the carrying out of social work or social assistance
by a public authority, public body, a voluntary organisation or
any other body delivering such services, and provided that such
data shall have been obtained in confidence specifically for the
purposes of delivering these services to the beneficiary;
(h)
for health data that is processed and where it
would be likely that the application of the rights and
obligations referred to in article 5(1) of the Act would cause
serious harm to the vital interests of the patient; or

Cap.188.
Safeguards and
retention periods.

(i)
for matters relating to Maltese citizenship
where the Minister responsible for citizenship or any person
authorised to act on his behalf, refuses an application for the
acquisition of Maltese citizenship under the Maltese
Citizenship Act.
5.
(1)
Personal data that is subject to a restriction
referred to in regulation 4 shall not be subject to processing that is
incompatible with the purposes for which such data was collected,
unless provided for by law or with the explicit consent of the data
subject.
(2) The data controller shall, pursuant to Article 32 of the
Regulation, implement appropriate technical and organisational
measures to protect personal data processed pursuant to these
regulations against accidental destruction or loss or unlawful forms of
processing.
(3) The retention period to be applied for personal data that
are processed pursuant to these regulations, shall not be longer than
what is necessary for the purpose of the processing of such personal
data or shall not be longer than the period required to achieve the aim
of the restriction, or as provided by law.

Information to data
subjects.

6.
The data controller shall inform the data subject about
any restriction provided for under these regulations:

RESTRICTION OF THE DATA PROTECTION
(OBLIGATIONS AND RIGHTS)

[ S.L. 586.09

3

Provided that such a disclosure will not be prejudicial to
the purposes of the restriction applied pursuant to these regulations.
7.
Any restriction applied under these regulations shall
respect the essence of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the
data subject and shall be a necessary and proportionate measure.

Proportionality and
necessity.

