Republic of Mauritius

INTRODUCTORY GUIDE
to the

Data Protection Act 2017

Volume 12
Data Protection Office

Tel: 460 0251
Email: dpo@govmu.org
Website: http://dataprotection.govmu.org

TABLE OF CONTENTS
INTRODUCTION

3

DEFINITIONS

3

PRINCIPLES RELATING TO PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA

4

CONSENT

6

CHILDREN

9

RIGHTS OF DATA SUBJECTS

11

RECORD OF PROCESSING OPERATIONS

16

LAWFUL PROCESSING

20

TRANSFER OF PERSONAL DATA OUTSIDE MAURITIUS

22

SECURITY OF PROCESSING

24

DATA PROTECTION IMPACT ASSESSMENT

26

PRIOR AUTHORISATION AND CONSULTATION

30

REGISTRATION OF CONTROLLERS

31

REGISTRATION OF PROCESSORS

34

ROLES OF DATA PROTECTION OFFICER

35

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONAL DATA BREACH AND
COMMUNICATION TO DATA SUBJECT

37

CERTIFICATION

39

COMPLAINTS (PROCESS OF COMPLAINTS)

42

EXCEPTIONS

44

OFFENCES AND PENALTIES

45

Data Protection Office

1

INTRODUCTION
Personal data, which is information relating to an identified or identifiable individual, is collected and
used almost everywhere and has become the oil of the twenty-first century. Personal data can be an
individual’s name or mobile number or location data, amongst others.
As the value of personal data grows, the risks to personal data inevitably increase. In addition, with rapid
technological change and innovation, controlling personal data is becoming more and more difficult
especially with data intensive online activities. A robust data protection law is therefore a must and
requires sound data management practices on entities processing data, also known as ‘controllers’.
The Data Protection Act 2017 is an accomplished effort of this office to sustain and strengthen the control
and personal autonomy of data subjects over their personal data. It has been designed to align with the
key principles found in international laws namely the EU General Data Protection Regulation.
The Data Protection Act 2017 rests on several pillars namely coherent rules, simplified procedures,
coordinated actions, user involvement and stronger enforcement powers. The Act aims at:
•

Modernising the existing data protection principles and key definitions such as consent and personal
data;

•

Introducing new concepts for better information handling such as data protection impact assessments,
notification of personal data breaches and communication to data subjects, voluntary certification
mechanisms and rights to object to automated individual decision-making, including profiling;

•

Simplifying the complaints’ mechanism and the procedures related to hearings conducted by the
Data Protection Office.

This introductory guide has been issued to assist controllers and processors to implement the provisions
of the Data Protection Act 2017. It highlights the key changes, challenges and actions that organisations
should adopt in order to achieve compliance.

DEFINITIONS
As with any legislation, certain terms have a particular meaning. The following are some key definitions:
Personal data means any information relating to a data subject.
Data subject means an identified or identifiable individual, in particular by reference to an identifier such
as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one or more factors specific
to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that individual.
Processing means an operation or set of operations performed on personal data or sets of personal
data, whether or not by automated means, such as collection, recording, organisation, structuring,
storage, adaptation or alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure by transmission, dissemination
or otherwise making available, alignment or combination, restriction, erasure or destruction.
Controller means a person who or public body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the
purposes and means of the processing of personal data and has decision-making power with respect to
the processing.
Processor means a person who, or public body which, processes personal data on behalf of a controller.
Consent means any freely given specific, informed and unambiguous indication of the wishes of a data
subject, either by a statement or a clear affirmative action, by which he signifies his agreement to personal
data relating to him being processed.
Data Protection Office

3

Special categories of personal data, in relation to a data subject, means personal data pertaining to –
(a) his racial or ethnic origin;
(b) his political opinion or adherence;
(c) his religious or philosophical beliefs;
(d) his membership to a trade union;
(e) his physical or mental health or condition;
(f) his sexual orientation, practices or preferences;
(g) his genetic data or biometric data uniquely identifying him;
(h) the commission or alleged commission of an offence by him;
(i) any proceedings for an offence committed or alleged to have been committed by him, the disposal of
such proceedings or the sentence of any Court in the proceedings; or
(j) such other personal data as the Commissioner may determine to be sensitive personal data;
Pseudonymisation means the processing of personal data in such a manner that the personal data can no
longer be attributed to a specific data subject without the use of additional information and the additional
information is kept separately and is subject to technical and organisational measures to ensure that the
personal data are not attributed to an identified or identifiable individual.
Profiling means any form of automated processing of personal data consisting of the use of personal data
to evaluate certain personal aspects relating to an individual, in particular to analyse or predict aspects
concerning that individual’s performance at work, economic situation, health, personal preferences,
interests, reliability, behaviour, location or movements.
Third party means a person or public body other than a data subject, a controller, a processor or a
person who, under the direct authority of a controller or processor, who or which is authorised to process
personal data.

PRINCIPLES RELATING TO PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
What you need to know on principles relating to processing of personal data (section 21 of the
Data Protection Act)?
The six privacy principles form the fundamental conditions which controllers must follow when collecting,
processing and managing the personal information owned by data subjects. These principles are broadly
similar to those found in Schedule 1 of the Data Protection Act 2004 but are now found under a dedicated
section in the Data Protection Act 2017. A new concept ‘Data Subjects’ rights has been introduced as
highlighted below.
Lawfulness, fairness and transparency
Personal data of data subjects must be processed lawfully, fairly, and in a transparent manner.
Example: A competition in a newspaper does not indicate that the entrants’ names and addresses may
be used in direct marketing. The email addresses would be fairly and transparently processed if the
competition entry form stated. If you wish your email address to be used for direct marketing purposes,
please tick this box.

4

Data Protection Office

Purpose limitation
Personal data must be collected for explicit, specified and legitimate purposes and not further processed
in a way incompatible with those purposes.
Example: A GP discloses his patients list to his wife, who runs a travel agency, so that she can offer
special holiday deals to patients needing recuperation. Disclosing the information for this purpose would
be incompatible with the purposes for which it was obtained.
Data minimisation
Personal data must be adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary in relation to the purposes for
which they are processed.
Example: A recruitment agency places workers in a variety of jobs. It sends applicants a general
questionnaire, which includes specific questions about health conditions that are only relevant to particular
manual occupations. It would be irrelevant and excessive to obtain such information from an individual
who is applying for an office job.
Accuracy
Personal data must be accurate and, where necessary, kept up to date; every reasonable step must be
taken to ensure that personal data that are inaccurate, having regard to the purposes for which they are
processed, are erased or rectified without delay.
Example: For example, a company that sells books to individuals online doesn’t need to regularly check
they have the correct information about them. However, if a company awards a pay increase to a staff
member, their details and salary should be checked and updated where necessary.
Storage limitation
Personal data must be kept in a form which permits identification of data subjects for no longer than is
necessary for the purposes for which the personal data are processed.
Example: An employer should review the personal data it holds about an individual when that individual
leaves the organisation. It will need to retain enough data to enable the organisation to deal with, say,
providing references or information about the individual’s pension arrangements. However, personal
data that is unlikely to be needed again should be removed from the organisation’s records.
Data Subjects’ rights
Personal data must be processed in accordance with the rights of data subjects.
Example: Data subjects have the rights to access their personal data, object to processing of their
personal data e.g. for direct marketing, have inaccurate data changed, request for specific data to
be erased or restricted their processing, lodge a complaint for data breaches and also withdraw their
consent for processing.

Data Protection Office

5

Principles relating to processing of personal data
Main Points

To do list

Controllers and processors must have legitimate
grounds for collecting data which do not have a
Review internal policies and audit procedures and
negative effect on data subjects. They must also
update these where necessary to ensure that they
provide full transparency about how they wish to
are consistent with the revised principles.
use the data, as well as ensure data is only used
in ways data subjects would legitimately expect.
Controllers and processors must be open on their
reasons for obtaining personal data and what they Ensure that appropriate training is provided to
plan to use it for. They must only use the personal ensure that the business is thinking about data
data for the purpose they originally agreed it would protection issues at all levels.
be used for.
Data must be adequate for the purpose it is being
held. Controllers and processors must avoid
holding more information than necessary.
Reasonable steps must be taken to keep the
information up to date and to change it if it is
inaccurate.
Data must be held only for the amount of time
required. Data that is out of date or no longer
necessary must be destroyed or deleted.
Data must be processed while taking into account
data subjects’ rights.

CONSENT
What you need to know on consent (section 24 of the Data Protection Act)?
“The controller shall bear the burden of proof for establishing a data subject’s consent to the processing
of his personal data for a specified purpose.”
1. What is consent?
Consent is any freely given specific, informed and unambiguous indication of the wishes of a data subject,
either by a statement or a clear affirmative action, by which he signifies his agreement to personal data
relating to him being processed.
Example: A user signs an agreement on an e-commerce website to express consent about his personal
data being used for the processing of his purchases.
2. Why is consent important?
Consent is one of the lawful base for processing of personal data.
3. Why is it important to obtain consent?
Handling consent well would guarantee individuals’ control, build customer trust and engagement and
enhance the reputation of your operations. Relying on inappropriate or invalid consent could destroy
trust, harm your reputation and might leave you exposed to substantial fines.
6

Data Protection Office

Any person who contravenes subsection 28(1) shall commit an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable
to a fine not exceeding 100,000 rupees and to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years.
4. What is different about consent?
The key elements of the definition of consent remain: it must be freely given, specific, informed, and there
must be an indication signifying agreement.
However, the DPA 2017 is clearer that the indication must be unambiguous and involve a clear affirmative
action. This definition is only the starting point for a new standard of proof for consent.
5. How has consent been catered for in the DPA 2017?
Several new provisions on consent contain more detailed requirements. There are various conditions for
consent, with specific provisions on keeping records of consent and the right to withdraw consent.
In essence, there is a greater emphasis in the new DPA on individuals having clear, granular choices
upfront and ongoing control over their consent.
6. What are the benefits of getting consent right?
Basing your processing of customer data on DPA-compliant, consent means giving individuals genuine
choice and ongoing control over how you use their data, and ensuring that your organisation is transparent
and accountable.
7. What are the benefits of organisations to get consent right?
Getting this right should be seen as essential to good customer service and legal compliance: it will
put people at the center of the relationship and can help build customer confidence and trust. This
can enhance your reputation, improve levels of engagement and encourage use of new services and
products. It’s one way to set yourself apart from the competition.
8. What will happen if there is no valid consent?
Handling personal data badly, including relying on invalid or inappropriate consent, can erode trust in
your organisation and damage your reputation. Individuals will not want to engage with you if they think
they cannot trust you with their data; you do things with it that they don’t understand, want or expect; or
you make it difficult for them to control how it is used or shared.
9. What is the obligation of controllers?
There is a need to review your consent mechanisms to make sure that they meet the requirements on
being specific, granular, clear, prominent, opt-in, documented and easily withdrawn.
10. How to ensure that the consent (as expressed by the data subject) meet the legal requirements?
•
•
•
•

Consent should be specific, informed and unambiguous, by setting out the purpose of the various
phases of the processing.
At the time of collection, data subjects should be informed about the right to withdraw consent at any
time.
Consent should be easy to withdraw without affecting the lawfulness of processing.
Consent should be verifiable.

Data Protection Office

7

11. Are there circumstances when consent is not required?
Yes. No person shall process personal data unless:(a) the data subject consents to the processing for one or more specified purposes;
(b) the processing is necessary –
(i) 	for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is a party or in order to take steps at
the request of the data subject before entering into a contract;
(ii)

for compliance with any legal obligation to which the controller is subject;

(iii) in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject or another person;
(iv) 	for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority
vested in the controller;
(v)

the performance of any task carried out by a public authority;

(vi) the exercise, by any person in the public interest, of any other functions of a public nature;
(vii) 	for the legitimate interests pursued by the controller or by a third party to whom the data are
disclosed, except if the processing is unwarranted in any particular case having regard to the
harm and prejudice to the rights and freedoms or legitimate interests of the data subject; or
(viii) for the purpose of historical, statistical or scientific research.
Consent

Main Points
Consent is any freely given specific, informed and
unambiguous indication of the wishes of a data
subject, either by a statement or a clear affirmative
action, by which he signifies his agreement to
personal data relating to him being processed.

To do list
Unbundled: Consent requests must be separate
from other terms and conditions. Consent should
not be a precondition for signing up to a service
unless it is necessary for that service.

Ensure that you are clear about the grounds for
Active opt-in: pre-ticked opt-in boxes are not valid:
lawful processing relied on by your organisation
Use unticked opt-in boxes or similar active opt-in
and check that these grounds will still be applicable
methods.
under the DPA 2017.
Basing your processing of customer data on
DPA-compliant consent means giving individuals
genuine choice and ongoing control over how you
use their data and ensuring your organisation is
transparent and accountable.
Consent should be easy to withdraw without
affecting the lawfulness of processing.

8

Data Protection Office

Granular: give granular options to consent
separately from different types of processing
wherever appropriate.
Named: name your organisation and any third
parties who will be relying on consent.
Documented: keep records to demonstrate what
the individual has consented to, including what
they were told, when and how they consented.

CHILDREN
What you need to know on children (section 30 of the Data Protection Act)?
“No person shall process the personal data of a child below the age of 16 years unless consent is given
by the child’s parent or guardian.
Where the personal data of a child below the age of 16 years is involved, a controller shall make every
reasonable effort to verify that consent has been given or authorised, taking into account available
technology.”
1. What is new regarding children?
Children’s personal data now enjoys specific protection under the DPA 2017 especially when you are
collecting their personal data and using it for marketing purposes or creating personalities or user profiles.
2. What rights do children have?
Children have the same rights as adults over their personal data. They can exercise their own rights as
long as they are competent to do so. Where a child is not considered to be competent, an adult with
parental responsibility may exercise the child’s data protection rights on their behalf.
3. Who will give consent for children?
For children under 16, you need to get consent from whoever holds parental responsibility for them. You
may therefore need to verify that anyone giving their own consent in these circumstances is old enough
to do so and doing so in the interests and benefits of the child.
4. What precautions should be taken regarding children?
If you process children’s personal data, or think that you might, then you should consider the need to
protect them from the outset and design your systems and processes with this in mind.
5. What approach should be used regarding children?
You should not usually make decisions about children based solely on automated processing if this will
have a legal or similarly significant effect on them. The circumstances in which the DPA 2017 allows you
to make such decisions are limited and only apply if you have suitable measures to protect the interests
of the children in place.
If you profile children then you must provide them with clear information about what you are doing with
their personal data. You should not exploit any lack of understanding or vulnerability.
Fairness and compliance with the data protection principles should be central to all your processing of
children’s personal data. It is good practice to consult with children when designing your processing.
6. What should be understood by children?
When relying on consent, you must make sure that the children understand what they are consenting
to and that you do not exploit any imbalance in power in the relationship between the children and
the controller. You must write clear and age-appropriate privacy notices for children. The right to have
personal data erased is particularly relevant when the individual gave his consent to processing when
he was a child.

Data Protection Office

9

7. What do you need to think about when choosing a basis for processing children’s personal
data?
As with adults, you need to have a lawful basis for processing children’s personal data and you need to
decide what that basis is before you start processing.
You can use any of the lawful bases for processing set out in the DPA 2017 when processing children’s
personal data.
8. What if you wish to rely upon consent as your lawful basis for processing?
If you wish to rely upon consent as your lawful basis for processing, then you need to ensure that the
children can understand what they are consenting to, otherwise consent would not be ‘informed’ and is
therefore invalid.
9. What if you wish to rely upon performance of a contract?
If you wish to rely upon ‘performance of a contract’ as your lawful base for processing, then you must
consider the children’s competence to agree to the contract and to understand the implications of this
processing.
10. What if you wish to rely upon legitimate interests as lawful basis for processing?
If you wish to rely upon legitimate interests as your lawful base for processing, you must balance your
own (or a third party’s) legitimate interests in processing the personal data against the interests and
fundamental rights and freedoms of the children.
This involves a judgement as to the nature and purpose of the processing and the potential risks it poses
to children. It also requires you to take appropriate measures to safeguard against those risks.
Children

Main Points

To do list

A child’s personal data now merits particular Consider whether rules on children are likely to
protection under the DPA 2017.
affect you.

For children under 16, you need to get consent Where services are offered directly to children,
from whoever holds parental responsibility for ensure notices are drafted clearly with a child’s
them.
understanding in mind.
Ensure any reliance on “legitimate interests” to
You must make reasonable efforts (using available
justify processing children’s data is backed up
technology) to verify that the person giving consent
by a careful and documented consideration of
does, in fact, hold parental responsibility for the
whether children’s interests override those of your
child.
organisation.
Consent should be easy to withdraw without
affecting the lawfulness of processing.
As with adults, you need to have a lawful basis
for processing children’s personal data and you
need to decide what that basis is before you start
processing.
10 Data Protection Office

Where online services are provided to a child and
consent is relied on as the basis for the lawful
processing of his data, consent must be given or
authorised by a person with parental responsibility
for the children. This requirement applies to
children under the age of 16.

RIGHTS OF DATA SUBJECTS
What you need to know on the rights of data subjects (sections 37 to 41 of the Data Protection Act
2017)?
“Every controller shall, on the written request of a data subject provide, at reasonable intervals, without
excessive delay and, subject to subsection (7), free of charge, confirmation as to whether or not personal
data relating to the data subject are being processed and forward to him a copy of the data.”
1. What is different in the DPA 2017?
The rights to access, rectify, erase and restrict processing have been enhanced. New provisions have
been made to cater for decisions which are based on automated processing and the right to object to the
processing of personal data by data subjects.
2. What does “fair and transparent” processing means?
The principle of “fair and transparent” processing means that the controller must provide relevant
information to the individual about the processing of his data, unless the individual already has this
information.
3. What must a controller inform individuals about the personal data collected?
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

The purpose/s for which the data are being collected;
The intended recipients of the data;
Whether or not the supply of the data by that data subject is voluntary or mandatory;
The existence of the right to withdraw consent at any time, without affecting the lawfulness of
processing based on consent before its withdrawal;
The existence of the right to request from the controller access to and rectification, restriction or
erasure of personal data concerning the data subject or to object to the processing;
The existence of automated decision making, including profiling, and information about the logic
involved, as well as the significance and the envisaged consequences of such processing for the
data subject;
The period for which the personal data shall be stored;
The right to lodge a complaint with the Commissioner;
Where applicable, that the controller intends to transfer personal data to another country and on the
level of suitable protection afforded by that country; and
Any further information necessary to guarantee fair processing in respect of the data subject’s
personal data, having regard to the specific circumstances in which the data are collected.

4. When must the controller provide these details about the personal data collected?
Where the controller obtains personal data directly from the individual, the latter should be informed
about the details (section 23) at the time the data are being collected.
Where the controller does not obtain personal data directly from the individual, the latter should be
informed about these details (section 23) within a reasonable period of having obtained the data.

Data Protection Office 11

5. What are the rights of information and access of data subjects?
An individual has the following rights:
•
•
•

to obtain confirmation whether his/her personal data are being processed;
to access the data (i.e. to a copy); and
to be provided with supplemental information about the processing.

Access rights are intended to allow individuals to check the lawfulness of processing and the right to
have a copy of their personal data. However, these rights should not adversely affect the rights of others.
6. How should the request be handled?
A written request must be provided by the data subject. The controller should provide the information,
at reasonable intervals, without excessive delay and free of charge, confirmation as to whether or not
personal data relating to the data subject are being processed and forward to him a copy of the data.
In case the request is manifestly excessive, the controller may charge a fee for providing the information
or taking the action requested, or else the requested action will not be taken.
7. What should be done for the rights of information and access of data subjects?
The controller must also use reasonable means to verify the identity of the person making the request but
should not keep or collect data just so as to be able to meet subject access requests. These points are
particularly pertinent to online services.
Individuals can require a controller to rectify inaccuracies in personal data held about them. In some
circumstances, if personal data are incomplete, an individual can require the controller to complete the
data or to record a supplementary statement.
8. When is the controller not required to provide for the rights of information and access to data
subjects?
Where the personal data are not or have not been collected from the data subject, the controller shall not
be required to provide information where the processing is expressly prescribed by law or this proves to
be impossible or involves a disproportionate effort.
9. What rights of rectification do data subjects have?
•
•
•

Rectify inaccuracies in personal data held about them.
Complete incomplete data
Record a supplementary statement.

10. In what circumstances does the controller need to erase personal data of data subjects?
•
•
•
•

The data are no longer necessary in relation to the purpose for which they were collected or otherwise
processed.
The data subject withdraws consent on which the processing is based and where there is no other
legal ground for the processing.
The data subject objects to the processing of personal data and there are no overriding legitimate
grounds for the processing.
The personal data have been unlawfully processed.

12 Data Protection Office

11. What happens if the controller has made the data public?
The controller should inform third parties processing the personal data about the request of data subjects
for the erasure of any links to, or copy or replication of, their personal data.
12. What should be done for the right to erasure and right to restriction of processing of data
subjects?
•
•
•

Ensure that members of staff and suppliers who may receive data erasure requests recognise them
and know how to deal with them.
Determine if you work in a sector where compliance with erasure requirements would be so
unreasonable that exemptions should be sought.
Determine if systems are able to meet the requirements to mark data as restricted whilst complaints
are resolved: undertake development work if needed.

13. When should the controller not comply to the request for rectification and erasure?
•
•
•
•

For reasons of public interest in the field of public health
For the purpose of historical, statistical or scientific research
For compliance with a legal obligation to process the personal data to which the controller is subject
or for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority
vested in the controller; or
For the establishment, exercise or defence of a legal claim.

14. When should the controller restrict processing following the request of data subjects?
•
•
•
•

The accuracy of the personal data is contested by the data subject and processing should be
restricted for the period during which the controller can verify the accuracy of the data.
The controller no longer needs the personal data for processing but the data subject requires them
for the establishment, exercise or defence of a legal claim.
The processing is unlawful and the data subject opposes the erasure of the personal data and
requests the restriction of their use instead.
The data subject has objected to the processing pursuant to section 41 pending verification as to
whether the legitimate grounds of the controller override those of the data subject.

15. How should the processing of restricted personal data be handled?
Except for storage purposes, the personal data should only be processed with the data subject’s consent
or for the establishment, exercise or defence of a legal claim, the protection of the rights of another
person or for reasons of public interest. The controller should inform the data subject before lifting the
restriction on processing of the personal data.
According to section 39 (7), the controller shall implement mechanisms to ensure that the time limits
established for the rectification, erasure or restriction of processing of personal data, or for a periodic
review of the need for the storage of the personal data, are observed.
16. What are the rights to object of data subjects?
The data subject has the right to object in writing at any time to the processing of personal data concerning
him.
The data subject has to the right to object to direct marketing which includes profiling.

Data Protection Office 13

17. What is profiling?
Profiling is any form of automated processing of personal data consisting of the use of personal data
to evaluate certain personal aspects relating to an individual, in particular to analyse or predict certain
aspects concerning that person’s performance at work, economic situations, health, personal preferences,
interests, reliability, behaviour, location or movement.
18. When are the restrictions concerning decisions taken regarding individuals through automated
processing waived?
Subject to section 38 (1), every data subject shall have the right not to be subject to a decision based
solely on automated processing, including profiling, which produces legal effects concerning him or
significantly affects him unless it is:
•
•
•

necessary for entering into, or performing, a contract between the data subject and a controller
authorised by a law to which the controller is subject to and which lays down suitable measures to
safeguard the data subject’s rights, freedoms and legitimate interests; or
based on the data subject’s explicit consent.

Any automated processing of personal data intended to evaluate certain personal aspects relating to an
individual should not be based on special categories of personal data.
Furthermore, the information to be provided by the controller under section 23 (collection of personal
data) should include information as to the existence of processing for a decision of the kind referred to
subsection in 38 (1) and the envisaged effects of such processing on the data subject.
In addition, the controller should implement suitable measures to safeguard the data subject’s rights,
freedoms and legitimate interests.
19. To whom are the rights to individuals conferred to?
•
•
•

Where the data subject is a minor, by a person who has parental authority over the child or has been
appointed as his guardian
Where the data subject is physically or mentally unfit, by a person who has been appointed as his
guardian or legal administrator by a Court; or
In any other case, by a person duly authorised in writing by the data subject to make a request.

20. What are the obligations of Controllers?

Action

Timing

Inform data subjects without undue delay and at
latest within one month.

1. To comply with request for information and
access
Period may be extended by a further month where
necessary, taking into account the complexity and
the number of requests made.
Inform data subjects within 1 month of request
whether actions have been taken or not.
Inform data subjects of the reason/s for the refusal
3. Where a controller refuses to take action on the
and on the possibility of lodging a complaint with
request of a data.
the Commissioner within one month.
4. When a request for rectification, erasure or
Without undue delay
restriction of processing is received.
2. When request is received

14 Data Protection Office

Rights of Data Subjects

Main Points

To do list

•

Controllers must provide information notices to
ensure transparency of processing.

Controllers must, on request:
confirm if they process an individual’s personal
data
• provide a copy of the data
• provide supporting explanatory materials.
Access rights are intended to allow individuals to
check the lawfulness of processing and the right
to have a copy of their personal data. However,
the rights should not adversely affect the rights of
others.
Data subjects have the rights to rectification,
erasure and restriction of processing of their
personal data.
Data subjects have the rights for individuals to
object to the processing of personal data like
direct marketing which includes profiling.

Use reasonable means to verify the identity of the
person making the request.
Consider developing data subjects access portals,
to allow direct exercise of subject access rights.
Take the required action without undue delay and
inform the data subjects accordingly.
Ensure that members of staff and suppliers who
may receive data erasure requests recognise them
and know how to deal with them.
Determine if you work in a sector where
compliance with erasure requirements would be so
unreasonable that exemptions should be sought.
Determine if systems are able to meet the
requirements to mark data as restricted to find a
solution if it is not the case.
Data protection notices and policies are required
to ensure that individuals are told about their right
to object, clearly and separately, at the point of
‘first communication’.
For online services, ensure there is an automated
way for this to be effected.
Review marketing suppression lists and processes
(including those operated on behalf of your
organisation by partners and service providers) to
ensure they are capable of operating in compliance
with the DPA 2017.
Ensure that automated decision-taking is lawful
and explicit.

Data Protection Office 15

RECORD OF PROCESSING OPERATIONS
What you need to know on Records of Processing Operations (section 33 of the Data Protection
Act)?
“Every controller or processor shall maintain a record of all processing operations under his or its
responsibility.”
1. What are the duties of controllers/processors with regard to records of processing?
Controllers and processors have a duty to document what personal data they hold, where it came from
and how they share it with. The DPA requires you to maintain records of these processing activities. Each
controller and processor is obliged to cooperate with the Data Protection Office and make those records,
on request, available to it, for monitoring those processing operations.
2. How to know what records to keep?
You may need to organise an information audit across the organisation or within particular business areas
and ensure that all access to personal data are carried out with a particular business purpose.
3. How to keep the records?
A template is provided for this purpose to ease the task of controllers and processors which is available
on our website under Documents and Forms section. You may use it or design your own one.
It consists of numerous fields to facilitate the task of the data protection officer. There is also a nonexhaustive list of possible values to assist in filling some of the fields.

16 Data Protection Office

Data Protection Office 17

18 Data Protection Office

Case scenario:
An organisation has the following business operations where personal data are processed: sales/
invoicing, marketing and finance.
Analysis:
After carrying an audit of the personal data processed, 3 rows of business process have to be filled for
all the compulsory fields in the template provided. The other non-compulsory fields may be filled by the
data protection officer.
4. Why keep these records?
Such records should be considered as one of the tools enabling the Data Protection Officer to perform his
tasks of monitoring compliance, informing and advising the controller or the processor.

Data Protection Office 19

5. How to measure the effectiveness of policies and mechanisms?
Controllers and processors should have effective policies and procedures in place and communicate
them to all employees. Training may need to be given to all employees to ensure that they understand the
legal implications of unauthorised processing.
A fine-grained audit trail should be implemented in the organisation so that unauthorised access can be
traced easily. Management reports may be viewed regularly to ensure compliance by employees.
Example: If you have inaccurate personal data and have shared this with another organisation, you will
have to inform the other organisation about the inaccuracy so that it can correct its own records.
6. Is it an offence not to keep records of processing operation?
Yes, a controller/processor shall on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding 100,000 rupees and to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years.
Record of processing operations

Main Points

To do list

It is an offence not to keep the records of processing
operations and is liable to a fine not exceeding Make the records of processing operations
100,000 rupees and to imprisonment for a term not available on request of the Data Protection office.
exceeding 5 years.
It may be required during an audit of the Data Use the provided template or design your own. All
Protection Office.
compulsory fields have to be filled.
Keeping records of processing operations is Carry out an audit of the processing activities in
the organisation.
compulsory.

LAWFUL PROCESSING
What you need to know on lawful processing (section 28 of the Data Protection Act)?
“no person shall process personal data unless a. the data subject consents to the processing for one or more specified purposes;
b. the processing is necessary - ………”
Section 28 of the Data Protection Act 2017 lays down the conditions that must be satisfied for processing
of personal data to be lawful.
1. Do we need to consider the various types of data processing?
You must identify the lawful basis for your processing activity, document it and update your privacy notice
to explain it. Under the Data Protection Act 2017, some individuals’ rights will be modified depending on
your lawful basis for processing their personal data.
Example: The most obvious example is that people will have a stronger right to have their data deleted
where you use consent as your lawful basis for processing.

20 Data Protection Office

2. Is it necessary to explain the lawful basis for processing personal data?
Yes, especially when you have to answer an individual (a data subject) access request.
3. Do we need to review the types of processing operations?
You must be able to review the types of processing activities you carry out and to identify your lawful
basis for doing so.
4. Why must we document our lawful bases?
You must document your lawful bases for processing in order to demonstrate compliance with the
“accountability principle”. You are expected to put into place comprehensive but proportionate
governance measures.
5. What needs to be considered for a new processing purpose?
A controller must consider assessing whether a new processing purpose is compatible with the purpose
for which the data were initially collected. Where such processing is not based on consent, or on the
provisions under sections 28(1)(b) and 44 of the Data Protection Act 2017, the following factors must be
taken into account in order to determine compatibility:
a. any link between the original and proposed new purpose/s;
b. the context in which data have been collected (in particular the relationship between individuals and
the controller);
c. the nature of the data (particularly whether they are special categories of personal data);
d. the possible consequences of the proposed processing; and
e. the existence of safeguards (including encryption or pseudonymisation).
6. Is there any specific fine applicable to lawful processing?
Yes, any person who contravenes section 28(1) shall be liable to a fine not exceeding 100, 000 rupees
and to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years.
Lawful Processing:

Main Points

To do list

Section 28 sets out the conditions that must be You must ensure that the criteria for lawful
satisfied for processing of personal data to be processing can be monitored or met and verify
lawful.
whether these conditions are applicable.
Ensure that the quality of consent meets the new
There are new limitations on the use of consent
legal requirements (please refer to section on
and the processing of children’s personal data.
‘consent’ above).
There is a non-exhaustive list of factors to You must make sure that your internal governance
be considered when determining whether processes enable you to demonstrate how
the processing of data for a new purpose is decisions to use data for further processing
incompatible with the purposes for which the data purposes have been reached and that relevant
factors have been taken into account.
were initially collected.

Data Protection Office 21

TRANSFER OF PERSONAL DATA OUTSIDE MAURITIUS
What you need to know on transfer of personal data outside Mauritius (section 36 of the Data
Protection Act)?
“Controller or processor may transfer personal data to another country where –
(a) he or it has provided to the Commissioner proof of appropriate safeguards with respect to the protection
of the personal data;
(b) the data subject has given explicit consent to the proposed transfer, after having been informed of the
possible risks of the transfer owing to the absence of appropriate safeguards;
(c) the transfer is necessary –
(i) for the performance of a contract between the data subject and the controller or the implementation
of pre-contractual measures taken at the data subject’s request;
(ii) for the conclusion or performance of a contract concluded in the interest of the data subject
between the controller and another person;
(iii) for reasons of public interest as provided by law;
(iv) for the establishment, exercise or defence of a legal claim; or
(v) in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject or of other persons, where the data subject
is physically or legally incapable of giving consent; or
(vi)for the purpose of compelling legitimate interests pursued by the controller or the processor which
are not overridden by the interests, rights and freedoms of the data subjects involved and where –
(A) the transfer is not repetitive and concerns a limited number of data subjects; and
(B)the controller or processor has assessed all the circumstances surrounding the data transfer
operation and has, based on such assessment, provided to the Commissioner proof of
appropriate safeguards with respect to the protection of the personal data; or
(d) the transfer is made from a register which, according to law, is intended to provide information to
the public and which is open for consultation by the public or by any person who can demonstrate a
legitimate interest, to the extent that the conditions laid down by law for consultation are fulfilled in the
particular case.”
1. When can personal data be transferred outside Mauritius?
Personal data may only be transferred outside of Mauritius when the conditions for transfer are as set out
in section 36 of the Data Protection Act.
2. What types of organisations are concerned?
All controllers and processors that engage in transfer outside Mauritius.
Example: Organisations using online IT services, cloud-based services, remote access services, global
HR databases or organisations in the Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) sector, amongst others.
3. Does the country to which the data is transferred and the circumstances of the transfer ensure
an adequate level of protection?
Having established that there is a transfer of personal data to another country, the controller or processor
must then ask whether that country ensures an adequate level of protection to the personal data taking
into account all the circumstances of the transfer.

22 Data Protection Office

4. Does this section apply if a business outsources one of its activities to a processor outside
Mauritius?
Increasingly, controllers are using processors in other countries to carry out processing on their behalf.
A transfer to a processor in that country will fall under this section.
Where a transfer is made to the processor in that country by the controller, the controller is still responsible
for protecting individuals’ rights under the Mauritian Data Protection Act.
5. Can the Commissioner prohibit a transfer?
Yes. In order to protect the rights and fundamental freedoms of data subjects, the Commissioner may
prohibit, suspend or subject the transfer to such conditions as he may determine.
6. Am I liable to any sanction/s if I do not comply with this section of the Data Protection Act?
Yes. Any person shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding 200,000 rupees and to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 5 years.
Transfer of Personal Data outside Mauritius

Main Points

To do list

At the time of collection of personal data, inform the
Transfer of personal data to another country
data subject of eventual transfer and the purpose/s
continue to be regulated under the new Act.
for such transfer.
A controller or processor must provide proof of
appropriate safeguards to the Commissioner
before transferring personal data to another
country.
In the absence of appropriate safeguards, the
data subject should provide his consent (explicit)
after having been informed of the possible risks of
the transfer.
Section 36 (1) (c) provides other conditions where
transfer can be made, for example for the conclusion
of contract, public interest requirements, amongst
others.

Identify all circumstances in which personal data
are transferred to recipients located outside
Mauritius.
Consider what security or other appropriate
safeguards you have in place and whether these
will continue to be necessary.
Review
questions
included
in
standard
procurement templates and contract clauses
to ensure that information about your supplier’s
proposed transfer of personal data for which you
are responsible is understood and conducted in a
compliant way.
Provide proof to the Data Protection Office
regarding safeguards implemented for the transfer
by filling in the Transfer of Personal Data Form,
whenever required.

Data Protection Office 23

SECURITY OF PROCESSING
What you need to know on Security of Processing (section 31 of the Data Protection Act)?
“A controller or processor shall, at the time of the determination of the means for processing and at the
time of the processing implement appropriate security and organisational measures for the prevention
of unauthorised access to, the alteration of; the disclosure of; the accidental loss of; and the destruction
of and the data in his control.”
1. What does the Data Protection Act say about the security of processing?
The Data Protection Act says that:
Appropriate security and organisational measures shall be implemented for the prevention of unauthorised
access to, the alteration of; the disclosure of; the accidental loss of; and the destruction of and the data
in his control.
In practice, the Act requires personal data to be processed in a manner that ensures its security. Before
deciding what level of security is right, there is a need to assess the risks to the personal data that the
company is holding and choose security measures that are appropriate to the needs of the organisations.
Example: An organisation holds information about individuals’ health which could cause damage or
distress to those individuals if it falls into the hands of others. The organisation’s information security
measures should focus on any potential threat to the information or to the organisation’s information
systems.
2. Why should I worry about the security of personal data?
Information/ personal data security breaches may cause real harm and distress to the individuals they
affect – lives may even be put at risk.
Example: The harm caused by the loss or abuse of personal data includes: identity fraud, fake credit
card transactions, intimidation, etc.
3. What kind of security measures might be appropriate?
Depending on the nature of processing, these measures may include:
• Pseudonymisation and encryption of the personal data;
• Maintaining ongoing confidentiality, integrity, availability, access, and resilience of processing
systems and services;
• Restoring the availability of and access to personal data, in the event of a physical or technical
incident;
• Testing and evaluating the effectiveness of technical and organisation measures.
4. What is pseudonymisation?
A new definition, which refers to the technique of processing personal data in such a way that it can no
longer be attributed to a specific “data subject” without the use of additional information, which must be
kept separately and be subject to technical and organisational measures to ensure non-attribution.
The use of pseudonymisation is encouraged, for instance, on personal data served for historical scientific
research or for statistical purposes.

24 Data Protection Office

5. What are the consequences when a processor is involved?
Where a processor is involved, this often causes security problems. Particular care is needed because
the controller will be held responsible under the Data Protection Act for what the processor does with the
personal data.
Therefore, controllers should:
•
•
•

ensure processors will treat their information securely - establish data processing contracts and
ensure they contain necessary data protection related clauses;
establish protocols to allow periodic security reviews of the security arrangements in place to provide
assurances of compliance to contract/agreement; and
if a processor is used to erase data and dispose of or recycle ICT equipment, make sure they do it
adequately.

6. What should I do if there is a security breach?
Respond and manage the incident appropriately. This office recommends controllers and processors to
have a policy on dealing with information security breaches. Refer to the part on notification of personal
data breach for more information on how to handle a breach.
7. Am I liable to any sanction/s if I do not comply with this section of the Data Protection Act?
Yes. Any person shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding 200,000 rupees and to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 5 years.
Security to Processing

Main Points

Personal data must be processed in a manner
that ensures appropriate security of the personal
data, including protection against unauthorised or
unlawful processing and against accidental loss,
destruction or damage, using appropriate security
(technical) or organisational measures.

To do list

A good starting point is to establish and implement
a robust Information Security Policy which details
the approach to:
• information security(network and physical
security, access controls, email and internet
usage among others);
• the technical and organisational measures that
These measures include: pseudonymisation and
need to be implemented and
encryption of the personal data; on-going reviews
• the roles and responsibilities staff have in
of security measures; redundancy and backup
relation to keeping information secure.
facilities; and regular security testing.
Look to continually minimise the amount and type
When selecting a measure, the controller must
of data you collect, process and store, such as
have regard to these four criteria: the state of
by undertaking regular information and internal
technological development available; costs, risks
process audits across appropriate areas of the
and nature of the data being processed.
business.
The Act contains special provisions when
Pseudonymise the personal data where appropriate
a processor is involved such as choosing a
to render the data records less identifying and
processor that provides sufficient guarantees
therefore reduce concerns with data sharing and
about its security measures and written contracts
data retention.
to be signed.
Reasonable steps should be taken to ensure all
Create, review and improve your data security
staff is aware of, and complies with, the relevant
features and controls on an ongoing basis.
security measures. For example: Training.
Data Protection Office 25

DATA PROTECTION IMPACT ASSESSMENT
What you need to know on Data Protection Impact Assessment (section 28 of the Data Protection
Act)?
“(1) Where processing operations are likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of data
subjects by virtue of their nature, scope, context and purposes, every controller or processor shall,
prior to the processing, carry out an assessment of the impact of the envisaged processing operations
on the protection of personal data.
(2) The processing operations referred to in subsection (1) are - …….
(3) An assessment shall include - …..…
(4) Where appropriate, the controller or processor shall seek the views of data subjects on the intended
processing……..”
A Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) is seen as a valuable tool for businesses and governments as it
enables them to make informed choices pertaining to privacy rights. It has always been good practice to
adopt this tool as it assists organisations to determine effectively how personal data is being managed
and processed. The Data Protection Act 2017 makes the PIA an express legal requirement, where the
controller or processor needs to carry out an assessment of the impact of data processing.
Accordingly, a Data Protection Impact Assessments (DPIA), also known as the Privacy Impact
Assessment (PIA), is mandatory in certain circumstances. In other words, a DPIA is required in situations
where data processing is likely to result in high risk to the rights and freedoms of individuals, for
example (but is not limited to):
•
•
•

where profiling operations are likely to significantly affect individuals;
where there is processing on a large scale of special categories of data, for instance a hospital
processing its patients’ genetic and health data across all its branches (hospital information system);
or
where there is a systematic monitoring of a publicly accessible area on a large scale.

Example: Such processing operations may include a bank that screens its customers against a credit
reference database, or a medical company offering genetic tests directly to consumers in order to assess
and predict disease / health risks, or a new data processing technology is being introduced, or a company
building behavioural or marketing profiles based on usage or navigation on its website.
1. What does a DPIA address?
•

A DPIA can be useful for assessing multiple / single processing operations that are similar in terms of
the risks presented, provided adequate consideration is given to the specific nature, scope, context
and purposes of the processing. This may also apply to scenarios where comparable technology is
used to collect the same sort of data for the same purposes;

Example: A transport operator may cover video surveillance systems in all its stations / buses / trains with
a single DPIA.
•

A DPIA can be used to assess the data protection impact of a technology product, for example a
piece of hardware or software. Thus, the controller developing or deploying the product remains
obliged to perform its own DPIA. Nevertheless, other controllers using this particular product may also
perform their own DPIA.

26 Data Protection Office

2. When is a DPIA not required?
•

where the processing operation is likely to present lower levels of risk;

•

if special categories of data, such as medical records, are not processed systematically and on a
large scale, then such processing operations may not automatically present high risks to the rights
and freedoms of individuals;

Example: A medical doctor in a one-person practice may not be considered large scale or a company
organising a corporate event and needs to know what kind of food the invitees are allergic to, may not
carry out a DPIA.

•

when the nature, scope, context and purposes of the processing are very similar to the processing for
which a DPIA have already been carried out. In such cases, results of the DPIA for similar processing
can be used;

•

where the provisions under section 44 of the Data Protection Act 2017 are met;

	Nonetheless, in cases where it is not clear whether a DPIA is required, the Data Protection Office
recommends that a DPIA is performed as it is a useful tool to help controllers or processors comply
with data protection law.
3. Who will do the DPIA?
•

Under section 34 of the Data Protection Act 2017, every controller or processor must perform an
assessment of the impact of the envisaged processing activities on personal data being safeguarded.

•

In cases where the processing operation involves controllers and processors, they will need to define
their respective obligations precisely. Their DPIA must set out which party is responsible for the
various measures designed to treat risks and to protect the rights and freedoms of individuals.

•

If the processing is wholly or partly performed by a processor, then that processor must assist the
controller in carrying out the DPIA. It may also be appropriate to seek the views of data subjects
(individuals) in certain circumstances.

4. Who else needs to be involved?
Where a DPIA indicates that the processing may result in a high risk and the controllers or processors are
unable to mitigate those risks by reasonable means, they will be required to consult the Data Protection
Office to seek its opinion as to whether the processing operations comply with the Data Protection Act
2017.
5. At what moment a DPIA needs to be performed?
A DPIA must be carried out prior to processing, in other words, the DPIA must be started as early as
practically possible in the design of the processing activities even if some of the processing operations
are still unknown.

Data Protection Office 27

6. Why should we perform the DPIA as early as possible?
DPIA incorporates the principles relating to processing of personal data by taking into consideration
privacy by design principles. It also fosters projects to be compliant with privacy and data protection at
the outset to avoid potential breaches.
Likewise, privacy by design helps controllers and processors to comply with their obligations under the
Data Protection Act.
Example: For instance, when building new IT systems for storing or accessing personal data, developing
legislations / strategies that have privacy implications, or embarking on a data sharing initiative.
Privacy by design approach is an essential tool for minimising privacy risks and building trust as this can
lead to increase awareness of privacy and data protection across a company.
7. When should we review a DPIA?
•

Where a significant change to the processing operations have occurred, for example a new technology
has been implemented or personal data is being used for different purpose/s. In these instances, the
processing in effect becomes a new data processing operation and may require a DPIA;

•

When the context or components of processing operations evolve, for instance the functionalities,
purposes, risk sources, new vulnerabilities / threats may arise or there is a change of the risks
presented by the processing operations.

•

In cases where the organisational context for the processing activity has changed, such as personal
data is intended to be transferred outside Mauritius and such data is likely to present high risks, or
effects of some automated decisions have become more significant, or new categories of individuals
become vulnerable to discrimination.

In general, it is a good practice to continuously perform a DPIA on existing processing activities.
Nevertheless, depending on the nature of the processing as well as the rate of change in the processing
operations or any other circumstances and the risks for the rights and freedoms are still mitigated, a
DPIA may be re-assessed after 3 years, for instance the use of intelligent video analysis systems to
automatically recognise license plates.
In some cases the DPIA will be an on-going process, for example where a processing operation is
dynamic and subject to ongoing change. A DPIA must be carried out on a continual process and not a
one-time exercise.
8. How to perform a DPIA?
•

The Data Protection Act 2017 sets out the minimum features of a DPIA:
a.
b.
c.
d.

a description of the envisaged processing operations and the purposes of the processing;
an assessment of the necessity and proportionality of the processing;
an assessment of the risks to the rights and freedoms of data subjects;
the measures envisaged must address:
i. the risks and the safeguards, security measures, mechanisms to ensure protection of personal
data;
ii. demonstrate compliance with the Data Protection Act 2017.

28 Data Protection Office

•

The following figure demonstrates the iterative process for carrying out a DPIA:

•

In risk management terms, a DPIA aims at “managing risks” to the rights and freedoms of natural
persons, using the following three processes, by:
a. e
 stablishing the context: taking into account the nature, scope, context and purposes of the
processing and the sources of the risk;
b. assessing the risks: assess the particular likelihood and severity of the high risk;
c. treating the risk: mitigating that risk and ensuring the protection of personal data, and demonstrating
compliance with the Data Protection Act 2017.

9. What is the best methodology to carry out the DPIA?
•

The Data Protection Act 2017 provides controllers or processors with flexibility to determine the
precise structure and form of the DPIA in order to allow for it to fit with existing working practices.
However, whatever its form, a DPIA must be a genuine assessment of risks, allowing controllers or
processors to take measures to address them.

•

There are a number of different methodologies that can be used to assist in the implementation of the
basic requirements set out in the Data Protection Act 2017. However, any criteria that have been used
must meet the standards required by the Data Protection Act 2017.

•

The Data Protection Office has designed a “Data Protection Impact Assessment Questionnaire” that
can help controllers or processors to assess their compliance status. Furthermore, this office will also
publish a list of processing operations where a DPIA will be considered mandatory.

•

Controllers or processors are encouraged to familiarise themselves with the Privacy Compliance
Assessment Web Application (PCA Web App) which is available on this office’s website http://
dataprotection.govmu.org/English/Publications/Pages/Privacy-Compliance-Assessment.aspx.
This PCA Web App comprises simple questions and multiple choice answers with the purpose to
obtain a complete picture of the structure of personal information flows within an organisation so that
appropriate compliance procedures can be put in place to ensure that the organisation deals with
personal data in accordance with data protection legislations and best practices.
Data Protection Office 29

Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA):

Main Points

To do list

A DPIA is required in situations where data
You must start to assess the situations where it will
processing is likely to result in high risks to
be necessary to conduct a DPIA.
individuals.
You must adopt internal policies and implement
Businesses have a general obligation to implement measures which help your organisations comply
appropriate technical and organisational measures with the principles relating to processing of
to show that they have considered and integrated personal data.
data protection into their processing activities.
It is recommended that you undertake a DPIA
in cases where it is unclear whether doing so is
DPIA can help you identify the most effective way required.
to comply with your data protection obligations
An effective DPIA will allow you to identify and
and meet individuals’ expectations of privacy.
fix problems at an early stage, reducing the
associated costs and damage to reputation which
If a DPIA indicates that the data processing is high
might otherwise occur.
risk, and you cannot sufficiently address those
You will be required to consult the Data Protection
risks.
Office to seek its opinion as to whether the
The Data Protection Office will publish a list
processing operation complies with the Data
of processing operations where DPIA will be
Protection Act 2017.
mandatory and has designed a “Data Protection
Impact Assessment Questionnaire” that can You familiarise yourself with the Privacy Compliance
help controllers or processors to assess their Assessment Web Application (PCA Web App)
which is available on this office’s website.
compliance status.

PRIOR AUTHORISATION AND CONSULTATION
What you need to know on prior authorisation and consultation (section 35 of the Data Protection
Act)?
“Every controller or processor shall obtain authorisation from the Office prior to processing personal data
in order to ensure compliance of the intended processing with this Act and in particular to mitigate the
risks involved for the data subjects where a controller or processor cannot provide for the appropriate
safeguards referred to in section 36 in relation to the transfer of personal data to another country.”
1. When shall authorisation be sought from the Data Protection Office?
When a processing operation is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of an individual or
where a controller or processor cannot provide for the appropriate safeguards referred to in section 36 in
relation to the transfer of personal data to another country.
Example: The processing of health data on a large scale is considered as likely to result in a high risk.
2. Should I provide the Data Protection Impact Assessment to the Data Protection Office?
Yes. This should be provided in order to allow the Office to make an assessment of the compliance of the
processing and in particular of the risks for the protection of personal data of the data subject and of the
related safeguards where the DPIA indicates high risk to the rights and freedoms of data subject.

30 Data Protection Office

Prior authorisation and consultation

Main Points

Controller or processor must obtain authorisation
from the Office prior to processing personal data
to ensure compliance of the intended processing
with the Act and in particular to mitigate the risks
involved for the data subjects where it cannot
provide for the appropriate safeguards referred to
in section 36.

To do list
Identify your responsibilities as controller and
processor who are involved in the processing.
Determine the purposes and means of the intended
processing.

Perform a data protection impact assessment
The Office may prohibit the intended processing if provided for in section 34.
it is of the view that the intended processing does
not comply with the Act, in particular where risks Communicate the above information to the Data
are insufficiently identified or mitigated.
Protection Office and be ready to provide other
information.

REGISTRATION OF CONTROLLERS
What you need to know on Registration of Controllers (sections 14-20 of the Data Protection Act)?
‘‘... no person shall act as controller or processor unless he or it is registered with the Commissioner...’’
1. Why do I have to register?
Section 14 of the Data Protection Act clearly makes it a legal requirement for controllers to register with
the Data Protection Office.
2. Am I liable to any sanction/s if I do not comply with the registration requirement of the Data
Protection Act?
Yes. Any person shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding 200,000 rupees and to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 5 years.
3. Who should register?
By definition a “controller” means a person who or public body which, alone or jointly with others,
determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data and has decision making power
with respect to the processing.
Example: A school, medical practitioner, société, barrister, ministry, public bodies, private companies
such as insurance company/bank, amongst others.
4. Do I have to register if I am a dormant company?
Yes, in most cases. For instance, you may have personal data of shareholders and directors (nonsalaried). In the case that you are a one-man business and dormant, you need to seek advice for specific
circumstances regarding registration with the Data Protection Office.

Data Protection Office 31

5. How do I register?
The ‘Controller Application Form for registration’ available on the office website at http://dataprotection.
govmu.org must be completed and sent to the Data Protection Commissioner. The form includes the
following:

Figure 1: Particulars of Controller Application Form
6. If I have 100 employees or 10000 customers, do I have to list each one of them in the form?
No. You do not have to give actual names of people in the form. Rather, you have to list the DESCRIPTION/
TYPES of personal data. For example, name, national identity card number, qualification, fingerprint data,
car number, bank account number, amongst others, are types of data.

32 Data Protection Office

Case Scenario:
Example: A school has 50 teachers and 800 students. When a teacher is appointed at the school, he
needs to submit his/her name, copy of National Identity Card Number, qualification details, bank account
number, copy of birth certificate and curriculum vitae which is kept by the Human Resource Department.
Similarly, when a student is admitted to the school, the student provides his/her name, the name of his/her
parents and a copy of his/her birth certificate which are recorded in the student’s database at the school.
Analysis:
When the school registers as Controller with the Data Protection Office, the school will provide ONLY the
types of information kept in the section ‘Description of personal data processed’ as follows:
Staff - Name, National Identity card number, qualification, bank account number, birth certificate,
curriculum vitae.
Students – name of student, name of parents, birth certificate.
7. Am I liable to any sanction/s if I provide any false or misleading information when providing the
particulars in the Controller Application Form?
Yes. A controller shall on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding 100,000 rupees and to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 5 years.
8. Do I need to pay when I register?
Yes. The fees payable are available on the office website at http://dataprotection.govmu.org.
9. How do I receive a registration certificate?
After being duly registered as controller with the Data Protection Office, you will be issued a registration
certificate in such form and manner as the Commissioner may determine.
10. What is the validity period of a registration certificate?
The registration certificate is valid for 3 years.
11. Is the registration certificate renewable after 3 years?
Yes. You may apply for renewal of the registration certificate not later than 3 months before the date of its
expiry. The Commissioner shall, on such terms and conditions as prescribed and on payment of such
fee as prescribed, issue the new registration certificate to you.
12. Can the Commissioner cancel or vary the terms and conditions of a registration certificate?
Yes, subject to certain conditions. However, prior to cancelling or varying the terms and conditions of the
certificate, the Commissisoner will require by notice in writing the holder of a certificate to show cause
within 14 days of the notice why the registration certificate should not be cancelled or its terms and
conditions should not be varied.
13. What happens if there are any change in particulars after I have registered, such as change of
name?
The controller must notify the Commissioner in writing of the nature and date of the change within 14 days
of the date of the change.
Data Protection Office 33

14. What happens if I do not notify any change in particulars to the Data Protection Office?
The controller shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding 50,000 rupees.
15. Does the Data Protection Office keep a list of registered controllers?
Yes. The Data Protection Commissioner keeps and maintains a Data Protection Register of controllers.
The register shall at all reasonable times be available for inspection by any person free of charge. Any
person may also on payment of a prescribed fee obtain a certified copy of or an extract from any entry
in the register.
Registration of controllers

Main Points

To do list

Registration of controllers is compulsory under the Review and make a list of all types of personal data
being processed.
Data Protection Act.
Ensure you have adequate security measures to
Controllers must submit ‘Controller Application protect personal data. Additional safeguards must
Form for registration’ to the Data Protection Office. be implemented for special categories of personal
data.
After being registered as controller, a registration Ensure all disclosures of personal data are carried
certificate is issued.
out in accordance with the Data Protection Act.
The registration certificate is valid for 3 years and
Designate an officer responsible for data protection
is renewed on payment of a prescribed fee not
compliance issues.
later than 3 months before the date of expiry.
The
Commissioner
may
under
certain
Ensure data is processed according to the purpose
circumstances cancel or vary the terms and
specified.
conditions of a registration certificate.
Controllers must notify the Commissioner in writing
Check that transfers for personal data abroad are
of any change in particulars within 14 days of the
in compliance with the Data Protection Act.
date of the change.
The Commissioner keeps and maintains a register Verify that your registration and renewal obligations
as controller are up to date.
of controllers.

REGISTRATION OF PROCESSORS
What you need to know on Registration of Processors (sections 14-20 of the Data Protection Act)?
‘‘... no person shall act as controller or processor unless he or it is registered with the Commissioner.’’
“Processor” means a person who, or public body which, processes personal data on behalf of a
controller.
Example: Company ‘XYZ’ is involved in e-commerce business. All servers of Company ‘XYZ’ are hosted
locally by Company ‘ABC’ in its data centre and the latter manages the servers on behalf of Company
‘XYZ’. Therefore, Company ‘ABC’ is the processor and Company ‘XYZ’ is the controller.
34 Data Protection Office

Part III of the Data Protection Act 2017 lays down the conditions for registration of controllers and
processors. Thus, a processor shall, pursuant to section 14 of the new Data Protection Act, register with
the Data Protection Office.
Please refer to section ‘Controller Registration’ (above) for additional information regarding ‘Registration
of Processors’ as same principles apply under sections 14 to 20 of the Data Protection Act 2017. In this
part we will cover specific items pertaining to processors only.
1. I’m already registered as a controller, should I register as a processor?
In case you are processing personal data on behalf of a controller, you must register as a processor with
the Data Protection Office. As per example above, Company ‘ABC’ must also register as processor with
this office.
2. What are my obligations as a processor?
You must comply with Part IV of the Data Protection Act 2017, thereby ensuring (amongst others):
a. implementation of appropriate security and organisational measures;
b. provision of sufficient guarantees in respect of security and organisational measures;
c. a written contract which needs to provide that:
i. the processor shall act only on instructions received from the controller; and
ii. the processor shall be bound by obligations devolving on the controller under section 31(1) of
the Data Protection Act 2017
d. that any person employed by the controller or processor are aware of and comply with relevant
security measures.
3. What happens if a processor processes personal data other than instructed by a controller?
The processor will be considered to be a controller in respect of that processing.

ROLES OF DATA PROTECTION OFFICER
What you need to know on data protection officer? (Section 22 2(e) of the Data Protection Act)?
“(1) Every controller shall adopt policies and implement appropriate technical and organisational measures
so as to ensure and be able to demonstrate that the processing of personal data is performed in
accordance with this Act.
(2) The measures referred to in subsection (1) shall include –
(a) implementing appropriate data security and organisational measures in accordance with section
31;
(b) keeping a record of all processing operations in accordance with section 33;
(c) performing a data protection impact assessment in accordance with section 34;
(d) complying with the requirements for prior authorisation from, or consultation with the Commissioner
pursuant to section 35; and
(e) designating an officer responsible for data protection compliance issues”
1. Is it mandatory to appoint a data protection officer in the organisation?
Yes. According to section 22 (2) (e) of the Data Protection Act, controllers and processors shall designate
an officer responsible for data protection compliance issues.
Data Protection Office 35

2. What are the roles of the data protection officer?
The data protection officer should work independently, report to the highest management level and have
adequate resources to enable the controller or the processor to meet its obligations under the Data
Protection Act.
The following illustrates the minimum tasks that a Data Protection Officer should carry out. However the
controller/processor can add on more tasks to meet their business requirements:
•
•
•

Inform and advise the controller/processor and its employees about their obligations to comply with
the DPA and other data protection laws.
Monitor compliance with the DPA and other data protection laws, including managing internal data
protection activities, advise on data protection impact assessments, train staff and conduct internal
audits.
Be the first point of contact for the Data Protection Office and for individuals whose data are processed
(employees, customers, amongst others).

3. Can we allocate the role of data protection officer to an existing employee?
Yes. As long as the professional duties of the employee are compatible with the duties of the data
protection officer and do not lead to a conflict of interests.
Controller/processor can also contract out the duties of the data protection officer externally subject to a
rigorous contract establishing appropriate safeguards regarding protection of personal data processed
by the controller/processor.
4. Does the data protection officer need specific qualifications?
The Data Protection Act does not specify the qualifications a data protection officer is expected to have,
however, this office recommends that a data protection officer should have professional experience
and knowledge of data protection laws. This should be proportionate to the type/s of processing your
organisation carries out, taking into consideration the level of protection the personal data requires.
Roles of Data Protection Officer

Main Points

To do list

Appointing a data protection officer is mandatory.

Determine whether to appoint a data protection
officer and define his role.

A single data protection officer may be appointed Establish who the data protection officer should
for a group of companies depending on their report to, most preferably the management level
i.e. the board.
structure and size.
A data protection officer operates independently Adequate resources are to be provided to enable
and is not to be dismissed or penalised for data protection officer(s) to meet the company’s
obligations under the Act.
performing their tasks.

36 Data Protection Office

NOTIFICATION OF PERSONAL DATA BREACH AND COMMUNICATION TO DATA
SUBJECT
What you need to know on notification of a personal data breach and communication to data
subject (sections 25 and 26 of the Data Protection Act)?
‘‘In the case of a personal data breach, the controller shall without undue delay and, where feasible, not
later than 72 hours after having become aware of it, notify the personal data breach to the Commissioner...’’
‘‘Subject to subsection (3), where a personal data breach is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and
freedoms of a data subject, the controller shall, after the notification referred to in section 25, communicate
the personal data breach to the data subject without undue delay...’’
1. What is a personal data breach?
A breach of security leading to the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration, unauthorised
disclosure of, or access to, personal data transmitted, stored or otherwise processed.
Example: An intruder steals a device containing a controller’s customer database and misuses it to
impersonate the customers.
2. When does a controller/processor becomes ‘‘aware’’ of a personal data breach?
Sometimes, it might be clear right from start whilst at other times, a quick preliminary investigation will
help to determine whether a breach has occurred. It can be associated to a point where the controller
has a reasonable degree of certainty that a breach has occurred. The focus is to take prompt action to
investigate whether a breach has occurred or not.
Example: A controller suspects that his network has been accessed by an intruder. He quickly verifies
and finds that his data has been compromised. Clearly, the controller is now ‘aware’ of a personal data
breach.
3. What is the obligation of processors?
To notify the controller without any undue delay as soon as the processor becomes aware of the personal
data breach.
4. What is the obligation of controllers?

Action

Timing

1. To notify the personal data breach to the Data
Without undue delay and, where feasible, not later
Protection Commissioner.
than 72 hours after having become aware of it.
2. To communicate the personal data breach to
the data subject where a personal data breach
is likely to result in a high risk to the rights and
freedoms of a data subject.
Without undue delay after notifying the Data
(Note: Please also check the circumstances where Protection Commissioner.
communication to data subjects is not required as
described at point 8.)

Data Protection Office 37

5. What happens if I cannot meet the timing delay of 72 hours to report to the Data Protection
Commissioner?
Reasons for the delay will have to be provided to the Data Protection Commissioner.
6. How do I report a personal data breach to the Data Protection Commissioner?
The ‘Personal Data Breach Notification Form’ available on the office website at http://dataprotection.
govmu.org must be completed and sent to the Data Protection Commissioner.
The form includes prescribed requirements such as nature of the personal data breach, including where
possible, the categories and approximate number of data subjects and the categories and approximate
number of personal data records concerned, contact details of a contact point and the measures to
address the breach and to mitigate the adverse effects of the breach.
It is to be noted that after a controller submits a notification to the Data Protection Office, if the controller
finds some further evidence that he deems necessary to communicate to the Office or the controller finds
that there was no breach itself, the controller should update the Data Protection Office in light of new
findings.
7. How can a communication to a data subject be made?
Describe in clear language the nature of the personal data breach and the facts relating to the personal
data breach, its effects and the remedial action taken.
8. Are there circumstances where communication to data subjects is NOT required?
Yes. Communication to data subjects is not required when:
•
•
•

 ppropriate technical and organisational protection measures were already in place before the
A
breach occurred such as encryption techniques which rendered the data unintelligible to any
person not authorised to access it;
The controller has taken subsequent measures to ensure that the breach is unlikely to result in a
high risk to the rights and freedoms of the data subjects. The controller at this stage can also refer
to the Data Protection Impact Assessment carried out to verify the potential harm;
It would involve disproportionate effort and the controller has made a public communication or
similar measure whereby a data subject is informed in an equally effective manner.

9. Am I liable to any sanction/s if I do not comply with the notification of a personal data breach
requirement of the Data Protection Act?
Yes. Any person shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not exceeding 200,000 rupees and to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 5 years.
In addition to any penalty referred to above, the Court may –
•
•

 rder the forfeiture of any equipment or any article used or connected in any way with the
o
commission of an offence;
order or prohibit the doing of any act to stop a continuing contravention.

38 Data Protection Office

Notification of personal data breach and communication to data subject

Main Points

To do list

Make sure you have appropriate technical and
A processor must report a personal data breach to
organisational protection measures to protect data
the controller.
and also adequate techniques such as encryption
to minimise the adverse effect of a breach.
Controllers must report the personal data breach
to the Data Protection Commissioner and in certain Determine whether to set up a breach response
team for addressing incident identification systems
circumstances to data subjects.
and incident response plans.
There is a time limit for reporting a personal data
To regularly review and update all procedures for
breach to the Data Protection Commissioner.
addressing breaches.
Reasons for any delay in reporting the breach must Be careful not to destroy evidence that may be
be provided to the Data Protection Commissioner. valuable in determining the cause or allow you to
take appropriate corrective action.
There are some specific cases where controllers
do not have to communicate the personal data Determine whether any other external third party/
breach to data subjects.
ies need to be notified to limit the potential impact.
Controllers must submit the ‘Personal Data Breach
Notification Form’ to report to the Data Protection Determine whether a review of employee training
Commissioner.
practices is required.
Document all information regarding the breach to
avoid any re-occurrence.

CERTIFICATION
What you need to know on Certifications (section 48 of the Data Protection Act)?
1. What is the purpose of a certification mechanism?
The concept of certifying data processing operations is a significant development in creating a reliable
and auditable framework for data processing operations.
A certification mechanism is a way of demonstrating that you comply, in particular, showing that you are
implementing technical and organisational measures.
A certification mechanism may also be established to demonstrate the existence of appropriate safeguards
related to the adequacy of data transfers.
They are intended to allow individuals to quickly assess the level of data protection of a particular product
or service.
2. Am I liable to any sanction/s if I do not obtain the certification under the Data Protection Act?
No. Certifications are voluntary. Recommendations will be issued by the Data Protection Office for
ensuring compliance unless other sections of the Data Protection Act have been breached.
Data Protection Office 39

3. Does the absence of certification or failure in receiving certification have any negative effect on
the controllers or processors?
Having no certification does not mean that an organisation is less likely to be compliant. However the
goodwill of the company may be affected.
In addition, being unsuccessful in receiving a certification from the DPO or generally withdrawing from
the certification application process is not sanctioned by the DPO, nor in itself carries negative inferences
with respect to compliance.
4. Who is responsible for certification mechanisms?
The Data Protection Office encourages the establishment of certification mechanisms to enhance
transparency and compliance with the Data Protection Act 2017.
Certifications will be issued by the Data Protection Office.
5. How do I apply for certification?
The application form will be available on the office website. While filling in the application form, controllers
or processors must provide all relevant information about processing activities they seek to certify, type/s
of personal data, details about processing purpose, organizational and security measures in place
to enable the Data Protection Office to conduct the certification procedure. Subsequently, the Data
Protection Office will arrange for an audit with the controllers or processors.
6. Do I need to pay when I apply for certification?
No. Certifications are free.
7. What does the certification process consist of?
The data protection officers will conduct an audit on the arranged date at the controllers’ or processors’
premises to verify whether the controllers’ or processors’ processing activities comply with the Data
Protection Act. Following the audit, the data protection officers will write a report about their findings and
will decide if certification can be granted. If yes, certification with seal will be remitted to the controllers
or processors.
Otherwise, corrective actions will be recommended to the controllers or processors to be implemented
in a number of days.
8. What is the validity period of a certification?
A certification is valid for 3 years.
9. Is the certification renewable after 3 years?
Yes. You may apply for renewal of the certification before the date of its expiry.
10. Can the certification be cancelled?
Certifications are subject to withdrawal where the conditions for issuing the certificates are no longer met.

40 Data Protection Office

11. What are the benefits of certifications?
Benefits for individuals
Certifications carry tangible benefits for individuals.
•
Create trust
Certifications have the potential of increasing individuals’ trust and confidence in a certified organisation’s
handling of their personal data. This in turn may result in individuals’ wanting to engage more with a
certified organisation and participating in the digital economy more freely.
• Greater transparency
Certification ensures better transparency of processing practices of the organisation, making it easier for
individuals to understand and assess relevant data practices and their merits.
• Effective privacy protection
Individuals may regard certification as a demonstration of commitment to and compliance with effective
and rigorous data protection and complaint resolution practices. Adherence to certification mechanisms
by organisations ultimately may deliver better compliance and outcome for individuals, with their data
being more effectively protected.
Benefits for Certified Organisations
If implemented effectively, certifications may convey a number of key benefits to organisations.
•

Demonstrate accountability and compliance
Certification is an element of demonstrating compliance and accountability with the Data Protection
Act 2017. This is an internal benefit vis-à-vis management, the board and shareholders. It also benefits
an organisation externally in its relationships with the Data Protection Office, individuals, clients and
business partners. It builds confidence and trust in the organisation with these external stakeholders, as
well as with the wider public.
•
Enabling cross-border data transfers
Certified organisations are recognised as providing adequate privacy protection thus giving legal certainty
for cross-border data transfers. This particularly eases business for the ICT-BPO industry, in particular in
terms of free flow of data from EU or other parts of the world to Mauritius.
Certifications

Main Points

To do list

The Data Protection Office encourages the
establishment of data protection certification Controllers or processors wishing to be certified
must apply for certification with the Data Protection
mechanisms, seals and marks.
Office.
Certifications are voluntary but enable controllers
and processors to demonstrate compliance with
the Data Protection Act.
Certificates will be issued by the Data Protection
Office.
Certifications will be valid for three years and
subject to renewal.
Certifications will be withdrawn if the requirements
of the certification are no longer met.

Data Protection Office 41

COMPLAINTS (PROCESS OF COMPLAINTS)
What you need to know on Complaints (section 6 of the Data Protection Act)?
“Where a complaint is made to the Commissioner that this Act or any regulations made under it, has or
have been, is or are being, or is or are about to be, contravened, the Commissioner shall –
(a) investigate into the complaint or cause it to be investigated by an authorised officer, unless he is of
the opinion that the complaint is frivolous or vexatious; and
(b) where he is unable to arrange, within a reasonable time, for the amicable resolution by the parties
concerned of the complaint, notify, in writing, the individual who made the complaint of his decision
in relation to it so that the individual may, where he considers that he is aggrieved by the decision,
appeal against it under section 51.
…
the Commissioner shall regulate the handling of complaints, investigations and conduct of hearings in
such manner as he may determine.”
1. The complaint process
Complaint is the process where controllers or data subjects have the opportunity to exercise their rights
under the Data Protection Act. The outline process is explained using the following flowchart.

Outline Process Steps

Start

Receive Complaint

Record statement of Respondent

Send to Commissioner for advice

Cross examination of the parties

Contact complainant for statement

Compile Investigation Report

Record statement of Complainant

Communicate decision to
complainant and respondent

Contact Respondent for Statement

File the case

End
42 Data Protection Office

2. How long does the complaint takes?
Depending on the complexity of the cases, it may take 3 months to one year or more. It also depends on
collaboration of all parties and availability/gathering of evidences.
3. What is the result of the complaint?
It can be one of the following:
•
•

an amicable resolution between the parties concerned.
an offence being filed at the Office of the Director of Public Prosecution where the latter will decide
if the offence has to be tried before a court or not.

4. Is the Decision of the Commissioner appealable?
Yes, it is appealable at the ICT Appeal Tribunal set up under section 35 of the Information and
Communication Technologies Act.
Complaints (Process of Complaints)

Main Points

To do list

Complaint is a means to seek redress for the data
subject from the controller or processor.
File the complaint on the appropriate form. Submit
the statement form duly signed.
There can be amicable resolution or an offence
being tried with the consent of the Director of
Public Prosecution
Respond to all queries from the Data Protection
The decision of the Commissioner is appealable at Office.
the ICT appeal Tribunal.

Data Protection Office 43

EXCEPTIONS
What you need to know on the types of processing of personal data which are exempted from this
Act (sections 3(4) and 44)?
Section 3(4)
“…
This Act shall not apply to –
(a) 
the exchange of information between Ministries, Government departments and public sector
agencies where such exchange is required on a need-to-know basis;
(b) the processing of personal data by an individual in the course of a purely personal or household
activity.
Section (44)
(1) No exception to this Act shall be allowed except where it constitutes a necessary and proportionate
measure in a democratic society for –
(a) subject to subsection (4), the protection of national security, defence or public security;
(b) the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of an offence, including the execution of a
penalty;
(c) an objective of general public interest, including an economic or financial interest of the State;
(d) the protection of judicial independence and judicial proceedings; or
(e) the protection of a data subject or the rights and freedoms of others.
(2) The processing of personal data for the purpose of historical, statistical or scientific research may be
exempt from the provisions of this Act where the security and organisational measures specified in
section 31 are implemented to protect the rights and freedoms of data subjects involved.
(3) Where this section has been breached, a data subject or the Commissioner may apply for a Judge’s
order to protect the rights of individuals.
(4) (a) Personal data shall be exempt from any provision of this Act where the non-application of such
provision would, in the opinion of the Prime Minister, be required for the purpose of safeguarding
national security, defence or public security.
(b) In any proceedings in which the non-application of any provision of this Act on grounds of national
security, defence or public security is in question, a certificate under the hand of the Prime Minister
certifying that the non-application of the provision is required for the purpose of safeguarding
national security, defence or public security shall be conclusive evidence of that fact.”
1. Which type of processing personal data are exempted from the Data Protection Act?
In general, processing of personal data constitutes a necessary and proportionate measure in a
democratic society for the following reasons:•
•
•
•
•

the protection of national security, defence or public security
the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of an offence, including the execution of a
penalty
an objective of general public interest, including an economic or financial interest of the State
the protection of judicial independence and judicial proceedings
the protection of a data subject or the rights and freedoms of others.

44 Data Protection Office

2. Are there other situations where exceptions are allowed?
The processing of personal data for the purpose of historical, statistical or scientific research is exempted
provided that the security and organisational measures are implemented to protect the rights and
freedoms of data subjects involved. The controller or processor has a duty to secure the data to prevent
its unlawful disclosure.
3. How to secure the data as mentioned in point 2 above?
Appropriate technology has to be used such as pseudonymisation or encryption.
4. Is personal data for domestic purposes exempted under this act?
Yes, the processing of personal data by an individual in the course of a purely personal or household
activity is exempted.
A person has a list of contact numbers in 4 of his personal devices such as smartphone, tablet, desk
computer and laptop which he uses for his household personal activity. This processing is exempted
from the purview of the Data Protection Act.
5. Is personal data processed by Ministries and Government exempted under this Act?
Yes, it is exempted to ease the burden cast on citizens. Therefore, the exchange of information between
Ministries, Government departments and public sector agencies where such exchange is required on a
need to know basis is exempted under this Act.

OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
What you need to know on offences and penalties under the Data Protection Act?
There are various offences and criminal penalties under this Act which, in general if committed, is
sanctioned by a court of law. They are listed in the following tables:
Offences

Penalties

Section 6: Investigation of Complaints
Liable to a fine not exceeding 50, 000 rupees and
Any person who fails to attend a hearing or to
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years.
produce a document or other material when
required to do so.

Section 7: Power to require information
Any person who fails or refuses to comply with a
Liable to a fine not exceeding 50, 000 rupees and
requirement specified in a notice, or who furnishes
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years.
to the Commissioner any information which he
knows to be false or misleading in a material
particular
Data Protection Office 45

Section 9: Enforcement notice

Liable to a fine not exceeding 50, 000 rupees and
Any person who fails or refuses to comply with an to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years.
enforcement notice of the Commissioner

Section 12: Obstruction of Commissioner or
authorised officer
Any person who obstructs or impedes the
Commissioner or an authorised officer in the
Liable to a fine not exceeding 50, 000 rupees and
exercise of the power of entry and search or fails
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years.
to provide assistance or information requested by
the Commissioner or authorised officer or refuses
to allow the Commissioner or an authorised officer
to enter any premises or to take any person with
him in the exercise of his functions.

Section 15: Application for registration
Liable to a fine not exceeding 100, 000 rupees and
Any controller or processor who knowingly supplies
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years.
any information, during registration, which is false
or misleading in a material particular

Section 17: Change in particulars
Any controller or processor who fails to notify a
change in particulars

Section 28: Lawful processing
Any person who process personal data unlawfully

46 Data Protection Office

Liable to a fine not exceeding 50, 000 rupees.

Liable to a fine not exceeding 100, 000 rupees and
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years.

Section 29: Special categories of personal data

Liable to a fine not exceeding 100, 000 rupees and
Any person who processes special categories of to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years.
data unlawfully

Liable to a fine not exceeding 200, 000 rupees and
Section 43: Offence for which no specific
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 5 years.
penalty provided
A Court may also order the forfeiture of any
equipment or any article used or connected in any
Any person who commits an offence under this Act
way with the commission of an offence or order or
for which no specific penalty is provided or who
prohibit the doing of any act to stop a continuing
otherwise contravenes this Act
contravention.

Section 49: Confidentiality and oath
Liable to a fine not exceeding 50, 000 rupees and
Any person who, without lawful excuse divulge any
to imprisonment for a term not exceeding 2 years.
confidential information obtained in the exercise of
Protection from liability also applies.
a power or in the performance of a duty under this
Act

Data Protection Office 47

