Unofficial translation

Approved by
Government Decision
No. 1123 of 14.12.2010

Requirements
for the assurance of personal data security at their processing within the
information systems of personal data
I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
1. The Requirements for the assurance of personal data security at their processing
within the information systems of personal data (Requirements) have the main purpose
to lay down minimum rules for the development and implementation by the personal
data holders/persons empowered by personal data holders with necessary technical and
organizational measures for the security, confidentiality and the integrity of personal
data, processed in the information systems of personal data and/or kept in a manual
register, in accordance with Law no.17-XVI of 15 February 2007 on personal data
protection (Official Gazette of the Republic of Moldova of 27.07.2007, no.107-111,
art.468) and Law no. 71-XVI of 22.03.2007 on registers (Official Gazette of the
Republic of Moldova of 25.05.2007, no.70-73 art.314).
2. These requirements create necessary framework for the application of the
Convention for the Protection of Individuals with regard to Automatic Processing of
Personal Data entered in Strasbourg on 28 January 1981, published in the European
Treaty Series, no.108, ratified by the Republic of Moldova through Parliament Decision
no. 483 - XIV of 02.07.1999.
3. According to these Requirements, the following definitions can be defined:
Authentication: verifying the identifier assigned to the subject of access, confirmation
of authentication;
Security control: - actions taken by the personal data holders or the National Center for
Personal Data Protection (hereinafter- Center), in order to verify and/or ensure an
adequate security level of the personal data processed within information systems
and/or kept in a manual register, in accordance with these Requirements;
Temporary files: a set of data or digital information created for a period of time before
the initiation of tasks they were assigned;
Identification: allocation of an identifier to subjects and objects of access and/or
comparing presented identifier with a list of assigned identifiers;
Integrity: certainty, non contradictoriness and actuality of the information containing
personal data, protecting it from damage and unauthorized modification;

Means of cryptographic protection of information containing personal data: technical
means, software and technical applied ones, systems and complex systems making the
conversion of cryptogrammic algorithms information containing personal data intended
to ensure information integrity and confidentiality in its processing, storage and
transmission through communication channels;
Protection level: security level proportional to risk that involves the processing to these
personal data, as well as human rights and freedoms, established according to
Requirements, set up and updated to the level of technological development and
implementation costs of these measures (N-1 or N-2);
Security policy of personal data: document worked up by personal data holder which
provides an accurate description of security strategies and protection features selected
for data security, taking into account potential threats to processed personal data and
real risks to which they are exposed;
Security perimeter: area that is in itself a cross barrier for access provided with physical
and/or technical control means;
The person responsible for security policy of personal data: responsible person for the
proper functioning of the complex system of protection of information containing
personal data, as well as elaboration, implementation and monitoring compliance with
security policy of personal data holder;
Information protection against unintended actions: set of measures aimed at
preventing unintended actions, caused by user errors, technical means defects, natural
phenomena or other causes that are not directly aimed at modification of information,
but which lead to the distortion, destruction, copying, blocking of access to information,
as well as the loss, destruction or damage of material support of information containing
personal data;
Personal data carrier: magnetic, optic, laser, paper or other support of information, on
which the document is created, attached, transmitted, received, maintained or otherwise
used, that allows its reproduction;
Restoring data: procedures on restoring personal data in the state they were up to the
moment of their loss or destruction;
Informational Technology (IT): all the methods, procedures and means of processing
and transmitting of information containing personal data and its implementing rules;
User: a person that acts under the authority of personal data holder with an
acknowledged access to information systems of personal data;
Working session: Period, lasting since the computer and application of informational
resource is turned on and is in usage, or from the moment of start-up of information
resource, until their turn off;
Information system of personal data: all interrelated information resources and
technologies, methods and personnel, intended for storage, processing and provision of
personal data information;
Storage: keeping on any type of support the personal data.

II. GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
4. The measures to protect personal data, is a part of work of creation, development and
operation of information system of personal data that will be carried out continuously
by all personal data holders.
5. Personal data protection in information systems of personal data will be ensured by a
complex of technical and organizational measures for the prevention of unauthorized
processing of personal data.
6. Measures of personal data protection processed in information system of personal
data will be accomplished taking into account the need to ensure confidentiality of such
measures.
7. Implementation of any measures and works with the use of information resources of
personal data holder would be prohibited in cases when will not be adopted and
implemented appropriate measures for personal data protection.
8. All information resources of personal data holders, containing personal data will be
protected, including:
1) magnetic, optical, laser or other electronic information support, mass information and
data bases;
2) information systems, networks, operating systems, databases management systems
and other applications, telecommunication systems, including both means of producing
and copying documents and other technical means of information processing.
9. Personal data protection in information systems of personal data will be ensured in
order to:
1) prevent the flow of information containing personal data through exclusion method
of unauthorized access to it;
2) prevent personal data unauthorized destruction, modification, copying, blocking in
telecommunication network and information resources;
3) compliance with regulatory framework for using information system and software for
personal data processing;
4) ensure personal data completeness, integrity and correctness in telecommunication
systems and informational resources;
5) preserve management options of personal data processing and storage.
10. Personal data protection processed in information systems will be accomplished
through such methods as:
1) preventing unauthorized connections to telecommunication networks and
interception using technical means of personal data transmitted through this networks;
2) exclusion of unauthorized personal data processing;

3) prevent special technical and program actions which make possible personal data
destruction, modification or other damages during technical and program work;
4) prevent indented and/or unintended actions of domestic and/or external users, as
well as other employees of personal data holders that make possible personal data
destruction, modification or other damages during technical and program work.
11. Prevention of leakage of information containing personal data, transmitted through
liaison channels, will be provided using methods of ciphering this information,
including organizational, technical and regime measures.
12. Prevention of unauthorized access to personal data information that circulates or is
kept in technical means will be provided by the use of special technical and program
means, their ciphering, including organizational measures and regime ones.
13. Preventing personal data destruction, modification or software failure in operation
for personal data processing, will be ensured by using methods of special technical and
program means, including use of licensed programs, antivirus programs, organizing
control systems of software security and regular backup execution.
14. The order of access to personal data information processed in information systems
will be determined by personal data holder, in accordance with the law.
III. SECURITY POLICY OF PERSONAL DATA
15. Each personal data holder, based on the specific activity, will elaborate and organize
the implementation of document provisions which establish security policy of personal
data, including the procedures and measures related to implementation of this policy by
applying practical solutions with a level of proportional complexity and detailing, for
users identification and authentication; the reaction to security incidents, IT and
communication protection; to ensure personal data and IT information integrity; access
management; audit and evidence insurance, taking into account:
1) category of processed personal data and processing operations performed onto them
(as to the appendix no.1 and no.2 of these Requirements);
2) dimension of personal data holder, depending on the number of employees, number
of administrative subdivisions, geographical location of subdivisions or subsidiaries,
etc., including the number of people who can access personal data;
3) forms for keeping Registers in which personal data are processed (manual, electronic
or mixed);
4) the complexion of personal data information systems and application programs
involved in data processing;
5) risks to which are exposed personal data holder or people with processed personal
data, the state of play of technological development in this field and the cost of
implementing measures.

16. Security policy of personal data will be reviewed at least once a year, as a result of
changes or reassessment of its components and approved at the highest level of
hierarchy of the responsible persons of the personal data holder.
In order to ensure awareness to everyone the security policy of personal data, this
document will be made aware to users and other employees of personal data holders,
within functional skills and level of granted access.
17. Personal data holder will nominate a responsible person for elaboration,
implementing and monitoring compliance with the provisions of security policy of
personal data, directly subordinated to the head of institution that will not have other
responsibilities incompatible with the functional tasks of policy implementation.
18. The person responsible for security policy of personal data will have sufficient
resources (time, human resources, equipment and budget) and will have free access to
necessary information to perform his functions at the extent he does not operate outside
the framework of this policy.
19. The person responsible for security policy of personal data will ensure that different
responsibilities regarding security policy of personal data will be clearly defined
(prevention, surveillance, detection and processing), as well as operating with them,
outside pressure as a result of personal interests or other circumstances.
20. Personal data holders shall take the following actions:
1) will clearly define the responsibilities and management process of personal data
security, with their proper integration into the overall organizational and functional
structure;
2) will allocate sufficient financial, technical and organizational resources necessary to
organize management process of personal data security;
3) will elaborate procedures for classifying information containing personal data so that
it would be possible to draw up a classification catalogue and all processed personal
data would be located there, no matter of the type of data carrier;
4) will train people involved in personal data processing in order to meet the functional
duties and responsibilities for security of personal data, including on their
confidentiality.
21.
Documentation on security policy of personal data will be centralized,
comprehensive, regularly updated and will contain at least the following elements:
1) identity of the responsible person for security policy;
2) security measures;
3) mechanism for security measures implementation;
4) classification catalogue of processed personal data, their localization and performed
operation onto them;
5) a nominal list of users, authorized for personal data access;
6) personal data information system and network configuration;

7) detailed description of criteria under which processed personal data are accessible in
the manual register;
8) technical documentation on security controls;
9) schedule of planed security controls;
10) measures to detect cases of access and/or unauthorized personal data processing;
11) Reports of security incidents.
IV. PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENT AND INFORMATION TEHNOLOGY
SECURITY USED IN PERSONAL DATA PROCESSING
Section 1
Authorization of physical access
22. For N-1 category:
Access to premises/offices/ bureaus or spaces where personal data information systems
are placed will be restricted, being allowed only for people who have necessary
authorization and only during office hours as listed and appropriate signs (signs, badges,
identification cards, chip cards).
The head of personal data holders will elaborate and approve the access lists, which will
be reviewed monthly, and signs that allow access.
23. Additionally, for N-2 category:
Access will be based on identification cards, chip cards or other similar technologies.
Section 2
Administration and monitoring of physical access
24. For N-1 category:
Administration and monitoring of physical access will be carried out in all access points
of personal data information system, including the fact that there will be reaction to the
access regime infringement;
Prior to granting physical access to personal data information system, there will be
checked the access competences.
Monitoring registers will be kept for at least a year, after which they are liquidated, and
the data and the documents contained in the register under liquidation will be
transmitted to the archive.

25. Additionally, for N-2 category:
The areas where personal data systems information is placed will be equipped with
access control systems and video supervision, for monitoring the access of persons in
these areas.
During the monitoring process will be used supervision means and alarm in real time of
all authorized and/or unauthorized access cases.
Automated means will be used to provide unauthorized identification access cases and
initiate actions to block access.
Section 3
Security of premises/offices/bureaus
and of means of personal data processing
26. For N-1 category:
Security perimeter will be determined concretely and clearly. The building or room
perimeter in which are placed means for personal data processing will be physically
upright.
Exterior room walls will be resistant, entrances equipped with locks, access control
means, signal, etc.
If the room location is on the ground floor or/and the top floor of the building, and in
case of balconies, fire stairs, the windows of those rooms will be equipped with grating
bars.
Computers, servers, other access terminals will be located in places with limited access
for strangers.
Doors and windows should be locked in the room when employees are missing.
Agendas and/or phone books which contain clues about the location of the means of
personal data processing will not be accessible to strangers.
Location of means of personal data processing will meet their need for security against
unauthorized access, theft, fire, flood and other possible risks.
The use of photo, video, audio techniques or other means of security perimeter
recording will be allowed only in the presence of a special permission of the head of
personal data holder.
Information carriers and resources of personal data processing removed from the
premises of the security perimeter will not be left unauthorized in public places.
27. Additionally, for N-2 category:
Intrusion detecting systems will be implemented for exterior doors and windows located
in accessible places.

Reserve equipment and carriers of information containing personal data will be stored
in places to avoid destruction or damages as a result of main premise/office/bureau
disasters.
Section 4
Visitors` control
28. For N-1 category:
Physical access of the visitors will be controlled in the rooms where information
systems of personal data are located.
Visitors’ access will be recorded in registers, which will be kept for a period not less
than one year. After the expiry of one year, the registers are liquidated, and the data and
the documents contained in the register under liquidation will be transmitted to the
archive.
29. Additionally, for N-2 category:
Visitors of personal data information systems will be accompanied by persons
empowered for such purposes, while exercising, in parallel, control over their actions.
Section 5
Power security
30. For N-1 category:
Security will be ensured of the electric equipment used to maintain information system
of personal data functionality, electrical cables, including their protection against
damages and unauthorized connections.
In case of exceptional situations, emergency or force majeure the possibility of
electricity disconnection to personal data information system will be ensured, including
the possibility of disconnection of any IT component.
Autonomous sources of short power supply will be provided, to be used for proper
completion of work session of the system (component) in the event of the disconnection
from the main power source.
31. Additionally, for N-2 category:
There will be provided and assured sources of long term electricity supply, which will
be used for long periods of disconnection and for the need to continue carrying out the
functional tasks set in front of personal data information systems.

Section 6
Cable network security
32. For all personal data information systems:
Network cables, which carry out operations of personal data processing, will be
protected against unauthorized connections or deterioration.
Power cables will be separated from communication ones, in order to exclude
electromagnetic interference.
Personal data holders will make monthly controls in order to verify cases of
unauthorized connection to the network cables.
Section 7
Providing fire safety of personal data information systems
33. For N-1 category:
Means of ensuring fire safety of premises/offices/bureaus where personal data
information systems and means of personal data processing are located will be
provided.
34. Additionally, for N-2 category:
Automated systems will be implemented to detect/signalize and fire extinguishing on
the premises/offices/bureaus where personal data information systems and means of
personal data processing are located.
Section 8
Installation control and removal of IT components
35. For all components of personal data information systems:
Control and evidence will be realized on program and technical resources installation
and removal, as well as other technical software used in personal data information
system.
Information containing personal data and stored on the carriers will be physically
destroyed or transcribed and destroyed by secure methods, avoiding the use of standard
functions of annihilation.

Section 9
General measures of information security administration
36. For all personal data information systems:
Temporary unused information carriers on paper support or electronic (digital) one
containing personal data will be kept in locked metallic safes or cases.
Computers, access terminals and printers will be disconnected at the end of work
session.
Security for points of received/sent mail, and security against unauthorized access to fax
and copy machines will be ensured.
Physical access to the resources of representation of information that contains personal
data will be under administration, in order to prevent its viewing by unauthorized
persons.
Means of personal data processing, information that contains personal data or software
for personal data processing, will be removed from security perimeter only on grounds
of written permission of head of personal data holder.
Removing and placing the means of personal data processing from/into security
perimeter will be recorded.
V. IDENTIFICATION AND AUTHORIZATION OF PERSONAL DATA
INFORMATION SYSTEM USER
Section 1
User identification and authentication
37. For N-1 category:
Will be identified and authenticated users of personal data information system and
processes executed on behalf of these users.
All users (including staff that provides technical support, network administrators,
programmers and database administrators) will have a personal identifier (user ID),
which must not contain signs of users level of accessibility.
To confirm user ID passwords will be used, special memory physical means of access
(token) or microprocessor cards, biometric means of authentication, focused on unique
and individual characteristics of the person.
If the employment contract/ user`s work relationships finished, suspended or modified
and new tasks do not require personal data access, or user right of access was modified,
or the user abused on received codes in order to commit a harmful act, was absent for a

long time, identification and authentication codes will be revoked or suspended by
personal data holder.
38. Additionally, for N-2 category:
Multifactor (complex) authentication will be used, which will include passwords and
special memory physical means of access or microprocessor cards, biometric means and
passwords of authentication.
Section 2
Equipment identification and authentication
39. For all personal data information systems:
Will be provided the opportunity to identify and authenticate used equipment in the
personal data processing.
Section 3
Administration of user identifiers
40. For all personal data information systems:
Administration of user identifiers will include:
1) univocal identification of each user;
2) user authentication;
3) authorization acquirement from the responsible person issuing user ID;
4) ensuring that the user ID is issued to specifically determined person;
5) disabling user account after inactive period whiciis set in time (maximum inaction two months);
6) making archive copies of ID of the users.
Section 4
Administration of authentication means
41. For all personal data information systems:
Personal data holders will determine administrative procedures that will govern the
process of distribution and lifting the means of authentication for users, including
actions in cases of lost/compromising or their defection.
The standard user authentication information will be changed after system installation.

Section 5
Providing bilateral connection in case of information insertion for user
authentication
42. For all personal data information systems:
Will be provided bilateral connection of personal data holder to the user when
performing the authentication procedures, that will not compromise authentication
mechanism.
Section 6
Using passwords during the process of ensuring information security
43. For all personal data information systems:
Will be observed the rules to ensure information security for choosing and using the
passwords, which will include:
1) keeping the password confidentiality;
2) prohibiting inscribing password on paper support, if it is not ensured its security
preserving;
3) changing passwords every time when there are possible compromises of the system
or password;
4) choice of quality passwords with a minimum size of eight symbols, which are not
related to the user’s personal data information, will not contain consecutive identical
symbols and will not be entirely composed of groups of numbers or letters;
5) changing passwords in more than three months intervals;
6) disabling automated registration process (using saved passwords).
Section 7
Managing user passwords
44. For all personal data information systems:
Individual identifiers and individual passwords will be used for each user in order to
ensure the possibility of establishing accountability.
Will be provided the possibility for users to choose and change individual passwords,
including the activation of procedure for filing their wrong introductions.
Blocking access will be provided after three incorrect login attempts.

Keeping previous history of passwords of the users will be assured in hash form (for the
period of one year) and preventing their repeated use.
When logging in, the passwords will not be clearly reflected on the monitor.
Password will be stored in ciphered form, using the unilateral cryptographic algorithm
(hash function).
VI. USER ACCESS MANAGEMENT
Section1
Access management
45. For all personal data information systems:
Recording and evidence mechanisms of persons that have access or participate in
operations of personal data processing will be implemented, and if it is necessary will
allow to identify cases of unauthorized access or illegal personal data processing.
Section 2
Administration of access accounts
46. For all personal data information systems:
The administration of access accounts will be made of users, who process personal data,
including their creation, activation, modification, revision, deactivation and deletion.
Automated means of support will be used in order to administrate access accounts.
The action of access accounts of temporary users, who processes personal data, will
automatically terminate on expiry of a fixed time period (for each type of access
account in part).
Access accounts of inactive users that process personal data will be automatically
disabled, after a maximum of three months.
Automated means will be used for registration and information about creating,
modifying, disabling and stopping of access account`s action.
Section 3
Granting access
47. For all personal data information systems:
Will be authorized the access to personal data information system in accordance with
established administration policy by personal data holder.

Access to security functions of personal data information system and their data will be
granted only to responsible persons expressly indicated in security policy of personal
data holder.
Section 4
Review of user access rights
48. For all personal data information systems:
User access rights to personal data information systems will be regularly revised in
order to ensure that no unauthorized access rights were granted (over every six months)
and after any change of user`s status.
Section 5
Managing information flows
49. For all personal data information systems:
There will be authorized by personal data holders the realization of the information
flows during the transmission of these within and beyond personal data information
systems.
Section 6
Obligations distribution and investment with the minimum rights and competences
50. For all personal data information systems:
Obligations distribution to subjects, who provide functioning of personal data
information systems, will be made through investing with rights/appropriate
competences of access through an administrative act of the head of personal data holder.
Personal data information systems users will be invested only with those
rights/competences that are necessary to achieve the settled targets.
Section 7
Warning information
51. For all personal data information systems:
Before granting access to the system, users will be informed that the use of personal
data information system is checked and their unauthorized use is prosecuted in
accordance with legislation.

Section 8
Blocking of the working session
52. For all personal data information systems:
The working session in information system for personal data processing will be blocked
(at user`s request or automatically after a maximum of 15 minutes of user`s idle time)
which will make impossible further access until the moment when the user will unlock
the session by repeated method of identification and authentication procedures.
Section 9
Control of access administration
53. For all personal data information systems:
The control of user`s actions will be performed to assess accuracy and compliance of
the operations and undertaken activities using personal data information system.
Section 10
Marking documents
54. For all personal data information systems:
The information that went out of the system, containing personal data, will be marked
with indication of prescriptions for its further processing and wide spreading, including
the indication of the unique identification personal data holder number.
Section 11
Distance access
55. For all personal data information systems:
All methods of access from the distance to personal data information system will be
secured (using VPN, encryption, ciphering, etc.), and shall be documented, monitored
and controlled.
Each method of access from the distance to personal data information system will be
authorized by responsible persons of personal data holders and allowed only to users, to
whom it is necessary for the set objectives.

Section 12
Limitation of wireless technologies usage
56. For all personal data information systems:
Limitations and rules for the use of wireless technologies that provide the access to
personal data information system will be established.
Wireless access to personal data information system will be documented, monitored and
controlled.
Wireless access to personal data information systems will be allowed only when
cryptographic means of information protection are used.
The use of wireless technologies will be authorized by the relevant responsible persons
of personal data holder.
Section 13
Managing access of mobile and portable equipment
57. For all personal data information systems:
Limitations and rules for the use of portable and mobile equipment which enable access
to personal data information systems will be established.
Access to information systems of personal data using portable and mobile equipment
will be documented, monitored and controlled.
Use of portable and mobile equipment will be authorized by relevant responsible
persons of personal data holder.

VII. Protection of information systems and communications where personal data
are processed
Section 1
Division of application programs
58. For all personal data information systems:
Separation of user functional opportunities from the functional possibilities of personal
data information system management will be ensured.

Section 2
Isolation of security functions
59. For all personal data information systems:
Isolation of security functions from those that are not assigned to the security of
personal data information system will be ensured.
Section 3
Residual information
60. For all personal data information systems:
Disclosure of unauthorized or unintended attempts of residual information containing
personal data will be prevented through generally accessible information resources.
Section 4
Protection against denial of service
61. For all personal data information systems:
Protection of personal data information systems will be ensured or limited the
possibilities for different types of attacks “denial of service”, including DOS.
Section 5
Resources priorities
62. For all personal data information systems:
Possibility for limitation will be ensured by means of mechanisms of setting the
priorities, of using information resources in which personal data are processed.
Section 6
Protection of the perimeter of information system in which personal data are
processed

63. For all personal data information systems:
Permanent monitoring and communication control at the outer perimeter of personal
data information system will be made, including at the most important contact points
within the perimeter of these information systems.
Location of generally accessible resources will be ensured in spaces specifically
designed for computing network with network physic interfaces.
Impossibility of outside access for users to internal network of personal data processing
will be ensured.
Section 7
Ensuring the integrity of transmitted personal data
64. For all personal data information systems:
Integrity of transmitted personal data using cryptographic means of protection and
digital signature will be ensured.
Section 8
Ensuring the confidentiality of transmitted personal data
65. For all personal data information systems:
Confidentiality of transmitted personal data, using the means of cryptographic
protection of the information, will be ensured.
VIII. SECURITY AUDIT IN PERSONAL DATA
INFORMATION SYSTEMS
Section 1
Generating audit registering in personal data information systems
66. For all personal data information systems:
Personal data holders will generate audit registering for personal data information
systems security for the events specified in a corresponding list, subject to audit.

Section 2
List of events registered in the security audit system of personal data information
system
67. For all personal data information systems:
1) The registration of user`s attempts of entry/exit in the system will be realized
according to the following parameters:
a) date and time of attempted entry/exist;
b) user ID;
c) result of attempted entry/exit - positive or negative.
2) Attempts of start/end work session of the applicative programs and processes,
designed for personal data processing, will be registered, as well as changes to users’
rights of access and status of accessed objects under the following parameters:
a) date and time of the start attempted;
b) name/identifier of application program or process;
c) user ID;
d) result of starting attempting - positive or negative.
3) Will be registered attempts of obtaining access (execution of transactions) for
applications and processes designed for personal data processing in accordance to the
following parameters:
a) date and time attempting to obtain access (operation implementation);
b) name (identifier) of the application or process;
c) user ID;
d) specifications of protected resource (identifier, logical name, file name, number,
etc.)
e) type of requested operation (reading, registration, deletion, etc.);
f) result of attempting to obtain access (operation implementation) - positive or
negative.
4) Registration will be made of modifications for user right of access (competences) and
status of accessed objects in accordance to the following parameters:
a) date and time of competences modifications;
b) Administrator ID which carried out modifications;
c) User ID and competences or the specification of accessed objects and their new
status.
5) Will be made registration of exit from the information system containing personal
data (electronic documents, data, etc.), registration of modifications of subject`s access
rights and the status of accessed objects in accordance to the following parameters:

a) date and time of issue;
b) information name and ways of access to it;
c) equipment specification (device) that issued the information (logical name);
d) ID of the userwho requested information;
e) volume of the issued document (number of pages, fillets, copies) and the outcome of
the issue - positive or negative.
Section 3
Processing the results of security audit
in personal data information systems
68. For all personal data information systems:
In case of disturbance of security audit in personal data information system or
completing the entire memory volume allocated for the maintaining of audit results, the
responsible person for security policy of personal data will be informed and measures
will be taken in order to restore working capacity of the audit system.
Section 4
Monitoring, analysis and generating reports on
security audit of personal data information systems
69. For all personal data information systems:
Permanent monitoring and analysis of security audit registrations in personal data
information systems will be made in order to detect unusual or suspicious activities for
use of these information systems, with appropriate reports in cases of detecting such
activities, stored in electronic means of calculation and undertaking pre-established
actions in security policy in such cases.
Section 5
Protecting the data of security audit in personal data information systems
70. For all personal data information systems:
Security audit results in personal data information systems, which are operations of
processing personal data and means of conducting the audit, will be protected against
unauthorized access by setting appropriate security measures, including ensuring their
confidentiality and integrity.

Section 6
Storage of data of security audit in personal data information systems
71. For all personal data information systems:
The duration of security audit in personal data information systems results storage will
be justified in security policy of personal data but, in any case it shall not be less than
two years, for their use as evidence for security incidents, or of any investigations or
judicial processes.
If the investigations or judicial processes are extended, the audit results will be kept
throughout their duration.
IX. ENSURING INTEGRITY FOR PERSONAL DATA INFORMATION AND
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES
Section 1
Elimination of the software deficiencies designed for personal data processing
72. For all personal data information systems:
Identification, noting and removal of deficiencies of the software, designed for personal
data processing, will be provided, including the software installation for their
corrections and package of its updating.
Section 2
Ensuring protection against malware programs (viruses)
73. For N-1 category:
The protection against malware programs infiltration in software designed for personal
data processing will be ensured, a measure that would ensure the possibility of
automatic and timely renewal of means providing protection against malicious
programs and viruses’ signatures.
74. Additionally, for N-2 category:
Will be ensured centralized management mechanisms against malicious programs in
software designed for personal data processing.

Section 3
Technologies and means of finding the intrusions
75. For all personal data information systems:
Will be used technologies and means of finding the intrusion that will allow event
monitoring in personal data information system and finding attack, including ensuring
identification of attempts of unauthorized information systems usage.
Section 4
Ensuring software and information integrity
76. For all personal data information systems:
The protection and possibility of detection of unauthorized modification of software,
designed for personal data processing, and information that contains personal data will
be ensured.
Software designed for personal data processing and information containing personal
data, access to which is made through public access system, will be secured through
using digital signature method.
Section 5
Testing the functional possibilities of ensuring security of
personal data information systems
77. For all personal data information systems:
The proper testing operation of security functions of personal data information systems
will be ensured (automatically at system startup and monthly at authorized user request
for this purpose).
X. BACKUP COPIES AND RESTORE OF PERSONAL
DATA INFORMATION AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
Section 1
Backup copies of personal data information
78. For N-1 category:
Given the volume of processing undertaken individually, the time which will run the
information backup containing personal data information and used software for
automated personal data processing will be determined by personal data holder, but, in

any case, it shall not be less than one year, which are to be stored in protected locations,
outside of the location of that information and basic software.
Backup copies will be tested in order to verify the safety of information carriers and
information integrity containing personal data.
Procedures for restoring backup copies need to be updated and tested regularly in order
to ensure their effectiveness.
79. Additionally, for N-2 category:
Backup copies will be stored in metallic boxes with applied seal and stored outside of
basic software information location containing personal data, or if it is possible in
rooms in another building.
Will be identified potential access problems in places of backup copies storage in case
of defect or damage and determine concrete actions for restoration of access ways.
Section 2
Reserve telecommunication services
80. For N-2 category:
Will be identified basic and reserve telecommunication services, including solved
questions about the use of reserve telecommunication services in order to restore basic
service of access of personal data information systems.
In order to avoid being subjected to common dangers, basic and reserve
telecommunication services providers will be different.
XI. SECURITY CONTROLS OF PERSONAL DATA INFORMATION
SYSTEMS
81. Personal data holders will regularly perform, at least once a year, security controls
of technical measures and/or organizational taken, so that if it is possible to detect
malfunctions regarding the use of telecommunication systems and/or make
improvements where necessary in personal data processing.
82. Security controls will be updated every time when personal data holder/person
empowered by the personal data holder will be reorganized or will change their
infrastructure.
83. In order to check the level of personal data information systems protection, as well
as in order to avert possible cases of illicit or accidental access to such information
systems, detection of weak points in their protection mechanisms, the Center will
undertake regularly planned security controls, including conducting special technical
measures in order to simulate a model of personal data information system access.

84. The results of the control performed by the Center will be immediately made
available to the personal data holder, the level of personal data information systems
protection of which served the purpose of control, prescribing, where necessary,
appropriate actions to be taken in order to ensure the security of personal data
processing.
XII. SECURITY INCIDENTS MANAGEMENT OF PERSONAL DATA
INFORMATION SYSTEMS
Section 1
Instruction for reaction to security incidents
of personal data information systems
85. For all personal data information systems:
Staff that provides exploiting personal data information systems will follow at least
once a year instructions regarding the responsibilities and obligations in case of
undertaking actions of management and reaction to security incidents.
Section 2
Processing security incidents of personal data information systems
86. For N-1 category:
A prompt information mechanism will be ensured to the head of personal data holder
about incidents that infringes the security of personal data information systems.
Processing the incidents will include detection, analysis, and prevention of
development, their removal and security restoration.
87. Additionally, for N-2 category:
Will be used automated means in order to support the processing of security incidents of
personal data information systems.
Section 3
Monitoring the security incidents of personal data information systems
88. For N-1 category:
Security incidents of personal data information systems will be traced and documented
permanently.

89. Additionally, for N-2 category:
Will be used automated means for tracing security incidents of personal data
information systems, collection and analysis of information on these incidents.
Section 4
Reporting on security incidents of personal data information systems
90. For all personal data information systems:
Annually, by January 31, reports on security incidents of personal data information
systems will be presented to the Center by the personal data holders. Based on this
report, the Center undertakes the necessary measures that are compelled by the Law on
personal data protection.
XIII. TECHNICAL PROTECTION OF
PERSONAL DATA INFORMATION
91. For N-1 category:
Will be excluded uncontrolled presence of persons or transport means, as well as
random installation of antennas, in an area of at least 15 meters from the location of the
main technical means of personal data information systems (hereinafter - perimeter
under control), for security purpose of personal data processing.
Server rooms will be protected against information leakage containing personal data due
to electromagnetic emissions through the screening rooms or installation of
electromagnetic interference systems, which will be designed, realized and researched
by specialized enterprises.
If the rooms where technical means of personal data processing are placed are screened,
continuity of electrical connection of all relevant screening material will be ensured:
walls, ceiling, floor, windows and doors.
Screening constructions will have ground sockets that will be located in the perimeter
under control.
Will be provided the protection of personal data information against leakage through the
electrical grid, including crossing of the object`s electrical grids with protection filter
installation which would block (to jam) the signal.
Will be excluded or limited the unauthorized installation of other electrical devices,
radio or other type, in rooms where technical means of personal data processing are
placed, in order to ensure personal data security.
The equipment which has output lines outside the perimeter under control will be
installed at a distance of at least three meters away from IT means where personal data
are processed.

XIV. SPECIFIC FEATURES OF SECURITY REQUIREMENTS IN CASE OF
MANUAL FORMS OF REGISTER KEEPING WHERE PERSONAL DATA
ARE PROCESSED
92. The provisions of these Requirements, except pct. 11 - 13, 23, 25, 27, 30-32, 35, 3744, 46, 49, 51-53, 55-68, 72-77, 80, 87-89, 91, will be properly applied by personal data
holders/persons empowered by the personal data holders for manual form of keeping
the register where structured set of personal data are processed, accessible according to
centralized or decentralized criteria, or dispersed on functional or geographic criteria.
93. At the same time, registrations of security audit of manual registers where personal
data are processed will include:
1) user name and surname;
2) accessed document name (page and inscription from the register);
3) number of records made;
4) type of access;
5) date of access (year, month, day);
6) time (hour, minute) and access duration.

Appendix No.1
to Requirements for the assurance of
personal data security at their
processing within the information
systems of personal data

CATEGORIES OF PERSONAL DATA
1. Personal data which directly or indirectly identify a natural person, in particular, by
reference to an identification number (personal code), to one or more specific elements
of his physical, physiological, psychological, economic, cultural or social identity fall
into two categories: common and special.
2. Special category of personal data is the information revealing racial or ethnic origin,
political or religious believes, personal data concerning health or sexual life, as well as
data relating to criminal conviction of a physic person.
3. Common category is the information that reveals:
1) name and surname;
2) gender;
3) date and place of birth;
4) citizenship;
5) IDNP;
6) image;
7) voice;
8) family situation;
9) military situation;
10) geographic location data/ traffic data;
11) nickname/alias;
12) family members’ personal data;
13) driving license data;
14) data from matriculation certificate;
15) economic and financial situation;
16) data of owned assets;
17) banking data;
18) signature;
19) civil status data;

20) pension file number;
21) social security number (CPAS);
22) medical insurance code (CPAM);
23) phone/fax number;
24) cell phone number;
25) address (domicile/residence);
26) e-mail address;
27) genetic data;
28) biometric and anthropometric data;
29) finger print identification data;
30) profession and/or work place;
31) professional occupation - diploma - education;
32) habits/preferences/behaviors;
33) physical characteristics.
4. In cases of common personal data processing, personal data holders will include in
personal data security policy and will implement the requirements set up for the 1st
security level of personal data information systems - (N-1).
5. In cases of special category of personal data processing, personal data holders,
additionally to the set requirements for the 1st security level, will include in security
policy of personal data and will implement requirements established for the 2nd security
level of personal data information systems - (N-2).

Appendix No 2
to Requirements for the
assurance of personal data
security at their processing
within the information systems
of personal data

CATEGORIES OF OPERATIONS OF PERSONAL DATA PROCESSING
SUSCEPTIBLE TO SPECIAL RISKS FOR INDIVIDUALS` RIGHTS AND
FREEDOMS
1. The following categories of personal data processing present special risks for
individuals` rights and freedoms:
1) adaptation, modification, disclosure by transmission, diffusion or otherwise of
personal data related to racial or ethnic origin, political or religious believes,
membership of a political party or religious organization, personal data concerning
health or sexual life, as well as data relating to criminal conviction, measures of
coercion, disciplinary or contravention sanctions;
2) operations of genetic, biometric data and geographic location data processing
through electronic communications network;
3) operations of personal data processing by electronic means having as aim to assess
some personality aspects as it is professional competence, credibility, behavior, etc.;
4) operations of personal data processing by electronic means in some evidence
systems having the purpose of solvency, economic and financial situation analysis, the
facts likely to attract disciplinary, contravention or criminal responsibility of
individuals;
5) operations of personal data processing of minors for commercial purposes (direct
marketing activities);
6) operations of personal data processing mentioned in the sub points 1) and 2), as well
as personal data of minors, collected via internet or electronic messaging.
2. In cases of personal data processing by any operation or set of operations specified
in pct.1 of this Appendix, personal data holders will include in personal data security
policy and will implement requirements established for the 2nd security level of
personal data information systems - (N-2).

