Unofficial translation MCRB consolidating the amendments in Law 16/2020

Law Protecting the Privacy and Security of Citizens
(Union Parliament Law 5/2017)
8th March, 2017
as amended by Law 16/2020 of 28 August 2020
Preamble
The Pyidaungsu Hluttaw hereby enacts this law to protect the Privacy and Security of Citizens as
foreseen under the Constitution of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar.
Chapter I
Title and Definitions
1. This Law shall be called the Law Protecting the Privacy and Security of the Citizen.
2. The expressions contained in this law shall have the following meanings:
a. Constitution means the Constitution of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar.
b. Citizen means the person who is a citizen either under the Constitution or any other
existing law.
c. Privacy means the right to freedom of movement, freedom of residence and freedom
of speech of a citizen in accordance with law.
d. Security means security of private affairs of a citizen. It shall also include the security
of residence or residential compound and building in the compound, possessions,
correspondence and other communication of a citizen.
e. Relevant Ministry means the Ministry of Home Affairs.
f. Responsible Authority means the relevant government department, government
organization or government official.
Chapter II
Protecting the Privacy and Security of the Citizen
3. Every citizen has the right to enjoy the protection of his/her privacy and security in full, as set
out in the Constitution of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar.
4. The Relevant Ministry, government departments and Responsible Authorities shall ensure
that the privacy and security of the citizen is protected.
Chapter III
Duties of the Relevant Ministry and Responsible Authorities
5. The Relevant Ministry and Responsible Authorities shall:
(a) ensure that there is no damage to the privacy and security of the citizen except where this
occurs in accordance with existing law.
(b) when acting in accordance with existing law, not enter into a person’s residence or a room
used as a residence, or a building, compound or building in a compound, for the purpose
of search, seizure, or arrest, unless accompanied by minimum of two witnesses who
should comprise Ward or Village Tract Administrators, Hundred- or Ten-Householder
Head.
6. If the Relevant Ministry or Responsible Authorities receive a complaint under this Law, they
shall take action in accordance with the law. If the complaint does not relate to their activities,
they must reply to the complainant within 30 days, stating the reasons and advising on which
organisation to direct the complaint.

Unofficial translation MCRB consolidating the amendments in Law 16/2020
Chapter IV
Prohibitions
7. No one shall be detained for more than 24 hours without permission from a court unless the
detention is in accordance with existing law.
8. In the absence of an order, permission or warrant issued in accordance with existing law, or
permission from the Union President or the Union Cabinet, a Responsible Authority:
a. Shall not enter into a citizen’s private residence or a room used as a residence, or a
building, compound or building in a compound, for the purpose of purpose of search,
seizure, or arrest.
b. Shall not surveil, spy upon, or investigate any citizen in a manner which could disturb
their privacy and security or affect their dignity.
c. Shall not intercept or disturb any citizen’s communication with another person or
communications equipment in any way
d. Shall not demand or obtain personal telephonic and electronic communications data
from telecommunication operators.
e. Shall not open, search, seize or destroy another person’s private correspondence,
envelope, package or parcel.
f. Shall not unlawfully interfere with a citizen’s personal or family matters or act in any
way to slander or harm their reputation.
g. Shall not unlawfully seize the lawfully owned movable or immoveable property of a
citizen, or intentionally destroy either directly or by indirect means.
9. On receiving any report concerning the need to take action in pursuant to this law, or on
receiving a tip-off, a Police Station Master shall take action immediately in accordance with
Section 154 of the Penal Code.
Chapter V
Penalties
10. Whosoever Any Responsible Authority who is found guilty of committing an offence under
Section 7 or Section 8, shall, in addition to a sentence for a period of at least six months, and
up to three years, also be required to pay a fine of between three hundred thousand (300,000)
and fifteen hundred thousand (1,500,000) kyats.
11. Whosoever is found guilty of failing, without due cause, to assume their responsibility under
Section 9 shall, in addition to a sentence for a period of at least one year, and up to five years,
also be required to pay a fine of between five hundred thousand (500,000) and twenty-five
hundred thousand (2,500,000) kyats.
12. Whosoever is found guilty of encouraging, ordering, joining with, assisting or abetting another
to commit an offence under this Law shall be sentenced in accordance with this Law.
Chapter VI
Miscellaneous
13. Notwithstanding any other existing law concerning the provisions of this law, the provisions of
this Law shall take precedence and action must be taken according to the provisions of this
Law.
14. In implementing the provisions of this Law, the Relevant Ministry may issue necessary
notifications, orders, directives and procedures.
Signed in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar.
Htin Kyaw, The President, The Republic of the Union of Myanmar

