Right to Information Act, 2064 (2007 )
Date of Authentication and publication
5 Shrawan (21 July 2007)

An act No 4 of the year 2064

AN ACT TO MAKE PROVISION FOR RIGHT TO INFORMATION

Preamble, Whereas; it is expedient to make the functions of the sate open and

transparent in accordance with the democratic system and to make responsible and
accountable to the citizen; to make the access of citizens simple and easy to the
information of public importance held in public bodies; to protect sensitive information
that could make adverse impact on the interest of the nation and citizen, and for the
necessity to have legal provisions to protect the right of the citizen to be well-informed
and to bring it into practice, the 'Legislature-Parliament' has enacted this Act.

Chapter- one
Preliminary
1.

Short title and commencement: (1) This Act may be called 'Right to
Information Act, 2064 B.S. (2007 A.D.).
th

(2) This Act shall come into force from the 30 (Thirty) day of certification.
2.

Definition: Unless the subject or context otherwise requires, in this Act:
(a)

"Public Body" means the following body and institution list:
(1)

A body under the constitution,

(2)

A body established by an Act,

(3)

A body formed by the Government of Nepal,

1

(4)

Institution or foundation established by the law, public service.

(5)

Political Party or organization registered under the preventing law.

(6)

Body Corporate under the full or partial ownership or under control
of the Government of Nepal or such body receiving grants from the
Government of Nepal.

(7)

Body Corporate formed by a Body established by the Government of
Nepal or the law upon entering into an agreement,

(8)

Non-Governmental Organization/Institutions operated by obtaining
money directly or indirectly from the Government of Nepal or
Foreign Government or International Organizations/Institutions,

(9)

Any other Body or Institution prescribed as Public Body by the
Government of Nepal by publishing notice in the Gazette.

(b)

"Information" means any written document, material, or information related
to the functions, proceedings thereof or decision of public importance made
by a Public Body.

(c)

"Public Importance" means a subject related directly or indirectly with the
interest of citizens.

(d)

"Document" means any kind of scripted document and the word shall also
includes any audio visual material collected and updated through a
mechanical medium or that can be printed or retrieved.

(e)

"Right to Information" means the right to ask for and obtain information of
public importance held in the Public Bodies and this term shall also include
the right to study or observation of any written document, material held in
Public Body or proceedings of such Public Body; to obtain a verified copy
of such document, to visit or observe the place where any construction of
public importance is going on and to obtain verified sample of any material
or to obtain information held in any type of machine through such machine.

(f)

"Information Authority" means a person appointed in pursuant to with
Section 6.
2

(g)

"Chief" means the Chief of a Public Body.

(h)

"Commission" means the National Information Commission constituted in
pursuant to Section 11.

(i)

"Chief Information Commissioner" means a person appointed pursuant to
Section 11.

(j)

"Information Commissioner" means a person appointed pursuant Section
11.

(k)

"Prescribed" or "as prescribed" means prescribed or as prescribed in Rules
framed under this Act.

Chapter- 2

Right to Information and Provision Regarding the Flow of Information
3.

Right to Information: (1) Every citizen shall, subject to this Act have the right
to information.
(2) Every citizen shall have access to the information held in the public
Bodies.
(3) Notwithstanding anything provided in Sections (1) and (2), the
information held by a Public Body on the following subject matters shall not be
disseminated:
(a) which seriously jeopardizes the sovereignty, integrity, national
security, public peace, stability and international relations of Nepal.
(b) which directly affects the investigation, inquiry and prosecution of a
crime.
(c) Which seriously affects on the protection of economic, trade or
monetary interest or intellectual property or banking or trade
privacy.
(d) Which directly jeopardizes the harmonious relationship subsisted
among various cast or communities.

3

(e) Which interferes on individual privacy and security of body, life,
property or health of a person.

Provided that, a public Body shall not refrain from the
responsibility of dissemination of information without appropriate
and adequate reason not to flow the information.
(4) If a Public Body has both the information in its record that can be made
public and that cannot be made public in accordance with this Act, the Information
Officer shall have to provide information to the applicant after separating the
information which can be made public.
4.

Responsibility of a Public Body: (1) Each Public Body has to respect and
protect the right to information of citizen.
(2) Public Body shall have following responsibilities for the purpose of
Sub-Section (1):
(a) to classify and update information and make them public, publish
and broadcast,
(b) to make the citizens' access to information simple and easy,
(c) to conduct its functions openly and transparently,
(d) to provide appropriate training and orientation to its staffs,
(3) Public Body may use different national languages and mass media
while publishing, broadcasting or making information public in accordance with
Section (a) of Section (2).

5.

Updating and Publication of Information: (1) A Public Body shall keep its
information updated.
(2) A Public Body, as long as possible, shall update at least of twenty years
old information from the commencement of this Act related to it in pursuant to
Sub-Section (1).
(3) A Public Body shall enlist and publish its following information:
(a) structure and nature of Body,
4

(b) functions, duties, and powers of Body,
(c) number of employees and working details of Body,
(d) service to be rendered by the Body,
(e) branch and responsible officer of the service providing Body,
(f)

fee and time limit required for service,

(g) decision making process and authority,
(h) authority to hear appeal against decision
(i)

description of functions performed

(j)

name and designation of Chief and Information Officer

(k) list of Acts, Rules, By Laws or Guidelines
(l) updated description of income, expenditures and financial
transactions.
(m) other particulars as prescribed.
(4) Public Body shall have to update and publish the information in
accordance with Sub-Section (3) within three months from the date of
commencement of this Act and in every three months thereafter.
6.

Provision of Information Officer: (1) A Public Body shall arrange for an
Information Officer for the purpose of disseminating information held in its office.
(2) For the purpose of disseminating information in accordance with SubSection (1), the Chief has to regularly provide information held in the office to the
Information Officer.
(3) Public Body shall set up an Information Section for the purpose of
disseminating information as per necessity.

7.

Procedures of Acquiring Information: (1) A Nepali Citizen, who is
interested to obtain any information under this Act, shall submit an application
before concerned Information Officer by stating reason to receive such
information.
(2) If an application is received pursuant to Sub-Section (1), Information
Officer should provide the information immediately if the information by its
5

nature could be provided immediately and has to provide within fifteen days from
the date of application if the information by its nature could not be provided
immediately.
(3) If information cannot be provided immediately pursuant to Sub-Section
(2), Information Officer should instantly give a notice with reason to the applicant.
(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in Sub-Section (3), if the requested
information is related to the security of life of person, the information officer
should provide such information within Twenty Four hours of such request.
(5) Information Officer has to provide information in the format as
demanded by the applicant as much as possible.
(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in Sub-Section (5), if any
possibility subsist that the source of information may be damaged or destroyed or
spoilt if it is provided in the format as requested by the applicant, the Information
Officer shall provide such information in appropriate format with stating reason
thereof.
(7) If any individual submitted an application to study or observe the
document, material or activity pursuant to Sub-Section (1), the Information Officer
shall provide a reasonable time to the applicant for the study and observation of
such document, material or activity.
(8) While examining the application received in pursuant to Sub-Section
(1), it is found that the information demanded by the applicant is not related to
such Body, the Information Officer should give notification to the applicant
immediately.
8.

Fee for information: (1) Applicant shall pay fee as prescribed while requesting
information pursuant with Section 7.
Provided that, if different fees are prescribed for any specific information in the
prevailing law, it shall be collected accordingly.
(2) The fee structure, pursuant to Sub-Section (1), shall be based on the
actual cost of providing information.
6

(3) If the fee prescribed pursuant to Sub-Section (2) is deemed more than
the actual price, the concerned person may file a petition before the Commission.
(4) While examining the petition pursuant to Sub-Section (3), the
commission may order to review the fee if it is found in contrary to Sub-Section
(2).
9

Complaint may be made: (1) If, Information Officer, does not provide
information, denies to provide information, partially provides information,
provides wrong information or does not provide information by stating that the
applicant is not a stakeholder, the concerned person shall make a complaint to the
Chief within (7) days from the date of information denied or partially information
received.
(2) While investigating the complaint received pursuant to Sub-Section (1),
the Chief shall order the Information Officer to provide information as demanded
by applicant if it is found that the information was denied or partially provided or
wrong information was provided and the Information Officer has to provide
information to the concerned applicant if such order is issued.
(3) While conducting investigation pursuant Sub-Section (2), if it is found
that the Information Officer denied to provide information or partially provided
the information knowingly or with mala fide intention or provided wrong
information, the Chief may take departmental action against such Information
Officer.
(4) While investigating pursuant to Sub-Section (2), if it is found that the
information cannot be provided; the Chief shall make a decision accordingly and
provide a notice stating the reasons to the applicant.

10.

Appeal can be made: (1) An individual, who is aggrieved by the decision of the
Chief made pursuant to Sub-Section (4) of Section 9, shall appeal before the
Commission within Thirty Five (35) days of the notice of decision received.
(2) Commission may summon and take statement of the concerned Chief or
Information Officer, order to submit a document, take statement of witness and
7

evidence or demand copy of the document from a Public Body while deciding the
appeal received pursuant Sub-Section (1).
(3) In the course of proceeding and deciding the appeal pursuant to SubSection (2), the Commission may do as following:
(a) May order the concerned Chief to provide information, within a
given time, to the appellant without fee, if appeal is found
reasonable.
(b) May dismiss the appeal if it is found not reasonable.
(4) The Commission has to give final verdict on the appeal within sixty
days of the appeal.
(5) Other procedures to be followed by the commission during appeal
pursuant to this Section shall be as prescribed.
Chapter 3
Provision Regarding Commission
11.

Provision Regarding Commission: (1) There shall be an independent National
Information Commission for the protection, promotion and practice of right to
information.
(2) A Chief Information Commissioner and two other Information
Commissioners shall be in the commission.
(3) In order to appoint Chief Information Commissioner and Information
Commissioner, there shall be a committee comprised as follows:
(a) The Speaker – Chairperson
(b) Minister or State Minister for Information and Communication –
Member
(c) President, Federation of Nepalese Journalists – Member
(4) The Government of Nepal, on the recommendation of the Committee
under Sub-Section (3), shall appoint a Chief Information Commissioner and
Information Commissioners, at least one female shall be included in such

8

appointment.
(5) The Committee pursuant Sub-Section (3) shall follow the inclusive
principle as much as possible while recommending for appointment of Chief
Information Commissioner and Information Commissioners.
(6) The procedures of recommendation pursuant to Sub-Section (3) shall be
as determined by the Recommendation Committee itself.
12.

Qualifications: One shall have the following qualifications to be appointed for
the post of the Chief Information Commissioner and Information Commissioners:
(a) Nepali citizen,
(b) holding at least a Bachelor Degree from a recognized University,
(c) having at least fifteen years of working experience in the field of
Mass

communication,

law

justice,

public

administration,

information technology or management.
13.

Disqualifications: A person with any of the following disqualification shall be
disqualified to be appointed in the post of Chief Information Commissioner and
Information Commissioners:
(a) not having the qualification pursuant Section 12,
(b) convicted by the court in a criminal offence with moral turpitude,
(c) incumbent employee of Government or Public institution,
(d) incumbent in any political position,
(e) Disqualified for appointment under the prevailing laws.

14.

Tenure of Office: (1) The tenure of office of the Chief Information
Commissioner and the Information Commissioner shall be for five years and s/he
shall not be re-appointed in the same Post.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in Sub-Section (1), the Information
Commissioner may be re-appointed in the post of Chief Information
Commissioner subject to the provision of tenure of office stated in the same SubSection.
(3) The recommendation committee pursuant to Sub-Section (3) of Section
9

11, shall recommend for new appointment of Chief Information Commissioner
and Information Commissioners one month period to the expiry of the tenure of
the office .
15.

Post to be Vacated: The post the Chief Information Commissioner and
Information Commissioner shall be considered vacant under the following
conditions:
(a) In case of his/her death,
(b) In case, s/he completes the age of 65 years,
(c) In case, s/he tenders resignation to the Prime Minister,
(d) In case, his/her term of office is completed,
(e) In case, s/he is convicted by the court in a criminal offence with
moral turpitude ,
(f)

16.

In case of s/he is removed from the post pursuant to Section 16.

May Remove From Office: If the meeting of the Legislature-Parliament
endorse the recommendation of the information and communication related
committee of the Legislature-Parliament, with the two third majority of meeting
presented by at least two third members out of total members, for removing Chief
Information Commissioner or Information Commissioner on the ground that s/he
is not fit to hold office for the reason of incompetence or misbehavior or not
carrying out the duties honestly, such Chief Information Commissioner or
Information Commissioner shall be removed from his/her office.
Provided that, the Chief Information Commissioner or Information Commissioner
charged with such accusation shall not be denied for reasonable opportunity of
clarification.

17.

Provision Regarding the Conditions of Service: The remuneration,
conditions of service and facilities for Chief Information Commissioner and
Information Commissioner shall be as prescribed.

10

18.

Oath of Office: Before taking charge of the office, the Chief Information
Commissioner shall take the oath of office before the Prime Minister and the
Information

Commissioner

before

the

Chief

Information

Commissioner

respectively in the format as laid down in the Schedule.
19.

Functions, Duties and Powers of the Commission: In addition to the
functions, duties and powers stated elsewhere in this Act, the functions, duties and
powers of the Commission shall be as follows:
(a) To observe and study the records and documents of public
importance held in Public Bodies,
(b) To issue order to such Body to enlist and manage the records,
documents and other materials pertaining the information
(c) To issue order to the concerned Public Body to make information
public for citizen's notification,
(d) To prescribe timeframe and order concerned Public Body to
provide information demanded by applicant within such timeframe.
(e) To order concerned party to fulfill the liability as mentioned in this
Act.
(f) To provide necessary suggestions and recommendations to the
Government of Nepal and other bodies related to information and
communications regarding the protection and promotion of right to
information.
(g) To issue other appropriate orders regarding the protection,
promotion and exercise of right to information.

20.

Delegation of Power: The commission may delegate any of the functions, duties
or powers, except the power to hear and decide an appeal under Section 9, to the
Chief Information Commissioner, Information Commissioner or any other body or
official, subject to the terms and conditions prescribed for that purpose.

21.

Office of the Commission: The central office of the Commission shall be

11

located in Kathmandu Valley and the Commission may open its offices in various
places of the country as per necessity.
22.

Staffs of the Commission: (1) Required number of staffs shall be there at the
Commission.
(2) The Government of Nepal shall manage the staffs required for the
Commission.

23.

Expenditure of the Commission: (1) The Government of Nepal shall arrange
necessary budget for the Commission.
(2) The Commission shall also receive necessary financial resources from
other sectors after getting prior permission of the Government of Nepal.

24.

Cooperate with the Commission: Public bodies shall provide necessary
cooperation in the activities of the commission.

25.

Annual Report: (1) The commission shall submit annual Report of its activities
to the Legislature-Parliament through Prime Minister.
(2) The Commission shall publish, the Annual Report pursuant Sub-Section
(1) publicly for the purpose of public notice.

26.

Contact With the Government of Nepal: The Commission shall contact with
the

Government of

Nepal through the

Ministry of Information and

Communication.
Chapter- 4
Provision Regarding Protection of Information
27.

Provision Regarding Classification of Information: (1) For the protection
of the information related to Sub-Section (3) of Section 3, held in public Body,
there shall be a committee as following to classify the information in policy level:
(a) Chief Secretary of the Government of Nepal- Chairperson
(b) Secretary of the concerned Ministry – Member
(c) Expert of concerned subject assigned by the Chief of Office or
Chairperson – Member
12

(2) The Committee pursuant to Sub-Section (1), regarding the classification
of information under Sub-section 3 of Section (3), has to inform the Commission
by determining the number of years the information should be kept confidential
and method for the protection of information.
(3) A person, who is not satisfied with the classification made by the
committee pursuant to Sub-section (2) may file a review petition before the
commission to make the information public.
(4) The Commission, shall if it finds that any information need not be kept
confidential in the course of review of the petition pursuant to Sub-section (3),
issue an order to public such information.
(5) The information classified pursuant to the Sub-Section (2) may be kept
confidential for a maximum period of thirty years, according to the nature of the
information.
(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in Sub-Section (5), the Committee
shall review in every ten years that any information classified as confidential is
necessary to keep as confidential or not.
(7) While reviewing pursuant to Sub-Section (6), the Committee, if finds
necessary to keep such information confidential for additional period, may decide
the duration and classify as confidential for that period or may classify as nonconfidential if finds not necessary to keep confidential.
28.

Protection of Information: (1) Public Body shall protect the information of
personal nature held in for preventing unauthorized publication and broadcasting.
(2) Personal information held in public Body, except in following
conditions, shall not be used without written consent of concerned person.
(a) In case of preventing a serious threat to life and body of a person or
public health or security.
(b) If required to be disclosed in accordance with prevailing laws.
(c) If required to control the offence of corruption.

29.

Protection of Whistleblower: (1) It shall be a responsibility of an employee of
13

a Public Body to provide information on any ongoing or probable corruption or
irregularities or any deed taken as offence under the prevailing laws.
(2)

It shall be the duty of the information receiver to make the identity of
whistleblower in accordance with Sub-Section (1) confidential.

(3)

The whistleblower shall not be terminated from his/her post or punished
with any legal responsibility or caused any loss or harm for giving
information pursuant to Sub-section (1)

(4)

If any punishment or harm is done to the whistleblower against Sub-Section
(3), the whistleblower may complaint, along with demand for
compensation, before the commission for revoking such decision.

(5)

While investigating the complaint pursuant to Sub-Section (4), the
Commission may order to revoke the decision of removal from the office if
so removed from office and for the compensation if any damages caused to
the whistleblower.

30.

Providing Personal Information: (1) Concerned Body shall provide
information to the concerned person holding a public post, if such concerned
person demands information of during his service in the public Body.
(2)

if a person demands for information related with him/her held in

Public Body that Information shall be made available to that person.
(3)

The procedure for demanding and acquiring information pursuant to

Sub-Section (1) shall be as mentioned in Section 7.
(4)

Fees to received the information pursuant to Sub-section (1) shall be

as prescribed in Section 8.
31.

Information not to be Misused: (1) A person who obtains information from a
Public Body shall not misuse the information by not using it for the same purpose
that was considered.
(2)

The concerned Public Body may complain to the Commission

against a person who misuses the information against Sub-Section (1).

14

Chapter- 5
Provision Regarding Punishment and Compensation
32.

Punishment: (1) If the Commission finds that Chief of public Body or
Information Officer has held back information without valid reason, refused to
information or provided partial or wrong information or destroyed information; the
Commission may impose a fine to such Chief or Information Officer from Rupees
One Thousand Rupees to Twenty Five Thousand Rupees and if such Chief or
Information Officer is in eligible for departmental action, it may write to the
concerned Body for departmental action.
(2)

If the Chief of a public Body or Information Officer, delay to provide
information which has to be provided on time without reason, shall be
punished with a fine of Two Hundred Rupees per day so is delayed to
provide the information.

(3)

If the Commission writes to the concerned Body for Departmental action
pursuant to Sub-Section (1), the Public Body shall take Departmental action
against that Chief or Information Officer within three months and notify the
same to the Commission.

(4)

The Commission may impose a fine between Five Thousand Rupees to
Twenty Five Thousand Rupees considering that seriousness of misuse of
information if any person is found misusing the information acquired from
public Body instead of using it for purpose it was obtained for.

(5)

The Commission may impose a fine up to Ten Thousand Rupees to the
concerned person in case its decision or order pursuant this Act is not
abided by.

33.

Compensation: (1) If person incur losses and damages due to not providing
information, denying to provide information, providing partial or wrong
information or destroying the information by the Chief or Information Officer of
Public Body, such person may file a petition before the Commission for

15

compensation within three months from the date of not acquiring information,
acquiring partial or wrong information or restriction of the information.
(2) If the application pursuant to Sub-Section (1) is found reasonable upon
the investigation, the Commission may compensate the applicant from the
concerned Body with reasonable amount upon considering the actual loses.
34.

Appeal: A person not satisfied with the decision rendered by the Commission
pursuant to Section 32, may appeal before the Appellate Court within thirty five
days of decision received.
Chapter- 6
Miscellaneous

35.

Information may be Corrected: (1) If anyone believes that the information in
a Public Body on a particular matter is wrong, s/he may file an application before
the concerned Chief along with necessary evidence for the correction of the
information.
(2) The Chief shall conduct necessary investigation regarding the application
pursuant to Sub-Section (1) and if the information held in such Body is found wrong
in the course of investigation, he/she should inform the applicant upon correcting
within seven days from the date of application imformation.

36.

Save to Works done with Good Faith: Notwithstanding anything contained
elsewhere in this Act, no case shall be filed and no punishment shall be imposed
against the Chief or Information Officer for his/her works regarding the
dissemination of in forvevtion good faith.

37.

To be Pursuant to this Act: All the matters mentioned in this Act shall be
carried out in accordance with this Act, whereas other matters shall be dealt with
pursuant to prevalent laws.

38.

Power to Frame Rules: The Government of Nepal, upon consultation with the
Commission shall frame necessary Rules to implement the objectives of this Act.

16

Schedule
(Related to Section 18)
Oath

I …………………….. ,hereby, faithful to the state and the people promise with truth and
trust/take the oath in the name of God that highly respecting the shall expressed by the
people through the people's movement that Nepal's state authority and sovereignty is to
be vested only on the people, professing allegiance to the constitution of Nepal and laws
of the land, I shall carry out my responsibilities with honesty and without any fear,
sycophancy, partiality, malice or greed, by honoring citizen's right to information and for
the effective implementation and practice of laws pertaining to right to information.

17

