Our website uses cookies so we can analyse our site usage and give you the best experience. Click "Accept" if you’re happy with this, or
click "More" for information about cookies on our site and how to opt out.

More

Accept ×

Search

!"
About us

Privacy Act 2020

Your responsibilities

Your rights

Your responsibilities

Resources

Tools

News

Home / Your responsibilitie… Your privacy respon…

Your privacy responsibilities

Your privacy responsibilities
Collecting personal information

Print | Email this page

Under the Privacy Act, agencies must follow a set of rules when handling personal information. Read below to find out what an
agency is, and how to comply with the Act.

Holding personal information

Who does the Privacy Act apply to?

Using and disclosing personal
information

The Privacy Act applies to any organisation or business (referred to in the legislation as an 'agency'), whether it’s in the public
sector or private sector. This includes:

Privacy officers
Section 30 authorisations

government departments
companies
small businesses
social clubs
other types of organisations.

Privacy breaches
Sending information overseas

Exceptions

Privacy resources for organisations

The Privacy Act does not apply to:
courts and tribunals when they are doing their judicial tasks
news media when they are gathering and reporting news
Members of Parliament (MPs) when they’re acting in an official capacity.
Section 8(b) of the Privacy Act has a full list of exceptions

The Privacy Principles
The Privacy Act has 13 information privacy principles which set out how your organisation should handle personal information.
The first four principles govern how you can collect personal information. This includes when you can collect it, where you can
collect it from, and how you can collect it.
Collecting personal information
Principles five, six, and seven govern how you store personal information. People have a right to access and seek correction to
their personal information.
Holding personal information
The rest of the principles govern how you use and share personal information. Make sure information is accurate, and you use
and share it appropriately.
Using and sharing personal information

Privacy rules for specific situations
Some industries and types of personal information have codes of practice which change how the Act applies to them. There are
six codes of practice in operation:
Health Information Privacy Code
Credit Reporting Privacy Code
Telecommunications Information Privacy Code
Civil Defence National Emergencies (Information Sharing) Code
Justice Sector Unique Identifier Code
Superannuation Schemes Unique Identifier Code

How other laws work with the Privacy Act
If another law says something different to the privacy principles, that law overrides the Privacy Act.
For example, if another statutory provision allows you to disclose information, in those circumstances, you won't be in breach
of the Privacy Act by disclosing the information regardless of what principle 11 says.

Having a privacy officer
The Act requires all agencies to have at least one person who’s familiar with the agency’s privacy obligations and fulfils the role
of a privacy officer.
Information for privacy officers

Resources for complying with the Privacy Act
We’ve created a variety of resources to help you learn about your privacy obligations and make it easy to comply with the Act.
Privacy resources for agencies

Contact us
If you want to know more about privacy, the Act, or our work in general, contact our enquiries line:
Phone 0800 803 909 (Monday to Friday, 10:00am to 3:00pm)
Email enquiries@privacy.org.nz
Send us an enquiry using our online form
Search the AskUs knowledge base

Back to top

About us
Office of the Privacy Commissioner © 2013

AskUs

Contact us

RSS

Site Map

Privacy statement

Copyright

Govt.nz

Ask us a question

