Norwegian Data Protection Authority

Your reference

UNOFFICIAL TRANSLATION

Our reference

Date

18/03670/MLS

16.03.2019

Decision – The Norwegian Supervisory Authority’s List of Processing
Operations Subject to the Requirement of a Data Protection Impact
Assessment
Introduction
Some data processing activities always require a data protection impact assessment. The
supervisory authority therefore has an obligation pursuant to Article 35(4) of the General Data
Protection Regulation1 to establish and to make public a list of processing activities which are
subject to the requirement for a data protection impact assessment. Such an assessment must
be carried out before the processing of personal data is initiated.

Decision
The Norwegian Data Protection Authority hereby decides, in accordance with GDPR Article
35(4), cfr. Article 57(1)(k), that the following processing activities are subject to the
requirement for a data protection impact assessment:


Data collected via third parties in conjunction with at least one other criterion.
o For example collecting and combining personal data from third parties in order
to decide whether the data subject shall be offered, continue to receive, or shall
be denied a product, service or offer. (Vulnerable data subjects and
evaluation/scoring)



Processing of biometric data for identification purposes in conjunction with at least
one other criterion.
o For example, processing of biometric data for identification purposes on a
large scale. (Sensitive data or data of highly personal nature and large scale)



Processing of genetic data in conjunction with at least one other criterion.

1

The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) implemented as Norwegian law through Act of 15 June 2018
no. 38 concerning processing of personal data (the Personal Data Act).
Postal Address:
P.O. Box 458 Sentrum
NO-0105 OSLO

Office address:
Tollbugata 3

Phone:
+47 22 39 69 00

Telefax:
+47 22 42 23 50

Ent. reg:
974 761 467

Web Address:
datatilsynet.no

o For example processing of genetic data on a large scale, including gene
sequencing. (Sensitive data or data of highly personal nature and large scale)


Processing of personal data using innovative technology in conjunction with at least
one other criterion.
o For example processing of health data using innovative welfare technology
solutions like health implant aids. (Innovative use and sensitive data)



Processing of personal data involving measures for systematic monitoring of
employee activities.
o For example, monitoring the employees internet activity, electronic
communication or camera surveillance for the purposes of employee
monitoring. (Vulnerable subject and systematic monitoring)



Processing of personal data without consent for scientific or historical purpose in
conjunction with at least one other criterion.
o For example, processing of health data without consent for research
purposes. (Evaluation and sensitive data or data of highly personal
nature)



Processing of location data in conjunction with at least one other criterion.
o For example, combining data subject’s location or traffic data from
telephone records in a systematic manner, or processing of personal
data about the subscriber’s use of the telenet or telecom operators
services. (Sensitive data or data of highly personal nature and
systematic monitoring)



Processing of personal data for the purpose of evaluating learning, coping and wellbeing in schools or kindergartens. This includes all levels of education, from
preschool, elementary, high school to university levels. (Vulnerable data subjects and
systematic monitoring)



Systematic monitoring, including camera surveillance, on a large scale, in areas
accessible by the public. (Systematic monitoring and large scale)



Camera surveillance in schools or kindergartens during opening hours. (Systematic
monitoring and vulnerable data subjects)



Processing of sensitive or highly personal data on a large scale for training of
algorithms. (Large scale and sensitive or highly personal data)



Processing of personal data to systematically monitor proficiency, skills, scores,
mental health and development. (Sensitive data or data of highly personal nature and

2

systematic monitoring)


Processing personal data with the purpose of providing services or developing
products for commercial use that involve predicting working capacity, economic
status, health, personal preferences or interests, trustworthiness, behavior, location or
route. (Sensitive data or data of highly personal nature and evaluation/scoring)



Collection of personal data on a large scale through the use of “internet of things”
solutions or welfare technology solutions. (Large scale and sensitive or highly
personal data).

About the list contained herein
This list includes processing activities that the Norwegian Data Protection Authority
considers likely to result in a high risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects.
The Article 29 Working Party’s analysis in the Guidelines on Data Protection Impact
Assessment2 is a core element for ensuring the consistent application of the GDPR across the
EEA. The list is based on these Guidelines and the criteria set out in the Guidelines. The list
has been communicated to the European Data Protection Board3 pursuant to Article 64(1)(a)
GDPR, and the Board has issued an opinion on the matter in line with Article 64(3) GDPR.
The list is non-exhaustive, and therefore, the controller is required to assess whether other
processing activities than the ones encompassed by the list are likely to result in a high risk to
the rights and freedoms of data subjects.
The criteria contained in the Article 29 Working Party Guidelines are:










Evaluation or scoring
Automated-decision making with legal or similar significant effect
Systematic monitoring
Sensitive data or data of a highly personal nature
Data processed on a large scale
Matching or combining datasets
Data concerning vulnerable data subjects
Innovative use or applying new technological or organisational solutions
Processing that “prevents data subjects from exercising a right or using a service or a
contract”.

2

Article 29 Working Party, Guidelines on Data Protection Impact Assessment (DPIA) and determining whether
processing is “likely to result in a high risk” for the purposes of Regulation 2016/679, endorsed by the European
Data Protection Board in Endorsement 1/2018 of 25 May 2018.
3
The European Data Protections Board shall ensure the consistent application of the GDPR pursuant to Article
70(1) GDPR.

3

According to the Article 29 Working Party Guidelines, a processing meeting two or more of
these criteria would normally require a data protection impact assessment. In some cases, a
processing meeting only one criterion can also require such an assessment.

Kind regards

Bjørn Erik Thon
Commissioner for Data Protection
Marte Lindblad Skaslien
Senior Legal Adviser

4

