nl,crsrrnrDNo.ffi

9

d DsHorr

@eGetrrr"
=.E-

EXTRAORDINARY
PUBLISHED BY AUTHOBITY

ISLAMABAD, MONDAY, AUGUST 22,2016

PART

I

Acls, Ordin.nces, PrcsideDt's Orders rod Regshlioo!

NATlONAL ASSEMBLY

Sf, CRf,

TARIAT

Islanaba.l, the )9th Augtltt, 2016

No. F.

5-I-eeis.-The following A.ts of Mojl$-e-Shootd
lhe assent ofthe President on the ltth AuSust, 2016 arc

2f (3)/20f

(ParliameDr) received

hereby published lbr general information:

ACTNo, XL oF 20I6
Ah Act to nake

prottstons.[u prevention o{elecionic crines

WHERF^S il is cxpcdient to prevenl unauthorized acts with respect to
infbrmahon syslcms and provide for r€lated offences as well ss mechanisms for
thcir investigation, prosccution, trial and intemational cooperalion with respect
thereof and for matters connected there*ith or ancillary thereto;

Il is hereby enacted

as

follows:-

(74s)

Ptice:
[35.15(2016)/tx. Gaz.]

Rs.

20 50

146

THE GAZET]E OF PAKISTAN. EXTRA., AUGUST

2],2016

IPARI.I

CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY

1. Short titl€, crt€trt, applicatiotr atrd commenc€metrt,-{l) This
Act may be called the I're!ention ofEleckonic Crimes Acl, 2016(2)

lt extends to the whole ofPakistan.

€)

tt shall airply to every citizen ofPakistan rlherever he may be and

also to every other person for the time being in Pakistan.

(4) It shall also apply to any act committed outside Pakislan by any
person if the act constitutes an olTence under thrs Act and afTects a person,
property, information system or data ,ocated in Pakistan.
(5)

It shall ccme into force at once

2.

Definitions.

{l)

ln this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in

the subject or context,

(i)

"act" includes-

(a)

a se_ies

ofacls or omissions contrary to the provisions ofthis

Act: or

(b)

causing an act

to be done by a person eithcr directly

or

through an automated information system or automared
mechanism or self-executing, adaptive or autonomous device
ard whether having temporary or pernanent impact;

(ii)
(iii)

means gaining coDtrol or ability to use, copy,
modify or delete any data held in or generated by any device or
informati,)n system;
"access

tJ data"

"access tr) information system" mesns gaining control or ability to

usc any

l)a( or wholc of an information

syslem *helher ol not

through irfringing any securilv measu.e;

(iv) "Authoritf' means the Pakistan Telecommunication Authority
cstablisheJ under the Pakistan Telecommunicanon (Re-organizntion)

Ac!

(v)

1996

(XVII of

1996);

"authorizxton" means authorization by law or by the person
empowerr)d to make such authorization under the law:

PARTI]

THE GAZETTE OF PAKISTAN, EXTRA, AUGUST

22,20I6

'147

Provid€d that where an information system or data is available
for open access by the general public, access 10 or transmission of
such information system or data shall be deemed to be authorized
for the purposes oflhis Act;

(vi)

"authonzed officer" means an officer of the investigation agency
authorized to perform any fi.mction on behalf of the investigation
agency by or under this Act;

(vii)

"Code" means the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898 (Act V of
189E);

(vii0

(ix)

"content data" means any representation of fact, information or
concept for processrng rn an rnformation system including source
code or a program suitable to cause an information syslem to
perform a function;

"Court" means the Court of competent jurisdiction designated
under this Act:

(x)

"critical infrastruclure" means critical elemenls of infrastructure
namely assets, facilities, systems, networks or processes the loss or
compromise ol$hich could result in.

(a)

major de[imental impact on the availability, integrity or
delivery of eSsenlial services including those seftices, whose
integrity, if compromised, could result in significant Ioss of
life or casualties, laking into account significant economic or
social impacts; or

(b)

signrficant impact on national security, national defense, or
the functioning ofthe state:
Provided that the Govemmenr may designate any private

Govcmment infrastnrcture in accordance with the
objectives of sub-paragraphs (i) and (ii) above, as critical
infrastructurc as may be prescribed under this Act;

or
(xi)

"critical inftastructure informalion system or data" deans an
information system. program or data that supporc or perforns a
fiinclion with respect to

(xii)

a

crilical infrastructure;

"damage to an information system" means any unauthorized change
in the ordinary working of an information system that impairs its
performance, access, output or change
location whether
permanent
with
without
causing
any change in
lemporary or
and
or
the system;

in

748

THE CAZETTD OF PAKISTAN, EXlRA., AUCUST 22.

2016

[PaRr I

(xiii)

'data" includes conlent d6ra and lrafTic data;

(xiv)

"data demage" means akeration, deletion, detcrioratio . crasure.
relocation, suppression of dara or mating dala lemporarily or
permanertly unavailable;

(xv)

"device' includes.
G)

phl'sical device or anicle;

(b)

an! electronic or vi(ual tool that is not in physical form;

(c)

a pass\r{ord, access code or similar

dat4 in electronic or other
form, by which the whole or any part of an information
system is cepable ofbeing accessed; or

(d)
(xvi)

aulomated, self-€xecuting, adaptive or autonomous devices,
pr( grams or information systems;

"dishon(sl intention'' means intenrion lo cause injury, wrongful
gain or'xrongful loss or harm to any p€rson or to creale hatred or
incitem€nt to violence;

(xvii)

"elerro ic" includes clcclrical, diBital, magnetic, optical,
biometric, elechochemical, electromechanica.l, wirelcss or
elecfon agnetic technology;

(xviii)

"idenlit) information" means aIl informalion \rhich

may

authentirate or identiry an rndividual or en information system ard
eneble access to any data or information syslem;

(xix)

"informxtion" includes text, message, data, voice, sound, database,
video, signals, soiiware, computer programmes, any forms of
inGlligence as defined under the Pakistan Telecommunication
(Reorganization) Act, 1996 (xv[ of 1996) and codes including
object c,)de and source code;

(xx)

(xxi)

"informrtion system" means an electronic system for creating,
generaling, sending, recciving, storing. reproducing. displaying,
rccording or processing rny information,

"integriry" means,

in relation to an electronic document,
ot advanced electrcnic signature, the

electronic signalure

elecfoDic document, eleclronic signaturc or advanced electronic
signature thal has nol been tampered with, altered or modified
since a llanicular point in time.

PART I

THE GAZETTE OF PAKISTAN, EXTRA.. AUGUST 22,

(xxii)

2016

149

"interference with rnformanon sysrem or data" means and includcs
an unauthorized ac1 in relation to an informarion sys(em or dala lhat
may disturb i1s normal workrng or form with or without causing
any actual damage ro such system or data;

(xxiii)

"inyestigation agency" means rhe la\y enforcement agency
cstablished by ordesignated under this Act;

(xxiv)

"minor" rneans, notv/ithslanding an)4hjng contained in any olher
lov{, ary person who has not completed the age ofeighteen ycars;

(xxv)

"offence" means an offence punishable under Lhis Act exccpt when
committed by a pe.son under tcn years ofage or by a person above
ten years of age end undcl founcen years of agc, who hos not
attained sumcient maturity ofunderstanding tojudge the nature and
consequences ofhis conduct on thal occasion;

(xxvi)

"rules" means rules made undcr thjs Act;

(r-xvii)

"seize" with respecl to an information system or data includes
taking possession of such syslem or data or making and retaining a
copy ofthe dala;

(xxviii)

"service provider" includes a person

(a)

acts as a service provider in relalion to sending, receiving,
distribution
al|y electronic
sroring processing
communication or lhc provision ofother services in relalion 10
electonic communication lhrough an informarion syslem;

(b)

owns, possesses, operates, manages

or

swilched nelwork

(c)
(xxix)

who,-

oa provides

of

or controls a public
lelecommunication sewicesi or

processes or slor€s data on behalf of such electronic
communicalion senicc or users ofsuch service;

"subscriber information" means any information held in any form
by a service provider relating lo a subscriber other than treffic data;

()l-xx) "traflic data"

includes data relating to a communicadon indicating

its origin, destinarion, route, time, size, duration or lype ofservicc;

(xxxi)

"unalthorized access" means access lo atr information system or
dala which is oor available for access by general public, wirhoul
authorization or in violalion of the terms and conditions of th€
authorization;

750

THE GAZEITE OF PAKISTAN EXTR^.. AUGUST 21,

(xi\ii)
(xxxiii)

2016

[PAxr I

-unauth )rized inlerceplion shall rnean in relation to an information
syslem r)r data, any interception withour authorizatronl and

"unsoliciled information'nrcans rhc information rlhrch is sent for
commercial and markcling purpos.s against explicit rejection ofthe
recipientand does not include malketiDg authorized under the law

(2) [Jnlcss the conlext provides othenvise. any other erFression used in
Act
or rules mad( thereunder but no( dcfincd in this AcL shall have the same
this
meanings assigned r(, lhe expressions in rhe Pakistan Penal Code, 1860 (Act
XLV of 1860), the Code ofCriminal Proccdure. 1898 (Act V of l89t) and the
Qanoon-e-Shahadat. l9E4 (P.O-No.X of 1984). as the ca-se mav bc.
CHAPTER II
OFPENCES AND PUNISHMENTS

3. Unrrth,)riz€d rcc€ss to infonDaliotr syst€m or datr.-Whoever
with dishonest intentiln gains uDaulhorizcd acccss to any information system or
d6ta shall be punisherl with jmprisolrncnt lbr a term which may cxtend to three
months or with fine which may extend to fifty thorisand rupees or with both.
{.

UtreutbDrized copying or trarsmissioD of data.-Whoever with
dishonesl intention aDd ryithout authorizalron copies or otherwise ransmits or
causes to b€ uansmitl:d any data shall bc punished with imprisonment for a term
which may extend to six mondrs, or \yilh finc which mal extend to one hundred
thousand rupe€s or with both.

5.

Interference with infomrtion syst€m or dete.-Whoever with
dishoncst inlenlion in:erferes with or damages or causes to be interfered with or
damages any p8rt or whole of an inforn]alion system or data shall be ponished
wilh imprisonment \rhich may exterd to two years or with fine which may
ext€nd-to 6ve hundre( thousand rupees or with hoth.

6. Utrzuthorized acc€ss to critical infrastruclure informstior
systen or dst..-Who€ver with dishoncsl intention gains unauthorized access to
ary critical inftastru(ture information system or data shall b€ punished with
imprisonment which r.lay extend to thrcc ycars rrr with fine lvhich may exlend to
one million rup€€s or ,{,ith both.
7.

Utrrurhorized .opying or tmrsmission ofc ticd itrfrastructur.
dishonest intcnlion and wilhout authorizrtion copies or
othenrisc lmnsmits or causes !o be transmifle{l sny critical inliastrucfure data
shall bc punished qith imprisonment for a rerm which may extend to five years,
or with fine whlch ma.r' exlend to I'ive million ruDees or with both.

drt .-Whoeve. witl

P^RT I

]

THEGAZETTE OFPAKISTA\., EX.IIL{,,AUGUST 22, 20I6

751

8. Inlerfererce with critical infrastruclure informeliotr system or
data,-Whoever with dishonest intenrion interferes with or damages, or causes
to be interfercd \yith or damaged, any pa( or whole of a critical informatioo
system, or data , shall be punished wilh imprisonmenl which may extend to seven
years or Dith iine which may extend !o ten million rupees or with both.
9,

Glorificatiotr

of a[ offeEce.-(l)

Whoever prepares or
disseminales inlbrmalion, through any informalron system or device, vith the
intenl to glorif! an offence relating lo lenorism, or any person convicted ofa
crime relating 10 terrorism, or aclivities ofproscribed organizations or iodivjduals
or groups shall be punished wilh imprisonment for a tenn which may extend to
seven years or with fine uhich may extend to ten million rxpees or with both.

Explanation
the purposes ol this section "glorification"
-Fot
includes depiction of any form of praise or celebralion in a desirable

. 10. Cyber terrorism.-Whoever commits or thrcatens to commil

any
where
olthe offences under sections 6, 7, 8 or 9,
the commission or threat is with
the intent to.-

(a)

coerce, intimidate. create a sense of fear, panic or insecurity in the
Govemmenl or the public or a section of the public or community
or secl or creale a rensc o[ lear or insecurily in sociely: or

(b)

advance intcr-faith, sectarian or cthnic hatred; or

(c)

rdvallce thc objectives of organizations or individuals or groups
proscribed under the law, shall be punished with irnprisonment of
either descripdon for a term which may extend fo fourteen years or
\rith fine lvhich may extcnd 1() fifly million rupees or with both.

11. tlale speech.-Whocvcr prepares or disseminates information,
lhrough any information syslem or device. thal advances or is Jikely to advance
interfaith, sectarian or racial hatred. shall be punished with imprisonment for a
term whjch may extend to seven years or with fine or with both.
12. Rccruitm€trt, futrdirg and platrnitrg of terrorism.-Whoever
prepaaes or disserDinates infonnation, through any information system or device,

that invires or ,ro vates to fund, or recruits people for terrorism or plam for
lerrorism shall be punished with imprisonment for a lerm which mav extend to
scvcn years or wilh fine or qith both.

13. Electronic forger"v.{l)

Whoever interferes with or uses any
information syslcm, device or dal4 with the intent to cause damage or injury to
the public or 10 any person, or to make any illegal claim or trtle or to cause any
person to part with property or to enter into any express or implied contract, or

752

THE GAZE-I IE OF PAK]STAN, EXTRA,, AUCUST

22.2016

IPARTI

with intenr kr commrl fraud by any inpul, alteration, deletion, or suppression of
dala, resulling in unauthentic data with dre rntent that il bc considered or acled
upon for lcgal purposr)s as if it were authentic- regardless oflhe fact thal the dala
is directly readable arLd imelligible or nol. shall be punished with imprisonmenl
of either description or a term which may extend to three years, or with fine
which may exlend to Iwo hundred alld fifiy lhourand rupees or with bolh.

(2)

whoever commits offence under sub-section (l) in relation to a
critical infrastructure information syslcm or data shall he punished with
imprisonment for a tr:rm which may extend to seven years or uith fine which
may extend to five million rup€cs or with bolh.

1{. Elcctrolic frrud.

Whoever uith thc inrent for \rrongful gain
inlerferes with or usos any information system, device or data or induces ary
person to enler into a relatioaship or deceives any person, which act or omission
is likely to cause darnage or harm to that person or any olher penon shall tre
punished with imprisJnmenl for a term \hich may extend lo tl*o years or wilh
fine which may exten I to len million rupees or with both.

15. M{kirg,

obtaiEitrg, or suppMog d.vi.e for rse in ollence.

-

Whoever produces, nrakcs, generates; adapts, exports, supplics, offers to supply
or imports for use any information systcm, data or device, \,ith thc intent to bc
used or b€licving thtlt it is primarily to be used lo commit or to assist in the
commission of an offence under fiis Act shall, without prcjudice to any olher
liability thal he may incur in this behalc be punished with rmprisonment for a
term which may exl,ind to six months or with fine which may extend to fifty
thoussfld rupees or w th both.

16.

UDrutborlzed use of idertity informrtior.--{l ) Whoever oblains,
sells, possesses, tmnimits or uses another peEon's identity information *ithoul
authorization shall b. punishcd with irnprisonmenl for a term which may extend
to three years or with llne which may extend to fivc million rupees, or with both.

(2)

Any pe son whose identily informalion is oblained, sold, possessed,
uscd or transmifted nray apply to the Authoriry for securing, destroying, blocking
access or preventint, lransmission of identit! informalion referred to in sut).
section (l) and lhc Aulhority on receipl of such applicarion ma) lake such
measures as deem,:d appropriate for securing. destroying or preventinS
transmission of such identity information.

17. UMutlorized

issurnce of SIIII crrds elc.-Whoever sells or
provides
otherwise
subscriber identity module (SIM) card. re-usable
idcnlifica(ion modul: (R-IUM) or universal imcgrated circuil card (UICC) or
other module designed for authenricating users to cstablish connection wirh the
nelwork and to be used in cellular mobilc. \,rireless phone or other digitel devices

P.\R] I

I

IHD GAZDI"TE OF PAKISTAN, EXTRA., AUGUST 22,

:cl6

'753

such as tablets, without obtaining and verification

ofthe subscriber's antecedents
in the mode and manner for the time being approved by the Authority shall be
punished with imprisonmcnl for a tcrm which may extend to three years or v,fith
fine \-vhich ma! extend to five hundrcd lhousand rupces or with both.

1E. Tamperitrg, elc. oI commutrication equipmenl.-Whoever
unlawlully or wi[hout authorization changes. alters, tampers with or re-programs
unique device idenlifier ofany communication equipmenl including a cellular or
wirslcss handset and starls using or marketing such devic€ for lransmitting and
receiving information shall be punished with imprisonmeDt which may extend to
three years or qith fine lrhich may exlend to one million rupe€s or wilh both.
Erplandtion.

A

"unique device identifier"

is an

elecronic

equipment identil'ier which is uDique to a communication device.

19. UMuthorized

iEterceptiotr.-Whoever with dishonest intention

commits unaurhorized interception by technical meaos

of-

(a)

any transmission that is nol intended to b€ and is not open lo the
public, from or wifiin an infonnation system; or

(b)

ar information system that are
punished
carrying dat4 shall be
vrith imprisonment of either
description for a tenn which may extend lo two ye3-rs or wilh lme
which may extend to five hundred thousand rupees or with both.
electromagnetic emissions from

Olfcnces agritrst digoity of , Daturel peBon.-{l) Whoever
intentionally and pubhcly exhibits o. displays or fiansmits afly information
through any infbrmalion system, which he knows to be false, aad intimidates or
harms tlre reputatron or pnvacy of a natural percon, shall be punished with
imprisonmenl for a temr which may extend to three years or with fine which may
c),tend lo one million rupees or u ilh bolh:

20.

Provided that nothing under this sub-section shall apply to an),thing aired

broadcast media or distribution service licensed under the Pakistan
declronic Media Regulatory Authorig Ordinance, 2002 (XIll of2002).

by a

(2) Any aggrieved person or his guardian, where such person is a
minor, may apply to the Authority lbr removal. deslruction ofor blocking access
to such information referred to in sub-section (l) and the Authority on receipt of
such application, sha,l forthwith pass such orders as deemed reasonable in the
circumslances includirg an order for .emoval, deslru$ion, prevenling
transmission of or blocking access to such information and the Authority may
also direct any ofits licensees to secure such information including tramc data.

'754

THE GAZET':E OF PAKISTAN, EXTRA,,

TI

AUGUSl 22,2016

21. OfleDces againsr modesty of a noturrl pcrson atrd mitror.(1) Whoever intentiollall.'.' and publicly exhibits or displays or lransmirs any
information which,-

(a)

supefimFoses a photograph ot thc l-ace of a natLtral pcrson oler any
sexually rxplicil image or video. or

(b)

includes a pholograph or a video
explicit conduct; or

(c)

inlimidat:s a natural pcrson with flny sexual acl, or any sexually
explicit irnaSe or video ofa natural person; or

(d)

cultivate!, entices or induces a nalural person to engage in a
sexually :xplicil acl,

of a naural person in

sexually

through an informaliol syslem lo harm a narural person or his reputation, or to
take revenge. m lo rrealc hatrcd or 1(l blackmail, shall be punish€d with
imprisonment for a ter which may cxtend lo {lve ycars or nith fine which may
exlend to five million rupees or with both

(2)

Whoever commits an offence under sub-secrion (l) with respecl to
a minor shall be punished wilh imprisonment for a term which may extend to
seven years and with fine which may cxlcnd to five million rupees:
Provided that n qLSe
an offence under sub-:ection

imprisonmenl for

a

ofa

person rvho has becn previously convicled

(l) with rcspecl lo a minor shall be punished

of

with

lenn often years and with fine.

(3)

Any agg-ievcd pcrson or his guardian, wherc such person is a
minor, may apply to the Authonty lbr removal, (lestruction ofor blocking access
to such information relbrrcd to in sub.section (l) and the Authority, on receipl of
such applicarion, shall fo(hwith pass such orders as deemed reasonable in the
circumstances includ ng an order for removal, destruction, preventinS
transmission of or bjocking access to such information iud the Aulhoriry may
also direct any of its li( ensecs to sccure such ilformation including trafiic data.

22.

Childl

po

rnogr.phy.-( I )

Whoevcr intentionally produces, offers

or makes available, drstributes or transmits through an information system or
procures for himself or for anolher person or ,,lithour ]awfirl justificarion
possesses material in tur information syslcm. lhal visually depicrs

(a)
(b)

a minor engaged in sexually

explicil conduct;

a person apparing to be a minor engaged in sexually explicit
conduct:,)r

(c)
(d)

realistic images represcnling a minor engagcd in sexually explicit
conducl;,)r
discloses the identiry ofrhe minc'r,

PART

I

]

THE CAZETTE OF PAKISTAN, LXTRA,, AUCUST

22,2016

755

shall bc punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend lo seven years,
or with fiDe which may extend to five million rupees or with both.

(2)

Any aggrieved pe6on or hls guardian, where such person is a
minor, may appl]', lo the Authority for removal. destruction ofor blocking access
!o such information refened to in sub-section (l ) and lhe Authority, on receipt of
such application, shall forthwith pess such orders as deemed reasonable in the

circumslances, including an order for removal, destruction, prevenling
tra smission of or blocking access to such infomation and the Aulhority may
also direct any ofits liccnsees to secure such information including traffic data.

23. Malicious code.-Whoever willfully

aad without authorization

$Tites, ofFers, makes available, distribures or transmits malicious code through an
information system or device, with intcnt lo cause harm to any infoamation
system or.dala resuhing in the corruplion, dcstructioq alteralion, suppression,

then or loss of the informalion syslcm or data shall be punished with
imprisoment for a term which may exlcnd lo lwo years or with fine which may
cxtend to one million rupees or with both.

Iiplanalioh. For the purpose of this section, lhe expression
'malicious code" includes, a computer progmm or a hidden function in a
prograrn that damagcs ar info.mation syslem or data or compromises the
p€dormance o{ such system or availability of dala or uses it without
proper authorizition,

24. Cybcr stalking.--{l) A

person commits lhe offence

of

cyber

stalking who, with lhe inleot to coerce or intimidale or harass aly person, uses
inlbrmation system, information system network, the lntemet, vebsile, electronic
mail or any orher similar means ofcommuntcatron to

(a)

follow a person or conlacls or attempts to contact such person to
foster personal intemction rcpcatcdly despite a clear indication

of

disinterest by such person;

(b)

(c)

monitor the use by a p€rson ofthe intemet, eleckonic mail, terl
message or;my other form ofeleclronic communicalion;
watch

or spy upon a person in a manner lhal resuhs in fear of

violence or serious alam or distress, in the mind ofsuch person; or

(d)

(2)

take a pholograph or make a video of any person and displays or
drstrihutes it without his consent in a marmer that harms a person.

Whoever commits the offcnce specified in sub-section (l) shall
b( punished with imprisonment for a term which may extend lo three years or
with fine ryhich ma) exlend ro one million rupees or wilh both:

't56

THE GAZETI E OF PAKISI AN,

Lx'lRA , AUUU Sl- 22.

2016

[PART

I

that fviclim ol'the cyber stalking under sub-seclion (l) is a
minor the punishmenl rnay extend to tive years or srlh fine uhich may cxlend to
ten million rupees or *ilh bolh.
Providcd

(3)

Any agB-ieved person or his guardian, where such person is a
minor, may apply to the Aulhority for renroval, destruclion ofor blocking access
ao such information relened to in sub-seclion (l) and lhe Authority. on receipt of
such application, shall forthwilh p?as such ordcrs a\ dcemed reasonablc ill the
circurnstaDces includ n8 an order for rcmoval. destruction, preventing
t.ansmission of or bloJking access lo such informalion 6nd the Aulhority may
also direct any of its li(ensees to secure such informalion including traffic data.

25. SprEmirg.--{l)

A person commils the offence of spamming, sho
with intenl trensmils harmfirl, fiaudulenl, misleading, illegal or unsolicited
information to any penion withoul permission ofthe recipient or who causes any
informrtion system to rhow any such information for \rrongful garn.

(2) A person including an inslhution or an organization engaged in
direct ma*eting shall provide the option to lhe recipient of direcl marketing to
unsubscrib€ from such markelin8.
(3) Whoever commits the offence of spamming as described in
sub.section (l) by l€nsmitting harmful, fiaudulent, misleading or illegal
iflformation, shall be tunished with imprisonmenl for a lcrm which may extend
to thle€ months or wilh fine of rupecs fifly lhousand which may extend upto
rupees five million or \vilh both.
(4)

Whoever commits lhe ollcnce of spamming as described in
by trensmitting unsolicited information, or engages in dir€ct
markelinS in violation )fsub-section (2), for th. first time, shall be punished with
fine not exceeding fift-\' thousand rupees, and for every subscqucnt violation sh6ll
be punished with fine not less than fifty lhousand rupees thal may exlend up to
one million aupees.
suFsection (l)

26, Spoofng.-{l) Whoever wilh dishoncst intention establishes a
websiE or sends sny information wilh a counterfeit source intended to be
b€lieved by the recipient or visitor of thc rrebshe, to he an authentic source
commits spoofing.

(2)

Whoever commits spoofing shall be punished with imprisonmenl
for a term which may (Jdend to three years or wlrh fine which may exlend to five
hundred thousand rupe:s or with both.

27. Legsl reco8ritlor of offcnces committed in i?l.tiotr to
iifo.Draiotr system.-{l) Notwidstanding an}1hing contained in any other law
for the time being in force, an olfence Lrndcr this Acl or any olher law shall not be

PARr

l

l

THE CAZE'I-IE OF PAKISTAN, EXTRA., AUGUST

22,2016

7s7

denied legal recognition and enforcement for the sole reason of such offence
being.committed in relation to or through lhe use ofan information system.

(2)

"prope(y

in an), law creati[g an offence in relation
to or conceming prop€rty, shall includc iDfonnalion sysrem and data.
References to

2E. Pakislan PeDal Cod€, lt60 (Act XLV of lt60) to .pply.-The
provisions ofthe Pakistan Penal Codc, 1860 (Ac( XLV of 1860), to the extent not
inconsistent with anything provided in this Act. shall apply to the olfences
provided in this Act
CHAPTER

III

ESTABLISHMENT OF INVESTIGATION AGENCY AND PROCEDURAL
POWERS FOR INVESTIGATION

29- Estrhlishm.trt

of

investigstion

rgercy.-{l) The

Federal

Government may establish or designate a law enforcement agency as lhe
investigation agency for the purposes ofinvesligation ofoffences under lhis Acl.

(2)

Unless otherwise provided fbr under lhis AcL lhe invesriBation
agency and the aulhorized offrcer shall in all matters follow rhe procedure taid
down in the Code to the extenl that ir is not inconsistent with any provision of
this Acl.

(3)

The investigalion agcncy shall eslablish its own capacity for

forensic analysis of the dala or in information systcms and lhe forensic analysis
r€ports generated, by the investigalion agency shall not be inadmissible in
evidence before any couft for the sole reason that such repons were generared by
the investigalion ageIcy.

(4)

Notwithstanding provisions

of any other law, the Federal

Governmenl shall makc rules lbr appointmenl and promotion in lhe investigation
agency including undertakinB of spccializcd courses in digital forensics,
information technology, computer science and other related matlers for training
ofthe officers and staffoflhe investigation agency.

30. Power to itrvestigrtc.-Only an

authorized ofncer

of

the

investigation agency shall have the powers to investigate an offence under this

Provided thal the Federal Covcrnmenr or thc Provincial covemment
may, as the case may t€, conslilutc onc or more joinl investigation leams
comprising ofan authorized oflicer ofthe invesligation agency and sny other law
enforcement agenc) for rnvestigation ofan offence under this Act and any other
law for the time being in force

758

THE GAZETTEOF PAKISTAN. EXI.RA,. AUGUSI 22,

2016

IPART

31. Erpediird pr€senation and acquisilion of data---{l) If
aulhorised olTicer is sztisfied thal-

I

an

(a)

specific lata slored in any information system or bt means ofan
informal on system is rcasonably required for the purposes of a
criminal investigationl and

(b)

there is rr risk or vulncrability that Ihe data may be rnodified, lost,
destroyeil or rendered inaccessible,

the authorize( officc. may, by \vritten notice given to the person in
conlrol of thc information system, require fiat Person to prolide that data or to
ensure that the data specified in the notice be preserved and (he integriry thereof
is maintained for a period not exceeding nrnely days as specificd in thc nolice:
Provided that the authorized ofliccr shall immediately but not later than
lwenly-four hours brirg to the uotice ofthe Cou.t, the fact of acquisition of such
data and rhe Couft on receipt of such informalion may pass such orde6 as
deemed appropriate in the circumstances of the case including issuance of
r[arant5 for relenlion )fsuch data or olhcruisc.

(2)

The peri,;d provided in sub-section (l) lor prescrvarion ofdata may
be exlended by thc C('urt if so deemed necessary upon recerpl of an application
from the authorized officer in this behalf.

32. Retetrtion oI tramc dara.-{l) A service providcr slull, within its
existing or required trchnical capabilit], retain its specifled traflic data for a
minimum period of o1e ycar or such period as the Authorit! may notiry from
time to time and, subj,:ct to productron ofa warant issued by the Cou(, provide
that data to the investigarion agency or the aulhorized officcr whcnever so
required.

(2)

The service providers shall retain the traflic data under sub-seclion
by fulfilling all lhe requirements o[ data retenlion and its originality as
provided undcr sectio[s 5 and 6 of the Electronic Transactions Ordinance, 2002

(l)

(LI of2002).

(3) Ary owrer ofthc inlbrmation system who is not a licensee ofthe
Authority and violates sub-section (l) shali be gurlty of an offence punishable, if
committed for the filst time, $ith flne which may extend to ten million rupees
and upon any subsc(ucnl conviction shall bc punishable wilh imprisonment
which may exlend to six monlhs or with fine or with both:
Provided that wherc thc violalion is committed by a licensee of the
Authority, the same slall be deemed to be a violation of the terms and conditions

of the

licensee

ard shall be

trcated

as such under the

Telecommunication (tr.e-organizatioD) Act. I996

(XVII of

1996).

Pakistan

l'HE GAZETTE OF PAKISTAN, EX'IRA,, AUCUST 22, 20I6

l'ARr I

759

33. Wzr.etrt for search or seizure.-{l) Upon an application by an
authorized olliccr thal demonstrates to thc salisfaction ofthe Court that there
exist reasorablc grounds to believe that there may be in a specified place an
infornation syslem. data, device or other afiicles thal-

(a)

may reasonably be required for lhe purpose of a criminal
investigalion or criminal Eoceedings which may be material as
evidence in proving a specifically idenhfied offence made out
under this Act; or

(b)

has been ac{uired by a person as a result of the commission of an
offence, the Court may issue a wanant which shall authorize an
omcer of $e investigation agency, with such assistance as may be
necessary, to enter the sp€cifi€d place and to search the premises

or storage medium
rclevant lo the offence idenlified in the agplicalion and access, seize
or similarly secure any information syslem, dat, device or othcr
anicles relcvadt to lhe offence identified in lhe application.
and any information system, data, device

(2)

In circumslances involving an offence under section 10, under
which a wa ant may be issued but cannot be oblained withoul the apprehension
ofdcstruction, alreElion or loss ofdat informalion system, dat!, device or other
arlicles requircd for investigation, the authorized olEcer, who shall be a Gazetled
ofiicer of the irvestigation agency, may enter the specified place and search the
premises and any information syslcm, data, device or olher srticles relevanl lo the
offence and access, seize or similarly secure any informarion system, dal4 device
or other articles relevant to the o{fence:

Providcd that the authorized officer shall immcdiately but not later than
r\!'enry-four hours bring to the noticc of the Court the fact of such search or
seizure and the Court on receipt of such information may pass such orders as
deemed appropriate in thc circumstances ofthe case.

34. lv.rrrent for dis.losure ofconteD( drlr.-{I) Upon an application
by an authoriscd omcer that demonstrates to the s€lisfaction of the Coun thal
there exist rcasonable grounds to believe thal lhe content data stored in an
information syslem is rcasonably requrred for th€ purpos€ of a criminal
inlesligation or criminal proceedings u/ith respect to an offence made out under
this Acr, the Court may, aller recording reasons, order that the pcrson in control
o[ thc data or information system, to provide such data or access to such data to
the authorized officer.
lhe pcriod ol a warrant issued under sub-seclion (l) may be
beyond seven days if, on all application, a Court authorizes an

(2)
extended

exlension for a furher period of time as may bc specified by the Coun.

760

THE CAZETTE OT PAKTSTAN, EXTRA,, AUGTJST 22,

2016

[PART

I

35. Porats oI atr aulton"ed oflicer.--11) Subject lo provisions of
this Act, an authorized omccr shall have the powers to

(a)

havc a(cess

lo and inspect the operation of

any

specified

in,brmation s!,stem;

(b)

use or crruse to be used any specii'ied information system to search
any spe(ified dala contained in or available ro such system;

(c)

obtaio ard copy only relcvant datA use equipment lo mate copies
and obtain an inlelligible output fiom an

(d)

have

a(

cess

to or

infomalion system;

demand any information

in

readable and

comprehensible fomat or plain version;

(e)

require any percon by whom or on whose behalf. the authorized
officer t as reasonable cause to believe, ary informarion syslem has
been usrd 1o grant access lo any data wilhin an information system
within the control ofsuch person;

(0

require any person having charge of or otherwise concemed with
the operation of a,ly informatioo system to provide him reasonable
lechnicel and olher assistance as the authorized officer may require
for inve;tigation ofan offcnce under this Act; and

(g)

require any person ryho is in possession of d€cryplion informatiotr
of an i[formation syslem. device or dala under investigarion to
granl hrm access to such data, dcvice or information system in
uncncrlpted or dec0pted intetligible format for the puryose of
invesligating ary such offence:

hplanation.-Decryplion information means information or
lechnol)gy thar enables a person to readily relransform or
unscraorble encrypted data &om ils unreadable tbrm and from
ciphere,l data to inlelligible data.

(2)

[n exercrse of the power of search 6nd seizure of any information
syslem, program or drta thc authorized officer at all times shall.-

(a)

act with proportionality:

(b)

take ali precautions to maiotain inlegrity and secrecy of the
information syslem and dara in respccl of which a warant for
search (,r seizure has been issued;

PART I

]

THE GAZETTE OF PARIS,TAN, [X]'RA,, AUGUS'I 22, 2016

(c)

161

not djsrupt or inlerferc with the integrity or running ard op€ration
ofany inlbrnution system or data lhat is not the subject of the
offcnces identified in the applicstion for which a warart for search
or seizure has been issued;

(d)

avoid disruplion to thc conlinDed leBilimale business operations and
the premises subjeclcd to search or scizure under this Act; and

(e)

avoid disruplion 10 any informalion syslem, program or data nol
connected wilh lhc informarion systerh rhal is nol the subject of the
offences idenlified in lhe application for which a warrant has been
issued or is nol necessary for the inveniSatron of lhe specified
offence in respect ofwhich a warrant h&s been issued.

(l)

Whcn seizing or sccuring any data or information syslerh, the
authorized olTicer shall make all effons to use technical measurcs to maintain its
integrity and chain ofcustody. The authoflzed oIEcer shall seize rn informalion
system, data, device or arlicles, in pafl or in u'hole, as 6lan rasort only in the
evenl where it is not possrble under the circumstances to usc such technical
measures or where use of such technical measures by lhems€lvcs shall not b€

sufficient

to

maintain the integrily and chain

of

cuslody

of tie

data or

informalion system being scizcd.

(4) Where an.authorized officer seizes or secures sny data or
information system, (hc aulhorizcd ofliccr shall ensure lhal data o. information
system while in rhe possession or in the access of the authorized officer is not
relersed to any orher pe6on including competitoE or public at large ard details
including log of any action pedormed on lhe information system or drt! is
maintained in a manner prescribed under this AcL
36.

Derlitrg witt s€ized dala or irforErliotr syst!m.-{l) If any data
or information syslem has bccn scizcd or secured following a search or seizure
under this Act, thc aulhorized ofliccr who undcrtook lhe search or seizure shall,
at the lime oflhe seizure,-

(a)

male a list o{ what hls bcen scizcd or rcndered inaccessible, with
the date and timc ofseizure: and

(b)

give a copy ofthat lrst ro,

(i)

the occupier

(ii)

the o,.vner of thc dala or information system;or

ollhe premiscs; or

(iii) the person from

whose possession the data or information
system has been seized. in a prescrib€d manner in the
presence of two witnasses,

'162

THL CAZEr'tE OF PAKtS',tAN, I-XTRA., AUGUST 22,

2016

[PARr I

(2)

The auth,)ri7-ed ofticer, upon aD application ofthe owner ofthe dala
or information system or an authorzed agenl of the o\yner and on paymenl of
prescilbed costs, shall provide forcnsic image ol'lhe dala or informalion system
to the owner or his aulhorized agenl wilhin a timc prescribed undcr this Act.

(3) If the althorized omcer has reasons to believe that providing
forersic image of the d,la or informalion syslem to lhe owner under suEsection (2)
may

prejudice,-

(a)

the invesrigation in connection wilh which the search was carried
oul; or

(b)

anoGer ongoing invcstigalion; or

(c)

any criminal proceedings lhal are pending or that may be brought in
relation tJ ary of those investigations, lhe authorized oflic€r sha.ll,
within se /etr dals of recaipt ofLhe application under suEseclion (2),
approach the Coun for seeking an order nol to provide copy ofthe

seizrd data or informalion systcm,

(4)

The Court, upon rcceipt of an application ftom an authorized

ofEcer under sub-sectron (3), may afier recording re&soos in wnling pass such
order as deemed approrriate in the circumslances ofthe c:$e.

(5)

The costri as.sociated with the exercise of rights under this section
shall be bome by the p)rson exercising these nghts.

37. Unlreful on-ll[. cortcut.-<l) The Aulhority shall have the
power to rcmove or bl(,ck or issue direclions for removal or blocking ofaccess to
an informalion through any inforhation syslem if it considers it necessary ifl the
interest of lhe glory ol lslarn or the integrity, security or defc cc of Pakislan or
a.ny part thereof, publir order, decency or morality, or in relation to contempt of
couft or commission oior incitemeirt lo an offence und€r this Act.

(2) The Autlority shall, with the approval of the Federal Govemment,
prescribe rules provi(iing for, among other matters, safeguards, tmnsparent
process and effectivt oversight mechanism for exercise of powers under
suuseclion (l ).
(l)

Until such rules are prescribed under sub-section (2), the ALrthority
lalr lbr the time being in
force in accordance $irh the dircctions issuqi by lhe Federal Government not
inconsislenl with the provisions ofrhis Act.
shall exercise its po\r(:rs under this Acl or any other

(4) Any per!.on aggrieved tiom any order p&ssed by rhe Audoriry
under sub-section (l), may file an application with the Authority for review of
lhe order wirhin thiny ,lays from the date of passing ofthe order.

P^RT I

]

THE GAZETTE OF PAKISTAN, EXTRA,, AUGUST 22,

2016

163

(5)

An appeal against the dccision offte Aurhority in review shall lie
before the Iligh Court within thirty days ol rhe order of rh€ Allhority in review.

38. Limileliotr of liabilily of

scrvice pmviders.--{1) No service
provider shall be subject lo any civil or criminal liability, unless it is established
that the service provrder had specific aclual knowledge and willful intent to
proactively and posilively participate, and not mcrely through omission or failure
to act, ond thereby facilitated, aidcd or abetted the use by any p€6on of any
information system, service. application. online platform or telecommunication
slslem maintained, coflrrolled or msnaged by the service provider in connection
with a contravention ofthis Act or rules made thereunder or anv oth€r law for th€
timc being in force:

ttovided thar the burden to provc that a service provider had specific
aclual knowledge, and \f,illful intcnt lo proactively and positively participate in
any acl that gave rise to any civil or criminal liability shall be upon the person
alleging such facts and no interim or final orders, or directions sha.ll be issued
wilh respect to a service provider by any investigation agency or Court unless
such facls have so been proved and determined:

P.ovided further that such allegation and its proof shalt clearly idenliry
wilh spcificity the content, material or other aspecl with respecl lo which civil or
criminal liability is claimed including bul not limited to unique identifiers such as
the Account Identification (Accounr ID), Uniform Resource Localor (URL). Top
Levcl Domein (TLD), Intemet Protocol Addresses (tP Addresses), or other
unique identifier and clearly state the stalulory provision and basis ofthe claim.

(2)

No service provider shall under any circumstance be liable undcr
this Acl, rules made thereunder or any olher law for maintaining ard making
avallable the provision oftheir service in good faith.

(3)

No service provrder shall bc subject to any civil or criminal liability
as a result of informing a subscribcr, uscr or end-users affected by any claim,
notice or exercise of any power under this Act, rules made thereunder or any
other la\v:
Provided that the service providcr, for a period not exceeding fourteen
days, shall keep confidential ard not disclose the existence of afly investigation
or exercise of any power under this Act when a notice lo this effect is served
upon rl by an aufiorized officer. which period of confidentia lity may b€ extendcd
be]_ond fourteen days if, on an application by the authorized office( the Court
aulhorizcs ar extension for a firrther spccified period upon b€ing sarisfied that
reasonable cause for such extension cxisls,

(4)

No service provider shall be liablc under this

Ac!

rules made

thereunder or any other law for the disclosure of Bny dala or other informalion
that the service provrder discloses only to the extent ofthe provisions ofthis Act.

164

IHE GAZET.IE OF PAKISTAN. EXTRA,, AUGUST 22.

2016

[P,\RT I

(5) No servi:e provider shall bc undcr any obligation ro proactively
monltor, make inquiries about ,nalerial or conlent hosted. cached. rouled,
relayed, conduit, transnitted or madc available by such inlermedrary or servrcc
provider.

!9. Rrel-time collection and rccording of iDformrtiotr.--{ l) lf a
is
Coun satisfied on th€ basis of information furnished by an authorized omcer
that there are rea-sonab e grounds to believe lhal the content ofany information is
re&sonably required fi)r the pu+oses of a specific criminal invesrigation, thc
Court may order, wilh respect to informalion held by or passing through a service
provider, to 6 designat,rd agency as nolificd undcr the Investigation for F6ir Trial
Ac! 2013 (l of 2013) or any olher law for thc limc being in force havrng
capabili(y lo collect real lime informanon. lo collect or record such information
in rcal-timc in coordiDation with thc investigation agency for provision in lhe
prescribcd manner:

kovided that riuch real-time collcction or recording shall not be ordercd
for a period b€yond what is absolutely necessary and in'any event for not more
than seven days.

(2)

Nohlithsranding anlhing contained in any law to the contrary

information so collected under sub-section

(l)

fic

shall be admissible in evidence.

(3)

The peri,}d of real-time collection or recording may be extcnded
beyond seven days if, on an application, the Court authorizes an extension for a
further specifi ed period.

(4) The Couft may also require lhe desigrated agency to keep
confidentisl the fact ofthe execution ofany power providcd for in this section
eDd any information relating to it.
(5)

The application under sub-scctions
substanlive gounds and reasons also,-

(l)

and (2) shall in addition to

(a)

explain v/hy it is believed that the data sought will be available with
the person in control ofan informalron system;

(b)

identiry rmd explain with specificity the type
to b€ fould on such info.mation system;

(c)

of informaton hkely

idendry:.nd explain with specificitv lhe idenlified offence 6ade out
under thi i Act in respect of whtch the warrant is sought;

(d)

if author ty to seek reahime collection or recording on more tlan
one occirsion is needed, explain why and how many further
disclosurrs are needed to achieve the purpose for which lhe warant
is ro be issued;

THE GAZLI'I'E OF PAKIS'I AN, EXTRA.. AUGUST 22, 20 I6

PART I

(c)

765

speciry what measures shall b€ taken 10 pre-pare and ensure that the
real-time collection or recording is carried out whilst maintaining
the priyacy of other users, customers alld third panies and *rthout

the disclosure

of

rnformation

of any

person not part

of

the

invesliBation;

(0

explain $hy the investigation may be frustrated or seriously
prejudiced unless lhe real time collection or recording is perrDitted;
and

(g) why. to achieve lhe purpose for which the \xarrafi is being applied,
real lime collection or recording by tbe person in control of lhe
information system is necessary

40. Foretrsic hborrfory.-The Federal Covemment shall establish
s forensic laboratory. independenl of thc investrgation agency,

or
to
providc expe( opinion before the Court or for the benefir of the invesligation
agency in relation to electronic evidence collecled for purposes of investigation
and prosecutio ofoffences under this Act.
designale

41. Corfid.Dti.lity of irform.liotr,-Not\yithstanding

immunity

granled under any other law for rhe nme being in force, anv person includirg a
service provider while providing serviccs under lhe lerms of lawfirl contract or
otherwise in accordancc with the law. or an authorized officer who has secured
access to any material or data conlaining personal information about another
person, discloses such rna(erial to any olher person, excefl \yhen required by Ia$,,
without the consenr of the person concemed or in breach of lawful conlract wift
th€ intenr lo cause or klowing that he is lik€ly to cause harm, wrongful loss or
gain to any person or compromise confidentiality o[ such material or data shall
be punished wilh imprisonment for a term which may exlend lo three years or
with fine *'hich may e\tend to one million rupees or with both:

Provided that the burden ol'proof of any defense taken by an accused
service provider or an authorized oflicer that he was acting in good faith, shall be'
on such a scrvice provid€r or lhe authorized officcr, as lhe case may be.

CHAPTER IV
IN'I ERNATIONAL COOPERATION

42. lntemrtion.l cooperetion.-< 1) The Fedeial Covemmenl may
upon receipt of a rcquest, throug! lhe designated agency und€r this Act, extend
such cooperation to dny foreign govcrnment, 24 x 7 network, any foreign agency
or any internalional organizrion or agency for the purposes of investigations or
proceedings conceming offenccs relaled

lo

informstion systems. electnonic

766

THE GAZET|E OF PAKISI.AN. EX TRA . A(JCUST 22,

20]6

IPART

I

communicatiol) or drta or for the collection of evidence in electronic form
rclating ro an otlence )r oblaining expeditious prcscrvation and disclosure ofdata
by means ofan infom,ation system or real-time colleclion ofdata associated with
specified communical ons or inlerception ofdala undcr this AcL

(2)

The Federal Govemment may forward to a foreign govemment,
24x7 network, any frreign agency or any intemational agenoy or or8anization
any informalion obtained from its own invesligations if it considcrs lhat the
disclosure ol'such irformation might assist the other government, agcncy or
organization elc., as rh€ case be, in iniliating or carr-ying out investigatrons or
proceedings concemir.g any olfence underthis Act.

(3)

The Fe(leml Government shall require the foreign govemment,

24 x 7 networlq any foreign agcncy or any internalional organizalion or agency to
keep the information lrrovided confidential and use it strictly for the purposes it is

provided.

(4)

-fhe

Fed..al Government may, through the designated agcncy, send
and answer requests fcr mulual assistance the execution ofsuch requests or their
transmission to the auihorities oompctenl for their cxccution.

(5)

The Federal Govcrnmcnt may refuse to accede to any requesl made
govemm,:nl,
by a fo.eign
24 x 7 networlc ary foreign agency or any mlemalional
organization or atenc /,

it

(a)

it is of the opinion that the request, if granted, \rould Fejudice
sovereienty, security, public order or other essential public interest
ofPakistan;

(b)

thc offerce is regarded by the Federal Govemment as being
political nature;

(c)

there are substantial grounds for believing that lhe request for
assistance has been made fo. the purpose of prosecutin8 a person
on account of that personrs race, sex, religion, nalionalily, ethnic
ori8in cr political opinions or that thal person's posilion may be
prejudiced for any oflhose reiBons;

(d)

lhc reqr est relates to an offence the prosecution of which in the
requcstirg State may be incompatible with the laws ofPakistan;

(e)

lhe assir;tance requested requires the Federal Govemmenr to cafiy
oul compulsory measurcs thal may b€ inconsistent with the laws or

practicei

of

ofa

Pakislan had rhe olTence been rhe subjecr of

investigrtion or prosecution under ils ownjurisdiction; or

PART

I

THE GAZEITE OF PAKISTAN. EXTRA., AUGUST 22, 2016

(f)

761

the request concerns an ollcnce which may prejudice an ongoing
investigation or trial or rights of its citizens guaranteed under the
Constitution.

(6)

Where lhe Federal Govemment decides to provide lhe requested
cooperation, lhc rclevanl requtemenls and safeguads provided under this Act
and rules ftamed lhercundcr shall be follo\red.

(7)

The designated agency shall mainlain a register ofrequests received
x 7 ner\york, any foreign agency or any
intemalional organization or agency under lhis Acl and action taken thereon.

from any foreign govemment,24

CHAPTER - V
PROSECUTION AND TRIAL OF OFFENCES

43. Olfelc.! to be compoundrble rnd troD{ogrizrble.-<1) Ail
offences under lhis Act, except the offences under sections 10,21 aid 22
abetment

lhercol shall

a

d

be non-cognizable, bailoble and compoundablej

Provided that offences under section 17 shall b€ cognizable by the
investigation agency on a wriEen complaint by the Authority.

(2)

Offences under sections 10,

2l

and 22 and ab€tmeDt thermf shall

be non-bailable, non-compoundable and cognizable by the invesligation aSency.

trial of offences.-{ 1) The Federal Covemmenl, in
consultation with the Chief Ju(ice of respective High Courl, shall designate
presiding ofEcars of lhe Couns to try offences under this Acl al such places as
44. CogniTt nce btrd

deemed necessaD/,

(2)

The federal Covemment shall, in consulletion with the Chief
Justice of respective lligh Court, armnge for special training of $e presiding
oliicers of the Courl to be oonducted by an entity notified by the Federal
Governmenr fo. training on compulcr sciences, cyber forensics, electronic
transactions and dala protection,

(3) Prosccution and trial ofan offence under this Act committed by a
minor shall be conducted under the Juvenile Justice System Ordinance,2000
(XXll of2000).
(4)

To lho cxlent not inconsislent with this Act, the procedure laid

down under the Code and lhe Qanoon-c-Shahadat, l9E4 (P.O.No.X
shall be followed.

45. Ordcr for pryment of comp€asatior.-<l)

of

1984),

The Courl may, in
punishment
fine
aEard
ofany
including
under
this
Acl, rhake an order
addition to
paymeDt
victim
for any darnage or loss caused aDd the
for
ofcompensatron to the
compensation so a\!arded shall be recoverable as arrears ofland rev;nue:

768

THt GAZETIE OF PAKISTAN. EXTRA., AUCUST

22.2016

[P^Rr I

Provided that the comp€nsalion a$arded by lhe Court shall not prejudrce
civil r€medy for thc recovery of damages beyond the amount of
compcnsation so awardcd.

any .ight to a

216. Appoitrlment of amicus curiae and $.rking expen opiDior.-The
Coun may appoint adicus cwioe or seck indep€ndcnt experl opinion on any
maltcr connected witlr a case pending belirre it.

47. Appesl.-An

appeal against lhe finaljudgment or order ofa Courl
shall , ', ithin thiny drys from lhe date of provision of its cedficd copy free of
cosl,

lie-

(a)
(b)

or order

if

the c(,urt ofsessions concerned against suchjudgment or order

if

to thc tligh Coufl concerned against
passed ty a coun ofsessions; or
10

passed

ty

such judgmcnt

a magislEle.

CHAPTER VI
PREVENTIVE MEASURES

,18. Preverlior of electro c crim€s.-<l) The Federal Govemmenl or
the Authority, as the case may be, may issue directives lo be followed by the
owners ofthe designated inlbrmation systems ('r service providers in the interest
ofpreventing any offiince undcr this Act.

(2) Any o\aner of the informarion system who is not a licensee of the
Authority and violates the directives issued under suEsection (l) shall be guilty
of an offence punishable, if committed for lhe first time, with fine which may
extend to ten millicn rupees and upon any subseque conviction shall be
punishable with imprisonment which tnay extend to six monrhs or with fine or
wilh bolh:
Provided thal where the violarion is committed by a licensee of the
Aulhorily, the same shdll be deemed to bc a violation of the terms and condilions

of the

licensee ?nd shall

be

trealcd as such under the

Pakistan

Telecommunical ion (Re-orgsnization) Acr, I 996.

49. Computer emergency respoxse le*ms.-{l) The

Federal

Govemment may corLstitutc onc or morc computer emcrgellcy rcsponse teams to
respond 1() anv thrcar against or afiack on any crilical infrastructure information
slstcms or crirical nfrasrructure data or widespread attack on infonhalion
systems in Pakistan.

PART

I

]

THECAZETTT OF.PAKISTAN, EXTRA., AUGUST

22,2016

169

(2)

A (ompuler ernergency rcsporEe team constihrled uDd€r sub.s€ction (l)
may comprise oftcchnical experts ofknown exp€flise ollicers ofany inlelligence
or agency or any sub- set thcreof

(l)

A computer emergcncy response lcam shall respond to a lhreat or
altack wirhoul causing any undue hindrancc or inconvcnicnc€ to the use and
access ofthe information system or delr Es may be prescribcd.
CHAPTER VII
MISCELLANEOUS

g).

Rehtio. oa the Act with oaher Lw..--{ l) The provisions of rhis
Act shall have effecl not in derogalion ofthe Paldstan Penal Code, t860 (Act
XLV of 1t60)- the Code of Criminal Procedure, lE98 (Acl V of lt9t), lhe
Qanoon-€-Shahedat, 1984 (P.O. No. X of 1984), rhc Eolection of Pakislan Act,
2014 (X of 2014) and the lnvestigstion for Fair Trial Acl, 2013 (l of20ll).

(2)

Subj€ct lo sub-section (l), the provisions of this Act shall hav€
elTect notwithstanding arything to thc contrary contained in 6ny oth€. law on lhe
subject for the time being in force

51. Porcr to mel(€ rules.-<l) The Federal Govemment may, by
notification in the official Gazetlc. makc rules for carryiog oul pu4loses of lhis

(2)
nrles may

Wilhoul prejudice to the generality ofthe foregoing powers, such

specifo,-

(a)

qualifications and trainings

of

the omcers and slaff of the

investigation agency and prosecutors;

(b)
(c)

powers, functions and responsibilitics of the investigation agency,
iB officers and prosecutors;
stEndard , operatinS procedures

ofthe investigatior agency;

(d)

mode and manner in \rhich record
may be maintained;

(e)

menner to deal with the seized data, informelion syslcm, device or
other articlesl

(0

working ofjoint invenigation terms;

of invesligation undcr this Act

.I7O

THE GAZETT]] OF PAKISTAN. EX'I]RA., AUGUST 22, 20]6

ART

I

(g)

requiremelts for seeking permission of lhe Aulhority to change,
alter or re-programme unique device identifier of any
communication cquipment b) any person for research or aDy other
legitimate purpose;

(h)

procedure for seeking appropriate orders of the Authorily for
removal, destruction or blocking access to informatioD under this
Act;

(i)

conslituticn ofcomputer emergency response team and the standard
op€rating Drocedure to b€ adopted by such teanl:

(j)
(k)

appoinlment ofdesignated agency having capability to collect real
time infofination;
manner of coordination between the investigation agency aDd other
law enfor)em€nt and intellgence agencies including designated
agency;

(l)

for managrment and oversight ofthe forensic laboratory;

(m)

qualificati,)ns a.nd tainings ofthe officers, experts and staffof the
forensic lsbomtory;

(n)

powers, functions and responsibilities
olficers, experts and staff;

(o)

standard operating procedures of the forensic laboratory to interact
with the investigation agency;

(p)

manner of

(q)

matters connected or ancillary thereto

ofthe lbrensic laboratory, ils

solicitilg and extending inremational cooperation;

and

52.

Removal,)f dimculties.-If an), difficulty arises in giving effecl to
ofthis A*, the Federal Govemment may, within two yea$ ofthe
commencement ofthis Act and by order published in the offrcial Gazette, make
such provisions nol inc(,nsistent with the p.ovisions oflhis Act as may appear to
b€ necessary for removilg the difficulty.
the provisions

53. Report k, Parlisment.-The agency designated or established
under section 29 ofthe .\ct shall submit a halfyearly repo( to both houses ofthe
Parliament for consideition by the relevanl Committee in camera, in rcspect of
its activities, without disclosing identrly information, in a manner as prescribed
underthis Act.

PART I

]

(LI of

THE

5{.

CAZEfiE dF PAKISTAN, EXI

Ametrdme!t

of

Eleclrotric Trrtrsctiotrs Ordioancc,

2002

2002) rtrd petrdirg procecdiogs.-11) Sedions 36 and 37 of lhe
Elecrronic Transactions Ordinance, 2002 (LI of2002) are omitted.

(2) Any action ta.ken by or \yith the approval of the Authority or
proccedings pending under the provisions of the Electronic Transactions
Ordinance, 2002 (LI of 2002) repealed by sub-section (l), shall conrinue a0d bc
deemed to have been taken or iflilialed under this Act.
55,

Saviogs of powen.-Nothing, in this Acl shall afTecl, limit or

prejudice the duly authoriz€d and lawful powers and firnclions of the inslitutions
conrrolled by the Govemmenls exercised.nd performed in good faith.

AcT No. XLr (n 2016
An Acrlurther to
wrlr-.REAs

Act, 1974 (XlX of

aneni the Bank\ (Notionalization) Aci

it is expedient further to

lgU

amend the Banks (Nationalization)

I974), for the purposcs hcrcinafter appearing;

AND WIIEREAS the Supreme Court of Pakrslan in a case reponed as
'Muhammad ldris )s Federarion of Pakistan. PLD 2011 SC 213'held that the
amendments in question in section ll ofthe Banks (Naliooalizarion) Acl, 1974,
did not fall wilhin the ambit ofsub'clause (a) to (g) ofclause (2) ofAnicle ?l of
the Constitution thus could not have been introduced by way of Finance Ast,
2(fr7:,

It is hereby enscted as follo\f,s:-

1.

Short title erd

comme

occmcEt.-This Act may be called lhe

Barks (Nalionalizrtion) (Amendment) Act, 2016.

(2) It shall come inlo force at once and shall be deemed to have taken
effecl on lhc lst July. 2007.

2. AmetrdEetra of sectio! ll, Act XIX
(Nationalizrtion) Act, 1974 (XIX of l9?4), in secrion l
(a)

in sub-section

(l).

of 1974.-In the Banks

l,-

for clause (b), thi} following shall be subslituted,

namely:"(b) not Iess than five and nol more dan seven olher memkrs
including one or morc directors \rhose eleclion by the pivate
shareholders, removal and olier matters shall be govemed by lhe
Companies Ordinance, 1984 (XLV ll of 19E4)." ;and

172

THE GAZE1 TE OF PAKISTAN. EXTRA., AUGUST

(b)

in sub-s--ction

(i)
(ii)

22,2016

[PARTI

(3),-

afler lhe word "Board". the Bords "representing rhe Federal
C(,vemment's direct and indrrect shareholding , shall be
adled; afld
for clause (d), rhe following shall be subiiruted.

namcly:-

"tl)

may bc re-appointed for scrcond and final term by the
in consultation with the State Bank of
Pakistan, for a firrther pe.iod ofthree yeErs.".
FeCeral Covemment

ABDUL JABBAR ALI,
Secrclary

PRINTED BY THE MAI.AOER PRINTINC COR}I)RATION OF PA(ISIAN PRESS ISLAMAB^T'
THE OEFJ| Y MNTNOLLEX- STATIONERY AND FORMS- TJNNERSITY R{)AI' (IT^CHL

PIJBLTSHED BY

