Republic of the Philippines
NATIONAL PRIVACY COMMISSION

Implementing Rules and Regulations of Republic Act No.
10173, known as the “Data Privacy Act of 2012”
Pursuant to the mandate of the National Privacy Commission to
administer and implement the provisions of the Data Privacy Act of
2012, and to monitor and ensure compliance of the country with
international standards set for data protection, the following rules
and regulations are hereby promulgated to effectively implement the
provisions of the Act:
Rule I. Preliminary Provisions
1. Title
2. Policy
3. Definitions

Rule II. Scope of Application
4.
5.
6.
7.

Scope
Special Cases
Protection afforded to data subjects
Protection afforded to journalists and their sources

Rule III. National Privacy Commission
8. Mandate
9. Functions
10. Administrative Issuances
11. Reports and Public Information
12. Confidentiality of Personal Data
13. Organizational Structure
14. Secretariat
15. Effect of Lawful Performance of Duty
16. Magna Carta for Science and Technology Personnel

Rule IV. Data Privacy Principles
17. General Principles
18. Principles of Transparency, Legitimate Purpose and Proportionality
19. Principles in Collection, Processing and Retention
a. Collection must be for a specified and legitimate purpose
b. Personal Data shall be processed fairly and lawfully
c. Processing should ensure data quality
d. Personal data shall not be retained longer than necessary
e. Any authorized further processing shall have adequate safeguards
20. Principles for Data Sharing

Rule V. Lawful Processing of Personal Data
21. Lawful Processing of Personal Information
22. Lawful Processing of Sensitive Personal Information and Privileged
Information
23. Extension of Privileged Communication
24. Surveillance of Subjects and Interception of Recording of Communications

Rule VI. Security Measures for Protection of Personal Data
25. Data Privacy and Security
1

26. Organizational Security
27. Physical Security
28. Technical Security
29. Appropriate Level of Security

Rule VII. Security of Sensitive Personal Information in Government
30. Responsibility of Heads of Agencies
31. Requirements Relating to Access by Agency Personnel to Sensitive Personal
Information
32. Implementation of Security Requirements
33. Applicability to Government Contractors

Rule VIII. Rights of Data Subject
34. Rights of the Data Subject
a. Right to be informed
b. Right to object
c. Right to access
d. Right to correct
e. Right to rectification, erasure or blocking
35. Transmissibility of Rights of the Data Subject
36. Right to Data Portability
37. Limitation on Rights

Rule IX. Data Breach Notification.
38. Data Breach Notification
39. Contents of Notification
40. Delay of Notification
41. Breach Report
42. Procedure for Notification

Rule X. Outsourcing and Subcontracting Agreements.
43. Subcontract of Personal Data
44. Agreements for Outsourcing
45. Duty of Personal Information Processor

Rule XI. Registration and Compliance Requirements
46. Enforcement of the Data Privacy Act
47. Registration of Data Processing Systems
48. Notification for Automated Processing Operations
49. Review by the Commission

Rule XII. Rules on Accountability
50. Accountability for Transfer of Personal Information
51. Accountability for Violation of the Act, these Rules and other issuances

Rule XIII. Penalties
52. Unauthorized Processing of Personal Information and Sensitive Personal
Information
53. Accessing Personal Information and Sensitive Personal Information Due to
Negligence
54. Improper Disposal of Personal Information and Sensitive Personal
Information
55. Processing of Personal Information and Sensitive Personal Information for
Unauthorized Purposes
56. Unauthorized Access or Intentional Breach
57. Concealment of Security Breaches Involving Sensitive Personal Information
58. Malicious Disclosure
59. Unauthorized Disclosure
60. Combination or Series of Acts
61. Extent of Liability
62. Large-Scale

2

63. Offense Committed by Public Officer
64. Restitution
65. Fines and Penalties

Rule XIV. Miscellaneous Provisions
66. Appeal
67. Period for Compliance
68. Appropriations Clause
69. Interpretation
70. Separability Clause
71. Repealing Clause
72. Effectivity Clause

Rule I. Preliminary Provisions
Section 1. Title. These rules and regulations shall be known as the
“Implementing Rules and Regulations of the Data Privacy Act of
2012”, or the “Rules”.
Section 2. Policy. These Rules further enforce the Data Privacy Act
and adopt generally accepted international principles and standards
for personal data protection. They safeguard the fundamental human
right of every individual to privacy while ensuring free flow of
information for innovation, growth, and national development. These
Rules also recognize the vital role of information and
communications technology in nation-building and enforce the
State’s inherent obligation to ensure that personal data in information
and communications systems in the government and in the private
sector are secured and protected.
Section 3. Definitions. Whenever used in these Rules, the following
terms shall have the respective meanings hereafter set forth:
a.

“Act” refers to Republic Act No. 10173, also known as the
Data Privacy Act of 2012;

b.

“Commission” refers to the National Privacy Commission;

c.

“Consent of the data subject” refers to any freely given,
specific, informed indication of will, whereby the data subject
agrees to the collection and processing of his or her personal,
sensitive personal, or privileged information. Consent shall be
evidenced by written, electronic or recorded means. It may
also be given on behalf of a data subject by a lawful
representative or an agent specifically authorized by the data
subject to do so;

3

d.

“Data subject” refers to an individual whose personal,
sensitive personal, or privileged information is processed;

e.

“Data processing systems” refers to the structure and
procedure by which personal data is collected and further
processed in an information and communications system or
relevant filing system, including the purpose and intended
output of the processing;

f.

“Data sharing” is the disclosure or transfer to a third party of
personal data under the custody of a personal information
controller or personal information processor. In the case of the
latter, such disclosure or transfer must have been upon the
instructions of the personal information controller concerned.
The term excludes outsourcing, or the disclosure or transfer of
personal data by a personal information controller to a
personal information processor;

g.

“Direct marketing” refers to communication by whatever
means of any advertising or marketing material which is
directed to particular individuals;

h.

“Filing system” refers to any set of information relating to
natural or juridical persons to the extent that, although the
information is not processed by equipment operating
automatically in response to instructions given for that
purpose, the set is structured, either by reference to
individuals or by reference to criteria relating to individuals,
in such a way that specific information relating to a particular
individual is readily accessible;

i.

“Information and communications system” refers to a system
for generating, sending, receiving, storing, or otherwise
processing electronic data messages or electronic documents,
and includes the computer system or other similar device by
which data is recorded, transmitted, or stored, and any
procedure related to the recording, transmission, or storage of
electronic data, electronic message, or electronic document;

j.

“Personal data” refers to all types of personal information;

k.

“Personal data breach” refers to a breach of security leading to
the accidental or unlawful destruction, loss, alteration,
unauthorized disclosure of, or access to, personal data
transmitted, stored, or otherwise processed;
4

l.

“Personal information” refers to any information, whether
recorded in a material form or not, from which the identity of
an individual is apparent or can be reasonably and directly
ascertained by the entity holding the information, or when put
together with other information would directly and certainly
identify an individual;

m. “Personal information controller” refers to a natural or
juridical person, or any other body who controls the
processing of personal data, or instructs another to process
personal data on its behalf. The term excludes:
1.

2.

A natural or juridical person, or any other body, who
performs such functions as instructed by another person
or organization; or
A natural person who processes personal data in
connection with his or her personal, family, or household
affairs;

There is control if the natural or juridical person or any other
body decides on what information is collected, or the purpose
or extent of its processing;
n.

“Personal information processor” refers to any natural or
juridical person or any other body to whom a personal
information controller may outsource or instruct the
processing of personal data pertaining to a data subject;

o.

“Processing” refers to any operation or any set of operations
performed upon personal data including, but not limited to,
the collection, recording, organization, storage, updating or
modification, retrieval, consultation, use, consolidation,
blocking, erasure or destruction of data. Processing may be
performed through automated means, or manual processing,
if the personal data are contained or are intended to be
contained in a filing system;

p.

“Profiling” refers to any form of automated processing of
personal data consisting of the use of personal data to
evaluate certain personal aspects relating to a natural person,
in particular to analyze or predict aspects concerning that
natural person's performance at work, economic situation,
health, personal preferences, interests, reliability, behavior,
location or movements;
5

q.

“Privileged information” refers to any and all forms of data,
which, under the Rules of Court and other pertinent laws
constitute privileged communication;

r.

“Public authority” refers to any government entity created by
the Constitution or law, and vested with law enforcement or
regulatory authority and functions;

s.

“Security incident” is an event or occurrence that affects or
tends to affect data protection, or may compromise the
availability, integrity and confidentiality of personal data. It
includes incidents that would result to a personal data breach,
if not for safeguards that have been put in place;

t.

Sensitive personal information refers to personal information:
1.

2.

3.

4.

About an individual’s race, ethnic origin, marital status,
age, color, and religious, philosophical or political
affiliations;
About an individual’s health, education, genetic or sexual
life of a person, or to any proceeding for any offense
committed or alleged to have been committed by such
individual, the disposal of such proceedings, or the
sentence of any court in such proceedings;
Issued by government agencies peculiar to an individual
which includes, but is not limited to, social security
numbers, previous or current health records, licenses or
its denials, suspension or revocation, and tax returns; and
Specifically established by an executive order or an act of
Congress to be kept classified.
Rule II. Scope of Application

Section 4. Scope. The Act and these Rules apply to the processing of
personal data by any natural and juridical person in the government
or private sector. They apply to an act done or practice engaged in
and outside of the Philippines if:
a.

The natural or juridical person involved in the processing of
personal data is found or established in the Philippines;

b.

The act, practice or processing relates to personal data about a
Philippine citizen or Philippine resident;
6

c.

The processing of personal data is being done in the
Philippines; or

d.

The act, practice or processing of personal data is done or
engaged in by an entity with links to the Philippines, with due
consideration to international law and comity, such as, but not
limited to, the following:
1. Use of equipment located in the country, or maintains an
office, branch or agency in the Philippines for processing
of personal data;
2. A contract is entered in the Philippines;
3. A juridical entity unincorporated in the Philippines but
has central management and control in the country;
4. An entity that has a branch, agency, office or subsidiary in
the Philippines and the parent or affiliate of the
Philippine entity has access to personal data;
5. An entity that carries on business in the Philippines;
6. An entity that collects or holds personal data in the
Philippines.

Section 5. Special Cases. The Act and these Rules shall not apply to
the following specified information, only to the minimum extent of
collection, access, use, disclosure or other processing necessary to the
purpose, function, or activity concerned:
a.

Information processed for purpose of allowing public access
to information that fall within matters of public concern,
pertaining to:
1.

Information about any individual who is or was an officer
or employee of government that relates to his or her
position or functions, including:
(a) The fact that the individual is or was an officer or
employee of the government;
(b) The title, office address, and office telephone number
of the individual;
(c) The classification, salary range, and responsibilities of
the position held by the individual; and
(d) The name of the individual on a document he or she
prepared in the course of his or her employment with
the government;

7

2.

Information about an individual who is or was
performing a service under contract for a government
institution, but only in so far as it relates to such service,
including the the name of the individual and the terms of
his or her contract;

3.

Information relating to a benefit of a financial nature
conferred on an individual upon the discretion of the
government, such as the granting of a license or permit,
including the name of the individual and the exact nature
of the benefit: Provided, that they do not include benefits
given in the course of an ordinary transaction or as a
matter of right;

b.

Personal information processed for journalistic, artistic or
literary purpose, in order to uphold freedom of speech, of
expression, or of the press, subject to requirements of other
applicable law or regulations;

c.

Personal information that will be processed for research
purpose, intended for a public benefit, subject to the
requirements of applicable laws, regulations, or ethical
standards;

d.

Information necessary in order to carry out the functions of
public authority, in accordance with a constitutionally or
statutorily mandated function pertaining to law enforcement
or regulatory function, including the performance of the
functions of the independent, central monetary authority,
subject to restrictions provided by law. Nothing in this Act
shall be construed as having amended or repealed Republic
Act No. 1405, otherwise known as the Secrecy of Bank
Deposits Act; Republic Act No. 6426, otherwise known as the
Foreign Currency Deposit Act; and Republic Act No. 9510,
otherwise known as the Credit Information System Act
(CISA);

e.

Information necessary for banks, other financial institutions
under the jurisdiction of the independent, central monetary
authority or Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, and other bodies
authorized by law, to the extent necessary to comply with
Republic Act No. 9510 (CISA), Republic Act No. 9160, as
amended, otherwise known as the Anti-Money Laundering
Act, and other applicable laws;

8

f.

Personal information originally collected from residents of
foreign jurisdictions in accordance with the laws of those
foreign jurisdictions, including any applicable data privacy
laws, which is being processed in the Philippines. The burden
of proving the law of the foreign jurisdiction falls on the
person or body seeking exemption. In the absence of proof,
the applicable law shall be presumed to be the Act and these
Rules:

Provided, that the non-applicability of the Act or these Rules do not
extend to personal information controllers or personal information
processors, who remain subject to the requirements of implementing
security measures for personal data protection: Provided further, that
the processing of the information provided in the preceding
paragraphs shall be exempted from the requirements of the Act only
to the minimum extent necessary to achieve the specific purpose,
function, or activity.

Section 6. Protection afforded to Data Subjects.
a.

Unless directly incompatible or inconsistent with the
preceding sections in relation to the purpose, function, or
activities the non-applicability concerns, the personal
information controller or personal information processor shall
uphold the rights of data subjects, and adhere to general data
privacy principles and the requirements of lawful processing.

b.

The burden of proving that the Act and these Rules are not
applicable to a particular information falls on those involved
in the processing of personal data or the party claiming the
non-applicability.

c.

In all cases, the determination of any exemption shall be
liberally interpreted in favor of the rights and interests of the
data subject.

Section 7. Protection Afforded to Journalists and their Sources.
a. Publishers, editors, or duly accredited reporters of any
newspaper, magazine or periodical of general circulation shall
not be compelled to reveal the source of any news report or
information appearing in said publication if it was related in
any confidence to such publisher, editor, or reporter.
9

b. Publishers, editors, or duly accredited reporters who are
likewise personal information controllers or personal
information processors within the meaning of the law are still
bound to follow the Data Privacy Act and related issuances
with regard to the processing of personal data, upholding rights
of their data subjects and maintaining compliance with other
provisions that are not incompatible with the protection
provided by Republic Act No. 53.

Rule III. National Privacy Commission

Section 8. Mandate. The National Privacy Commission is an
independent body mandated to administer and implement the Act,
and to monitor and ensure compliance of the country with
international standards set for personal data protection.
Section 9. Functions. The National Privacy Commission shall have
the following functions:
a.

Rule Making. The Commission shall develop, promulgate,
review or amend rules and regulations for the effective
implementation of the Act. This includes:
1.

Recommending organizational, physical and technical
security measures for personal data protection,
encryption, and access to sensitive personal information
maintained by government agencies, considering the most
appropriate standard recognized by the information and
communications technology industry, as may be
necessary;

2.

Specifying electronic format and technical standards,
modalities and procedures for data portability, as may be
necessary;

3.

Issuing guidelines for organizational, physical, and
technical security measures for personal data protection,
taking into account the nature of the personal data to be
protected, the risks presented by the processing, the size
of the organization and complexity of its operations,
current data privacy best practices, cost of security
10

implementation, and the most appropriate standard
recognized by the information and communications
technology industry, as may be necessary;

b.

4.

Consulting with relevant regulatory agencies in the
formulation, review, amendment, and administration of
privacy codes, applying the standards set out in the Act,
with respect to the persons, entities, business activities,
and business sectors that said regulatory bodies are
authorized to principally regulate pursuant to law;

5.

Proposing legislation, amendments or modifications to
Philippine laws on privacy or data protection, as may be
necessary;

6.

Ensuring proper and effective coordination with data
privacy regulators in other countries and private
accountability agents;

7.

Participating in international and regional initiatives for
data privacy protection.

Advisory. The Commission shall be the advisory body on
matters affecting protection of personal data. This includes:
1.

Commenting on the implication on data privacy of
proposed national or local statutes, regulations or
procedures, issuing advisory opinions, and interpreting
the provisions of the Act and other data privacy laws;

2.

Reviewing,
approving,
rejecting,
or
requiring
modification of privacy codes voluntarily adhered to by
personal information controllers, which may include
private dispute resolution mechanisms for complaints
against any participating personal information controller,
and which adhere to the underlying data privacy
principles embodied in the Act and these Rules;

3.

Providing assistance on matters relating to privacy or
data protection at the request of a national or local
agency, a private entity or any person, including the
enforcement of rights of data subjects;

4.

Assisting Philippine companies doing business abroad to
respond to data protection laws and regulations.
11

c.

d.

Public Education. The Commission shall undertake necessary
or appropriate efforts to inform and educate the public of data
privacy, data protection, and fair information rights and
responsibilities. This includes:
1.

Publishing, on a regular basis, a guide to all laws relating
to data protection;

2.

Publishing a compilation of agency system of records and
notices, including index and other finding aids;

3.

Coordinating with other government agencies and the
private sector on efforts to formulate and implement
plans and policies to strengthen the protection of personal
data in the country;

Compliance and Monitoring. The Commission shall perform
compliance and monitoring functions to ensure effective
implementation of the Act, these Rules, and other issuances.
This includes:
1.

Ensuring compliance by personal information controllers
with the provisions of the Act;

2.

Monitoring the compliance of all government agencies or
instrumentalities as regards their security and technical
measures, and recommending the necessary action in
order to meet minimum standards for protection of
personal data pursuant to the Act;

3.

Negotiating and contracting with other data privacy
authorities of other countries for cross-border application
and implementation of respective privacy laws;

4.

Generally performing such acts as may be necessary to
facilitate cross-border enforcement of data privacy
protection;

5.

Managing the registration of personal data processing
systems in the country, including the personal data
processing system of contractors and their employees
entering into contracts with government agencies that
involves accessing or requiring sensitive personal
information of at least one thousand (1,000) individuals.
12

e.

f.

Complaints and Investigations. The Commission shall
adjudicate on complaints and investigations on matters
affecting personal data: Provided, that In resolving any
complaint or investigation, except where amicable settlement
is reached by the parties, the Commission shall act as a
collegial body. This includes:
1.

Receiving complaints and instituting investigations
regarding violations of the Act, these Rules, and other
issuances of the Commission, including violations of the
rights of data subjects and other matters affecting
personal data;

2.

Summoning witnesses, and requiring the production of
evidence by a subpoena duces tecum for the purpose of
collecting the information necessary to perform its
functions under the Act: Provided, that the Commission
may be given access to personal data that is subject of any
complaint;

3.

Facilitating or enabling settlement of complaints through
the use of alternative dispute resolution processes, and
adjudicating on matters affecting any personal data;

4.

Preparing reports on the disposition of complaints and
the resolution of any investigation it initiates, and, in
cases it deems appropriate, publicizing such reports;

Enforcement. The Commission shall perform all acts as may
be necessary to effectively implement the Act, these Rules,
and its other issuances, and to enforce its Orders, Resolutions
or Decisions, including the imposition of administrative
sanctions, fines, or penalties. This includes:
1.

Issuing compliance or enforcement orders;

2.

Awarding indemnity on matters affecting any personal
data, or rights of data subjects;

3.

Issuing cease and desist orders, or imposing a temporary
or permanent ban on the processing of personal data,
upon finding that the processing will be detrimental to
national security or public interest, or if it is necessary to
preserve and protect the rights of data subjects;
13

g.

4.

Recommending to the Department of Justice (DOJ) the
prosecution of crimes and imposition of penalties
specified in the Act;

5.

Compelling or petitioning any entity, government
agency, or instrumentality, to abide by its orders or take
action on a matter affecting data privacy;

6.

Imposing administrative fines for violations of the Act,
these Rules, and other issuances of the Commission.

Other functions. The Commission shall exercise such other
functions as may be necessary to fulfill its mandate under the
Act.

Section 10. Administrative Issuances. The Commission shall publish
or issue official directives and administrative issuances, orders, and
circulars, which include:
a.

Rules of procedure in the exercise of its quasi-judicial
functions, subject to the suppletory application of the Rules of
Court;

b.

Schedule of administrative fines and penalties for violations of
the Act, these Rules, and issuances or Orders of the
Commission, including the applicable fees for its
administrative services and filing fees;

c.

Procedure for registration of data processing systems, and
notification;

d.

Other administrative issuances consistent with its mandate
and other functions.

Section 11. Reports and Information. The Commission shall report
annually to the President and Congress regarding its activities in
carrying out the provisions of the Act, these Rules, and its other
issuances. It shall undertake all efforts it deems necessary or
appropriate to inform and educate the public of data privacy, data
protection, and fair information rights and responsibilities.

14

Section 12. Confidentiality of Personal Data. Members, employees,
and consultants of the Commission shall ensure at all times the
confidentiality of any personal data that come to their knowledge and
possession: Provided, that such duty of confidentiality shall remain
even after their term, employment, or contract has ended.

Section 13. Organizational Structure. The Commission is attached to
the Department of Information and Communications Technology for
policy and program coordination in accordance with Section 38(3) of
Executive Order No. 292, series of 1987, also known as the
Administrative Code of 1987. The Commission shall remain
completely independent in the performance of its functions.
The Commission shall be headed by a Privacy Commissioner, who
shall act as Chairman of the Commission. The Privacy Commissioner
must be at least thirty-five (35) years of age and of good moral
character, unquestionable integrity and known probity, and a
recognized expert in the field of information technology and data
privacy. The Privacy Commissioner shall enjoy the benefits,
privileges, and emoluments equivalent to the rank of Secretary.
The Privacy Commissioner shall be assisted by two (2) Deputy
Privacy Commissioners. One shall be responsible for Data Processing
Systems, while the other shall be responsible for Policies and
Planning. The Deputy Privacy Commissioners must be recognized
experts in the field of information and communications technology
and data privacy. They shall enjoy the benefits, privileges, and
emoluments equivalent to the rank of Undersecretary.

Section 14. Secretariat. The Commission is authorized to establish a
Secretariat, which shall assist in the performance of its functions. The
Secretariat shall be headed by an Executive Director and shall be
organized according to the following offices:
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.

Data Security and Compliance Office;
Legal and Enforcement Office;
Finance and Administrative Office;
Privacy Policy Office;
Public Information and Assistance Office.

Majority of the members of the Secretariat, in so far as practicable,
must have served for at least five (5) years in any agency of the
government that is involved in the processing of personal data
15

including, but not limited to, the following offices: Social Security
System (SSS), Government Service Insurance System (GSIS), Land
Transportation Office (LTO), Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR),
Philippine Health Insurance Corporation (PhilHealth), Commission
on Elections (COMELEC), Department of Foreign Affairs (DFA),
Department of Justice (DOJ), and Philippine Postal Corporation
(Philpost).
The organizational structure shall be subject to review and
modification by the Commission, including the creation of new
divisions and units it may deem necessary, and shall appoint officers
and employees of the Commission in accordance with civil service
law, rules, and regulations.

Section 15. Effect of Lawful Performance of Duty. The Privacy
Commissioner, the Deputy Commissioners, or any person acting on
their behalf or under their direction, shall not be civilly liable for acts
done in good faith in the performance of their duties: Provided, that
they shall be liable for willful or negligent acts, which are contrary to
law, morals, public policy, and good customs, even if they acted
under orders or instructions of superiors: Provided further, that in case
a lawsuit is filed against them in relation to the performance of their
duties, where such performance is lawful, he or she shall be
reimbursed by the Commission for reasonable costs of litigation.
Section 16. Magna Carta for Science and Technology Personnel.
Qualified employees of the Commission shall be covered by Republic
Act No. 8349, which provides a magna carta for scientists, engineers,
researchers, and other science and technology personnel in the
government.

Rule IV. Data Privacy Principles

Section 17. General Data Privacy Principles. The processing of
personal data shall be allowed, subject to compliance with the
requirements of the Act and other laws allowing disclosure of
information to the public, and adherence to the principles of
transparency, legitimate purpose, and proportionality.

16

Section 18. Principles of Transparency, Legitimate Purpose and
Proportionality. The processing of personal data shall be allowed
subject to adherence to the principles of transparency, legitimate
purpose, and proportionality.
a.

Transparency. The data subject must be aware of the nature,
purpose, and extent of the processing of his or her personal
data, including the risks and safeguards involved, the identity
of personal information controller, his or her rights as a data
subject, and how these can be exercised. Any information and
communication relating to the processing of personal data
should be easy to access and understand, using clear and
plain language.

b.

Legitimate purpose. The processing of information shall be
compatible with a declared and specified purpose which must
not be contrary to law, morals, or public policy.

c.

Proportionality. The processing of information shall be
adequate, relevant, suitable, necessary, and not excessive in
relation to a declared and specified purpose. Personal data
shall be processed only if the purpose of the processing could
not reasonably be fulfilled by other means.

Section 19. General principles in collection, processing and retention.
The processing of personal data shall adhere to the following general
principles in the collection, processing, and retention of personal
data:
a.

Collection must be for a declared, specified, and legitimate
purpose.
1.

Consent is required prior to the collection and processing
of personal data, subject to exemptions provided by the
Act and other applicable laws and regulations. When
consent is required, it must be time-bound in relation to
the declared, specified and legitimate purpose. Consent
given may be withdrawn.

2.

The data subject must be provided specific information
regarding the purpose and extent of processing,
including, where applicable, the automated processing of
his or her personal data for profiling, or processing for
direct marketing, and data sharing.
17

b.

c.

d.

3.

Purpose should be determined and declared before, or as
soon as reasonably practicable, after collection.

4.

Only personal data that is necessary and compatible with
declared, specified, and legitimate purpose shall be
collected.

Personal data shall be processed fairly and lawfully.
1.

Processing shall uphold the rights of the data subject,
including the right to refuse, withdraw consent, or object.
It shall likewise be transparent, and allow the data subject
sufficient information to know the nature and extent of
processing.

2.

Information provided to a data subject must always be in
clear and plain language to ensure that they are easy to
understand and access.

3.

Processing must be in a manner compatible with
declared, specified, and legitimate purpose.

4.

Processed personal data should be adequate, relevant,
and limited to what is necessary in relation to the
purposes for which they are processed.

5.

Processing shall be undertaken in a manner that ensures
appropriate privacy and security safeguards.

Processing should ensure data quality.
1.

Personal data should be accurate and where necessary for
declared, specified and legitimate purpose, kept up to
date.

2.

Inaccurate or incomplete data must be rectified,
supplemented, destroyed or their further processing
restricted.

Personal Data shall not be retained longer than necessary.
1.

Retention of personal data shall only for as long as
necessary:

18

(a) for the fulfillment of the declared, specified, and
legitimate purpose, or when the processing relevant
to the purpose has been terminated;
(b) for the establishment, exercise or defense of legal
claims; or
(c) for legitimate business purposes, which must be
consistent with standards followed by the applicable
industry or approved by appropriate government
agency.

e.

2.

Retention of personal data shall be allowed in cases
provided by law.

3.

Personal data shall be disposed or discarded in a secure
manner that would prevent further processing,
unauthorized access, or disclosure to any other party or
the public, or prejudice the interests of the data subjects.

Any authorized further processing shall have adequate
safeguards.
1.

Personal data originally collected for a declared,
specified, or legitimate purpose may be processed further
for historical, statistical, or scientific purposes, and, in
cases laid down in law, may be stored for longer periods,
subject to implementation of the appropriate
organizational, physical, and technical security measures
required by the Act in order to safeguard the rights and
freedoms of the data subject.

2.

Personal data which is aggregated or kept in a form
which does not permit identification of data subjects may
be kept longer than necessary for the declared, specified,
and legitimate purpose.

3.

Personal data shall not be retained in perpetuity in
contemplation of a possible future use yet to be
determined.

Section 20. General Principles for Data Sharing. Further Processing
of Personal Data collected from a party other than the Data Subject
shall be allowed under any of the following conditions:
a.

Data sharing shall be allowed when it is expressly authorized
by law: Provided, that there are adequate safeguards for data
19

privacy and security, and processing adheres to principle of
transparency, legitimate purpose and proportionality.
b.

c.

Data Sharing shall be allowed in the private sector if the data
subject consents to data sharing, and the following conditions
are complied with:
1.

Consent for data sharing shall be required even when the
data is to be shared with an affiliate or mother company,
or similar relationships;

2.

Data sharing for commercial purposes, including direct
marketing, shall be covered by a data sharing agreement.
(a) The data sharing agreement shall establish adequate
safeguards for data privacy and security, and uphold
rights of data subjects.
(b) The data sharing agreement shall be subject to review
by the Commission, on its own initiative or upon
complaint of data subject;

3.

The data subject shall be provided with the following
information prior to collection or before data is shared:
(a) Identity of the personal information controllers or
personal information processors that will be given
access to the personal data;
(b) Purpose of data sharing;
(c) Categories of personal data concerned;
(d) Intended recipients or categories of recipients of the
personal data;
(e) Existence of the rights of data subjects, including the
right to access and correction, and the right to object;
(f) Other information that would sufficiently notify the
data subject of the nature and extent of data sharing
and the manner of processing.

4.

Further processing of shared data shall adhere to the data
privacy principles laid down in the Act, these Rules, and
other issuances of the Commission.

Data collected from parties other than the data subject for
purpose of research shall be allowed when the personal data
is publicly available, or has the consent of the data subject for
purpose of research: Provided, that adequate safeguards are in
place, and no decision directly affecting the data subject shall
be made on the basis of the data collected or processed. The
20

rights of the data subject shall be
compromising research integrity.
d.

upheld without

Data sharing between government agencies for the purpose of
a public function or provision of a public service shall be
covered a data sharing agreement.
1.

Any or all government agencies party to the agreement
shall comply with the Act, these Rules, and all other
issuances of the Commission, including putting in place
adequate safeguards for data privacy and security.

2.

The data sharing agreement shall be subject to review of
the Commission, on its own initiative or upon complaint
of data subject.

Rule V. Lawful Processing of Personal Data
Section 21. Criteria for Lawful Processing of Personal Information.
Processing of personal information is allowed, unless prohibited by
law. For processing to be lawful, any of the following conditions
must be complied with:
a.

The data subject must have given his or her consent prior to
the collection, or as soon as practicable and reasonable;

b.

The processing involves the personal information of a data
subject who is a party to a contractual agreement, in order to
fulfill obligations under the contract or to take steps at the
request of the data subject prior to entering the said
agreement;

c.

The processing is necessary for compliance with a legal
obligation to which the personal information controller is
subject;

d.

The processing is necessary to protect vitally important
interests of the data subject, including his or her life and
health;

21

e.

The processing of personal information is necessary to
respond to national emergency or to comply with the
requirements of public order and safety, as prescribed by law;

f.

The processing of personal information is necessary for the
fulfillment of the constitutional or statutory mandate of a
public authority; or

g.

The processing is necessary to pursue the legitimate interests
of the personal information controller, or by a third party or
parties to whom the data is disclosed, except where such
interests are overridden by fundamental rights and freedoms
of the data subject, which require protection under the
Philippine Constitution.

Section 22. Sensitive Personal Information and Privileged
Information. The processing of sensitive personal and privileged
information is prohibited, except in any of the following cases:
a. Consent is given by data subject, or by the parties to the
exchange of privileged information, prior to the processing of
the sensitive personal information or privileged information,
which shall be undertaken pursuant to a declared, specified,
and legitimate purpose;
b.

The processing of the sensitive personal information or
privileged information is provided for by existing laws and
regulations: Provided, that said laws and regulations do not
require the consent of the data subject for the processing, and
guarantee the protection of personal data;

c.

The processing is necessary to protect the life and health of the
data subject or another person, and the data subject is not
legally or physically able to express his or her consent prior to
the processing;

d.

The processing is necessary to achieve the lawful and
noncommercial objectives of public organizations and their
associations provided that:
1.

Processing is confined and related to the bona fide
members of these organizations or their associations;

2.

The sensitive personal information are not transferred to
third parties; and
22

3.

Consent of the data subject was obtained prior to
processing;

e.

The processing is necessary for the purpose of medical
treatment: Provided, that it is carried out by a medical
practitioner or a medical treatment institution, and an
adequate level of protection of personal data is ensured; or

f.

The processing concerns sensitive personal information or
privileged information necessary for the protection of lawful
rights and interests of natural or legal persons in court
proceedings, or the establishment, exercise, or defense of legal
claims, or when provided to government or public authority
pursuant to a constitutional or statutory mandate.

Section 23. Extension of Privileged Communication. Personal
information controllers may invoke the principle of privileged
communication over privileged information that they lawfully
control or process. Subject to existing laws and regulations, any
evidence gathered from privileged information is inadmissible.
When the Commission inquires upon communication claimed to be
privileged, the personal information controller concerned shall prove
the nature of the communication in an executive session. Should the
communication be determined as privileged, it shall be excluded
from evidence, and the contents thereof shall not form part of the
records of the case: Provided, that where the privileged
communication itself is the subject of a breach, or a privacy concern
or investigation, it may be disclosed to the Commission but only to
the extent necessary for the purpose of investigation, without
including the contents thereof in the records.
Section 24. Surveillance of Suspects and Interception of Recording of
Communications. Section 7 of Republic Act No. 9372, otherwise
known as the "Human Security Act of 2007”, is hereby amended to
include the condition that the processing of personal data for the
purpose of
surveillance,
interception,
or
recording
of
communications shall comply with the Data Privacy Act, including
adherence to the principles of transparency, proportionality, and
legitimate purpose.

23

Rule VI. Security Measures for the Protection of Personal Data

Section 25. Data Privacy and Security. Personal information
controllers and personal information processors shall implement
reasonable and appropriate organizational, physical, and technical
security measures for the protection of personal data.
The personal information controller and personal information
processor shall take steps to ensure that any natural person acting
under their authority and who has access to personal data, does not
process them except upon their instructions, or as required by law.
The security measures shall aim to maintain the availability, integrity,
and confidentiality of personal data and are intended for the
protection of personal data against any accidental or unlawful
destruction, alteration, and disclosure, as well as against any other
unlawful processing. These measures shall be implemented to protect
personal data against natural dangers such as accidental loss or
destruction, and human dangers such as unlawful access, fraudulent
misuse, unlawful destruction, alteration and contamination.

Section 26. Organizational Security Measures. Where appropriate,
personal information controllers and personal information processors
shall comply with the following guidelines for organizational
security:
a.

Compliance Officers. Any natural or juridical person or other
body involved in the processing of personal data shall
designate an individual or individuals who shall function as
data protection officer, compliance officer or otherwise be
accountable for ensuring compliance with applicable laws and
regulations for the protection of data privacy and security.

b.

Data Protection Policies. Any natural or juridical person or
other body involved in the processing of personal data shall
implement appropriate data protection policies that provide
for organization, physical, and technical security measures,
and, for such purpose, take into account the nature, scope,
context and purposes of the processing, as well as the risks
posed to the rights and freedoms of data subjects.

24

c.

1.

The policies shall implement data protection principles
both at the time of the determination of the means for
processing and at the time of the processing itself.

2.

The policies shall implement appropriate security
measures that, by default, ensure only personal data
which is necessary for the specified purpose of the
processing are processed. They shall determine the
amount of personal data collected, including the extent of
processing involved, the period of their storage, and their
accessibility.

3.

The polices shall provide for documentation, regular
review, evaluation, and updating of the privacy and
security policies and practices.

Records of Processing Activities. Any natural or juridical
person or other body involved in the processing of personal
data shall maintain records that sufficiently describe its data
processing system, and identify the duties and responsibilities
of those individuals who will have access to personal data.
Records should include:
1.

Information about the purpose of the processing of
personal data, including any intended future processing
or data sharing;

2.

A description of all categories of data subjects, personal
data, and recipients of such personal data that will be
involved in the processing;

3.

General information about the data flow within the
organization, from the time of collection, processing, and
retention, including the time limits for disposal or erasure
of personal data;

4.

A general description of the organizational, physical, and
technical security measures in place;

5.

The name and contact details of the personal information
controller and, where applicable, the joint controller, the
its representative, and the compliance officer or Data
Protection Officer, or any other individual or individuals
accountable for ensuring compliance with the applicable

25

laws and regulations for the protection of data privacy
and security.
d.

Management of Human Resources. Any natural or juridical
person or other entity involved in the processing of personal
data shall be responsible for selecting and supervising its
employees, agents, or representatives, particularly those who
will have access to personal data.
The said employees, agents, or representatives shall operate
and hold personal data under strict confidentiality if the
personal data are not intended for public disclosure. This
obligation shall continue even after leaving the public service,
transferring to another position, or upon terminating their
employment or contractual relations. There shall be capacity
building, orientation or training programs for such
employees, agents or representatives, regarding privacy or
security policies.

e.

f.

Processing of Personal Data. Any natural or juridical person
or other body involved in the processing of personal data
shall develop, implement and review:
1.

A procedure for the collection of personal data, including
procedures for obtaining consent, when applicable;

2.

Procedures that limit the processing of data, to ensure
that it is only to the extent necessary for the declared,
specified, and legitimate purpose;

3.

Policies for access management, system monitoring, and
protocols to follow during security incidents or technical
problems;

4.

Policies and procedures for data subjects to exercise their
rights under the Act;

5.

Data retention schedule, including timeline or conditions
for erasure or disposal of records.

Contracts with Personal Information Processors. The personal
information controller, through appropriate contractual
agreements, shall ensure that its personal information
processors, where applicable, shall also implement the
security measures required by the Act and these Rules. It
26

shall only engage those personal information processors that
provide sufficient guarantees to implement appropriate
security measures specified in the Act and these Rules, and
ensure the protection of the rights of the data subject.

Section 27. Physical Security Measures. Where appropriate, personal
information controllers and personal information processors shall
comply with the following guidelines for physical security:
a. Policies and procedures shall be implemented to monitor and
limit access to and activities in the room, workstation or
facility, including guidelines that specify the proper use of and
access to electronic media;
b. Design of office space and work stations, including the
physical arrangement of furniture and equipment, shall
provide privacy to anyone processing personal data, taking
into consideration the environment and accessibility to the
public;
c. The duties, responsibilities and schedule of individuals
involved in the processing of personal data shall be clearly
defined to ensure that only the individuals actually
performing official duties shall be in the room or work station,
at any given time;
d. Any natural or juridical person or other body involved in the
processing of personal data shall implement Policies and
procedures regarding the transfer, removal, disposal, and reuse of electronic media, to ensure appropriate protection of
personal data;
e. Policies and procedures that prevent the mechanical
destruction of files and equipment shall be established. The
room and workstation used in the processing of personal data
shall, as far as practicable, be secured against natural disasters,
power disturbances, external access, and other similar threats.

Section 28. Guidelines for Technical Security Measures. Where
appropriate, personal information controllers and personal
information processors shall adopt and establish the following
technical security measures:

27

a.

A security policy with respect to the processing of personal
data;

b.

Safeguards to protect their computer network against
accidental, unlawful or unauthorized usage, any interference
which will affect data integrity or hinder the functioning or
availability of the system, and unauthorized access through an
electronic network;

c.

The ability to ensure and maintain the confidentiality,
integrity, availability, and resilience of their processing
systems and services;

d.

Regular monitoring for security breaches, and a process both
for identifying and accessing reasonably foreseeable
vulnerabilities in their computer networks, and for taking
preventive, corrective, and mitigating action against security
incidents that can lead to a personal data breach;

e.

The ability to restore the availability and access to personal
data in a timely manner in the event of a physical or technical
incident;

f.

A process for regularly testing, assessing, and evaluating the
effectiveness of security measures;

g.

Encryption of personal data during storage and while in
transit, authentication process, and other technical security
measures that control and limit access.

Section 29. Appropriate Level of Security. The Commission shall
monitor the compliance of natural or juridical person or other body
involved in the processing of personal data, specifically their security
measures, with the guidelines provided in these Rules and
subsequent issuances of the Commission. In determining the level of
security appropriate for a particular personal information controller
or personal information processor, the Commission shall take into
account the nature of the personal data that requires protection, the
risks posed by the processing, the size of the organization and
complexity of its operations, current data privacy best practices, and
the cost of security implementation. The security measures provided
herein shall be subject to regular review and evaluation, and may be
updated as necessary by the Commission in separate issuances,
taking into account the most appropriate standard recognized by the
28

information and communications technology industry and data
privacy best practices.

Rule VII. Security of Sensitive Personal Information in
Government

Section 30. Responsibility of Heads of Agencies. All sensitive
personal information maintained by the government, its agencies,
and instrumentalities shall be secured, as far as practicable, with the
use of the most appropriate standard recognized by the information
and communications technology industry, subject to these Rules and
other issuances of the Commission. The head of each government
agency or instrumentality shall be responsible for complying with the
security requirements mentioned herein. The Commission shall
monitor government agency compliance and may recommend the
necessary action in order to satisfy the minimum standards.
Section 31. Requirements Relating to Access by Agency Personnel to
Sensitive Personal Information.
a.

On-site and Online Access.
1.

No employee of the government shall have access to
sensitive personal information on government property
or through online facilities unless he or she the employee
has received a security clearance from the head of the
source agency. The source agency is the government
agency who originally collected the personal data.

2.

A source agency shall strictly regulate access to sensitive
personal information under its custody or control,
particularly when it allows online access. An employee of
the government shall only be granted a security clearance
when the performance of his or her official functions or
the provision of a public service directly depends on and
cannot otherwise be performed unless access to the
personal data is allowed.

3.

Where allowed under the next preceding sections, online
access to sensitive personal information shall be subject to
the following conditions:
29

(a) An information technology governance framework
has been designed and implemented;
(b) Sufficient organizational, physical and technical
security measures have been established;
(c) The agency is capable of protecting sensitive personal
information in accordance with data privacy
practices and standards recognized by the
information
and
communication
technology
industry;
(d) The employee of the government is only given
online access to sensitive personal information
necessary for the performance of official functions or
the provision of a public service.
b.

Off-site access.
1.

Sensitive personal information maintained by an agency
may not be transported or accessed from a location off or
outside of government property, whether by its agent or
employee, unless the head of agency has ensured the
implementation of privacy policies and appropriate
security measures. A request for such transportation or
access shall be submitted to and approved by the head of
agency. The request must include proper accountability
mechanisms in the processing of data.

2.

The head of agency shall approve requests for off-site
access in accordance with the following guidelines:
(a) Deadline for Approval or Disapproval. The head of
agency shall approve or disapprove the request
within two (2) business days after the date of
submission of the request. Where no action is taken
by the head of agency, the request is considered
disapproved;
(b) Limitation to One thousand (1,000) Records. Where a
request is approved, the head of agency shall limit
the access to not more than one thousand (1,000)
records at a time, subject to the next succeeding
paragraph.
(c) Encryption. Any technology used to store, transport
or access sensitive personal information for purposes
of off-site access approved under this subsection shall
be secured by the use of the most secure encryption
standard recognized by the Commission.

30

Section
32.
Implementation
of
Security
Requirements.
Notwithstanding the effective date of these Rules, the requirements
in the preceding sections shall be implemented before any off-site or
online access request is approved. Any data sharing agreement
between a source agency and another government agency shall be
subject to review of the Commission on its own initiative or upon
complaint of data subject.

Section 33. Applicability to Government Contractors. In entering
into any contract with a private service provider that may involve
accessing or requiring sensitive personal information from one
thousand (1,000) or more individuals, a government agency shall
require such service provider and its employees to register their
personal data processing system with the Commission in accordance
with the Act and these Rules. The service provider, as personal
information processor, shall comply with the other provisions of the
Act and these Rules, particularly the immediately preceding sections,
similar to a government agency and its employees.

Rule VIII. Rights of Data Subjects

Section 34. Rights of the Data Subject. The data subject is entitled to
the following rights:
a.

Right to be informed.
1.

The data subject has a right to be informed whether
personal data pertaining to him or her shall be, are being,
or have been processed, including the existence of
automated decision-making and profiling.

2.

The data subject shall be notified and furnished with
information indicated hereunder before the entry of his or
her personal data into the processing system of the
personal information controller, or at the next practical
opportunity:
(a) Description of the personal data to be entered into the
system;

31

(b) Purposes for which they are being or will be
processed, including processing for direct marketing,
profiling or historical, statistical or scientific purpose;
(c) Basis of processing, when processing is not based on
the consent of the data subject;
(d) Scope and method of the personal data processing;
(e) The recipients or classes of recipients to whom the
personal data are or may be disclosed;
(f) Methods utilized for automated access, if the same is
allowed by the data subject, and the extent to which
such access is authorized, including meaningful
information about the logic involved, as well as the
significance and the envisaged consequences of such
processing for the data subject;
(g) The identity and contact details of the personal data
controller or its representative;
(h) The period for which the information will be stored;
and
(i) The existence of their rights as data subjects,
including the right to access, correction, and object to
the processing, as well as the right to lodge a
complaint before the Commission.
b.

Right to object. The data subject shall have the right to object
to the processing of his or her personal data, including
processing for direct marketing, automated processing or
profiling. The data subject shall also be notified and given an
opportunity to withhold consent to the processing in case of
changes or any amendment to the information supplied or
declared to the data subject in the preceding paragraph.
When a data subject objects or withholds consent, the personal
information controller shall no longer process the personal
data, unless:
1.

The personal data is needed pursuant to a subpoena;

2.

The collection and processing are for obvious purposes,
including, when it is necessary for the performance of or
in relation to a contract or service to which the data
subject is a party, or when necessary or desirable in the
context of an employer-employee relationship between
the collector and the data subject; or

32

3.

c.

The information is being collected and processed as a
result of a legal obligation.

Right to Access. The data subject has the right to reasonable
access to, upon demand, the following:
1.

Contents of his or her personal data that were processed;

2.

Sources from which personal data were obtained;

3.

Names and addresses of recipients of the personal data;

4.

Manner by which such data were processed;

5.

Reasons for the disclosure of the personal data to
recipients, if any;

6.

Information on automated processes where the data will,
or is likely to, be made as the sole basis for any decision
that significantly affects or will affect the data subject;

7.

Date when his or her personal data concerning the data
subject were last accessed and modified; and

8.

The designation, name or identity, and address of the
personal information controller.

d.

Right to rectification. The data subject has the right to dispute
the inaccuracy or error in the personal data and have the
personal information controller correct it immediately and
accordingly, unless the request is vexatious or otherwise
unreasonable. If the personal data has been corrected, the
personal information controller shall ensure the accessibility
of both the new and the retracted information and the
simultaneous receipt of the new and the retracted information
by the intended recipients thereof: Provided, That receipients
or third parties who have previously received such processed
personal data shall be informed of its inaccuracy and its
rectification, upon reasonable request of the data subject.

e.

Right to Erasure or Blocking. The data subject shall have the
right to suspend, withdraw or order the blocking, removal or
destruction of his or her personal data from the personal
information controller’s filing system.

33

f.

1.

This right may be exercised upon discovery and
substantial proof of any of the following:
(a) The personal data is incomplete, outdated, false, or
unlawfully obtained;
(b) The personal data is being used for purpose not
authorized by the data subject;
(c) The personal data is no longer necessary for the
purposes for which they were collected;
(d) The data subject withdraws consent or objects to the
processing, and there is no other legal ground or
overriding legitimate interest for the processing;
(e) The personal data concerns private information that
is prejudicial to data subject, unless justified by
freedom of speech, of expression, or of the press or
otherwise authorized;
(f) The processing is unlawful;
(g) The personal information controller or personal
information processor violated the rights of the data
subject.

2.

The personal information controller may notify third
parties who have previously received such processed
personal information.

Right to damages. The data subject shall be indemnified for
any damages sustained due to such inaccurate, incomplete,
outdated, false, unlawfully obtained or unauthorized use of
personal data, taking into account any violation of his or her
rights and freedoms as data subject.

Section 35. Transmissibility of Rights of the Data Subject. The
lawful heirs and assigns of the data subject may invoke the rights of
the data subject to which he or she is an heir or an assignee, at any
time after the death of the data subject, or when the data subject is
incapacitated or incapable of exercising the rights as enumerated in
the immediately preceding section.

Section 36. Right to Data Portability. Where his or her personal data
is processed by electronic means and in a structured and commonly
used format, the data subject shall have the right to obtain from the
personal information controller a copy of such data in an electronic or
structured format that is commonly used and allows for further use
by the data subject. The exercise of this right shall primarily take into
34

account the right of data subject to have control over his or her
personal data being processed based on consent or contract, for
commercial purpose, or through automated means. The Commission
may specify the electronic format referred to above, as well as the
technical standards, modalities, procedures and other rules for their
transfer.

Section 37. Limitation on Rights. The immediately preceding
sections shall not be applicable if the processed personal data are
used only for the needs of scientific and statistical research and, on
the basis of such, no activities are carried out and no decisions are
taken regarding the data subject: Provided, that the personal data shall
be held under strict confidentiality and shall be used only for the
declared purpose. The said sections are also not applicable to the
processing of personal data gathered for the purpose of
investigations in relation to any criminal, administrative or tax
liabilities of a data subject. Any limitations on the rights of the data
subject shall only be to the minimum extent necessary to achieve the
purpose of said research or investigation.

Rule IX. Data Breach Notification.
Section 38. Data Breach Notification.
a.

The Commission and affected data subjects shall be notified
by the personal information controller within seventy-two (72)
hours upon knowledge of, or when there is reasonable belief
by the personal information controller or personal information
processor that, a personal data breach requiring notification
has occurred.

b.

Notification of personal data breach shall be required when
sensitive personal information or any other information that
may, under the circumstances, be used to enable identity
fraud are reasonably believed to have been acquired by an
unauthorized person, and the personal information controller
or the Commission believes that such unauthorized
acquisition is likely to give rise to a real risk of serious harm to
any affected data subject.

35

c.

Depending on the nature of the incident, or if there is delay or
failure to notify, the Commission may investigate the
circumstances surrounding the personal data breach.
Investigations may include on-site examination of systems
and procedures.

Section 39. Contents of Notification. The notification shall at least
describe the nature of the breach, the personal data possibly
involved, and the measures taken by the entity to address the breach.
The notification shall also include measures taken to reduce the harm
or negative consequences of the breach, the representatives of the
personal information controller, including their contact details, from
whom the data subject can obtain additional information about the
breach, and any assistance to be provided to the affected data
subjects.

Section 40. Delay of Notification. Notification may be delayed only
to the extent necessary to determine the scope of the breach, to
prevent further disclosures, or to restore reasonable integrity to the
information and communications system.
a.

In evaluating if notification is unwarranted, the Commission
may take into account compliance by the personal information
controller with this section and existence of good faith in the
acquisition of personal data.

b.

The Commission may exempt a personal information
controller from notification where, in its reasonable judgment,
such notification would not be in the public interest, or in the
interest of the affected data subjects.

c.

The Commission may authorize postponement of notification
where it may hinder the progress of a criminal investigation
related to a serious breach.

Section 41. Breach Report.
a.

The personal information controller shall notify the
Commission by submitting a report, whether written or
electronic, containing the required contents of notification.
The report shall also include the name of a designated

36

representative of the personal information controller, and his
or her contact details.
b.

All security incidents and personal data breaches shall be
documented through written reports, including those not
covered by the notification requirements. In the case of
personal data breaches, a report shall include the facts
surrounding an incident, the effects of such incident, and the
remedial actions taken by the personal information controller.
In other security incidents not involving personal data, a
report containing aggregated data shall constitute sufficient
documentation. These reports shall be made available when
requested by the Commission. A general summary of the
reports shall be submitted to the Commission annually.

Section 42. Procedure for Notification. The Procedure for breach
notification shall be in accordance with the Act, these Rules, and any
other issuance of the Commission.

Rule X. Outsourcing and Subcontracting Agreements.

Section 43. Subcontract of Personal Data. A personal information
controller may subcontract or outsource the processing of personal
data: Provided, that the personal information controller shall use
contractual or other reasonable means to ensure that proper
safeguards are in place, to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and
availability of the personal data processed, prevent its use for
unauthorized purposes, and generally, comply with the requirements
of the Act, these Rules, other applicable laws for processing of
personal data, and other issuances of the Commission.

Section 44. Agreements for Outsourcing. Processing by a personal
information processor shall be governed by a contract or other legal
act that binds the personal information processor to the personal
information controller.
a.

The contract or legal act shall set out the subject-matter and
duration of the processing, the nature and purpose of the
processing, the type of personal data and categories of data
subjects, the obligations and rights of the personal information
37

controller, and the geographic location of the processing
under the subcontracting agreement.
b.

The contract or other legal act shall stipulate, in particular,
that the personal information processor shall:
1.

Process the personal data only upon the documented
instructions of the personal information controller,
including transfers of personal data to another country or
an international organization, unless such transfer is
authorized by law;

2.

Ensure that an obligation of confidentiality is imposed on
persons authorized to process the personal data;

3.

Implement appropriate security measures and comply
with the Act, these Rules, and other issuances of the
Commission;

4.

Not engage another processor without prior instruction
from the personal information controller: Provided, that
any such arrangement shall ensure that the same
obligations for data protection under the contract or legal
act are implemented, taking into account the nature of the
processing;

5.

Assist the personal information controller, by appropriate
technical and organizational measures and to the extent
possible, fulfill the obligation to respond to requests by
data subjects relative to the exercise of their rights;

6.

Assist the personal information controller in ensuring
compliance with the Act, these Rules, other relevant laws,
and other issuances of the Commission, taking into
account the nature of processing and the information
available to the personal information processor;

7.

At the choice of the personal information controller,
delete or return all personal data to the personal
information controller after the end of the provision of
services relating to the processing: Provided, that this
includes deleting existing copies unless storage is
authorized by the Act or another law;

38

8.

Make available to the personal information controller all
information necessary to demonstrate compliance with
the obligations laid down in the Act, and allow for and
contribute to audits, including inspections, conducted by
the personal information controller or another auditor
mandated by the latter;

9.

Immediately inform the personal information controller
if, in its opinion, an instruction infringes the Act, these
Rules, or any other issuance of the Commission.

Section 45. Duty of personal information processor. The personal
information processor shall comply with the requirements of the Act,
these Rules, other applicable laws, and other issuances of the
Commission, in addition to obligations provided in a contract, or
other legal act with a personal information controller.

Rule XI. Registration and Compliance Requirements

Section 46. Enforcement of the
mandate of the Commission to
and to ensure the compliance
with its obligations under the
following:

Data Privacy Act. Pursuant to the
administer and implement the Act,
of personal information controllers
law, the Commission requires the

a.

Registration of personal data processing systems operating in
the country that involves accessing or requiring sensitive
personal information of at least one thousand (1,000)
individuals, including the personal data processing system of
contractors, and their personnel, entering into contracts with
government agencies;

b.

Notification of automated processing operations where the
processing becomes the sole basis of making decisions that
would significantly affect the data subject;

c.

Annual report of the summary of documented security
incidents and personal data breaches;

d.

Compliance with other requirements that may be provided in
other issuances of the Commission.
39

Section 47. Registration of Personal Data Processing Systems. The
personal information controller or personal information processor
that employs fewer than two hundred fifty (250) persons shall not be
required to register unless the processing it carries out is likely to
pose a risk to the rights and freedoms of data subjects, the processing
is not occasional, or the processing includes sensitive personal
information of at least one thousand (1,000) individuals.
a.

The contents of registration shall include:
1.

The name and address of the personal information
controller or personal information processor, and of its
representative, if any, including their contact details;

2.

The purpose or purposes of the processing, and whether
processing is being done under an outsourcing or
subcontracting agreement;

3.

A description of the category or categories of data
subjects, and of the data or categories of data relating to
them;

4.

The recipients or categories of recipients to whom the
data might be disclosed;

5.

Proposed transfers
Philippines;

6.

A general description of privacy and security measures
for data protection;

7.

Brief description of the data processing system;

8.

Copy of all policies relating to data governance, data
privacy, and information security;

9.

Attestation to all certifications attained that are related to
information and communications processing; and

of

personal

data

outside

the

10. Name and contact details of the compliance or data
protection officer, which shall immediately be updated in
case of changes.

40

b.

The procedure for registration shall be in accordance with
these Rules and other issuances of the Commission.

Section 48. Notification of Automated Processing Operations. The
personal information controller carrying out any wholly or partly
automated processing operations or set of such operations intended
to serve a single purpose or several related purposes shall notify the
Commission when the automated processing becomes the sole basis
for making decisions about a data subject, and when the decision
would significantly affect the data subject.
a.

The notification shall include the following information:
1. Purpose of processing;
2. Categories of personal data to undergo processing;
3. Category or categories of data subject;
4. Consent forms or manner of obtaining consent;
5. The recipients or categories of recipients to whom the data
are to be disclosed;
6. The length of time the data are to be stored;
7. Methods and logic utilized for automated processing;
8. Decisions relating to the data subject that would be made
on the basis of processed data or that would significantly
affect the rights and freedoms of data subject; and
9. Names and contact details of the compliance or data
protection officer.

b.

No decision with legal effects concerning a data subject shall
be made solely on the basis of automated processing without
the consent of the data subject.

Section 49. Review by the Commission. The following are subject to
the review of the Commission, upon its own initiative or upon the
filing of a complaint by a data subject:

41

a.

Compliance by a personal information controller or personal
information processor with the Act, these Rules, and other
issuances of the Commission;

b.

Compliance by a personal information controller or personal
information processor with the requirement of establishing
adequate safeguards for data privacy and security;

c.

Any data sharing agreement, outsourcing contract, and
similar contracts involving the processing of personal data,
and its implementation;

d.

Any off-site or online access to sensitive personal data in
government allowed by a head of agency;

e.

Processing of personal data for research purposes, public
functions, or commercial activities;

f.

Any reported violation of the rights and freedoms of data
subjects;

g.

Other matters necessary to ensure the effective
implementation and administration of the Act, these Rules,
and other issuances of the Commission.

Rule XII. Rules on Accountability

Section 50. Accountability for Transfer of Personal Data. A personal
information controller shall be responsible for any personal data
under its control or custody, including information that have been
outsourced or transferred to a personal information processor or a
third party for processing, whether domestically or internationally,
subject to cross-border arrangement and cooperation.
a.

A personal information controller shall be accountable for
complying with the requirements of the Act, these Rules, and
other issuances of the Commission. It shall use contractual or
other reasonable means to provide a comparable level of
protection to the personal data while it is being processed by a
personal information processor or third party.

42

b.

A personal information controller shall designate an
individual or individuals who are accountable for its
compliance with the Act. The identity of the individual or
individuals so designated shall be made known to a data
subject upon request.

Section 51. Accountability for Violation of the Act, these Rules and
Other Issuances of the Commission.
a.

Any natural or juridical person, or other body involved in the
processing of personal data, who fails to comply with the Act,
these Rules, and other issuances of the Commission, shall be
liable for such violation, and shall be subject to its
corresponding sanction, penalty, or fine, without prejudice to
any civil or criminal liability, as may be applicable.

b.

In cases where a data subject files a complaint for violation of
his or her rights as data subject, and for any injury suffered as
a result of the processing of his or her personal data, the
Commission may award indemnity on the basis of the
applicable provisions of the New Civil Code.

c.

In case of criminal acts and their corresponding personal
penalties, the person who committed the unlawful act or
omission shall be recommended for prosecution by the
Commission based on substantial evidence. If the offender is a
corporation, partnership, or any juridical person, the
responsible officers, as the case may be, who participated in,
or by their gross negligence, allowed the commission of the
crime, shall be recommended for prosecution by the
Commission based on substantial evidence.

Rule XIII. Penalties
Section 52. Unauthorized Processing of Personal Information and
Sensitive Personal Information.
a.

A penalty of imprisonment ranging from one (1) year to three
(3) years and a fine of not less than Five hundred thousand
pesos (Php500,000.00) but not more than Two million pesos
(Php2,000,000.00) shall be imposed on persons who process
43

personal information without the consent of the data subject,
or without being authorized under the Act or any existing
law.
b.

A penalty of imprisonment ranging from three (3) years to six
(6) years and a fine of not less than Five hundred thousand
pesos (Php500,000.00) but not more than Four million pesos
(Php4,000,000.00) shall be imposed on persons who process
sensitive personal information without the consent of the data
subject, or without being authorized under the Act or any
existing law.

Section 53. Accessing Personal Information and Sensitive Personal
Information Due to Negligence.
a.

A penalty of imprisonment ranging from one (1) year to three
(3) years and a fine of not less than Five hundred thousand
pesos (Php500,000.00) but not more than Two million pesos
(Php2,000,000.00) shall be imposed on persons who, due to
negligence, provided access to personal information without
being authorized under the Act or any existing law.

b.

A penalty of imprisonment ranging from three (3) years to six
(6) years and a fine of not less than Five hundred thousand
pesos (Php500,000.00) but not more than Four million pesos
(Php4,000,000.00) shall be imposed on persons who, due to
negligence, provided access to sensitive personal information
without being authorized under the Act or any existing law.

Section 54. Improper Disposal of Personal Information and Sensitive
Personal Information.
a.

A penalty of imprisonment ranging from six (6) months to
two (2) years and a fine of not less than One hundred
thousand pesos (Php100,000.00) but not more than Five
hundred thousand pesos (Php500,000.00) shall be imposed on
persons who knowingly or negligently dispose, discard, or
abandon the personal information of an individual in an area
accessible to the public or has otherwise placed the personal
information of an individual in its container for trash
collection.

44

b.

A penalty of imprisonment ranging from one (1) year to three
(3) years and a fine of not less than One hundred thousand
pesos (Php100,000.00) but not more than One million pesos
(Php1,000,000.00) shall be imposed on persons who
knowingly or negligently dispose, discard or abandon the
sensitive personal information of an individual in an area
accessible to the public or has otherwise placed the sensitive
personal information of an individual in its container for trash
collection.

Section 55. Processing of Personal Information and Sensitive
Personal Information for Unauthorized Purposes.
a.

A penalty of imprisonment ranging from one (1) year and six
(6) months to five (5) years and a fine of not less than Five
hundred thousand pesos (Php500,000.00) but not more than
One million pesos (Php1,000,000.00) shall be imposed on
persons processing personal information for purposes not
authorized by the data subject, or otherwise authorized under
the Act or under existing laws.

b.

A penalty of imprisonment ranging from two (2) years to
seven (7) years and a fine of not less than Five hundred
thousand pesos (Php500,000.00) but not more than Two
million pesos (Php2,000,000.00) shall be imposed on persons
processing sensitive personal information for purposes not
authorized by the data subject, or otherwise authorized under
the Act or under existing laws.

Section 56. Unauthorized Access or Intentional Breach. A penalty of
imprisonment ranging from one (1) year to three (3) years and a fine
of not less than Five hundred thousand pesos (Php500,000.00) but not
more than Two million pesos (Php2,000,000.00) shall be imposed on
persons who knowingly and unlawfully, or violating data
confidentiality and security data systems, breaks in any way into any
system where personal and sensitive personal information are stored.
Section 57. Concealment of Security Breaches Involving Sensitive
Personal Information. A penalty of imprisonment ranging from one
(1) year and six (6) months to five (5) years and a fine of not less than
Five hundred thousand pesos (Php500,000.00) but not more than One
million pesos (Php1,000,000.00) shall be imposed on persons who,
45

after having knowledge of a security breach and of the obligation to
notify the Commission pursuant to Section 20(f) of the Act,
intentionally or by omission conceals the fact of such security breach.

Section 58. Malicious Disclosure. Any personal information
controller or personal information processor, or any of its officials,
employees or agents, who, with malice or in bad faith, discloses
unwarranted or false information relative to any personal
information or sensitive personal information obtained by him or her,
shall be subject to imprisonment ranging from one (1) year and six (6)
months to five (5) years and a fine of not less than Five hundred
thousand pesos (Php500,000.00) but not more than One million pesos
(Php1,000,000.00).
Section 59. Unauthorized Disclosure.
a.

Any personal information controller or personal information
processor, or any of its officials, employees, or agents, who
discloses to a third party personal information not covered by
the immediately preceding section without the consent of the
data subject, shall be subject to imprisonment ranging from
one (1) year to three (3) years and a fine of not less than Five
hundred thousand pesos (Php500,000.00) but not more than
One million pesos (Php1,000,000.00).

b.

Any personal information controller or personal information
processor, or any of its officials, employees or agents, who
discloses to a third party sensitive personal information not
covered by the immediately preceding section without the
consent of the data subject, shall be subject to imprisonment
ranging from three (3) years to five (5) years and a fine of not
less than Five hundred thousand pesos (Php500,000.00) but
not more than Two million pesos (Php2,000,000.00).

Section 60. Combination or Series of Acts. Any combination or series
of acts as defined in Sections 52 to 59 shall make the person subject to
imprisonment ranging from three (3) years to six (6) years and a fine
of not less than One million pesos (Php1,000,000.00) but not more
than Five million pesos (Php5,000,000.00).

46

Section 61. Extent of Liability. If the offender is a corporation,
partnership or any juridical person, the penalty shall be imposed
upon the responsible officers, as the case may be, who participated in,
or by their gross negligence, allowed the commission of the crime.
Where applicable, the court may also suspend or revoke any of its
rights under this Act.
If the offender is an alien, he or she shall, in addition to the penalties
herein prescribed, be deported without further proceedings after
serving the penalties prescribed.
If the offender is a public official or employee and he or she is found
guilty of acts penalized under Sections 54 and 55 of these Rules, he or
she shall, in addition to the penalties prescribed herein, suffer
perpetual or temporary absolute disqualification from office, as the
case may be.

Section 62. Large-Scale. The maximum penalty in the corresponding
scale of penalties provided for the preceding offenses shall be
imposed when the personal data of at least one hundred (100)
persons are harmed, affected, or involved, as the result of any of the
above-mentioned offenses.

Section 63. Offense Committed by Public Officer. When the offender
or the person responsible for the offense is a public officer, as defined
in the Administrative Code of 1987, in the exercise of his or her
duties, he or she shall likewise suffer an accessory penalty consisting
of disqualification to occupy public office for a term double the term
of the criminal penalty imposed.

Section 64. Restitution. Pursuant to the exercise of its quasi-judicial
functions, the Commission shall award indemnity to an aggrieved
party on the basis of the provisions of the New Civil Code. Any
complaint filed by a data subject shall be subject to the payment of
filing fees, unless the data subject is an indigent.

Section 65. Fines and Penalties. Violations of the Act, these Rules,
other issuances and orders of the Commission, shall, upon notice and
hearing, be subject to compliance and enforcement orders, cease and
desist orders, temporary or permanent ban on the processing of

47

personal data, or payment of fines, in accordance with a schedule to
be published by the Commission.

Rule XIV. Miscellaneous Provisions

Section 66. Appeal. Appeal from final decisions of the Commission
shall be made to the proper courts in accordance with the Rules of
Court, or as may be prescribed by law.

Section 67. Period for Compliance. Any natural or juridical person or
other body involved in the processing of personal data shall comply
with the personal data processing principles and standards of
personal data privacy and security already laid out in the Act.
Personal information controllers and Personal Information processors
shall register with the Commission their data processing systems or
automated processing operations, subject to notification, within one
(1) year after the effectivity of these Rules. Any subsequent issuance
of the Commission, including those that implement specific
standards for data portability, encryption, or other security measures
shall provide the period for its compliance.
For a period of one (1) year from the effectivity of these Rules, a
personal information controller or personal information processor
may apply for an extension of the period within which to comply
with the issuances of the Commission. The Commission may grant
such request for good cause shown.

Section 68. Appropriations Clause. The Commission shall be
provided with appropriations for the performance of its functions
which shall be included in the General Appropriations Act.

Section 69. Interpretation. Any doubt in the interpretation of any
provision of this Act shall be liberally interpreted in a manner that
would uphold the rights and interests of the individual about whom
personal data is processed.

48

Section 70. Separability Clause. If any provision or part hereof is
held invalid or unconstitutional, the remainder of these Rules or the
provision not otherwise affected shall remain valid and subsisting.

Section 71. Repealing Clause. Except as otherwise expressly provided
in the Act or these Rules, all other laws, decrees, executive orders,
proclamations and administrative regulations or parts thereof
inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed or modified accordingly.

Section 72. Effectivity Clause. These Rules shall take effect fifteen
(15) days after its publication in the Official Gazette.

Approved:

(Sgd.) RAYMUND E. LIBORO
Privacy Commissioner

(Sgd.)IVY D. PATDU
(Sgd.)DAMIAN DOMINGO O. MAPA
Deputy Privacy Commissioner
Deputy Privacy Commissioner

Promulgated: August 24, 2016

49

