FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF SOMALIA

FEDERAL GOVERNMENT OF
SOMALIYA
MINITRY OF POST,
TELECOMMUNICATION AND
TECKNOLOGY
NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATION
LAW 2017

1

PART 1
DEFINATIONS AND OBJECTIVES OF THE LAW

ARTICLE 1
Definition of Terms
1. Telecommunication Agency: - refers National Telecommunication Agency.
2. General Manager: refers General Manager of National telecommunication
Agency.
3. Decision: - refers a written decision produced by The National
Telecommunication Agency.
4. Conduct: refers to regulations which regulate various permits that issued by
the telecommunication Agency.
5. License: refers permits (License) issued by the National Telecommunication
Agency, that allows providing the telecommunication services in accordance
with this law.
6. General License: refers the permission with broad power of the
telecommunication, like the network waves and national numbers.
7. Licensee: refers any Agency (entity) that has a permit issued by the national
telecommunication Agency.
8. National Code: refers 252 (National Code).
9. National Domain: refers Dot.so (National Domain).
10.Fibre Optic: refers wires that curry internet and telecommunication waves.
11.Telecommunication Radio Waves: refers a part of radio waves that the
Agency allocated for the telecommunication services.
12.Strategy of National Numbers: refers the chart of the telecommunication
Agency which demonstrates the amount of telephone numbers.
2

13.Service Provider: refers an organization authorized by the
telecommunication Agency to supply telecommunication services.
14.Public Consultation: refers the structure of consultation that based upon a
transparent procedure that telecommunication Agency collects information
related to the improvement of the telecommunication.
15.The public: refers intellectual people like scholars, religious scholars, and
civil society.
16.General Accessibility of Telecommunication Service: refers accessibility
of Telecommunication services to all customers of the Telecommunication,
regardless of any environment whether it’s far or close.
ARTICLE 2
OBJECTS AND THE NAME OF THE LAW
1. This Law is called the National Telecommunication Law, it’s objective is:
a. To develop the National Telecommunication policy.
b.

To introduce the regulation of Telecommunication Law that governs all
existing sectors of Telecommunication in the Country.

c. To establish National Telecommunication Agency.
2. The specific purpose of this law is the regulation of the law, facilitating the
technology and the telecommunication services includes: a. Facilitating and unifying the services associated with
Telecommunication.
b.

Enhancement of the Modern Telecommunication as to raise awareness
of the society and usage internet services.

c.

Keeping and protecting of personal privacy.

d. Facilitating the enhancement and utilizing all waves.
e.

Facilitating and creating the modern sales related with the
telecommunication service.
3

f.

Managing free-market of telecommunication services with fair
competition.

g. Issuing Licenses and introducing implementing regulation of the
Telecommunication.
h. Promoting the Open-Market, effective and fair in all telecommunications
sections of Somalia, that to promote the freedom of speech and exchange
of ideas.
i. Facilitating and encouraging the investment of Telecommunication
Services in consideration of National Companies.
3. The Ministry and Agency shall recognize all prior agreements of this law
entered by National Telecommunication Companies in accordance with the
National Laws.

ARTICLE 3
POWER OF LAW
1. This law will regulate all sections of telecommunication located in the
territory of Somalia except telecommunications that is used by the army.
2. This law will protect the enhancement of telecommunication services
considering public and economic needs of Somalia.
3. This law will apply and protect the rights of the telecommunication
companies and related services.

4

PART 2
ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIO AGENCY

ARTICLE 4
FOUNDATION OF THE AGENCY
To achieve the objectives mentioned in the article 2 of this law, this Law is enacted
for the National Telecommunication Agency that will be responsible for
administration and regulations of the National Telecommunication.

ARTICLE 5
HEADQUARTER OF THE AGENCY
The headquarter of the Agency will be in the Somali capital city of Mogadishu,
however the Agency may have other branches in the regional governments, if
necessary.

ARTICLE 6
DUTIES ANDPOWRES OF AGENCY
1. The Agency shall have authority to control National Telecommunication like
issuing licenses and regulating all Telecommunication Services in the
Somali territory in accordance with this law.
2. Not violating issues mentioned in the Para 1, the Agency shall have power
to enforce the following issues:

5

a. Can enter contracts, collect a debt, in accordance with the financial rules
of the country.
b. Can have, posses, purchase, lease movable or immovable properties in
accordance with the National Finance Law.
3. Shall give advise, drawing up subordinate Laws related to different sections
of telecommunication and to participate its enforcement in consultation with
relevant stakeholders (The Ministry and Service Providers).
4. Shall issue necessary regulations and decisions for enforcing its
responsibilities and this law including technical regulations of the Agency.
5. Shall issue licenses and propose taxation on waves, sorting financial records,
linking, monitoring networks, and telecommunication services.
6. Shall advise tariffs, numbers, and upgrading telecommunication
competition.
7. Shall resolve conflicts among the companies by setting up a technical
committee to mediate.
8. Shall protect customer rights with special consideration to:
a. Protect customer confidentiality and service information.
b. Tariff charges.
c. Facilitate accessibility of the service.
d. Quality and level of service.
9. The Agency shall take necessary steps in order to prevent whoever breaks
and infringes this law in accordance with this law.
10.Drawing up rules and regulations, measurements, and the process of
licensing networking, telecommunication service and usage of waves
without any effect of the requirements laid down by this law.

6

ARTICLE 7
INDEPENDENCY OF THE AGENCY
1. The National Telecommunication Agency in an independence Agency when
fulfilling its obligation in accordance with this Law, and no other
governmental agencies can interfere. It has legal personality to sue or to be
sued in its name in line with litigation procedure of other government
agencies.
2. This Agency, like any other agencies of the country shall report to the
Ministry of Telecommunication, however It is free to implement its duties as
laid down by this law.
ARTICLE 8
BUDGET OF THE AGENCY
The budget of the Agency will be part of the overall budget of the government;
however the Agency staff may be paid incentives from the Agency revenue
credited to central bank of the government, that incentive not includes salaries and
other remunerations.
1. The Agency is independent in managing its budget in compliance with
government budgeting policies and procedures.

ARTICLE 9
STRUCTURE OF THE NATIOINAL
TELECOMMUNICATION AGENCY
The structure of the National Telecommunication Agency shall be as follows: 1. Board of Directors (Golaha Maamulka).
2. General Manager.
7

3. Deputy Manager.
4. The Agency may have other departments which each assigned a particular
task.

ARTICLE 10
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
1. The board of directors consist of nine (9) members : a. 2 members from the Ministry of post and telecommunication.
b. 4 members from telecommunication companies.
c. 1 lawyer from the office of the Attorney General.
d. Manager and his deputy.
2. The head of administration department of the Agency will be the Secretary
of Board, and he will be responsible for minutes and communication of the
board, information circulation to all members of the board, however he is
not a member of the Board.
3. The minister shall appoint the chairperson from the members of the board in
every four years.

ARTICLE 11
THE TERM OF THE OFFICE
Except the Manager and his Deputy, Members of the board shall hold position for
four years, which can be renewed once.

ARTICLE 12
MEETINGS OF THE NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATION BOARD
8

The board may have ordinary and emergance meetings, and may occur as follows:
1. The ordinary meetings of the board shall take place one in every three
months, ifthe board does not decide longer or shorter than three months.
2. The General Manager can request the Board an emergency meeting, if
necessary, same as if two-third of the board agree to hold an emergence
meeting.
3. The meeting is conveyed if five (5) members of the National
Telecommunication Boardand the General Manager are present, their
decisions shall be taken (50+1) of the total members of the board and every
member has the right to receive the meeting agenda at least 24 hours before
the meeting time.
4. The Board can invite the minister and everybody who they might find is
important for the meeting. No one is allowed to vote except members of the
National Telecommunication Board.

ARTICLE 13
RESPONSIBILITY OF THE BOARD
The board is responsible for the following matters: 1. To approvethe budget and activity plan of the Agency after the General
Manager proposes to the board.
2. To oversight the implementation of this law and the action plan that
already approved.
3. To approve staff recruitments of the Agency when the Agency needs
considering the qualification of the staff as well as the budget of the
Agency.
9

4. To report to the ministry the management of the Agency if requested or
so deems to be necessary by the board.

ARTICLE 14
MEMBERSHIP REQUIREMENTS OF BOARD

Anyone who is becoming a member of the Board of Directors is required to
comply same requirements as the Board of the Agency Council, and they also lose
their membership same as the Board members loss their membership.

ARTICLE 15
INCENTIVES OF THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD

The job commitment of the Board is a part-time job and shall be recruitedfor
it persons who have other jobs, and they shall be entitled incentives per meetings
which shall be specified by regulations of the Agency for their entitlements per
meeting.

ARTICLE 16
INFORMATION REQUEST

10

1. The National Telecommunication Agency can request the licensee who
provides telecommunication services to assist information that is necessary
for the performance of duties, and that is not disturbing any right of personal
privacy in accordance with this law.
2. The Telecommunication Agency protects business secrets and other secret
facts that are received from the companies in accordance with this Law and
other laws of the Country.

11

PART 3
RECRUITMENT AUTHORITY OFTHE AGENCY

ARTICLE 17
AUTHORITY TO RECRUITMENT
1. As stipulated in the law, the Agency has power to recruit any staff that is
necessary for the activity of the Agency in accordance with civil servant law.
2. The Telecommunication Agency will draw up, implement human resource
policies and procedures of the Agency; especially salaries, pension wages
and other bonuses.
3. The Agency can review and consider wages and bonuses paid to staff
members in accordance with the general policy of the government.
4. The conflicts of interest that mentioned in article 30of this law should apply
to all members of staff including top management executives of the Agency.

ARTICLE 18
RIGHTS OF STAFF OF THE AGENCY
All the rights and duties of the staff of the Agency shall be regulated by the civil
servant law.

12

ARTICLE 19
THE PROCESS OF RECRUITMENT OF THE MANAGMENT OF THE
AGENCY
Members of the National Telecommunication Agency will be recruited in the same
way of the senior officers of the government in accordance with the constitution
and this law.

ARTICLE 20
REQUIREMENTS OF MEMBERSHIP OF THE AGENCY
1. Any member of the top management of Agency shall be Somali citizen.
2. Must reside in the Country and must be 30 years of age or above.
3. Must be physically and mentally sound and capable of fulfilling his duties.
4. Must not be convicted a crime against sate and must be regarded a good
manner person.
5. Must be a university graduate and minimum experience of five years.
6. Has to have one or two of the following educational backgrounds: a. Legal .
b. Customer Care.
c. Telecommunication.
d. Information Technology .
e. Business administrational .
ARTICLE 21
REQUIREMENTS OF THE GENERAL MANAGER
Not violating requirements stated in article 12, the General Manager shall have
master degree of one of the following fields: 13

1. Telecommunication, Technology and related matters.
2. Business Administration (BA).
3. Sharia / Law.
4. Finance.

ARTICLE 22
RESPONSIBILITY OF THE MANAGER
1. Manager is the highest officer of the National Telecommunication Agency.
2. He is responsible for guiding and implementing daily-work of the Agency,
maintaining that the Agency remains intact for achieving its objectives and
implementing the Law and other subordinate regulations of the Agency .
3. He is responsible for the relationship between the Agency and other
governmental institutions or private Agencies,to represent and speak on
behalf of the National Telecommunication Agency.
4. He is responsible for supervising and monitoring the operational
management of the Agency.
5. He proposes the budget of the Agency to the board to be discussed and
approved before forwarding to the Ministry of Finance through Ministry of
Telecommunication.
6. He proposes the work plan and short/long term strategy of the Agency to
enhance technology sector.
ARTICLE 23
RESPONSIBILITY OF DEPUTY MANAGER
1. Representsthe Manager while away or has circumstances that prevents to
perform his duties.
2. Performs other tasks that the Manager delegates him.
14

ARTICLE 24
RESPONSIBILITY OF THE SECRETARY

1. Communicatesto the members of the Board after the manager orders him.
2. Acts the Manager and Deputy for office operations as well as coordinate the
office with other Agencies in accordance with this law.
3. Prepares meetings agenda of the Board of Directors after consultation with
the manager and records the minutes of the meeting as well as coordinates
and communicates to other members of board.
4. Records and protects board documents and the secrets of the Agency.
5. He’s the officer of the Agency office when Manager and his Deputy are out
of office, if no one else is temporarily delegated.
ARTICLE 25
LOSS OF RESPONSIBILITY
1. All senior managers and other members of the Agency can lose their
positions in the same manner as they have selected or in the manner which
compatible with the government Civil Servant law.
2. Apart from the matter prescribed in Para(1) of this article , the following
circumstances can make their positions vacant: a) Death.
b) Resignation of member with acceptance of the Agency.
c) Permanent resides in another country.
d) In a poor condition which prevents performing his duties.
e) Failure to perform and abuses his authorities.

15

f) Infringement of telecommunication Laws, regulations of the Agency as
well as other laws of the Country.
g) Dismissal of the senior members of the Agency shall take place in the
same manner they have been initially selected.

16

PARAT 4
DUTIES AND COLLABORATIONS
ARTICLE 27:
OBLIGATIONS OF THE MINISTRY
Duties of the ministry in consultation with, which consulting with ministry of post
and telecommunications of federal members states are:
1. To prepare, exhibit public policy and design national plan of
telecommunication in consultation with other stakeholders.
2. To develop strategic policy of the telecommunication to enlarge the scale of
telecommunication service as well to encourage socio-economic
development of the country.
3. To encourage domestic telecommunication companies to be provided an
education opportunities including higher education of telecommunication
and information technology.
4. To oversight and hold the national telecommunication companies
accountable.
5. To raise awareness of the public about the knowledge telecommunication
and modern technology in order to contribute economic growth, social
development and raising awareness about civilization of the society.
6. To preserve the availability of the telecommunication and internet.
7. To supervise national telecommunication companies.
ARTICLE 28:
COLLABORATIONS OF THE MINISTRY AND THE AGENCY

17

1. The telecommunication Agency shall plan the development of the
telecommunication of a country in line with the policies of the ministry of
post, telecommunication and technology.
2. The minister and council of ministries shall respect the outcome of public
consultation in setting, formulating and amendment of the strategic policies
of the telecommunication as indicated in the article 27 of this law.
3. When delivering its duties concerning the telecommunication, the ministry
shall safeguard the independence of the telecommunication Agency to
perform its duties implement this law.
ARTICLE 29:
THE RESPONSIBILITY OF MINISTER
The minister or his representatives with full respect of articles 27 and 28 of this
law, shall the following responsibilities:1. Formulate, review and take general decisions on national
telecommunication aiming to enhance revenues, consumption of the
telecommunication service and promotion and development of the social
service.
2. To negotiate and enforce telecommunication treaties entered between
Somalia and other states or international organizations.
3. To represent Somalia in international forums concerning telecommunication
agreements.
4. To assist the Agency to have its existence and to get fund to develop the
sector, to get qualified staff of the telecommunication, training materials and
to have a conducive office to operate fully.

18

PART V
CONSULTATION WITH TELETELECOMMUNICATION COMPANIES
ARTICLE 30:
CONSULTATION PROCEDURES
1. The Agency may organize:
a. Consultation between the Agency and companies is baseline of
collaboration between the two to achieve the ambitions and goals
towards obtaining a reliable telecommunication service and to satisfy
public needs as well as to have joint collaboration for the purpose of
developing the sector.
b. The Agency may hold general consultations concerning
recommendations from the ministry to formulate a general policy of
the government relating to telecommunication, if the Agency deems it
necessary for the companies to contribute.
2. The consultation with the companies shall be transparent for the purpose of
promoting public interest and building confidence between the government
and companies operate in sector.
3. It is prohibited during consultation to discuss personal information of a
customer save only between service provider and the Agency and if only
public safety at stake, and first priority should be given to the privacy of the
customer.
4. The Agency shall record in writing all ideas and recommendations from
consultation and share with the companies. A copy of consultation
recommendations may be given If any particular person interests it and
charge a fee equivalent to printing expenses which is not profit in nature.
ARTICLE 31:
19

CONSULTATION REQUIRMENTS
1. The Agency may receive only written consultation or fully or partially.
2. The Agency may hold consultation meeting notifying the companies in
writing which contains the following components:
a. Commencement time of the consultation
b. Objectives of the consultation and agendas to be discussed
c. Time line for receiving recommendations and all the relevant
attachments.
d. To attach all written supporting documents if any interested to send a
recommendation.
e. To attach any report which the Agency seems necessary to be
discussed
f. The Agency shall insure the notice is served to the companies within
the appropriate time.
g. The Agency shall consider the recommendations from the
consultation with the companies considering the agreed needs in
accordance with legal procedure of this law.

ARTICLE 32:
THE WEBSITE OF THE AGENCY
1. The Agency shall create the official website to publish all its progress and
activities.
2. The Agency shall periodically publish all records, official publications, and
non-private records and publication as regulated in this law.

20

3. A copy shall be given to anyone who interests but shall pay a reasonable
service charge as decided by the Agency within the framework of this law.
ARTICLE 33:
THE DECISION MAKING OF AGENCY
1. The Agency shall ensure that all its decisions taken in transparent manner.
2. The Agency shall allow to the companies to participate in the consultation
and listen to anyone who interested such customers and public and to
respond effectively safeguarding public interest and the implementation of
the Telecommunication law.
3. Every matter brought before the Agency, the Agency shall respond in
writing detailing steps taken and in manner consistence with the information
available to it.
4. The decisions of the Agency can be taken in accordance with existing
circumstances and this law.
5. The Agency can refuse any action or application not in accordance with this
law with reason.

ARTICLE 34:
REVIEW OF THE AGENCY'S DECISIONS

1. Anyone who is affected decisions made by the Telecommunications
Agency, may request from the Agency to review its decision.
2. With regard to all revision requests applied , the Agency shall notify
to all interested parties concerning decisions previously referred to
the Agency for review, in consideration all relevant parties
21

3. Anyone who is affected decisions made by the Agency can appeal to
the competent court.
4. The Court shall have the authority to affirm, amend, or refuse
decisions of the Agency in accordance with this Law and other laws
of the country.

ARTICLE 35:
CONFLICT OF INTEREST

The officials of the Agency and any of its employees are prohibited to involve any
action contrary or affects decision making of the current agendas or affects his
overall responsibilities of the Agency such as :
1. Special economic interests
2. Financial interests related to their spouses, any member of their family or
relatives.
3. Financial interests of their business associates or partnership individuals.
4. Financial interest of any organization which he is a shareholder, owner, or
a representative.
5. Any financial interests or employment or promise of employment or
agreement with any organization. Two options are available if the
following circumstances arises:
a. No to participate in the discussion of the agenda concerned
which is tabled before the agency.
b. To resign from the current conflict of interest position with
reasons.

22

6. It is prohibited from the General manager or members of the Board to have
direct ownership of company under the authority of the Telecommunication
Agency.

23

PARTVI:
MANAGEMENT OF FREQUENCIES

ARTICLE 36
ALLOCATION AND LICENSING OF FREQUENCIES

1. The minister can delegate to the Agency to represent meeting with
international organizations and organizations from neighboring states.
2. The Telecommunication Agency is responsible in planning, managing,
allocating and supervising the usage of waves and internet of the country.
3. The Telecommunication Agency will have a power to implement this law,
telecommunication agreements committed with the region and the globe in
compliance with this law.
ARTICLE 37:
MANAGEMENT OF RADIO FREQUENCIES
With exception to the powers given by media law-the Minister of Information- the
Telecommunication Agency by carrying out its duties towards managing radio
frequencies, it is responsible the following matters:
1. Promotes usage of waves of radio frequencies in systematic and scientific
manner in order to satisfy service provider waves of frequencies allocated to,
and use it in accordance with distribution of the Agency.
2. Issues license of radio frequencies and view of the TV.
24

3. Develops latest service by using radio frequencies.
4. Formulates competitive trade based on fair and transparent upon
advertisement and providing radio frequency service in accordance with this
law.
5. Implements and plans current and potential needs, and other issues that are
considered necessary.
ARTICLE 38
VERIFICATION OF DATA ALLOCATED AND ISSUING FREQUENCIES
The Agency shall respect all data relating allocating and issuing radio frequencies
and all information that the Agency deems necessary in managing radio
frequencies except information relating to national security. The Agency shall
make all information mentioned in this article available in public domain, and all
information have to be published on the website of the Agency.

ARTILCE 39
ALLOCATION AND ISSUING FREQUENCIES SCHEDULE

1 .The Agency shall plan and manage allocation and issuing national frequencies in
accordance with this law.
2. The Agency shall recognize telecommunication frequencies that the current
companies were already using in compliance with this law.
3. The Agency shall allocate and issue frequencies to the following users:
a. National security institutions
b. Fire-fighting and public safety institutions.
25

c. Media Houses
d. Telecommunication companies
4. The minister may request form the Agency to provide a detailed allocation
schedule.
5. The allocation schedule shall take effect upon approval of the Agency, and it
should be published on the website of the Agency for the public to see it if any
wants.
6. with regard to Para2 of this article and article 33, the Agency shall respect
matters related waves frequencies of the national telecommunication already in use
in compliance with this law.

ARTICLE 40
PROCEDURES TO USE WAVES
1. The Agency is managing the radio waves and their allocation as indicated in
the article 5 of this law, for the purpose of protecting the practice and
ensuring that any service provider uses the purpose provided and included in
the designated category.
2. The Agency may undertake open consultation under this law, and its
purpose is to make regulation on licensing and use of the waves.

ARTICLE 41
CHARGES THE USE OF FREQUENCIES
1. Anyone who wants to use the radio frequency, TV, telecommunications, and
the same thing that needs to be used in specific waves, is to take the

26

Licensing waves, and telecommunications license. For those who already in
use for such services, they must adapt its service to this law.
2. The National Telecommunication Agency shall limit the fees for issuing
License, in consultation with the Ministry of Postal, Telecommunications
and Technology and the Ministry of Finance, and consideration shall be
given the status of the service providers.
3. The Agency's fees are as set out in paragraph 1 of this law and confirms;
a. The telecommunications service providers shall contribute the country's
economic development and the development of telecommunications,
ensuring that the community is benefiting from its economic revenue.
b. Fees paid by the service providers are deposited in the government
treasury account in accordance with the public finance law of the country.

27

PARTVII
LICENSES
ARTICLE 42
LICENSE
1. No one is allowed to work for a Network of telecommunication using the
radio waves of the media station, or providing a telecommunication service
in Somalia without the license of a telecommunication service provider.
2. The Agency shall issue telecommunication license that authorizes the
delivery of telecommunication services in accordance with a special license
and general license in accordance with the licensing requirements and the
institutional arrangements.
3. The Agency shall publish on its website a list of qualified service providers
that are eligible for public and private licenses.
4. When the Agency decides who is eligible for general or specific licenses,
shall also insure that will be no effect to anyone who has previously
received a license for providing such service at the time of decision.
5. The licensee who has not been used the license that he has been granted for
providing service for a period of six months, his license shall expire without
compensation.

ARTICLE 43
LICENSE PERMIT PROCEDURE

1. The Agency shall issue general license for telecommunication service in a
certain period under this law.

28

2. The telecommunication licenses application procedure shall be written and
addressed to the Agency in the manner provided by the Agency for issuing
licenses and to attach required information and receipt of payment of fees
pursuant to this law.
3. The Agency shall give a written response to the applicant concerning his
application within 14 working days from the date of the application
received.
4. If the Agency decides not to grant license to the applicant shall notify the
applicant in writing within 14 days and explain the reasons for the decision
in detail in accordance with this law and other laws of the country.
5. The general license issued under this law, if not revoked in writing, shall be
valid until it expires.
6. The license is issued by the Agency pursuant to this law cannot be
transferred or sold to any person or company without written permission
from the Agency.

1
ARTICLE 44
ISSUING THE GENERAL LICENSE

1. General license telecommunication service is issued by general authorization
license system.
2. Waves and numbers of telecommunications.

29

3. The general license shall be issued to the applicant when he fulfills the
requirements set out in the issuing general license provided that the
telecommunication Agency may request further information.
4. The applicant shall complete an application form of general license designed
by the Agency.

ARTICLE 45
TIME LIMIT GENERAL LICENSE

The time limit of the general license shall be regulated by the Agency in
consultation with the Ministry of Post, telecommunication and technology
with a special consideration to the service providers.

ARTICLE 46

THE CHARGES OF GENERAL LICENSE

The charges of the general license shall be determined by the council of
ministers after the proposal of the Minister of Postal, Telecommunication
and Technology considering the international standard s and special
circumstances of the country with due regard to financial management of
the country ,and if required further information can be obtained from the
National Telecommunication Agency.

ARTICLE47
RENEWAL OF THE LICENSE

30

1. The Agency shall renew the license upon the request of the licensee and
adhere to all the terms of previous conditions which the license is granted
under this law and Agency regulations.
2. The licensee shall request for renewal before the previous license expires.
3. If the license exceeds the time limit for its renewal, the licensee shall be
considered for his reasonable delays ,if otherwise , the licensee fails to
provide a reason for the delay, he hall be subjected to a fine as stipulated in
the regulation of the Agency .
4. In the event that the Agency fails to renew a license, the licensee can carry
on his license in accordance with terms previously granted until the Agency
decides otherwise .
5. Whenever the Agency rejects an application license or imposes fine on the
licensee who violated the license requirements which has been granted under
the terms of this law, the fine decision shall be in writing.
6. Renewal of the general license shall be made in accordance with the
procedure laid down in this law.
7. The Agency shall consider the existence of National Telecommunication
companies operating in the country before Telecommunication law until
they are made comply with this law.
ARTICLE 48

WITHDROWAL OF THE LICENSE

The licensee may withdraw his license to the Agency by submitting a written
notice at any time in accordance with this law ,and his withdrawal shall not be
valid until the Agency receives a written communication from the licensee.

31

ARTICLE49

REVOCATION OF THE LICENSE

The Agency may suspend or revoke the license previously granted in writing
if the followings so arise:

1. If the licensee fails pay a fine for a violation of the telecommunication law.
His license may be revoked.
2. If he fails or does not comply with the restrictions imposed by the Agency in
accordance with the provisions of this law, the Agency may revoke his
license.
3. If he is not dissatisfied with the decision of the Agency to revoke the license,
he can appeal to competent court in accordance with Somali law of the
organization of the judiciary.
4. The Agency may also revoke the license if the licensee fails to pay the
license fee.

32

PART VIII:
NETWORKING OF THE TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE
COMPANIES

ARTICLE50

NETWORK REQUEST

1. If a service provider with a telecommunication service license request
network from another telecommunication service provider company shall
be done in accordance with this telecommunication law and the agreement
between the two companies.
2. The networking of telephone telecommunication service is considered a
public interest and it’s necessary to establish a network of various
telephone service provider companies in order to facilitate the community to
use one SIM card to communicate with telephone service provider
companies in the country.

ARTICLE 51
CONDITIONS OF NETWORKING

1. All companies networking shall be in writing and comply with the
provisions of this law and Agency’s regulation.
2. Networking requirements of the telecommunication companies shall be
decided by networking companies, but the Agency may intervene in
consultation with the ministry and compliance within this law.

33

3. If the Agency finds the entire agreement or part of the agreement does not
comply with the provisions of the law or regulation of the Agency it may
compel the companies to comply the law and other laws of the country.
4. If the parties fail to agree or come to delay an agreement, the Agency may
interfere and resolve the matter under dispute in accordance with the law.
5. If either party is not satisfied decision of the Agency, he may appeal to the
competent court.
6. If a company fails to pay fee charge born by networking agreements it shall
be applied to this law and the Somali Civil Code.

ARTICLE 52
REGISTRATION OF NETWORKING AGREEMENT

1. All service providers shall register at the telecommunication Agency any
agreement connecting the companies for period of 30 days from the date of
singing the agreement.
2. Contracting parties must submit network agreement to the Agency that the
service providers entered.
3. After the Agency evaluate the terms of the contractual agreement and cost of
the interconnected costs incompatible with law or regulation of the Agency
may request to the parties to revise the agreement and arrange it.

ARTICLE 53

REGULATING OF NETWORK AGREEMENTS
34

1. The Agency shall introduce regulation related to networking companies.
2. The networking regulation of the Agency shall specify the following issues:
a. Time and negotiation of concluding the agreement.
b. Quality and service level.
c. Procedure of charging tariffs
d. Maintaining private ownership.
e. Maintaining business intelligence.
f. Facilitate the networking parties.
g. Limit networking charges of tariffs if the parties disagree.

ARTICLE 54

CANCELLATION REQUIREMENTS OF NETWORKING

1. Parties entered the agreement of networking shall not terminate their
contract without the written permission of the Agency.
2. The Agency encourages cooperation of telecommunication service
providers.
3. If the parties fail to agree on the matters mentioned above, the
telecommunications Agency may intervene to resolve those matters and
considering public interest.

35

PART IX
PROVISION OF NATIONAL CODE
ARTICLE 55
ALLOCATIONS AND DISTRIBUTION OF CODES
.
1. It is forbidden to use the national codes without license by National
Telecommunication Agency in accordance with the law.
2. National code 252 and national identification dot so (domain), is the
Government property which National Telecommunication Agency is
responsible and managed in accordance with the law with due regard to
international and regional laws.
3. The National Telecommunication Agency shall define procedure to use
National codes, therefore, any telecommunication company may request its
need.
4. The National Telecommunication Agency shall have responsibility to
protect and create regulations towards allocating and distributing National
Codes as well as internet websites which will facilitate in providing
telecommunication service.
5. All service providers which have telecommunication license shall have a
right to be given a sufficient code fit for their needs in order to provide the
telecommunication services, after application and satisfying all requirements
as prescribed by the law.
6. This law defines the rejection procedure partially or completely towards
applications related to use of codes and registration of names internet
service providers if the following matters arise;
a) If the applicant does not have a license to provide telecommunication
and internet services.
b) If the applicant does not comply the national coding policy.
c) If evident that the applicant license does not comply with the law and
requirements of the National Telecommunication agency.
d) If the purpose of coding request is ganger to the existence of
telecommunication companies and national security such as fraud.

36

e) If the purpose of coding request is not explained in the application of
the applicant company.
ARTICLE 56
REJECTION OF THE APPLICATION
1. If the Agency rejects an application request or registration of internet service
provider in accordance with regulations of the agency law, the decision of
the Agency shall be in writing with reason of rejection.
2. The applicant may request from the Agency to revise the decision of
rejection of his application.
3. The applicant can re-apply the codes or registration of internet service by readjusting the articles and reasons for rejection in a manner pursuant to the
guidelines of the agency.
4. If the agency rejects the application again, the applicant will complain to the
competent court.
5. It is forbidden to issue license relating to the codes and registration of
internet providers with intention of fraud and corruption.
6. The Agency shall have a right to suspend use of codes and registration of
internet due to fraud.
7. Anyone who uses the internet codes with purpose of fraud is subject to
Somali Criminal Claw.
ARTICLE 57
CHARGES ON CODES REGULATION
The agency may introduce regulation which is to develop the objectives of this
law and fee charges on numbers and internet service in collaboration with the
Ministry with due regard to National Telecommunication Policy.

ARTICLE 58
LIST OF NUMBERS OF SPECIFIC SERVICES
1. The agency has a power to make regulation on numbers of specific service
which is required by service providers to implement it with due to regard to
public and private interest and any other necessary public matters.
2. If the Agency makes decisions towards the service providers to provide
their customers general codes in emergency situations which can be used in
37

all Somalia in order to encourage the public order, the service providers
should provide emergence numbers which can operate throughout the
country.
3. The agency shall also take a necessary steps to encourage and speed up
building the infrastructure plan for emergency numbers which simplifies to
the society able to use throughout Somalia.

38

PART X
RIGHTS OF TELECOMMUNICATION COMPANIES AND CUSTOMERS
ARTICLE 59
PROTECTING THE RIGHTS OF THE NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATION
COMPANIES.
1. It is encouraged to protect rights of National Telecommunication Companies
and generally national investors and also to protect their rights and
existence.
2. The agency shall protect from the National Telecommunication Companies
to be destroyed because of illegal competition from foreign investment.
ARTICLE 60
PERMISSION OF TELECOMMUNICATION WAVES AND EQUIPMENTS
1. The Agency may issue license to use Waves of frequencies.
2. The agency shall have right to advice and facilitate of the telecommunication
equipment that are brought to the country by the Telecommunication service
companies.
3. The Agency, through implementing this responsibility, shall conduct public
consultations with the telecommunication companies to have common
understanding the quality assurance of telecommunication equipments and
recognized in Somalia.
4. The National Telecommunication Agency shall register companies with
quality assured equipments. The national telecommunication companies can
propose to change or include some amendment to the quality assurance
company.
5. Any citizen can bring telecommunication equipment ,however, shall
request license to deliver the telecommunication equipment in compliance
with requirements in place, and shall pay charge fee limited by National
Telecommunication Agency
ARTICLE 61
THE RIGHT TO PASSAGE OF THE SERVICE PROVIDER
1. Licensed telecommunication service provider shall have a right in
accordance with law to pass capable through land anywhere in the country
39

2.

3.
4.
5.

specially during the construction, repairing or operates in the areas where he
has been obliged to deliver telecommunication service.
Licensed telecommunication service provider shall have a right in
accordance with law to pass capable through private land with request and
agreement with the owner at the same time the owner has to accept the
request in a manner consistence with the National Telecommunication Law.
Licensed telecommunication service provider shall indemnify damages of
private and public properties.
The Agency may introduce regulation to indemnify damages caused by right
of passage permitted against land, air and public interest.
The agency shall listen, decide any disagreement concerning the right of
passage by service provider.

ARTICLE 62
AVAILABILITY OF ADEQUATE TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE
1. The service providers with help of national telecommunication agencies
shall operate to reach people’s need of the telecommunication especially,
cities, villages, rural areas as well as anywhere that telecommunication
needs exist.
2. The national telecommunication agency is responsible for facilitation and
distribution of telecommunication services that community is need of to get
the telecommunication service widely.
ARTICLE 63
COMPETITION FOR TELECOMMUNICATION MARKET
1. The Telecommunication service provider is allowed for competitive market
which is free with due respect to the telecommunication law.
2. The agency shall supervise, take a decision and ensure that all service
providers comply with the free competition and regulations and procedure
that established by this law and code of conduct of the Agency with due
respect to justice system.
3. The agency shall insure that telecommunication service providers comply
free and open market competition, ownership right and management of
telecommunication centers.

ARTICLE 64
MISUSE OF POWER OF THE MARKET
40

1. It is prohibited from every licensed telecommunication service provider by
the Agency to act in a manner in compatible with free market
telecommunication competition in the country.
2. It is prohibited from licensed telecommunication service provider by the
Agency to enter agreements or promises in compatible with free market
telecommunication competition in the country.
3. If the Agency finds , after a hearing and consultation with the public in
accordance of this law, the telecommunications service provider has
violated with the purpose of infringing loss of property in the
telecommunications market, the Agency may take the following steps:a) Imposes fine limited by the Agency taking into account the damage
caused to the market as stated in this law.
b) If the Agency finds that the damage caused by the incident can cause
damage to another person, it might be referred to the competent
court to determine the extent of the alleged offense, the appropriate
punishment as well as to limit the compensation of the damage.

ARTICLE 65
CENSURSHIP

Companies shall be responsible for ethics of the service they provide and censure
users who use un Islamic and against tradition.
1. The good discipline is a measure of good behavior in the society and the
principles of Islamic sharia.
2. Anything that is opposing to the moral traditions of the Islamic Shari'ah and
the principles of Islamic Sharia is a bad behavior, and companies can hold
accountable anyone who violates a code of conduct that may impede the use
of the service if violator fails to stop the use against the moral conduct.
3. The Companies shall notify their decisions or actions against the perpetrator
in writing to the Agency.
ARTICLE 66
NATIONAL SECURITY

41

1. Each licensed is obliged to maintain national security, and shall comply with
the requests of the agency in accordance with the laws of the country.
2. If there is investigation for national security reasons, it may be requested
form the company number of customer provided that the National
Telecommunication Agency or other security agencies request in writing,
and if further information is required that shall be done through competent
court. It is responsibility of the licensee to safeguard confidentiality of the
information requested and not to be shared to someone else.
3. In case of national security investigation it shall be considered security
situation in the country and protect private rights of citizen.
ARTICLE 67
SIMCARD REGISTRATION
1. The Telecommunication companies shall register all telephone SIM card
holders and those who will be given to when this law comes into force, to
insure ownership and rights of the client.
2. To implement terms set out in paragraph1 of this Article it is necessary for
the client to have personal identification.

42

PART XI
ARTICLE 68
IMPLEMENTATION OF THIS LAW
1. The agency has the power to implement this law and regulating code of
conduct of national telecommunication agencies, however, considering the
special circumstances in the country, the agency and service providers are
working together to fully implement this law.
2. The agency has the authority to monitor compliance of the regulation of the
Agency.
3. The Agency shall operate in transparent manner and in accordance with this
law.
4. The Agency has a power to impose fine on infringers of this law.
5. The Agency shall enforce international or regional telecommunication
agreements which Somalia is a part

ARTICLE 69
TRANSITIONAL PROVISION OF THIS LAW
No one may be subjected to any fines due to the actions that had been made in
accordance with this law which happened before enactment of this but shall be
aligned to this law after its enactment..
ARTICLE 70
REPEAL
It has been repealed any law contravenes to this law or against this Law.
ARTICLE 71
ENFORCEMENT
This law will enforce after the House of People approve s and the president sign it
and publish it in the official bulletin of the federal republic of Somalia.

END
43

