PARLIAMENT OF THE DEMOCRATIC
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF
SRI LANKA
—————————

RIGHT TO INFORMATION
ACT, No. 12 OF 2016
—————————

[Certified on 04th August, 2016]

Printed on the Order of Government
—————————

Published as a Supplement to Part II of the Gazette of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka of August 05, 2016.
PRINTED AT THE DEPARTMENT OF GOVERNMENT PRINTING, SRI LANKA
TO BE PURCHASED AT THE GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, COLOMBO 5

Price : Rs. 21.00

Postage : Rs. 20.00

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

1

[Certified on 04th August, 2016]
L.D.—O. 4/2015
AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE RIGHT OF ACCESS TO INFORMATION; TO
SPECIFY GROUNDS ON WHICH ACCESS MAY BE DENIED; TO ESTABLISH
THE RIGHT TO INFORMATION COMMISSION; TO APPOINT INFORMATION
OFFICERS; TO SET OUT THE PROCEDURE AND FOR MATTERS CONNECTED
THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
WHEREAS the Constitution guarantees the right of access
to information in Article 14A thereof and there exists a need
to foster a culture of transparency and accountability in
public authorities by giving effect to the right of access to
information and thereby promote a society in which the
people of Sri Lanka would be able to more fully participate
in public life through combating corruption and promoting
accountability and good governance.

Preamble.

BE it therefore enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows:1. (1) This Act may be cited as the Right to Information
Act, No. 12 of 2016.
(2) The provisions of this section, Part IV, sections 23,
36, 40, 41, 42, 43 and 44 shall come into operation on the
date on which the certificate is endorsed in respect of this
Act in terms of Article 79 of the Constitution.
(3) The provisions of all other sections of this Act, shall
come into operation in respect of such public authorities or
categories of public authorities and on such dates as may be
prescribed by the Minister by Order published in the Gazette:
Provided however, that the dates so prescribed shall be at
least six months after the certification referred to in
subsection (2) above, and that all provisions of this Act
shall be applicable to all public authorities no later than
one year of such certification.
2—PL 009845—3,161 (03/2016)

Short title and
date of
operation.

2
Responsibility to
ensure effective
implementation.

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

2. It shall be the responsibility of the Ministry of the
Minister assigned the subject of mass media to ensure the
effective implementation of the provisions of this Act.
PART I
APPLICATION OF THE PROVISIONS OF THE ACT

Right of access
to information.

3. (1) Subject to the provisions of section 5 of this Act,
every citizen shall have a right of access to information which
is in the possession, custody or control of a public authority.
(2) The provisions of this Act, shall not be in derogation
of the powers, privilages and practices of Parliament.

Provisions of
this Act to
prevail over
other written
law.

4. The provisions of this Act shall have effect
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in any other written
law and accordingly in the event of any inconsistency or
conflict between the provisions of this Act and such other
written law, the provisions of this Act shall prevail.
PART II
DENIAL OF ACCESS TO INFORMATION

When right of
access may be
denied.

5. (1) Subject to the provisions of subsection (2) a request
under this Act for access to information shall be refused,
where–
(a) the information relates to personal information the
disclosure of which has no relationship to any
public activity or interest, or which would cause
unwarranted invasion of the privacy of the
individual unless the larger public interest justifies
the disclosure of such information or the person
concerned has consented in writing to such
disclosure;

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016
(b)

3

disclosure of such information–
(i) would undermine the defence of the State or
its territorial integrity or national security;
(ii) would be or is likely to be seriously
prejudicial to Sri Lanka’s relations with any
State, or in relation to international
agreements or obligations under international
law, where such information was given by or
obtained in confidence;

(c) the disclosure of such information would cause
serious prejudice to the economy of Sri Lanka by
disclosing prematurely decisions to change or
continue government economic or financial
policies relating to(i) exchange rates or the control of overseas
exchange transactions;
(ii) the regulation of banking or credit;
(iii) taxation;
(iv) the stability, control and adjustment of
prices of goods and services, rents and other
costs and rates of wages, salaries and other
income; or
(v) the entering into of overseas trade
agreements;
(d) information, including commercial confidence,
trade secrets or intellectual property, protected
under the Intellectual Property Act, No. 36 of 2003,
the disclosure of which would harm the competitive
position of a third party, unless the public authority
is satisfied that larger public interest warrants the
disclosure of such information;

4

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016
(e) the information could lead to the disclosure of any
medical records relating to any person, unless such
person has consented in writing to such disclosure;
(f) the information consist of any communication,
between a professional and a public authority to
whom such professional provides services, which
is not permitted to be disclosed under any written
law, including any communication between the
Attorney General or any officer assisting the
Attorney General in the performance of his duties
and a public authority;
(g) the information is required to be kept confidential
by reason of the existence of a fiduciary
relationship;
(h) the disclosure of such information would(i) cause grave prejudice to the prevention or
detection of any crime or the apprehension
or prosecution of offenders; or
(ii) expose the identity of a confidential source
of information in relation to law enforcement
or national security, to be ascertained;
(i) subject to the provisions of section 29(2)(c), the
information has been supplied in confidence to the
public authority concerned by a third party and the
third party does not consent to its disclosure;
(j) the disclosure of such information would be in
contempt of court or prejudicial to the maintenance
of the authority and impartiality of the judiciary;
(k) the disclosure of such information would infringe
the privileges of Parliament or of a Provincial
Council as provided by Law;

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

5

(l) disclosure of the information would harm the
integrity of an examination being conducted by
the Department of Examination or a Higher
Educational Institution;
(m) the information is of a cabinet memorandum in
relation to which a decision has not been taken; or
(n) the information relates to an election conducted by
the Commissioner of Elections which is required
by the relevant election laws to be kept confidential.
(2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), a
request for information shall not be refused on any of the
grounds referred to therein, other than the grounds referred
to in paragraphs (a), (b), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h) and (j) of that
subsection, if the information requested for is over ten years
old.
(3) Any information relating to any overseas trade
agreement referred to in subsection (1) (c ) (v) of this section,
where the negotiations have not concluded even after a lapse
of ten years shall not be disclosed.
(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), a
request for information shall not be refused where the public
interest in disclosing the information outweighs the harm
that would result from its disclosure.
(5) An information officer may seek the advice of the
Commission, with regard to an issue connected with the
grant of access to any information which is exempted from
being disclosed under subsection (1), and the commission
may as expeditiously as possible and in any event give its
advice within fourteen days.

6
Severability
under certain
circumstances.

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

6. Where a request for information is refused on any of
the grounds referred to in section 5, access shall nevertheless
be given to that part of any record or document which
contains any information that is not exempted from being
disclosed under that section, and which can reasonably be
severed from any part that contains information exempted
from being disclosed.
PART III
DUTIES OF MINISTERS AND PUBLIC AUTHORITIES

Public
authorities to
maintain and
preserve its
records.

7. (1) It shall be the duty of every public authority to
maintain all its records duly catalogued and indexed in such
form as is consistent with its operational requirements which
would facilitate the right of access to information as
provided for in this Act.
(2) In discharging its obligations under subsection (1),
every public authority shall comply with any direction given
by the Commission under section 14(h).
(3) All records being maintained by every public
authority, shall be preserved–
(a)

in the case of those records already in existence on
the date of coming into operation of this Act, for a
period of not less than ten years from the date of
coming into operation of this Act; and

(b) in the case of new records which are created after
the date of coming into operation of this Act, for a
period of not less than twelve years from the date
on which such record is created.
(4) No record or information which is the subject matter
of a request made under this Act, shall be destroyed during
the pendency of such request or any appeal or judicial
proceeding relating to such request.

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

7

(5) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (2),
every public authority shall endeavor to preserve all its
records in electronic format within a reasonable time, subject
to the availability of resources.
8. (1) It shall be the duty of every Minister to whom
any subject has been assigned to publish biannually before
the thirtieth of June and thirty first of December respectively
of each year, a report in such form as shall be determined by
the Commission as would enable a citizen to exercise the
right of access to information granted under section 3 of this
Act.
(2) The report referred to in subsection (1) shall contain(a) the particulars relating to the organisation,
functions, activities and duties of the Ministry
of such Minister and of all the public authorities
falling within the functions so assigned;
(b) the following particulars pertaining to the
Ministry and the public authorities referred to
in paragraph (a):(i) the powers, duties and functions of officers
and employees and the respective
procedures followed by them in their
decision making process;
(ii) the norms set for the discharge of their
functions, performance of their duties and
exercise of their powers;
(iii) rules, regulations, instructions, manuals
and any other categories of records, which
are used by its officers and employees in
the discharge of their functions,
performance of their duties and exercise
of their powers;

Ministers duty to
publish a report.

8

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016
(iv) the details of facilities available to citizens
for obtaining information;
(v) the budget allocated, indicating the
particulars of all plans, proposed
expenditures and reports on disbursements
made;
(vi) the name, designation and other
particulars of the information officer or
officers appointed.

(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (1), it
shall be the duty of every Minister, within six months of the
date of coming into operation of this Act, to publish in such
form as may be determined by such Minister, a report
containing the information referred to in paragraphs (a) and
(b) of subsection (2).
(4) The reports referred to in subsections (1), (2) and (3)
shall be(a) published in the official languages and be made
available in electronic form; and
(b) made available for public inspection and copies of
the same may be issued to a citizen, on the payment
of such fee as shall be determined by the
Commission.
For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared
that any reference to the Minister shall also include
a reference to a Minister of a Provincial Council
established under Chaper XVIIA of the Constitution.

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

9

9. (1) (a) It shall be the duty of the Minister, to whom
the subject pertaining to any project has been assigned, to
communicate, three months prior to the commencement of
such project, to the public generally, and to any particular
persons who are likely to be affected by such project all
information relating to the project that is available with the
Minister, as on the date of such communication:
Provided however, in the event of an urgent project,
information shall be provided one week prior to the
commencement of such project and reasons for such urgency
shall be communicated to the Commission.
(b)The Commission shall issue guidelines specifying the
manner in which the communication referred to in paragraph
(a) shall be made.
(2) (a)The Minister shall, on a written request made in
that behalf by a citizen, make available updated information
about a project referred to in subsection (1), throughout the
period of its development and implementation.
(b)The information shall be made available on the
payment of such fee, as shall be prescribed by the
Commission for that purpose.
(3) For the purposes of this section, “project” means any
project the value of which exceeds(a) in the case of foreign funded projects, one hundred
thousand United States dollars; and
(b) in the case of locally funded projects, five hundred
thousand rupees.
For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared that any
reference to the Minister shall also include a reference to
a Minister of a Provincial Council established under
Chapter XVIIA of the Constitution.

Duty of the
Minister to
inform public
about the
initiation of
projects.

10
Duty of public
authorities to
submit reports
etc.

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

10. Every public authority shall submit annual reports
to the Commission before the thirty first day of December
immediately succeeding the year to which the report relates
which shall be made available to the public in its office and
on its official website, furnishing information such as(a) the total number of requests received during the
year and information provided and rejected;
(b) the amount of fees collected during the year;
(c) the number of requests rejected under section 5;
(d) the number of times information was provided at
the direction of the Commission;
(e) any suggestions for improving the effectiveness of
the regime of transparency;
(f) the number of appeals from refusal to communicate
information;
(g) practices relating to the maintenance, management
and destruction of records; and
(h) its activities under section 8.
PART 1V
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE RIGHT

Establishment
of the right to
Information
Commission.

TO INFORMATION COMMISSION

11. (1) There shall be established for the purposes of
this Act, a body called the Right to Information Commission
(in this Act referred to as the “Commission”).
(2) The Commission shall by the name assigned to it by
subsection (1), be a body corporate with perpetual succession
and a common seal and may sue and be sued in its corporate
name.

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

11

12. (1) The Commission shall consist of five persons
appointed by the President upon the recommendation
of the Constitutional Council. In making such
recommendations, the Constitutional Council shall
recommend one person nominated by each of the following
organisations or categories of organisations:(a) Bar Association of Sri Lanka which shall nominate
an Attorney-at-Law of eminence or a Legal
Academic in consultation with Attorneys -at-Law
and Legal Academia;
(b) organizations of publishers, editors and media
persons;
(c) other civil society organizations.
(2) (a) In making recommendations under subsection (1),
the Constitutional Council shall ensure that the persons who
are being recommended are persons who(i) have distinguished themselves in public life with
proven knowledge, experience and eminence in
the fields of law, governance, public
administration, social services, journalism,
science and technology or management;
(ii) are not Members of Parliament, any Provincial
Council or a local authority;
(iii) do not hold any public or judicial office or any
other office of profit;
(iv) are not connected with any political party; or
(v) are not carrying on any business or pursuing any
profession.
(b) In nominating persons for the consideration of the
Constitutional Council the organizations referred to in
subsection (1) shall ensure that the persons nominated meet

Constitution of
the Commission.

12

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

the criteria specified herein. In the event the Constitutional
Council is of the opinion that the nominees do not meet the
criteria set out herein fresh nominations shall be called for.
(3) The Constitutional Council shall make its
recommendations under subsection (1), within one month
of the date of coming into operation of this Act or the date of
a vacancy arising in the Commission. In the event, any or all
of the organisations concerned fail to make nominations
within such period, the Constitutional Council shall make
its own recommendations after the expiry of the said period.
In the event any nominations are rejected the Constitutional
Council shall make its own nominations if no acceptable
nominations are resubmitted within two weeks from the
rejection.
(4) Where a member of the Commission while holding
such office becomes a Member of Parliament, any Provincial
Council or a local authority or appointed to any public or
judicial office or an office bearer of any political party such
member shall cease to be a member of the Commission on
such appointment.
(5) The President shall nominate one of the members
appointed to the Commission to be its Chairperson.
(6) The members of the Commission shall hold office for
a period of five years.
(7) A member of the Commission shall not disclose any
information that cannot be disclosed under the provisions
of this Act.
(8) The provisions of the Schedule to this Act shall apply
to and in respect of the members of the Commission and the
conduct of its meetings.

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016
13.

13

(1) The Commission shall appoint(a) a Director-General who shall be the Chief
Executive Officer of the Commission;

Appointment of
officers and
employees of
the
Commission.

(b) such officers and other employees as it
considers necessary.
(2) The Director-General shall be responsible for the
general supervision, direction and management of the affairs
of the Commission and exercise disciplinary control over
the officers and employees of the Commission.
(3) The Director-General and other officers and employees
appointed under subsection (1), shall be subject to such
terms and conditions of service as shall be determined by
the Commission and be paid such remuneration as
determined by the Commission in consultation with the
Minister assigned the subject of Finance.
14. The duties and functions of the Commission shall
be, to –
(a) monitor the performance and ensure the due
compliance by public authorities, of the duties cast
on them under this Act;
(b) make recommendations for reform both of a general
nature and those in regard to any specific public
authority;
(c) issue guidelines based on reasonableness, for
determining fees to be levied by public authorities
for the release of any information under this Act;
(d) prescribe the circumstances in which information
may be provided by an information officer, without
the payment of a fee;
(e) prescribe the fee Schedule based on the principle
of proactive disclosure, in regard to providing
information;

Duties and
functions of the
Commission.

14

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016
(f) co-operate with or undertake training activities for
public officials on the effective implementation of
the provisions of this Act;
(g) publicise the requirements of this Act and the rights
of individuals under the Act;
(h) issue guidelines for the proper record management
for public authorities.

Powers of the
Commission.

15. For the purpose of performing its duties and
discharging of its functions under this Act, the Commission
shall have the power(a) to hold inquiries and require any person to appear
before it;
(b) to examine such person under oath or affirmation
and require such person where necessary to produce
any information which is in that person’s
possession, provided that the information which is
exempted from disclosure under section 5 shall be
examined in confidence;
(c) to inspect any information held by a public
authority, including any information denied by a
public authority under the provisions of this Act;
(d) to direct a public authority to provide information,
in a particular form;
(e) to direct a public authority to publish any
information withheld by a public authority from
the public, subject to the provisions of section 5;
(f) to hear and determine any appeals made to it by
any aggrieved person under section 32; and
(g) to direct a public authority or any relevant
information officer of the authority to reimburse
fees charged from a citizen due to any information
requested for not been provided in time.

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

15

16. (1) The Commission shall have its own Fund into
which shall be credited-

Fund of the
Commission.

(a) all such sums of money as may be voted upon
from time to time by Parliament for the use of
the Commission; and
(b) donations, gifts or grants from any source
whatsoever, whether in or outside Sri Lanka.
(2) Where any money is received by way of donations,
gifts or grants under subsection (1)(b), the sources and
purpose for which such donation, grant or gift was made
available shall be made public.
(3) There shall be paid out of the Fund all such sums of
money required to defray the expenditure incurred by the
Commission in the exercise, discharge and performance of
its powers, duties and functions.
17. (1) The financial year of the Commission shall be
the calendar year.

Financial year
and audit of
accounts.

(2) The Commission shall cause proper books of accounts
to be maintained of the income and expenditure and all
other transactions of the Commission.
(3) The provisions of Article 154 of the Constitution
relating to the audit of the accounts of public corporations
shall apply to the audit of the accounts of the Commission.
18. The provisions of Part II of the Finance Act, No. 38
of 1971 shall, mutatis mutandis apply to the financial control
and accounts of the Commission.

Part II of the
Finance Act, No.
38 of 1971 to
apply.

19. The members and officers and all other employees
of the Commission shall be deemed to be public servants
within the meaning and for the purposes of the Penal Code
(Chapter 19) and every inquiry held by the Commission
under this Act shall be deemed to be a judicial proceeding
within the meaning of the Code of Criminal Procedure Act,
No. 15 of 1979.

Members etc,
of the
Commission
deemed to be
public servants.

16

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

Application of
the Bribery Act.

20. The Commission shall be deemed to be a scheduled
institution within the meaning of the Bribery Act (Chapter 26)
and the provisions of that Act shall be construed accordingly.

Expenses
incurred in any
suit or
prosecution.

21. Any expenses incurred by any member, officer or
employee of the Commission in any suit or prosecution
brought by or against such person before any court in respect
of any act or omission which is done or purported to be done
by such person in good faith for the purpose of carrying out
the provisions of this Act shall, if the court holds that such
act or omission was done in good faith, be paid out of the
fund of the Commission unless such expenses are recovered
by him in such suit or prosecution.

Procedural
requirements
to be published.

22. The Commission shall within six months of its
establishment, formulate and give adequate publicity to the
procedural requirements for the submission of appeals to
the Commission under section 32.
PART V
APPOINTMENT OF INFORMATION OFFICERS AND PROCEDURE FOR
GAINING ACCESS TO INFORMATION

Appointment of
Information
officers and
designated
officers.

23. (1) (a) Every public authority shall for the purpose
of giving effect to the provisions of this Act, appoint, within
three months of the date of coming into operation of this
Act, one or more officers as information officers of such public
authority and a designated officer to hear appeals.
(b) Until such time that an information officer is appointed
under paragraph (a) the Head or Chief Executive Officer of
the public authority shall be deemed to be the information
officer of such public authority, for the purposes of this Act.
(2) Every information officer shall deal with requests for
information made to the public authority of which he or she
has been appointed its information officer, and render all
necessary assistance to any citizen making such request to
obtain the information.
(3) The Information Officer may seek the assistance of
any other officer as he or she may consider necessary, for the

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

17

proper discharge of the duty imposed on him under this Act,
and where assistance is sought from any such officer, it shall
be the duty of such officer to provide the required assistance.
24. (1) Any citizen who is desirous of obtaining any
information under this Act shall make a request in writing to
the appropriate information officer, specifying the
particulars of the information requested for:
Provided that where any citizen making a request under
this subsection is unable due to any reason to make such
request in writing, such citizen shall be entitled to make the
request orally and it shall be the duty of the appropriate
information officer to reduce such request to writing on behalf
of the citizen.
(2) Where a citizen –
(a) wishes to make a request to a public authority; or
(b) has made a request to a public authority which
does not comply with the requirements of this
Act,
the information officer concerned shall take all necessary
steps to assist the citizen, free of charge, to make the request
in a manner that complies with this Act.
(3) On receipt of a request, an information officer shall
immediately provide a written acknowledgement of the
request to the citizen.
(4) Where an information officer is able to provide an
immediate response to a citizen making a request and such
response is to the satisfaction of the requester, the
information officer shall make and retain a record of the
request and the response thereto.
(5) A citizen making a request for information shall:–
(a) provide such details concerning the information
requested as is reasonably necessary to enable

Procedure for
obtaining
information.

18

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016
the information officer to identify the
information;
(b) identify the nature of the form and language in
which the citizen prefers access;
(c) where the citizen making the request believes
that the information is necessary to safeguard
the life or liberty of a person, include a statement
to that effect, including the basis for that belief;
and
(d) not be required to give any reason for requesting
the information or any other personal details
except those that may be necessary for contacting
him or her.
(6) For the purpose of this section –
“writing” includes writing done through electronic
means; and
“appropriate information officer” means the
Information Officer appointed to the public
authority from which the information is being
requested for.

Decision on
requests
submitted under
section 24.

25. (1) An information officer shall, as expeditiously as
possible and in any case within fourteen working days of
the receipt of a request under section 24, make a decision
either to provide the information requested for on the
payment of a fee determined in accordance with the fee
schedule referred to in section 14(e) or to reject the request
on any one or more of the grounds referred to in section 5 of
this Act, and shall forthwith communicate such decision to
the citizen who made the request.
(2) Where a decision is made to provide the information
requested for, access to such information shall be granted
within fourteen days of arriving at such decision.
(3) Where the request for information concerns the life
and personal liberty of the citizen, the response to it shall be
made within forty-eight hours of the receipt of the request.

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

19

(4) Notwithstanding the requirement made for the
payment of a fee under subsection (1), the Commission may
specify the circumstances in which information may be
provided by an information officer, without the payment of
a fee.
(5) The period of fourteen days referred to in subsection
(2) for providing access to information may be extended for
a further period of not more than twenty one days where(a) the request is for a large number of records and
providing the information within fourteen days
would unreasonably interfere with the activities of
the public authority concerned; or
(b) the request requires a search for records in, or
collection of records from, an office of the public
authority not situated in the same city, town or
location as the office of the information officer that
cannot reasonably be completed within the fourteen
days.
(6) Where a period for providing information is to be
extended for any of the circumstances referred to in
subsection (5), the information officer shall, as soon as
reasonably possible, but in any case within fourteen days,
notify the citizen concerned of such fact giving the following
reasons:–
(a) the period of the extension; and
(b) reasons for the extension.
(7) A citizen who is dissatisfied with the reasons given
under subsection (6) may lodge an appeal with the
designated officer.
26. (1) Every public authority shall display in a
conspicuous place within the official premises and on a
website of such public Authority if any, a notice specifying–
(a) contact details of the Commission and the members
of the Commission;

Public authority
to display details
of information
officers and fees
to be charged.

20

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016
(b) contact details of the information officer;
(c) contact details of the designated officer;
(d) fees to be charged for obtaining any information
from such public Authority.

(2) The fee referred to in subsection (1)(d), shall be
determined in accordance with the fee scheduled formulated
by the Commission under section 14(e).
Manner in
which
information is to
be provided.

27. (1) Where decision has been made to grant a request
for information, such information shall be provided in the
form in which it is requested for, unless the information officer
is of the view that providing the information in the form
requested for would not be detrimental to the safety or
preservation of the relevant document or record in respect of
which the request was made.
(2) Where an information officer is unable to provide the
information in the manner requested for, it shall be the duty
of such officer to consult the citizen and render all possible
assistance to the citizen to determine an appropriate
alternative means of providing access to the information
and to facilitate compliance with such request.
(3) Subject to the provisions of subsection (1), a citizen,
whose request for information has been granted, is entitled
to:–
(a) inspect relevant work, documents, records;
(b) take notes, extracts or certified copies of documents
or records;
(c) take certified samples of material;
(d) obtain information in the form of diskettes, floppies,
tapes, video cassettes or any other electronic mode
or through printouts where such information is
stored in a computer or in any other device.

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

21

28. Where a request for information is refused by an
information officer, such officer shall specify the following
information in the communication to be sent under section
25(1), to the citizen who made the request–

Refusal of a
request to be
communicated.

(a) the grounds on which such request is refused; and
(b) the period within which and the person to whom an
appeal against such refusal may be preferred under
section 32 of this Act.
29. (1) Where a request made to an information officer
by any citizen to disclose information which relates to, or
has been supplied by a third party and such information has
been treated as confidential at the time the information was
supplied, the information officer shall, within one week of
the receipt of such request, invite such third party by notice
issued in writing, to make representation for or against such
disclosure, within seven days of the receipt of the notice.
(2) An information officer shall be required in making
his decision on any request made for the disclosure of
information which relates to or has been supplied by a third
party, to take into consideration the representations made
by such third party under subsection (1), and shall, where
the third party(a) does not respond to the notice, disclose information
requested for;
(b) responds to the notice and agrees to the disclosure
of the information requested for, disclose such
information;
(c) responds to the notice and refuses to the disclosure
of the information requested for, deny access to the
information requested for:

Where
information
requested for
was supplied by
a third party.

22

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016
Provided however, the Commission may on the
application made in that behalf by the citizen
making the request, direct the disclosure of the
information in question notwithstanding any
objections raised by such third party against its
disclosure, where the release of the information
concerned demonstrably outweighs the private
interest in non disclosure.

Exemption from
suit or
prosecution.

30. No liability, whether civil or criminal, shall attach
to any public authority or any information officer or any
other officer of such public authority, for anything which in
good faith is done by such officer in the performance or
exercise of any function or power imposed or assigned to
such officer under this Act.
PART VI
APPEALS AGAINST REJECTIONS

Appeals against
a rejection of a
request.

31.

(1) Any citizen who is aggrieved as a result of–
(a) refusing a request made for information;
(b) refusing access to the information on the
ground that such information is exempted
from being granted under section 5;
(c) non- compliance with time frames specified
by this Act;
(d) granting of incomplete, misleading or false
information;
(e) charging an excessive fees;
(f) the refusal of the information officer to provide
information in the form requested; or
(g) the citizen requesting having reasonable
grounds to believe that information has been

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

23

deformed, destroyed or misplaced to prevent
such citizen from having access to the
information,
may, prefer an appeal to the designated officer within
fourteen days of the refusal, act or date of becoming aware
of the grounds on which the appeal is sought to be made, as
the case may be:
Provided however, that the designated officer may admit
the appeal after the expiry of the period of fourteen days if
he or she is satisfied that the appellant was prevented by a
reason beyond his or her control from filing the appeal in
time.
(2) The designated officer shall issue a receipt on the
acceptance of the appeal, to the citizen making the appeal,
and in any case within three working days.
(3) The decision on any appeal preferred under subsection
(1), shall be made by the designated officer within three
weeks of the receipt of the appeal and shall include the
reasons for the said decision including specific grounds for
the same.
(4) The right of a citizen to prefer an appeal under
subsection (1) shall be without prejudice to his or her right
to make an application to the Commission.
(5) The designated officer may where reasonable cause is
given for failure to submit an appeal within a period specified
by subsection (1) by the citizen making such an appeal may
at his discretion hear the appeal notwithstanding such delay.
32.

(1) Any citizen aggrieved by:–
(a) the decision made in respect of an appeal
under section 31(1), may within two months
of the communication of such decision; or

Appeals to the
Commission.

24

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016
(b) the failure to obtain a decision on any appeal
made within the time specified for giving the
same under section 31(3), may within two
months of the expiry of the period so specified,

may appeal against that decision or the failure, to the
Commission and the Commission may within thirty days of
the receipt of such appeal affirm, vary or reverse the decision
appealed against and forward the request back to the
information officer concerned for necessary action.
(2) The Commission may admit the appeal after the expiry
of the period of two months if the commission is satisfied
that the appellant was prevented by a reason beyond his or
her control from filing the appeal in time.
(3) The Commission shall give reasons for its decisions
in writing, to the appellant, the information officer and the
public authority concerned.
(4) On appeal, the burden of proof shall be on the public
authority to show that it acted in compliance with this Act
in processing a request.
Appeal may be
made on behalf
of an aggrieved
party.

33. Where the aggrieved party is unable due to any
reason to make an appeal under section 31 or section 32, as
the case may be, such appeal may be made by a person duly
authorized in writing by the aggrieved party to prefer the
same.

Appeals to the
Court of Appeal.

34. (1) A citizen or public authority who is aggrieved
by the decision of the Commission made under section 32,
may appeal against such decision to the Court of Appeal
within one month of the date on which such decision was
communicated to such citizen or public authority.
(2) Until rules are made under Article 136 of the
Constitution pertaining to appeals under this section, the
rules made under that Article pertaining to an application
by way of revision to the Court of Appeal, shall apply in
respect of every appeal made under subsection (1) of this
section.

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

25

PART VII
GENERAL
35. Every officer in any public authority giving a
decision which affects any person in any way, shall be
required on request made in that behalf by the person
concerned, to disclose to that person in writing the reasons
for arriving at such decision.

Duty to disclose
reasons for a
decision.

36. Nothing in this Act is intended to prevent or
discourage information holders from publishing or giving
access to information or prevent any person from seeking
and obtaining information, which may be provided in due
compliance with the law.

Nothing in this
Act to prevent
or discourage
information
from being
published.

37. (1) The Commission shall cause to be prepared a
report of its activities as often as it may consider necessary,
so however, that it shall prepare at least one report in each
calendar year. The Commission shall transmit a copy of
every such report to be tabled before Parliament and a copy
of same shall also be sent to the President.

Commission to
prepare a report
of its activities.

(2) A copy of the report prepared under subsection (1)
shall, within two weeks of it being tabled before Parliament,
be made available for public inspection at the office of the
Commission and wherever possible, a copy of the same may
be made available on its website.
38. (1) Where–
(a) any information officer willfully (i) refuses to receive an application for
information from any citizen;
(ii) refuses a request made for information,
without giving reasons for such refusal;
(iii) stipulates excessive fees in breach of the
fee Schedule referred to in section 14 (e);

Commission to
inform the
appropriate
disciplinary
authority.

26

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016
(iv) otherwise fails to process a request in
accordance with the provisions of this Act;
or
(b) any designated officer willfully –
(i) under section 31 refuses an appeal, made
on any ground other than a ground specified
in section 5 of this Act;
(ii) failed without any reasonable cause to make
a decision on an appeal, within the time
specified under section 31(3) for making
such decision,
the Commission shall, bring the matter to the notice
of the appropriate disciplinary authority.

(2) The relevant disciplinary authority shall inform the
Commission of the steps taken in respect of any matter
brought to the notice of such disciplinary authority within a
period of one month.
Offences.

39.

(1) Every person who–
(a)

deliberately obstructs the provision of
information or intentionally provides
incorrect, incomplete or inaccurate
information;

(b) destroys, invalidates, alters or totally or
partially conceal information under his or her
custody, or to which he or she has access to or
knowledge of due to the exercise of his or her
employment in such public authority;
(c) fails or refuses to appear before the
Commission when requested to do so by the
Commission;

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

27

(d) appears before the Commission, and fails or
refuses to be examined by the Commission
or to produce any information which is in
that persons possession or power or
deliberately provides false information under
oath or affirmation;
(e) fails or refuses to comply with or give effect
to a decision of the Commission;
(f) resists or obstructs the Commission or any
officer or other employee of the Commission,
in the exercise of any power conferred on the
Commission or such officer or employee, by
this Act;
(g) discloses any information in contravention
of the provisions of section 12(7) of this Act,
commits an offence under this Act and shall on conviction
after summary trial by a Magistrate be liable to a fine not
exceeding fifty thousand rupees or to imprisonment for a
term not exceeding two years or to both such fine and
imprisonment.
(2) Any officer whose assistance was sought for by an
information officer under section 23(3) and who fails without
reasonable cause to provide such assistance, shall commit
an offence under this Act, and shall on conviction after
summary trial by a Magistrate be liable to a fine not
exceeding ten thousand rupees.
(3) A fine imposed for the commission of an offence
referred to in subsection (1) or (2) of this section, shall be in
addition to and not in derogation of any disciplinary action
that may be taken against such officer by the relevant
authority empowered to do so.
(4) A prosecution under this Act shall be instituted by
the Commission.

28

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

Release or
disclosure of
information by
an employee of
a public
authority.

40. Notwithstanding any legal or other obligation to
which a person may be subject to by virtue of being an officer
or employee of any public authority, no officer or employee
of a public authority shall be subjected to any punishment,
disciplinary or otherwise, for releasing or disclosing any
information which is permitted to be released or disclosed
under this Act.

Regulations.

41. (1) The Minister may in consultation with the
Commission make regulations in respect of all matters
required by this Act to be prescribed or in respect of which
regulations are necessary to be made in order to give effect
to the principles and provisions of this Act.
(2) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation on
the date of such publication or on such later date as may be
specified in the regulation.
(3) Every regulation made under subsection (1) shall,
forthwith after its publication in the Gazette be brought
before Parliament for approval and any regulation which is
not so approved shall be deemed to be rescinded as from the
date of such disapproval but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.
(4) The date on which any regulation is deemed to be so
rescinded shall be published in the Gazette.

Rules.

42. (1) The Commission may make rules concerning
any of the following matters:(a) the form and manner in which appeals may be made
to the Commission;
(b) the procedure for holding inquiries;
(c ) fee schedule in respect of providing information;

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

29

(d) the format of the reports to be prepared under section
10.
(2) No rule made under this section shall have effect until
it is approved by the Minister and notification of such
approval is published in the Gazette.
43.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires–
“citizen” includes a body whether incorporated or
unincorporated, if not less than three-fourths of
the members of such body are citizens;
“designated officer” means a designated officer
appointed under section 23 of this Act;
“Higher Educational Institution” means a University,
Campus or University College established
or deemed to be established or made by
the Universities Act, No. 16 of 1978 or
acknowledged by the University Grants
Commission or established under the provisions
of any other Act;
“information” includes any material which is
recorded in, in any form including records,
documents, memos, emails, opinions, advices,
press releases, circulars, orders, log books,
contracts, reports, papers, samples, models,
correspondence, memorandum, draft legislation,
book, plan, map, drawing, diagram, pictorial or
graphic work, photograph, film, microfilm,
sound recording, video tape, machine readable
record, computer records and other documentary
material, regardless of its physical form or
character and any copy thereof;
“information officer” means an information officer
appointed under section 23 of this Act;

Interpretation.

30

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016
“local authority” means a Municipal Council, Urban
Council or a Pradeshiya Sabha and includes any
authority created or established by or under any
law to exercise, perform and discharge powers,
duties and functions corresponding or similar to
the powers, duties and functions exercised,
performed or discharged by any such Council or
Sabha;
“non governmental organisation” means any
organization formed by a group of persons on a
voluntary basis and receiving funds directly or
indirectly from the Government or international
organisations and is of a non governmental
nature;
“public authority” means –
(a) a Ministry of the Government;
(b) any body or office created or
established by or under the
Constitution, any written law, other
than the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007,
except to the extent specified in
paragraph (e), or a statute of a Provincial
Council;
(c) a Government Department;
(d) a public corporation;
(e) a company incorporated under the
Companies Act, No. 7 of 2007, in
which the State, or a public corporation
or the State and a public corporation
together hold twenty five per centum
or more of the shares or otherwise has a
controlling interest;

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

31

(f) a local authority;
(g) a private entity or organisation which
is carrying out a statutory or public
function or service, under a contract, a
partnership, an agreement or a license
from the government or its agencies or
from a local body, but only to the extent
of activities covered by that statutory
or public function or service;
(h) any department or other authority or
institution established or created by a
Provincial Council;
(i) non-governmental organisations that
are substantially funded by the
government or any department or other
authority established or created by a
Provincial Council or by a foreign
government
or
international
organisation, rendering a service to the
public in so far as the information
sought relates to the service that is
rendered to the public;
(j) higher educational institutions
including private universities and
professional institutions which are
established, recognised or licensed
under any written law or funded, wholly
or partly, by the State or a public
corporation or any statutory body
established or created by a statute of a
Provincial Council;
(k) private educational institutions
including institutions offering
vocational or technical education
which are established, recognised or

32

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016
licensed under any written law or
funded, wholly or partly, by the State
or a public corporation or any statutory
body established or created by a statute
of a Provincial Council;
(l) all courts, tribunals and institutions
created and established for the
administration of justice;

Sinhala text to
prevail in case
of inconsistency.

44. In the event of any inconsistency between the
Sinhala and Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall
prevail.

SCHEDULE

[Section 12(8)]

PROVISIONS RELATING TO MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION
(1) A member of the Commission shall cease to be a member,
where such member:(a)

resigns his or her office earlier by writing addressed to the
President;

(b)

is removed from office by the President;

(c)

is convicted by a court of law;

(d)

is deemed to have vacated office by absenting himself or
herself from three consecutive meetings of the Commission,
without obtaining prior leave of the Commission; or

(e)

engages in any employment outside the duties of his office,
during the term of office.

(2) The President may on the recommendation of the Constitutional
Council remove from office a member of the Commission, where:(a)

such member has become permanently incapable of
performing his or her duties owing to any physical disability
or unsoundness of mind ;

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

33

(b)

such member is unfit to perform his or her duties on the
basis of moral turpitude; or

(c)

such member is convicted of an offence by a competent
court of law.

(3) The Chairperson or any other member of the Commission
may resign from such office by letter in that behalf addressed to the
President and the resignation shall become effective from the date of
its acceptance by the President in writing.
(4) In the event of the vacation of the office of any member of the
Commission, the President shall follow the same procedure as set out
in section 12(1) and appoint another person to hold such office for
the unexpired term of office of the member whom he succeeds.
(5) (a) Where a member of the Commission, is temporarily unable
to discharge his or her duty due to ill health, absence from Sri Lanka
or for any other cause, the President may on the recommendation of
the Constitutional Council, appoint another person to act in place of
such member during his or her absence.
(b) Where the Chairperson of the Commission, is temporarily
unable to discharge his or her duty due to ill health, absence from Sri
Lanka or for any other cause, the President shall appoint another
member of the Commission, to act in place of such Chairperson
during his or her absence.
(6) The members of the Commission, shall be paid such
remuneration as shall be determined by the Minister in charge of the
subject of Finance.
(7) (a) The Commission shall meet at least once in every month or
as often as may be necessary.
(b) The quorum for any meeting of the Commission shall be three
members.
(c) The Chairperson of the Commission shall preside at all meetings
of the Commission, and in the absence of the Chairperson at any such
meeting, the members present shall elect from amongst them, a member
to preside at such meeting.
(d) The Chairperson or the person presiding at any meeting of
the Commission, shall in addition to his vote, have a casting vote.
(e) The Commission shall regulate the procedure in regard to its
meetings and the transaction of business at such meetings.

34

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016
(8) The seal of the Commission:—
(a)

shall be as determined from time to time by the
Commission;

(b)

shall be in the custody of such person as the Commission
shall determine;

(c)

may be altered in such manner as may be determined
by the Commission; and

(d)

shall not be affixed to any document or instrument,
except with the sanction of the Commission, and in the
presence of the Chairperson and one other member of
such Commission both of whom shall sign such
document or the instrument in token of their presence.

Right to Information Act, No. 12 of 2016

35

Annual subscription of English Bills and Acts of the Parliament Rs. 885 (Local), Rs. 1,180
(Foreign), Payable to the SUPERINTENDENT, GOVERNMENT PUBLICATIONS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OF
GOVERNMENT INFORMATION, NO. 163, KIRULAPONA MAWATHA, POLHENGODA, COLOMBO 05 before 15th
December each year in respect of the year following.

