Legislation

Subsidiary

Agreements

Case Law

Conventions

Electronic Transactions

Electronic Transactions

AN ACT TO RECOGNIZE AND FACILITATE THE FORMATION OF CONTRACTS, THE CREATION AND
EXCHANGE OF DATA MESSAGES, ELECTRONIC DOCUMENTS, ELECTRONIC RECORDS AND OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS IN ELECTRONIC FORM IN SRI LANKA ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR THE
APPOINTMENT OF A CERTIFICATION AUTHORITY AND ACCREDITATION OF CERTIFICATION SERVICE
PROVIDERS ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH OR INCIDENTAL THERETO.
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :-

Short title 1.
and date of
operation.

(1) This Act may be cited as the Electronic
Transactions Act, No. 19 of 2006.

(2) The provisions of subsection (1) of this section shall
come into operation on the date on which this Act is
Certified as an Act of Parliament and the other
provisions shall come into operation on such date as
the Minister may appoint, by Order published in the
Gazette (hereinafter referred to as the “appointed
date”).
CHAPTER I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Objectives 2. The objectives of the Act shall beof the Act.
(a) to facilitate domestic and international electronic
commerce by eliminating legal barriers and
establishing legal certainty ;
(b) to encourage the use of reliable forms of electronic
commerce ;

(c) to facilitate electronic filling of documents with
Government and to promote efficient delivery of
Government services by means of reliable forms of
electronic communications ; and
(d) to promote public confidence in the authenticity,
integrity and reliability of data messages, electronic
documents,
electronic
records
or
other
communications.

CHAPTER II
RECOGNITION DATA MESSAGES AND OTHER COMMUNICATIONS IN ELECTRONIC FORM
Legal
3. No data message, electronic document, electronic record or
recognition other communication shall be denied legal recognition, effect,
of electronic validity or enforceability on the ground that it is in electronic
records.
form.
Requirement 4. Notwithstanding the fact that the provisions of written laws for
for writing. the time being in force in Sri Lanka attach legal validity to certain
instruments, only if such instruments have been reduced to
writing, such requirement shall be deemed to be satisfied by a
data message, electronic document, electronic record or other
communication in electronic form if the information contained
therein is accessible so as to be usable for subsequent reference.

Requirements5.
for original
form.

(1) Where the law requires information to be
presented or retained in its original form, that
requirement shall be deemed to be satisfied by a data
message, electronic document, electronic record or
other communication in electronic form if there exists
a reliable assurance as to the integrity of the
information from the time when it was made available
in electronic form and the information contained in the
data message, electronic document, electronic record
or other communication is available and can be used
for subsequent reference.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1)-

(a) the criterion for assessing the integrity of
information, is whether such information has
remained complete and unaltered, apart from
the addition of any endorsement or any
change which arises in the normal course of
communication, storage or display ; and
(b) the standard for reliability of the assurance
shall be assessed having regard to the
purpose for which the information was
generated
and
all
other
relevant
circumstances.

Requirements6. The requirement under any law that information be retained,
for retention. shall be deemed to be satisfied by the retention in electronic
form of information contained in a data message, electronic
document, electronic record or other communication
notwithstanding the fact that such information was not originally
generated in electronic form, if(a) the information in the data message, electronic
document, electronic record or communication is
accessible so as to be usable for subsequent reference
; and

(b) the data message, electronic document, electronic
record or communication is retained in the format in
which it was generated, sent or received, or in a format
which can be demonstrated to represent accurately
the information generated, sent or received ; and
(c) such information, enables the identification of the
origin and destination of the data message, electronic
document, electronic record or other communication
and the date and time when such information was
generated, sent or received, is retained :
Provided that the provisions of this section shall not apply to any
information, which is automatically generated solely for the
purpose of enabling an electronic record to be dispatched or
received.

Legal
7. Where any Act or enactment provides that any information or
recognition communication shall be authenticated by affixing the signature,
of electronic or that any document should be signed or bear the signature of
signatures. any person, then, notwithstanding anything contained in such
law, such requirement shall be deemed to be satisfied, if such
information or matter is authenticated by means of an electronic
signature.

Explanation.- for the purpose of this section, “sign” with its
grammatical variations and cognate expressions, shall, with
reference to a person mean, the affixing of his hand-written
signature or any mark on any document and the expression,
“signature” shall be construed accordingly.

Use of
8.
electronic
records and
electronic
signatures in
Government
institutions
and
statutory
bodies.

(1) Where any written law for the time being in force
requires –

(a) the filing of any form, application, or any
other document with any Government
department, office, body or agency owned or
controlled by the Government or a statutory
body in a particular manner ;

(b) the issue of grant of any license, permit or
approval ; or

(c) the receipt of payment of money,
procurement or other transaction to be
effected in a particular manner,
then, notwithstanding anything to the contrary
contained in any other law for the time being in force,
such requirement shall be deemed to have been
satisfied if such filing, creation, retention, issue, grant,
receipt, payment, procurement or transaction, as the
case may be, is effected in the form of electronic
records as may be specified by the relevant Ministry,
Government department, Institution, statutory body or
public corporation or other similar body.
(2) The relevant authority requiring the use of
electronic records specified in subsection (1), may
recommend the making of regulations for the purpose
of authorizing or facilitating the use of electronic
communications or electronic records, to the Minister
in charge of the subject, by specifying(a) the manner and format in which such
electronic records shall be filed, created,
retained or issued ;

(b) where such electronic documents or
electronic records have to be signed, the type
of electronic signature required ;

(c) the manner and format in which such
signature shall be affixed to the electronic
documents or electronic records and the
identity of, or the criteria which, a
Certification Authority or Certification Service
Provider used by such person filing the
document should possess ;
(d) the control process and procedures
required in order to secure confidentiality,
authenticity and integrity of electronic
documents,
records,
procurements,
transactions or payments ;
(e) the manner or method of payment of any
fee or charges for the filing, creation,
retention or issue of any electronic record
under paragraph (a) ;
(f) the manner of doing anything which under
any such provisions is required to be done as
evidence in writing or otherwise using a
document, notice or instrument ;
(g) the manner of doing anything which under
any such provision, is required to be or which
may be, done by post or other specified
means of delivery ;

(h) the doing of anything which under any
such provision is required to be, or which may
be, authorized by a person’s signature or seal
;
(i) the making of any statement or declaration
which under any such provision is required to
be made under oath ;

(j) the making of any payment that is required
to be, or which may be, made under any such
provision ;

(k) any other matter relating to electronic
records or payments that are presently
specified for the corresponding paper
documents.
Publication
in electronic
forms of
Gazette &c.,
deemed to
be
publication.
No right to
insist on
records
being in
electronic
form.

Electronic
Contracts.

9. Where any Act or enactment provides that any Proclamation,

rule, regulation, order, by-law, notification, or other matter shall
be published in the Gazette, then such requirement shall be
deemed to have been satisfied if such rule, regulation, order, bylaw, notification or other matter is published in an electronic
form of the Gazette.
10. Nothing contained in the preceding sections shall confer a

right upon any person to insist that any Ministry, Government
Department, Institution, Statutory Body or Public Corporation or
other similar body should accept or issue, any document in the
form of electronic records or effect any monetary transaction in
electronic form.
CHAPTER III
ELECTRONIC CONTRACTS
11. In the context of contract formation, unless otherwise agreed
by the parties, an offer and the acceptance of an offer may be
expressed in electronic form. A contract shall not be denied legal
validity or enforceability on the sole ground that it is in electronic
form.

Attribution 12.
of electronic
records.

(1) Unless otherwise agreed as between an originator
and the addressee, a data message, electronic
document, electronic record or other communication
shall be deemed to be that of the originator, if it was
sent(a) by the originator himself ;

(b) by a person who had the authority to act
for and on behalf of the originator in respect
of that data message, electronic document,
electronic record or other communication ; or
(c) by an automated information system
programmed by, or on behalf of the
originator.

(2) Unless otherwise agreed as between the originator
and the addressee, the addressee is to regard a data
message, electronic document, electronic record or
other communication as being that of the originator,
and is entitled to act on that assumption, if :-

(a) the addressee has no reason to doubt the
authenticity of the data message, electronic
document, electronic record or other
communication ; or
(b) there do not exist any circumstances
where the addressee knows, or ought to have
known by exercising reasonable care, that the
data
message,
electronic
document,
electronic record or other communication was
authentic.

Acknowledgement13.
of receipt.

(1) Where the originator has not agreed with the
addressee that acknowledgement of receipt be given
in a particular form or by a particular method, such an
acknowledgement may be given by(a) any data message, electronic document,
electronic record or other communication by
the addressee, automated or otherwise ; or

(b) any conduct of the addressee, sufficient to
indicate to the originator that the data
message, electronic document, electronic
record or other communication has been
received.
(2) Where the originator has stipulated that data
message, electronic document, electronic record or
other communication shall be binding only on receipt
of an acknowledgement of receipt of such data
message, electronic document, electronic record or
other communication by him, then, unless
acknowledgement has been so received, the data
message, electronic document, electronic record or
other communication shall be deemed to have never
been sent by the originator.

(3) Where the originator has not stipulated that the
data message, electronic document, electronic record
or other communication shall be binding only on
receipt of such acknowledgement of receipt, and the
acknowledgement of receipt had not been received by
the originator within the time specified or agreed, or if
no time has been specified or agreed to, within a
reasonable time, then the originator may give notice to
the addressee stating that no acknowledgement of
receipt has been received by him, and specifying a
reasonable time by which the acknowledgement of
receipt must be received by him and if no
acknowledgement of receipt is received within the
aforesaid time limit he may after giving notice to the
addressee, treat the data message, electronic
document, electronic record or other communication
as though it has never been sent.

Time and 14.
place of
dispatch and
receipt of
electronic
records.

(1) Unless otherwise agreed to between the originator
and the addressee, the dispatch of a data message,
electronic document, electronic record or other
communication occurs when it enters an information
system outside the control of the originator, or if the
data message, electronic document, electronic record
or other communication has not left an information
system under the control of the originator or of the
party who sent it on behalf of the originator, the time
when the data message, electronic document,
electronic record or other communication is received.
(2) Unless otherwise agreed between the originator
and the addressee, the time of receipt of a data
message, electronic document, electronic record or
other communication shall be determined as follows,
namely :(a) if the addressee has designated an
information system for the purpose of
receiving
data
messages,
electronic
document, electronic record or other
communications-

(i) receipt occurs at the time when the
data message, electronic document,
electronic
record
or
other
communication enters the designated
information system ; or

(ii) if the data message, electronic
document, electronic record or other
communication is sent to an
information system of the addressee
that is not the designated information
system, receipt occurs at the time
when the data message, electronic
document, electronic record or other
communication is retrieved by the
addressee.
(b) if the addressee has not designated an
information system along with specified
timings, receipt occurs when the data
message, electronic document, electronic
record or other communication enters an
information system of the addressee.
(3) Unless otherwise agreed between the originator
and the addressee, the data message, electronic
document, electronic record or other communication
is deemed to be dispatched at the place where the
originator has his place of business, and is deemed to
be received at the place where the addressee has his
place of business.

(4) The provisions of subsection (2) shall apply
notwithstanding that the place where the information
system is located may be different from the place
where the data message, electronic document,
electronic record or other communication is deemed
to have been received under subsection (3).
(5) For the purposes of this section-

(a) if the originator or the addressee has more
than one place of business, the principal place
of business shall be the place of business.

(b) if the originator or the addressee does not
have a place of business, his usual place of
residence shall be deemed to be the place of
business ;
(c) “usual place of residence” in relation to a
body corporate, means the place where it is
registered ;
(d) if the originator and the addressee are in
different time zones, time refers to Universal
Standard Time.

Variation by 15. The Minister may by regulation prescribe the matters which
agreement. may be agreed to between the parties to such contract, involving
the generating, sending, receiving, storing or otherwise
processing of data messages, electronic documents, electronic
records or other communication, in relation to the provisions of
Chapter III.
Liability of 16.
Certification
Service
Providers.

(1) A Certification Service Provider shall not be subject
to any civil or criminal liability for any transaction
under this Act in respect of third party information in
the form of data messages, electronic documents,
electronic records or other communications to which
he merely provides access, if such liability is founded,
on –
(a) the making, publication, dissemination, or
distribution of such information or any
statement made in such information ; or
(b) the infringement of any rights subsisting
in or in relation to such information.
(2) Nothing in this section shall effect-

(a) any obligation founded on contract ;

(b) the obligations of a Certification Service
Provider providing such services under a
licensing or other regulatory regime
established under any written law ; or
(c) any obligation imposed under any written
law or by a court to remove, block or deny
access to any information.
Avoidance
of doubt.

17. For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby declared that-

(a) if an offer and acceptance of an offer has been in
whole or in part expressed by means of an electronic
record, an electronic signature attached to, or logically
associated with, such electronic record shall not be
denied legal effect soley on the ground that it is with
an electronic signature ;

(b) if an electronic communication is used in the
formation of a contract, the contract shall not be
denied validity or enforceability solely on the ground
that an electronic record had been used for such
purpose ;
(c) the accepted principles of common law relating to
contracts that the offeror may prescribe the method of
communicating acceptance, shall not be affected by
anything contained in this Chapter ;

(d) a contract formed by the interaction of an
automated message system and a natural person or by
the interaction of automated message systems, shall
not be denied validity or enforceability solely on the
ground that there was no review or intervention by a
natural person of the final contract or of each of the
actions carried out by the automated message system.

CHAPTER IV
CERTIFICATION AUTHORITY AND CERTIFICATION OF SERVICE PROVIDERS
Designation 18.
of a
(1) There shall be a Certification Authority designated
Certification
by the Minister for the purposes of this Act in
Authority.
consultation with the Minister in charge of the subject
of Information and Communication Technology.

(2) In designating a Certification Authority the Minister
may by Order published in the Gazette, designate any
Government Department, Public Corporation,
Statutory Body, Institution, or authority or any branch
or unit thereof which shall be charged with the
implementation of the provisions of this Chapter ; the
Minister shall in making the Order take into
consideration the capacity of the Government
Department, Public Corporation, Statutory Body,
institution or authority to be designated in relation to
its overall ability to discharge the obligations under
this Act in ensuring the proper functioning of
certification services by accredited Certification
Service Providers.

Powers of 19. The Certification Authority shall have the power toCertification
(a) identify the criteria which will form the basis for
Authority.
accreditation of Certification Service Providers and the
qualifications required by them ;
(b) hear appeals and specify the procedure to be
followed in the granting of accreditation for the
purposes of this Act ;

(c) specify the procedure for the hearing of appeals in
the event of a refusal to grant or renew accreditation
under section 20, as the case may be ;

(d) issue licences or any other form of authorisation to
Certification Service Providers to provide prescribed
services ;
(e) require Certification Service Providers to maintain
such records and registers as may be prescribed ;
(f) from time to time call for information as may be
necessary from Certification Service Providers and
issue directions to such Certification Service Providers.
Accreditation20.
of
Certification
Service
Providers.

(1) No person shall function as an accredited
Certification Service Provider unless be holds a valid
certificate of accreditation issued under the Sri Lanka
Accreditation Board for Conformity Assessment Act,
No. 32 of 2005.
(2) Nothing in this Act shall be construed as impeding
or in any way restricting the rights of any certification
service provider to engage in the business of providing
certification services without being accredited.
(3) A certificate of accreditation to a Certification
Service Provider may be granted in accordance with
provisions of the Sri Lanka Accreditation Board for
Conformity Assessment Act, No. 32 of 2005, in
keeping with the criteria for accreditation specified by
the Certification Authority under paragraph (a) of
section 19.

Applicability 21.
of the Rules
of Evidence.

CHAPTER V
RULES GOVERNING EVIDENCE
(1) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the
Evidence Ordinance or any other written law, the
following provisions of this section shall be applicable
for the purposes of this Act.

(2) Any information contained in a data message, or
any electronic document, electronic record or other
communication –
(a) touching any fact in issue or relevant fact ;
and

(b) compiled, received or obtained during the
course of any business, trade or profession or
other regularly conducted activity,
shall be admissible in any proceedings :

Provided that, direct oral evidence of such fact in issue
or relevant fact if available, shall be admissible ; and
there is no reason to believe that the information
contained in a data message, or any electronic
document, electronic record or other communication
is unreliable or inaccurate :
Provided further that, for the purposes of paragraphs
(a) and (b), if any information is contained in a data
message, electronic document, electronic record or
other communication made by a person-

(i) who is dead or who by reason of his bodily
or mental condition is unfit to attend as a
witness ; or

(ii) who is outside Sri Lanka and where
reasonable steps have been taken to find
such person and he cannot be found ; or
(iii) who does not wish to give oral evidence
through fear ; or

[19
19th May
, 2006 ]

Articles

Links

(iv) who is prevented from so giving evidence,
evidence relating to such information shall, if available,
be admissible.

(3) The Courts shall, unless the contrary is proved,
presume the truth of information contained in a data
message, or in any electronic document or electronic
record or other communication and in the case of any
data message, electronic document, electronic record
or other communication made by a person, that the
data message, electronic document or electronic
record or other communication was made by the
person who is purported to have made it and similarly,
shall presume the genuineness of any electronic
signature or distinctive identification mark therein.
Provisions of 22. Nothing contained in the Evidence (Special Provisions) Act,
the Evidence No. 14 of 1995 shall apply to and in relation to any data
(Special
message, electronic document, electronic record or other
Provisions) document to which the provisions of this Act applies.
Act, No. 14
of 1995 not
to apply.
CHAPTER VI
MISCELLANEOUS
Restriction 23. The provisions contained in this Act shall not apply to –
on
(a) the creation or execution of a will, or any other
application
testamentary disposition by whatever name called ;
of the Act.
(b) a license for a Telecommunication system issued
under subsection (6) of section 17 of the
Telecommunications Act, No. 25 of 1991 ;

(c) a Bill of Exchange as defined in subsection(1) of
section 3 of the Bills of Exchange Ordinance (Chapter
82) ;
(d) a Power-of-Attorney as defined in section 2 of the
Power of Attorney Ordinance (Chapter 122) ;

(e) a Trust as defined in the Trusts Ordinance (Chapter
87) excluding a constructive, implied and resulting
trust ;
(f) a contract for sale or conveyance of immovable
property or any interest in such property ;

(g) or any other document act or transaction specified
by the Minister by regulations made under section 24.
Regulations. 24.

(1) The Minister may, in consultation with the Minister
in Charge of the subject of Information and
Communication Technology, make regulations in
respect of any matter required or authorized by this
Act to be made, or for the purpose of carrying out or
giving effect to the objectives of this Act, as specified
in subsection (2).
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality
of the powers conferred by subsection (1), the Minister
may make regulations for and in respect of all or any
of the following matters :(a) specifying the electronic infrastructure and
guidelines that are-

(i) sufficiently secure to meet the
needs of Ministries, Government
Departments, bodies or agencies
owned and controlled by the
Government, and Statutory bodies ;
(ii) interoperable to the maximum
extent possible ;

(b) the conditions of service of the members
of the Certification Authority in relation to the
implementation of the provisions of this Act ;

(c) the powers, duties and functions of a
person, body of persons, statutory body or
institution being appointed as a Certification
Authority in terms of section 18 and the other
terms and conditions applicable to them ;
(d) criteria for accreditation of certification
service providers under section 20, its
cryptography services, electronic signature or
advance electronic signature and security
procedures or any other legal consequences
connected therewith ;
(e) the procedure for appeals against refusal
to grant or renew an accreditation certificate ;
(f) the qualifications required of persons
seeking to provide certifications services ;

(g) the procedure for the recognition of
Certification Service Providers, the issue of
licences to such Certification Service
Providers and the categories of services
required to be provided by them ;

(h) the records to be maintained by the
Certification Service Providers and the
manner in which information has to be
furnished to the Certification Authority by
such Certification Service Provider ; and
(i) the matters referred to in section 15.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall as soon as
convenient after its publication in the Gazette be
brought before Parliament for approval.

(4) Every regulation, which is not so approved, shall be
deemed to be rescinded as from the date of such
disapproval, but without prejudice to anything
previously done thereunder.
(5) The date on which such regulations shall be
deemed to be so rescinded shall be published in the
Gazette.

Sinhala text 25. In the event of any inconsistency between the Sinhala and
to prevail in Tamil texts of this Act, the Sinhala text shall prevail.
case of
inconsistency.
Interpretation.26. For the purposes of this act, unless the context otherwise
requires –
“addressee” means the person intended by the originator to
receive the communication but does not include an intermediary
;

“Certification Authority” means the Certification Authority
appointed in terms of Chapter IV of the Act ;
“certification services” means any service which is provided to
the senders or recipients of information in electronic form, or to
those storing such information, and is designed to facilitate the
use of cryptographic techniques for the purpose of ascertaining
that the confidentiality, authenticity and integrity of such
information is secured ;

“Certification Service Provider” means a person providing
certification services within the meaning of this Act ;
“communication” means any statement, declaration, demand,
notice or request, including an offer and the acceptance of an
offer that a person is required to make or chooses to make in
connection with an electronic transaction within the meaning of
this Act ;

“computer” means an electronic or similar device having
information processing capabilities ;
“data message” means information generated, sent, received to
stored by electronic, magnetic, optical or other similar means ;

“electronic” means information generated, sent received or
stored by electronic, magnetic, optical, or similar capacities
regardless of the medium ;
“electronic document” includes documents, records, information,
communications or transactions in electronic form ;

“electronic record” means a written document, or other record
created, stored, generated, received, or communicated by
electronic means ;
“electronic signature” means any letters, numbers, symbols,
images, characters or any combination thereof in electronic form,
applied to, incorporated in or logically associated with an
electronic document, with the intention of authenticating and, or
approving the same, in order to establish authenticity or
integrity, or both ;
“information” includes text, message, data, voice, sound,
database, video, signals, software, computer programs, including
object codes and source codes ;

“information system” means and electronic system for creating,
generating, sending, receiving, storing, reproducing, displaying,
recording or processing information ;

“intermediary” means a person acting as a service provider on
behalf of another person in relation to the sending, receiving,
storing or processing of the electronic communication or the
provision of other services in relation to it ;
“network service provider” means a person who owns, possesses,
operates, manages or controls a public switched network or
provides telecommunication services ;

“originator” means a person by who or on whose behalf the
communication purports to have been sent or generated prior to
receipt or storage, if any, but it does not include a person acting
as an intermediary with respect to that communication ;
“provides access” in relation to third-party information, means
the provision of the necessary technical means by which thirdparty information may be accessed and includes the automatic
and temporary storage of the third-party information for the
purpose of providing assess ;
“security procedure” means a procedure which in relation to a
certificate issued by a certification service provider, is specified
in its certification practice statement for establishing the
authenticity or integrity, or both, of any electronic document,
which may require the use of algorithms or codes, identifying
words and numbers, encryption, answer back or
acknowledgment procedures, software, hardware or similar
security devices ;
“third party” in relation to a network service provider means a
person over whom the provider has no effective control ;

!

"

#

$

%

!

© Copyright 2016. Ministry of Justice - Sri Lanka. All Rights Reserved
Developed by Lanka Logistics & Technologies Ltd. - Ministry of Defence

