Legislation

Subsidiary

Agreements

Case Law

Conventions

Banking

Banking

AN ACT TO PROVIDE FOR THE INTRODUCTION AND OPERATION OF A PROCEDURE FOR THE
LICENSING OF PERSONS CARRYING ON BANKING BUSINESS FOR THE REGULATION AND CONTROL
OF MATTERS RELATING TO THE BUSINESS OF BANKING ; AND TO PROVIDE FOR MATTERS
CONNECTED THEREWITH OR lNCIDENTAL THERETO.
BE it enacted by the Parliament of the Democratic
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka as follows :

Short title 1.
and date of
operation.

(1) This Act may be cited as the Banking Act, No. 30 of
1988.
(2) The provisions of this Act other than Part V shall
come into operation on such date as may be
appointed by the Minister by Order published in the
Gazette (hereinafter referred to as the ” appointed
date”).
(3) The provisions at Part V of this Act shall come into
operation on such later date as may be appointed by
‘ho Minister by Order published in the Gazette.

PART I
LICENSING OF PERSONS CARRYING ON BANKING BUSINESS
Licensing of 2.
banks.
(1) On or after the appointed date, no banking
business shall be carried on except by a company
under the authority of a licence issued by the
Monetary Board with the approval of the Minister,
(2) Where such company is a company incorporated
outside Sri Lanka no licence shall be issued unless
such company has complied with the provisions of
Part XIII of the Companies Act, No, 17 of 1982.
(3) Any company which has been issued a licence
under the provisions of this Act shall, hereinafter be
referred to as a “licensed commercial bank”.

(4) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (1)
and (2) of this section and of section 3 of this Act, all
commercial banks specified in Schedule I to this Act,
which on the appointed date are carrying on banking
business, shall be issued a licence in accordance with
the provisions of this Act,
(5) Any company which carries on banking business in
contravention of subsection (1) shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act.

For the purposes of this section “company” means a
company formed and registered under the Companies
Act, No. 17 of 1982, and Includes a company duly
incorporated outside Sri Lanka, or formed in
pursuance of any statute of any foreign country, Royal
Charter or letters patent and a body corporate
established by or under any written law and shall not
include the Central Bank, or a private company
incorporated outside Sri Lanka except the banks
specified Schedule I.

Application 3.
for a licence.

(1) An application for a licence shall be made in writing
to the Monetary Board in such manner as may be
determined by the Monetary Board.
(2) Every application for a licence shall be
accompanied by-

(a) a copy of the Memorandum and the
Articles of Association of the company or the
constitution of the company or any other
document associated with the same :
(b) a copy of the balance sheet and profit and
loss account if any, of the company in respect
of the year, preceding the year in which the
licence is applied for; and

(c) in the case of an application by a company
incorporated outside Sri Lanka, an affidavit
from the Chairman of such company
supported by a resolution of its Board of
Directors, stating that such company shall on
demand by the Central Bank provide such
funds as may be necessary to cover all
obligations and liabilities incurred in the
carrying on of banking business in Sri Lanka.
(3) On receipt of an application under subsection (1)
the Monetary Board may, where such Board considers
it necessary, require the applicant to furnish such
other documents or particulars, in order to determine
whether, a licence should be issued or not.

(4) No company incorporated in Sri Lanka under any
written law shall make an application for the issue of a
licence
(a) unless such company is registered as a
public company;

(b) unless the Memorandum of Association of
the company sets out as the primary objects
of such company, the carrying on of the
business of accepting deposits of money
subject to withdrawal on demand by cheque,
draft, order or otherwise; and

(c) if the Memorandum of Association of the
company provides for the carrying on of any
other form of business, unless the
Memorandum of Association of the company
limits such forms of business to one or more
of the forms of business specified in Schedule
II to this Act.
(5) Any person who submits an application and other
documents under subsections (1), (2) and (3)
containing information which is to his knowledge false
or misleading in any material particular, shall be guilty
of an offence under this Act.
Companies 4.
incorporated
outside Sri
Lanka to
remit
currency to
Sri Lanka.

(1) The Monetary Board may require any company
incorporated outside Sri Lanka, which has applied for a
licence under section 3, to undertake to remit to Sri
Lanka, prior to the commencement of their business in
Sri Lanka, a sum of money, determined with the
approval of the Minister, in United States Dollars, or its
equivalent in any designated foreign currency. The
amount so remitted may form part of the assigned
capital of such company and shall be kept as a deposit
with the Central Bank or in such other manner as may
be determined from time to time by the Monetary
Board.
(2) The Monetary Board may, where such Board
considers it necessary or expedient to do so in the
interest of national economy, from time to time, make
further determinations as regards the remittance of
money after the expiry of a period of sis months from
the date of the last of such determinations.
(3) A determination made under this section shall
apply uniformly to all companies incorporated outside
Sri Lanka which apply for a licence after each such
determination.

Issue of
licence.

5.

(1) On receipt of an application under section 3, the
Monetary Board, having considered the documents
and particulars accompanying such application, and
having satisfied itself that the terms and condition of
such licence will be observed by the applicant, shall,
with the approval of the Minister, issue a licence to the
applicant authorizing such applicant to carry on
banking business in Sri Lanka
(2) The licence shall specify

(a) whether the bank shall carry on domestic
banking business or offshore banking
business, or both such. business; and
(b) the place or places or area within which
any bank may carry on business

(3) Every licensed commercial bank shall display a
copy of the licence issued to it under subsection (1) in
a conspicuous place within the premises of any such
bank.
Limits
6.
imposed on
all licensed
commercial
banks.

(1) Subject to the provisions of section 17. no licensed
commercial bank shall
(a) carry on any banking business other than
the business specified in the licence ; or

(b) carry on any other form of business other
than those specified in Schedule II to this Act
Bank of
7. Nothing contained in the provisions of section 6 shall be
Ceylon.
construed so as to restrict the Bank of Ceylon or the People’s
People’s
Bank, established under the Bank of Ceylon Ordinance (Chapter
Bank &c., 397), the People’s Bank Act, No. 29 of 1961, respectively, and
not to be
any Regional Rural Development Bank established under the
restricted by Regional Rural Development Bank Act, No- 15 of 1985, in the
preceding exercise of the powers conferred on each such bank by and
provisions in under the aforesaid statutes applicable to each of such banks,
the exercise respectively.
of powers.
Payment at 8.
licence fee.
(1) Every licensed commercial bank shall pay to the
Central Bank an annual licence fee as may be
determined by the Monetary Board, having regard to
the different classes of banking business carried on by
such bank.
(2) The Monetary Board shall inform each such
licensed commercial bank the amount payable as
licence lee, and the manner in which such fee shall be
paid.
(3) Where a licence fee is determined in respect of
classes of banking business such fee shall apply to all
banks carrying on such classes of business.
Consequences9.
of failure to
commence
business on of
a licence &c,.

(1) Where the Monetary Board is satisfied that any
licensed commercial bank has
(a) failed to commence business within nine
months of the issue of the licence under
section 5 ; or
(b) failed to pay up any debts incurred by it,
on such debts becoming due ; or

(c) where a petition or action for relief has
been filed against it, had appointed in respect
of it, under any bankruptcy law or any other
law which provides for relief of debtors or
which relates to debtors, a custodian or
receiver; or
(d) ceased to carry on banking, business.

the Monetary Board may, give notice that it would
cancel the licence issued to such bank and shall
communicate such notice to the licensed commercial
bank.
(2) A licensed commercial bank may tender objections
in writing to the Monetary Board against the notice of
cancellation under subsection (1), within thirty days of
the date of receipt of such notice, giving reasons why
the licence issued to it under section 5 should not be
so cancelled-

(3) After the expiration of sixty days from the date of
notification of the cancellation and after considering
the objections tendered to the Board under subsection
(2), the Monetary Board may withdraw such notice or
cancel the licence issued to the licensed commercial
bank, and shall notify the bank accordingly.
(4) A cancellation of a licence under subsection (3)
shall take effect

(a) where no appeal against the cancellation is
preferred under subsection (5), after the
period for preferring such appeal has expired;
or
(b) where an appeal against the cancellation is
preferred under subsection (5), after the
cancellation, is upheld by the Court of Appeal,
and notification of such cancellation shall be
published in the Gazette.

(5) Any person aggrieved by a decision of the
Monetary Board in respect of any cancellation under
subsection (3). may appeal against such decision to
the Court of Appeal within fourteen days of his being
informed by the Board of such cancellation.

(6) Until rules are made under Article 136 of the
Constitution pertaining to appeals under this section,
the rules made under that Article pertaining to
applications by way of revision to the Court of Appeal
shall apply to every appeal made under this section,
(7) The Court of Appeal may an appeal made to it
under subsection (5), confirm, revise, modify or set
aside the decision against which the appeal is made
and make any other order as the interests of justice
may require.
Directions of 10.
Board where
notice
cancellation
is issued.

(1) Where notice for the cancellation of a licence has
been issued by the Monetary Board under subsection
(1) of section 9, the Board may give directions to the
licensed commercial bank

(a) prohibiting it from dealing with or
disposing of its assets in any manner
specified in such direction ;
(b) prohibiting it from entering into any
transaction or class of transactions so
specified; or
(c) prohibiting it from soliciting deposits.

(2) Whereas a licensed commercial bank has failed to
comply with the directions issued under subsection (1)
the Monetary Board may further direct
(a) such bank to forthwith suspend its
business within Sri Lanka, and, in the case of a
bank incorporated or established in Sri Lanka,
its business within and outside Sri Lanka; and

(b) the Director of Bank Supervision to take
charge of its business and of its books,
records and assets, and it shall be lawful for
the Director of Bank Supervision to take such
steps as are necessary for mm to comply with
the directive of the Monetary Board.
(3) Where the Director of Bank Supervision takes
charge of all books, records and assets under
subsection (2) and the Monetary Board withdraws the
cancellation unconditionally, the Monetary Board shall
direct the Director of Bank Supervision to deliver
forthwith to such bank the books, records and assets
taken into his custody.
(4) Not withstanding anything in any written law for
the time being in force, no action or proceedings may
be instituted by any licensed commercial bank in any
court in respect of any directions given bona fide
under this section, and any loss or damage incurred or
likely to be incurred or alleged to be incurred by
reason of any such direction.
commercial 11.
bank to
suspend
business,

(1) Where a licence of a licensed commercial bank is
cancelled, the Monetary Board shall direct the licensed
commercial bank forthwith to suspend its business in
Sri Lanka and, in the case of a licensed commercial
bank incorporated or established within Sri Lanka, the
business both within and outside Sri Lanka, and shall
also direct the Director of Bank Supervision to take
charge of its business and its books, records and
assets and to take such steps as may be necessary to
prevent the continuance of the business of banking by
such bank. It shall be lawful for the Director of Bank
Supervision to take such action as he may be deem
necessary to comply with the directive of the
Monetary Board. ‘

(2) Where the cancellation of a licence has been made
in respect of a licensed commercial bank incorporated
established within Sri Lanka by or under any written
law for the time being in force, the Director of Bank
Supervision shall forthwith make application to a court
of competent jurisdiction to commence proceedings
for the winding up of the business of such bank, and
he shall be appointed liquidator for the purposes of
winding up of tile bank in accordance with the
provisions of Part VIII of this Act
(3) Where cancellation of a licence has been made in
respect of a licensed commercial bank incorporated
outside Sri Lanka, the Director of Bank Supervision
shall forthwith inform the head office of such bank
that it should honour the obligations and liabilities
incurred in the carrying on of the business of the
branch established within Sri Lanka, and shall take
such steps as may be necessary to enforce any such
undertaking as may have been given in this regard in
accordance with the provisions of subsection (2) of
section 3.
(4) The Monetary board may, in addition to the
procedures laid down in subsections (1), (2) and (3) of
this section, take such other steps in respect of the
licensed commercial bank, as it may deem necessary
by

(a) requiring such bank to forthwith take any
action or to do any act or thing which the
Board may consider necessary in relation to
the business of such bank;
(b) appointing a fit and proper person to
advice such bank in regard to the proper
conduct of the business of such bank ;

(c) assuming control of and carrying on
business of such bank, or by delegating the
control so assumed by the Board, to another
person in order to carry on the business of
the bank ;
(d) reorganizing such bank by increasing its
capital, arranging for new shareholders and
reconstituting its board of directors; and
(e) making such arrangements as are
necessary for the amalgamation of such bank
with any other licensed commercial bank, that
consents to such amalgamation.
Approval of 12.
the Monetary
Board
necessary
prior to
carrying on
certain
transactions&
c,.

(1) The written approval of the Monetary Board given
with the concurrence of the Minister, shall be required

(a) for a licensed commercial bank to open or
close a branch, agency or office of such bank,
in any part of Sri Lanka or to effect a change
in the location of any existing place of
business;
(b) for a licensed commercial bank
incorporated or established within Sri Lanka
by or under any written law to open or close a
branch, agency, or office in any place outside
Sri Lanka;

(c) for a licensed commercial bank to acquire
the business of another licensed commercial
bank or of any branch of another licensed
commercial bank;
(d) for any person or nominee of such person,
partnership, company or corporation to
acquire a material interest in a licensed
commercial bank incorporated or established
within Sri Lanka by or under any written law;

For the purposes of this paragraph “material
interest” means the holding of over ten per
centum of the issued capital of such licensed
commercial bank ; and
(e) for banks incorporated or established
outside Sri Lanka to open a representative
office or such other place of business within
Sri Lanka.

(2) The approval under this section may be granted
subject to such terms and conditions as may be
specified by the Monetary Board with the concurrence
of the Minister.
Withdrawal 13.
of variation
of approval
under
section 12.

(1) The Monetary Board may, with the approval of the
Minister, on a report by the Director of Bank
Supervision, by order made in writing, withdraw the
approval or vary the terms and conditions of an
approval granted under section 12, including the
closure of a branch, agency or office of a licensed
commercial bank. Notice of the decision of the
Monetary Board shall be communicated by the
Director of Bank Supervision to such bank which shall
carry out all the obligations and meet all the liabilities
of the branch, agency or office.
(2) Any licensed commercial bank to whom notice has
been issued under subsection (1) may within thirty
days of the date of such order, tender objections In
writing to the Monetary Board giving reasons why
such approval should not be withdrawn or the terms
and conditions varied.

(3) After the expiration of sixty days from the date of
the notice and after considering the objections placed
before the Board under subsection (2), the Monetary
Board shall, with the approval of the Minister
(a) by order made in writing, cancel the notice
of withdrawal or the variation unconditionally;
or

(b) by order made in writing and published in
the Gazette, confirm the withdrawal or
variation with or without modification.

(4) Where the order for the closure has been made
under subsection (1), the Monetary Board shall direct
the Director of Bank Supervision to take all steps as
may appear necessary in the circumstances, to satisfy
himself that all persons who have deposited moneys in
that bench, agency or office are given the opportunity
to withdraw such moneys expeditiously and to ensure
that such measures as would safeguard the interest of
such depositors are taken. It shall be lawful for the
Director of Bank Supervision to take such steps
accordingly.
Compliance 14.
of persons
and banks
suspected of
carrying on
banking
business.

(1) Where the Governor of the Central Bank has
reasonable grounds to believe that any person or any
commercial bank is carrying on banking business
without a licence, the Governor may direct the Director
of Bank Supervision or any other officer of the Central
Bank to examine the books, accounts and records for
the purpose of ascertaining whether such person or
bank has contravened, or is contravening any of the
provisions of this Act,
(2) The Director of Bank Supervision or such other
officer so authorized by the Governor in terms of
subsection (1) may require such person or the bank to
furnish to him such information or to produce for
inspection any books, minutes, accounts, cash,
securities, vouchers, other documents and records as
he may consider necessary to obtain for the purpose
of such examination, and it shall be the duty of such
person or bank to furnish such information and to
submit to such officer for examination such books,
minutes, accounts, cash, securities, vouchers, other
documents and records, as the case may be, when so
required.
(3) Any person who fails to furnish such information or
to produce any books, minutes, accounts, cash,
securities, vouchers, other documents and records
when required to do so under subsection (2) shall be
guilty of an offence under this Act,

(4) Any refusal by any person or commercial bank to
furnish such information or to submit such books,
minutes, accounts, cash, securities, vouchers, other
documents and records in contravention of the
provisions of subsection (2) shall be prima facie
evidence of such person or bank carrying on banking
business without a licence,
provisions of 15. The provisions of this Part shall not be construed to mean
this Part not that a licence under section 5, or approval under section 12, shall
to apply to be required for the Monetary Board or the Central Bank to
the
exercise, perform or discharge the powers, duties or functions, in
Monetary respect of banking business conferred on, or imposed on, or
Board or
assigned to, the Monetary Board under the Monetary Law Act or
Central
any written law.
Bank.
Restriction 16.
on use of
certain
names and
descriptions

PART II
BANKING NAMES AND DESCRIPTIONS

(1) No company other than a licensed commercial
bank shall use as part of its name or its description any
of the words ” bank”, ” banker , or ” banking” or any of
its derivatives or its transliterations, or their equivalent
in any other language and no licensed commercial
bank shall carry on the business of banking in Sri
Lanka, unless it uses as part of its name at least one of
such words:
Provided, however, a licensed commercial bank
incorporated outside Sri Lanka and carrying on the
business of banking and whose names does not
contain the word ” bank”, ” banker “, or ” banking” in
any language may carry on such business in Sri Lanka
notwithstanding the omission of these words in its
name.
(2) No firm, individual or group of individuals, shall for
the purpose of carrying on any business, use as part of
its or his name or description any of the words ” bank”,
” banker ” or ” banking ” or any of its derivatives, or its
transliterations, or their equivalent in any other
language
(3) Nothing in this section shall apply to

(a) a subsidiary of a licensed commercial bank
formed for one or more of the purposes
mentioned in subsection (1) of section 17 of
this Act;

(b) any association of licensed commercial
banks formed for the protection of their
interests ;
(c) a trade union registered under the Trade
Unions Ordinance (Chapter 138) which is an
association or combination of workers, who
are employees of a banking institution within
the meaning of section 127 of the Monetary

[25
25th August
, 1988 ]

Articles

Links

Law Act, or of the Central Bank;

(d) an agency, institution, person or body of
persons which falls within the meaning of
paragraphs (b) and (d) of the definition of ”
banking institution ” contained in section 127
of the Monetary Law Act;

(e) a company which, within one week of its
incorporation, applies for a licence under
section 2 and until such time as the decision
of the Monetary Board in respect of the
application is conveyed to the company ;

(f) the representative office of a commercial
bank incorporated or established outside Sri
Lanka.
licensed
17.
commercial
bank not to
have as its
subsidiary a
company
which is not
a licensed
commercial
bank.

(1) A licensed commercial bank incorporated or
established in Sri Lanka shall not have as its subsidiary
a company which is not a licensed commercial bank:

Provided however, such bank may, with the written
permission of the Monetary Board, have a subsidiary
which

(a) carries on the sole business of providing
training in any one of the subjects relating to
banking, accountancy, valuation, project
appraisal and credit appraisal;
(b) carries on the sole business of engaging in
hire purchase transactions;

(c) carries on the sole business of providing
medium and long term credit for
development;

(d) carries on the sole business of factory
leasing and warehousing;

(e) carries on the sole business of providing
management consultancy services;

(f)becomes the subsidiary only by reason of a
licensed commercial bank having to acquire
the share of a company consequent to such
licensed commercial bank capitalizing the
capital and the interest accrued thereon, and
which is unpaid by the company to the bank,
on loans granted by the licensed commercial
bank;
(g) carries on any form of business which is
not specified in Schedule II to this Act;

Provided, further that the provisions of this subsection
shall not apply to a subsidiary formed before the
appointed date by any licensed commercial bank
incorporated or established in Sri Lanka.

(2) A licensed commercial bank shall not accord to any
of its subsidiary companies, treatment which is more
favourable than the treatment accorded to other
constituents of the bank, carrying on the same
business as any such subsidiary company.
(3) For the purposes of this Act a company shall,
subject to the provisions of subsection (4) of this
section, be deemed to be a subsidiary of another if,
and only if
(i) that other company holds more than half in
nominal value of its equity share capital; or

(ii) that other company is a shareholder of it
and controls the composition, of its board of
directors; or

(iii) the first-mentioned company is a
subsidiary of any company which is that
other’s subsidiary.
(4) In determining whether one company is a
subsidiary of another

(a) any shares held or power exercisable by
that other in a fiduciary capacity shall be
treated as not held or exercisable by it;
(b) subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c)
and (d). any shares held or power exercisable

(i) ,by any person as a nominee for
that other except where that other is
concerned only in a fiduciary capacity
; or

(ii) by, or by a nominee for a subsidiary
of that other, not being a subsidiary
which is concerned only in a fiduciary
capacity,
shall be treated as held or exercisable by that
other;

(c) any shares held or power exercisable by
any person by virtue of the provisions of any
debentures of the first mentioned company
or of a trust deed for securing the issue of
such debentures shall be disregarded ;
(d) any shares held or power exercisable by,
or by a nominee of, that other or its subsidiary
(not being hold or exercisable as referred to
in paragraph (c)) shall be treated as not held
or exercisable by that other, if the ordinary
business of that other or its subsidiary, as the
case may be, includes the lending of money,
and the shares are held or power is
exercisable as aforesaid by way of security,
only for the purposes of a transaction entered
into in the ordinary course of that business.
(5) For the purposes of this Act, a company shall be
deemed to be another’s holding company if, and only
if, that other is its subsidiary.

(6) In this Part the expression ” equity share capital” in
relation to a company, means its issued share capital
excluding any part thereof which, neither in respect of
dividends nor as respects capital, carries any right to
participate beyond a specified amount in a
distributionPART III
CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS, RESERVE FUNDS AND MAINTENANCE OF LIQUID ASSETS
Compliance 18. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other written law
with
no licensed commercial bank shall on or after the appointed
provisions of date, commence or carry on business in Sri Lanka unless it
this Part
complies with all the requirements specified in this Part.
essential.
Capital.
19.
(1) Every licensed commercial bank shall at all times
maintain an unimpaired capital in an amount not less
than twenty-five million rupees.
(2) The unimpaired capital shall be

(a) paid up if it is a licensed commercial bank
incorporated or'” established in Sri Lanka by
or under any written law ;

(b) assigned to such bank by the head office if
it is a licensed commercial bank incorporated
or established outside Sri Lanka:

Provided however, the Monetary Board may having
regard to the deposit liabilities or to the total liabilities
including contingent liabilities, or to the total assets or
to any specified categories of such assets, of a bank,
after a period of five years from the appointed date,
vary from time to time the amount specified as the
minimum amount required to be maintained by a
licensed commercial bank as unimpaired capital. The
Monetary Board shall, in writing, communicate to all
licensed commercial banks any variation made by it in
respect of the unimpaired capital required to be
maintained by a licensed commercial bank. Where any
licensed commercial bank is required by such variation
to augment its capital, it shall upon application to the
Monetary Board,-be afforded a Period of twelve
months, or such longer period as may be granted by
the Monetary Board, in which to comply with that
requirement.

(3) For the purpose of computing the minimum
required capital, when such amount is prescribed in
reference to liabilities or assets, both capital and
liabilities or assets shall be of such kind and computed
in such manner as the Monetary Board may form time
to time determine, having regard to the interests of
national economy,
(4) In the case of a licensed commercial bank
incorporated or established in Sri Lanka by or under
any written law, the limit of foreign participation in the
capital of such bank, shall at no time exceed the limit,
established from time to time, by the Monetary Board.
(5) A licensed commercial bank shall not reduce its(a) paid-up capital; or

(b) capital assigned to such bank,

without the prior written approval of the
Monetary Board,
(6) A licensed commercial bank shall not create any
charge upon any unpaid capital of such bank and any
such charge created in contravention of these
provisions shall be null and void(7)

(a) Every licensed commercial bank shall at all
times maintain capital funds in an aggregate
amount equivalent to such percentage of the
average of its month-end liabilities including
contingent liabilities, incurred during the
preceding twelve months as may from time to
time be determined by the Monetary Board,
having regard to the interests of national
economy.
(b) Any variation in the percentage referred to
in paragraph (a) shall be communicated to
every licensed commercial bank by the
Monetary Board in writing, provided that
every licensed commercial bank which is
required by such variation to augment its
capital funds, shall be afforded a period of
twelve months or such longer period as may
be granted by the Monetary Board, in which
to comply with such requirement.

(8) Nothing contained in subsections (1) and (?) shall
be construed to mean that the licensed commercial
banks set out in Schedule I of this Act are required to
comply with the provisions of the preceding
subsections before the expiry of twelve months from
the appointed date.
(9) Where the capital or capital funds of a licensed
commercial bank have become deficient in terms of
the provisions of the preceding subsections the
Monetary Board may, grant a reasonable period of
time for the rectification of such deficiency.
Reserve
fund.

20.

(1) Every licensed commercial bank shall maintain a
reserve fund and shall, out of the net profits after the
payment of tax of each year, before any dividend is
declared or any profits are transferred to the head
office or elsewhere, transfer to such reserve fund-

(a) a sum equivalent to not less than five per
centum of such profits until the amount of
the said reserve fund is equal to fifty per
centum of the paid-up or assigned capital of
such bank, as the case may be; and
(b) a further sum equivalent to not less than
two per centum of such profits until the
amount of the said reserve fund is equal to
the paid-up or assigned capital of such bank
as the case may be:

Provided, however, that an amount not less than
twenty-five per centum of the net profits shall be
utilised for setting off such intangible assets as may be
determined by the Monetary Board, before such
profits are transferred to the reserve fund.

(2) The reserve fund of any licensed commercial bank
shall not be reduced nor impaired:

Provided, however, that the Monetary Board may,
specify circumstances in which the reserve fund may
be reduced, and shall permit a reduction when a
transfer is made for the purpose of increasing the
paid-up or assigned capital, as the case may be. The
Monetary Board shall permit an impairment of the
reserve fund when it is the only means of preventing
an impairment of paid-up of assigned capital, as the
case may be, subject to the condition that within a
given period of time, the deficiency shall be rectified.
Liquid
Assets

21.

(1) Every licensed commercial bank shall maintain
liquid assets in such amount as may from time to time
be determined by the Monetary Board having regard
to the nature of the business carried on by such bank,
which shall not in a daily average each month, be less
than such percentage of the total of its liabilities, less
its liabilities to the Central Bank and to the
shareholders:
Provided, however, the percentage determined by the
Monetary Board shall not be less than twenty per
centum and not more than forty per centum of the
total of its liabilities, less its liabilities to the Central
Bank and to the shareholders.

(2) The Director of Bank Supervision may, by notice in
writing, require every licensed commercial bank to
furnish to him such return or returns as he may deem
necessary for the purposes of satisfying himself that
the provisions of subsection (1) have been complied
with, and every licensed commercial bank so noticed,
shall furnish such return or returns as may be required.

(3) Any licensed commercial bank which fails to com
ply with the provisions of subsection (1) shall, within
such time as may be determined by the Monetary
Board, pay to the Central Bank a charge on the
amount of the deficiency calculated at such rate as
may be determined by the Monetary Board.
(4) Any licensed commercial bank which fails to
comply with the provisions of subsection (3) shall be
guilty of art offence under this Act.

Payment of 22. No licensed commercial bank incorporated or established
dividends. within Sri Lanka by or under any written law shall pay arty
dividend on its shares and no licensed commercial bank
incorporated outside Sri Lanka shall transfer abroad any profits
earned in Sri Lanka, until all its capitalized expenses, including
preliminary expenses and other items of expenditure not
represented by tangible assets, have been completely written off.

Licence to
engage in
off-shore
banking.

PART IV
OFF-SHORE BANKING BUSINESS
23. No off-shore banking business shall be carried on except by a
commercial bank Licensed to carry on off-share banking and
such back shall carry on its business in accordance with such offshore banking scheme formulated by the Monetary Board :

Provided that the banks specified in Schedule I, which on the
appointed date are carrying on off-shore banking business under
the ” Foreign Currency Banking Scheme” established by the
Monetary Board shall be issued a licence in terms of section 5
enabling such banks to carry on off shore banking business
under this Part.

Parts III, V 24. All off-shore operations of a licensed commercial bank under
and VI not to this Part shall be carried on by its off-shore unit, and Parts III, V
apply to
and VI of this Act shall not apply in respect of off-shore banking
offshore
business.
banking.
Nature of 25. The Monetary Board may, by order made with the approval of
business an the Minister authorize an off-shore unit of a licensed commercial
off-shore bank subject to such terms and conditions as the Monetary
unit is
Board may, with the approval of the Minister, impose, having
authorized regard to the interests of national economy, to carry on all or any
to carry on. of the following businesses;
(a) accept time and demand deposits from any nonresident in any designated foreign currency provided
that, in the case of time deposits, such deposits shall
not be less than ten thousand United States dollars, or
its equivalent, or such higher amount as may be
determined by the Monetary Board, and provided that
no savings accounts from which funds are withdraw
able by cheque shall be opened by such off-shore unit;
(b) borrow any sum in a designated foreign currency
from any non-resident;
(c) extend accommodation to any non-resident in any
designated foreign currency;
(d) engage in any transaction in. any designated
foreign currency with any other off-shore unit; and

(e) engage in any other transaction authorized by the
Monetary Board with the approval of the Minister, in
arty designated foreign currency.
Monetary
Board to
authorize
off-shore
banking

26. The Monetary Board may with the approval of the Minister,

by order authorize licensed commercial banks to engage in offshore banking business in any or all of the businesses specified
under section 25, subject to such terms and conditions as the
Monetary Board may specify with the approval of the Minister
having regard to the interests of national economy.

Off-shore 27. Every licensed commercial bank shall, in respect of its offunit to
shore unit, prepare
prepare
(a) a balance sheet as at the last working day of each
balance
financial year of such licensed commercial bank;
sheet and
(b) a profit and loss account in respect of such year.
profit and
loss account
Monetary 28. The Monetary Board may specify the form of the balance
Board to
sheet and profit and loss account referred to in section 27 and
specify form the balance sheet and profit and loss account shall be prepared
of balance in such form as is specified.
sheet and
profit and
loss account.
Off-shore 29. The provisions of Part HI, Part VI and Part VII of Chapter V of
banking
the Monetary Law Act, shall not apply in respect of off-shore
units exemptunits.
from
provisions of
the
Monetary
Law Act.
Preparation 30.
of Annual
(1) Every commercial bank engaged in off-shore
Report.
banking business, shall appoint annually, a qualified
auditor to audit the accounts of its off-shore unit and
such auditor shall submit a report to such licensed
commercial bank in respect of the accounts, balance
sheet and profit and loss account of such off-shore
unit. The auditor shall state in his report whether in his
opinion, the balance sheet and profit and loss account
are full and fair and properly drawn up and whether
they exhibit a true and correct statement of affairs of
the licensed commercial bank,
(2) A certified copy of the report shall be sent to the
Monetary Board, and if. the Monetary Board is of the
opinion that the auditor has not discharged his duty to
the best of his ability the Board may, order the
licensed commercial bank to appoint another auditor
for the purpose of preparing a fresh report

Monetary
Board to
cause
examination
consequent
to auditor’s
report.

31. The Monetary Board may cause an examination, of any off-

shore unit to be made by officers duly authorized by it, in that
behalf, in consequence of the auditor’s report, or the auditor’s
failure to submit a report, or because of other relevant
information that affords the Monetary Board reasonable grounds
to believe that the off-shore unit is not in a sound financial
condition or that it is engaging is fraudulent unsafe or unsound
banking practices or that the requirements of this Part have not
been complied with in the carrying on of its business.

Maintenance 32. Every off-shore banking unit shall maintain the books.,
of books
minutes, accounts, cash securities, vouchers, other documents
accounts,& and records as may be determined by the . Monetary Board,
c,.
having regard to the nature of the business carried on by such
off-shore unit.
Powers of 33.
the Director
of bank
Supervision
over offshore unit

(1) It shall be lawful for the Director of Bank
Supervision or any officer of the Department of Bank
Supervision or any officer authorized under section 31

(a) to require any director, officer or employee
of any off-shore unit to furnish him with such
information as he may consider necessary to
obtain, for the purpose of ascertaining the
true condition of the affairs of any off-shore
unit;

(b) to require any such director, officer, or
employee to produce for inspection by him at
such time as he may specify any books,
minutes, accounts, cash, securities, vouchers
other documents and records in the
possession of such director, officer or
employee containing or likely to contain any
such information.
(2) It shall be the duty of every director, officer or
employee of any off-shore unit to afford to the
Director of Bank Supervision or to any officer of his
department or any officer authorized under section 31
whenever required so to do, in terms of subsection (1),
the fullest opportunity to examine books, minutes,
accounts, cash, securities, vouchers, other documents
and records in his possession containing or likely to
contain any such information,
(3) If any books, minutes, accounts, cash, securities,
vouchers, other documents and records are not
produced or information not furnished in accordance
with the provisions of subsection (2), the officer so
defaulting shall be guilty of an offence under this Act.
Power of
34. Subject to the provisions of this Part, the Monetary Board
Monetary may, from time to time, call for information, reports and returns
Board to call as it may deem necessary for the purposes of this Part and may
for
publish information and data extracted therefrom which does not
information. disclose particulars of individual transactions,
PART V
ACCOUNTS, AUDIT, INFORMATION AND INSPECTION
Preparation 35. Every licensed commercial bank shall prepare at the
of balance expiration of each financial year.
sheet and
(a) a balance sheet as at the last working day of such
profit and
financial year; and
loss account.
(b) a profit and loss account in respect of such year,
Balance
sheet.

36.

(1) The balance sheet of a licensed commercial batik
shall set out the state of affairs of such bank as at the
end of the financial year to which such balance sheet
relates.
(2) There shall be shown in the balance sheet or in any
statement annexed thereto

(a) capitalized expenses not represented by
tangible assets under separate headings, so
far as they are not written off ;
(b) the market value of investments;

(c) the method adopted to value fixed assets
if there had been any valuation of such assets
during the financial year;
(d) the aggregate amounts of advances after
the provisions for bad and doubtful debts ;
(e) any increase or decrease in the provision
for depreciation, renewals or diminution in
the value of fixed assets;
(f) the sources and applications of funds;
(g) reserves, provisions and
distinguishable from each other;

liabilities

(h) except in the case of the first balance
sheet after the coming into force of this Part
of this Act the corresponding amounts at the
end of the immediately preceding financial
year for all items shown in the balance sheet.

profit and 37. There shall be shown in the profit and loss account or in any
loss account, statement annexed thereto

(a) the amount charged to revenue by way of provision
for depreciation, renewals or diminution in value of
fixed assets;

(b) the amount charged to revenue for Sri Lanka
income tax and other Sri Lanka taxation on profits and
distinguishable from such accounts, the amounts, of
material, set aside or proposed to be set aside for
liabilities in respect of tax due in the current year of
taxation or a succeeding year ;
(c) the aggregate amount of dividends paid or
proposed to be paid;
(d) the amount of remuneration of auditors ;

(e) the amount charged to revenue representing the
aggregate amount of the emoluments of directors;

(f) the amount set aside or proposed to be set aside to,
or withdrawn from, reserves ;

(g) under separate headings, the profit or loss or the
income and expenses arising from transactions such
as are not usually carried on by banking companies
and are carried on owing to circumstances of an
exceptional or non recurrent nature or by a change in
the basis of accounting ;

(h) except in the case of the first profit and loss
account after the coming into force of this Part of this
Act. the corresponding amount at the end of the
immediately preceding financial year for all items
shown in the profit and loss account.
Publications 38.
of balance
sheet and
profit and
loss account.

(1) Every licensed commercial batik incorporated or
established within Sri Lanka by or under any written
law shall transmit to the Director of Bank Supervision,
and publish within five months after the close of the
financial year its balance sheet as at the close of the
financial year, and exhibit them in a conspicuous place
of each of its places of business until the balance
sheet and profit and loss account for the succeeding
financial year are prepared and exhibited.
(2) Every licensed commercial bank incorporated
outside Sri Lanka shall transmit to the Director of Bank
Supervision within five months of the close of each
financial year its balance sheet as at the close of the
financial year and its profit and loss account for such
financial year in respect of Its business in Sri Lanka.

(3) The Monetary Board may specify the form of the
balance sheet and profit and loss account referred to
in this Part and where such form is specified, the
balance sheet and profit and loss account of every
licensed commercial bank shall be prepared in such
form as may be specified.
(4) Every commercial bank licensed to carry on
banking business in Sri Lanka shall within six months
of the close of the financial year, exhibit in a
conspicuous place within the place of business of such
commercial bank
(a) the profit and loss account for such
financial year in respect of its business within
Sri Lanka including the business of its offshore unit; and

(b) the consolidated balance sheet as at the
end of such financial year setting out the
state of affairs of such commercial bank and
of its affiliates and subsidiaries, until its next
profit and loss account and balance sheet are
exhibited.

Appointment39.
of auditor.

(1) Every licensed commercial bank shall appoint
annually a qualified auditor to audit the accounts of
such bank. The duties of such auditor shall be

(a) in the case of a licensed commercial bank
incorporated or established within Sri Lanka
by or under any written law, to prepare a
report in respect of the accounts balance
sheet and profit and loss account examined
by him, to be submitted to each of its
shareholders; and
(b) In the case of a licensed commercial bank
incorporated outside Sri Lanka, to submit a
report to its head office in respect of the
accounts, balance sheet and the profit and
loss account examined by him.

(2) Every such report, which shall be completed within
three months of the end of the financial year, shall
contain a statement by the auditor as to whether in his
opinion the balance sheet and profit and loss account
contain a full wad fair and properly drawn up
statement and whether they represent a true and
correct statement of the bank’s affairs, and if the
auditor has called for as explanation or any
Information from the officers or agents of such
licensed commercial bank whether such explanation or
information Is satisfactory,

(3) The report of the auditor made in accordance with
subsections (1) and (2) shall, in the case of a licensed
commercial bank incorporated or established within
Sri Lanka by or under any written law, be read
together with the report of the Board of Directors of
the licensed commercial bank at the annual general
meeting of its share-holders, and; in the case of a
licensed commercial bank incorporated outside Sri
Lanka, be transmitted to the head office of such
licensed commercial bank. A copy of such report shall
be transmitted to the Director of Bank Supervision.
Where the Director of Bank Supervision is not satisfied
with the report of the auditor, he may make a request
to the Monetary Board for the appointment of a new
auditor to submit a fresh report.
(4) If a licensed commercial bank fails to appoint an
auditor under subsection (1) or the Director of Bank
Super vision has made a request to the Monetary
Board in terms of subsection (3), the Monetary Board
shall have the power to appoint an auditor for such
licensed commercial bank.

(5) Every auditor appointed under subsection (1) or (4)
shall have a right of access at all times to the books,
accounts and vouchers and all documents and records
belonging to the licensed commercial bank, which he
considers necessary for the performance of his duties,
and he shall be entitled to require from the officers of
such bank such information and explanations as he
thinks necessary for the performance and proper
discharge of his duties and functions as auditor.
(6) The remuneration of the auditor, whether
appointed by the licensed commercial bank or by the
Monetary Board, shall be paid by the licensed
commercial bank and, in the case of an auditor
appointed by the Monetary Board under subsection
(4), he shall be paid such amount as may be
determined by the Monetary Board.

(7) No person having an interest in any licensed
commercial bank or any director, officer, employee,
agent of such licensed commercial bank shall be
eligible for appointment as auditor for that licensed
commercial bank. Any person appointed as auditor
who shall after such appointment acquire any interest
in or become a director, officer, employee or agent of
such licensed commercial bank shall forthwith cease to
act as such auditor.
(8) Nothing contained in this section shall apply to the
audit of the accounts of any licensed commercial bank
which is a public corporation.

Consequences40. Where any licensed commercial bank has, due to
of failure to circumstances beyond its control, failed to comply with the
submit audit provisions of section 35, or where an auditor appointed by such
report&,. c. licensed commercial bank has, due to reasons beyond his
control, failed to complete the audit report as specified, the
Monetary Board may, on an application made by such licensed
commercial bank, grant a reasonable period of time for
compliance with the preceding provisions of this Part.
Monetary 41.
Board to
cause
examination
of a licensed
commercial
bank or any
of it
subsidiaries.

(1) The Monetary Board shall, from time to time, cause
an examination of any licensed commercial bank or
any of its subsidiaries, to be made by an officer duly
authorized by it, whenever it appears to the Board that
such examination is necessary or expedient in order to
examine whether such licensed commercial bank is in
a sound financial condition and whether the carrying
on of business by the licensed commercial bank has
been in accordance with the provisions of this Act or
any other written law.

(2) Every licensed commercial bank and any subsidiary
of such licensed commercial bank referred to in
subsection (1) shall permit the officer authorized by
the Monetary Board, to inspect at any time as
requested by such officer all books, minutes, accounts,
cash, securities, vouchers other documents and record
relating to its business and shall be required to furnish
such information concerning its business as may be
requested by such officer.
(3) If any books, minutes, accounts, cash, securities,
vouchers, other documents and records are not
produced or information not furnished in accordance
with the provisions of subsection (2) or if any
information furnished or item produced is false in any
material particular the defaulting licensed commercial
bank or subsidiary or both, as the case may be, shall
be guilty of an offence under this Act.

PART VI
DISQUALIFICATION FOR APPOINTMENT AS DIRECTOR, SECRETARY, &c. OF LICENSED COMMERCIAL BANKS
Disqualification42.
for being
(1) No person shall be appointed or elected as a
appointed or
director of a licensed commercial bank if he
elected
(a) is a person who, having been declared
director.
insolvent or a bankrupt under any law in Sri
Lanka or in any other country, is an
undischarged insolvent or bankrupt; or
(b) is serving or has served a sentence of
imprisonment imposed by any court in Sri
Lanka or any other country; or
(c) has been convicted of any act which is of a
fraudulent or illegal character,

(2) A director of a licensed commercial bank shall be
removed from the office of director if

(a) he becomes subject to any of the
disqualifications mentioned in subsection (1) ;
or

(b) he becomes permanently incapable of
performing his duties ; or
(c) he has been convicted of any act which is
of a fraudulent or illegal character; or
(d) has done an act or thing which is
manifestly opposed to the objectives and
interests of the licensed commercial bank.

Secretary of 43. No licensed commercial bank shall have as Secretary of such
a licensed licensed commercial bank, a person other than an employee of
commercial such licensed commercial bank;.
bank.
Disqualification44.
for being
(1) No person shall be appointed as Manager,
appointed as
Secretary or other official of a licensed commercial
Manager or
bank and any person appointed as Manager, Secretary
Secretary of a
or other official of such bank shall be removed from
Licensed
office if he
commercial
(a) is a person, who, having been declared
bank.
insolvent or a bankrupt under any law in Sri
Lanka or in any other country, is an
undischarged insolvent or bankrupt;
(b) is serving or has served a sentence of
imprisonment imposed by any court in Sri
Lanka or by any other country; or
(c) has been convicted of any act which is of a
fraudulent or illegal character.

(2) No person who has been a director or has been a
chief executive officer of a licensed commercial bank
which has been wound up by an Order of court shall,
without the written approval of the Monetary Board,
act as a director or chief executive officer of a licensed
commercial bank.
(3) No licensed commercial bank shall employ or be
managed by a managing agent other than an
employee of such licensed commercial bank.
PART VII
CONTROL OVER LICENSED COMMERCIAL BANKS
Power of the 45.
Director of
(1) Where the Director of Bank Supervision is of the
Bank
opinion that a licensed commercial bank
Supervision.
(a) is engaging in unsafe or unsound practices
in the carrying on of its business, which

(i) is likely to jeopardize its obligations
to its depositors ; or
(ii) is likely to result in such bank being
unable to meet its obligations ; or

(b) has contravened or failed to comply with
the provisions of the Monetary Law Act or the
provisions of this Act,
he may issue an order directing such licensed
commercial bank

(a) to cease and desist from any such
practice or contravention; or

(b) to comply with the provisions of
the Monetary Law Act or the
provisions of this Act; or

(c) to take necessary action to correct
the conditions resulting from such
practice or contravention.
(2) Any licensed commercial bank dissatisfied with an
order given under subsection (1), may, before the
expiry of thirty days from the date of the issue of such
order, appeal in writing to the Monetary Board and the
Monetary Board shall render its decision within fifteen
days of receipt of such appeal.
Monetary 46.
Board to
give
directions to
licensed
commercial
banks.

(1) The Monetary Board may give directions as it may
deem necessary to all or any licensed commercial bank
specifying
(a) the class or classes of advances which may
or may commercial not be made by such bank
;

(b) the margins to be maintained in respect of
secured advances ;

(c) the maximum amount of accommodation
which, having regard to the paid-up capital,
reserves and deposits of such licensed
commercial bank and other relevant
considerations, as may be made by such bank
to any one company, public corporation, firm,
association of persons or individuals, or in the
aggregate, to an individual, his close relations
or a company or firm in which he has a
substantial interest;
(d) the maximum percentage of the share
capital in a licensed commercial bank
incorporated in Sri Lanka

(i) held by a company, an incorporated
body, or an individual;
(ii) in the aggregate by

(a) a company and one or more
of the following:(aa) its subsidiaries;

(bb) its holding company;

(cc) a subsidiary of its
holding company ; or

(dd) a company in which,
such, company or its
subsidiary, or its holding
company, or a subsidiary
of its holding company has
a substantial interest; or
(b) an individual and one or
more of the following:
(aa) his close relations;

(bb) a company in which he
has a substantial interest
or in which his close
relation has a substantial
interest;
(cc) the subsidiary of such
company ;

(dd) a holding company of
such company;

(ee) a subsidiary of such
company’s
holding
company ;

(ff) a company in which
such company, or its
subsidiary, or its holding
company or a subsidiary of
its holding company has a
substantial interest; or
(gg) an incorporated body
other than a company in
which such-individual or
his close relation has a
substantial interest.

(2) A direction issued under subsection (1) shall have
effect notwithstanding that such direction will require
a licensed commercial bank to effect a change in the
nature or amount of any of its assets or liabilities,
whether acquired or incurred before or after the date
of the coming into operation of this Act, provided that
a licensed commercial bank which is required to so
effect a change, is afforded a period of twelve months
from the date of such direction or such longer period
as may be granted by the Monetary Board in which to
comply with that requirement.

(3) In order to comply with a direction issued to it
under paragraph (d) of sub-section (1), a licensed
commercial bank may direct a person holding shares
in such bank to reduce the number of shares held by
such person in such bank, whether such shares were
acquired by such person before or after the appointed
date, within, such period as may be specified in such
direction; and it shall be the duty of such person to
comply with such direction.

(4) A person who fails to comply with a direction given
to him under sub-section (3) shall be guilty of an
offence under this Act, and shall on conviction after
summary trial by a Magistrate be liable to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding eighteen
months or to a fine not exceeding one thousand
rupees or to both, such imprisonment and fine.
Conditions for 47.
the grant of a
loan by way of
accommodation.

(1) The provisions of this section shall apply wily to
licensed commercial banks carrying on domestic
banking business.
(2) No licensed commercial bank shall grant
accommodation against the security of
(a) its own shares ; or

(b) shares of companies which have a
substantial interest in it; or

(c) shares of companies in which the
companies referred to in paragraph (b) have
substantial interest.
(3) No licensed commercial bank shall grant any
accommodation. to any of its directors or to a close
relation of such director, unless such security as may
from time to time be approved by the Monetary
Board, is given, and such accommodation is
sanctioned at a meeting of the Board of Directors with
not less than two thirds of the number of directors
constituting the Board of Directors of the licensed
commercial bank (other than the director concerned),
voting in favour of such accommodation.

(4) Accommodation granted by a licensed commercial
bank to a director or to a close relation of such
director shall not exceed the amount of the
accommodation, if arty, extended to him or such close
relation, and outstanding on the day prior to the date
of his appointment as a director or on the day prior to
the appointed date, whichever is later, or rupees five
hundred thousand, whichever is more, and such
accommodation is secured by such security as may
from time to time he approved by the Monetary Board
for the purposes of this section.
(5) No licensed commercial bank shall grant
accommodation to any concern in which, such director
who on the day prior to the date of his appointment as
a director or on the date prior to the appointed date,
whichever is earlier, has a substantial Interest, unless
such a security, as may from time to time be approved
by the Monetary Board is given, and such
accommodation is sanctioned at a meeting of the
Board of Directors, with not less than two thirds of the
number of directors constituting the Board of
Directors of the licensed commercial bank (other than
the director concerned), voting in favour of such
accommodation.

(6) Where any accommodation has been granted by
licensed commercial bank to a person or a close
relation of a person or to any concern in which the
person has a substantial interest and if the person is a
director of that licensed commercial bank on the
appointed date or is appointed a director after the
appointed date, steps shall be taken to obtain such
security as may be approved for that purpose by the
Monetary Board, within one year from the appointed
date or from the date of appointment as director,
whichever is applicable.
(7) Where such security has not been, provided as
specified in subsection (6), the licensed commercial
bank shall take steps to recover any amount due on
account of any accommodation together with interest,
if any, due thereon

(a) within the period specified at the time of
the grant of accommodation or at the expiry
of a period of six months of the termination
of the period specified in subsection (6),
whichever is earlier ;
(b) where no period has been specified, at the
expiry of a period of one year of the
termination of the period specified in
subsection (6) :

Provided that the Monetary Board may, in any
case, on an application in writing made to it
by the licensed commercial bank in that
behalf, extend the period for the recovery of
the accommodation until a date, not beyond
the period of three years commencing from
the expiry of six months specified in
paragraph (a) :
Provided further, that the provisions of this
subsection and of subsection (6) shall not
apply if and when the director concerned
vacates such office whether by death,
retirement, resignation or otherwise.

(8) Where no security has been provided within the
period specified in subsection (6), or the amount due
has not been repaid in tense of subsection (7) in
respect of an accommodation granted to a director or
to a concern in which the director has a substantial
interest such Director shall be deemed to have vacated
office on the expiry of the period specified in
subsection (7).

(9) Every director of a licensed commercial bank, who
is in any manner whatsoever, whether directly or
indirectly, Interested in any accommodation or
proposed accommodation from that licensed
commercial bank, shall as soon as is practicable,
declare the nature of his interest to the Board of
Directors and the Secretary or Manager of such
licensed commercial bank shall cause the declaration
to be circulated forthwith to all the directors,

(10) A director shall not take part in any deliberations
or decisions of the Board with regard to any business
trans acted or proposed to be transacted by a licensed
commercial bank in which the director or a close
relation of the director, or a concern in which the
director has a substantial interest, is interested, and
the director shall withdraw from the meeting of the
Board at which such business is discussed or
transacted while the deliberation is in progress or
decision is being made.

(11) No accommodation or any part thereof granted
by a licensed commercial bank to a director or to a
close relation of the director or to a concern in which
the director has a substantial interest shall be remitted
without the prior approval of the Monetary Board, and
any remission without such approval shall be void and
of no effect.

(12) Any director who contravenes the provisions of
sub sections (9) and (10) shall be guilty of an offence
under this Act.
(13) For the purpose of this section

” company ” shall not include a company incorporated
outside Sri Lanka ;

” director ” shall not include a director of a licensed
commercial bank incorporated outside Sri Lanka.
Licensed
48.
commercial
bank not to
engage in
buying
selling, &c,.

(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any other
written law or in any contract, no licensed commercial
bank shall directly or indirectly deal in the buying or
selling or bartering of goods, except in connection
with the realization of security given to or held by it, or
engage In any trade, or buy, sell or barter goods for
others, otherwise, than in connection with bills of
exchange received for collection or negotiation or with
such of its business as is referred to in Schedule II or in
any other law or in the Bank at Ceylon Ordinance
(Chapter 387) or in the People’s Bank Act, No. 29 of
1961, where the provisions of these enactments are
applicable.
(2) The provisions of the preceding subsection shall
not apply to any such business as aforesaid, which was
being carried on by a bank on the appointed date:

Provided that the said business shall be completed
before the expiry of one year from the appointed date.
Prohibition 49. Without the prior approval obtained in writing of the
in the sale, Monetary Board, no licensed commercial bank shall sell, transfer,
transfer,& c,. assign or dispose of any of its immovable assets below the
of
market value of the assets or increase the valuation of the assets
immovable as recorded in the books of the bank above the market value of
assets.
the assets.
PART VIII
LIQUIDATION OF LICENSED COMMERCIAL BANKS INCORPORATED WITHIN SRI LANKA AND CLOSURE OF BRANCHES OP
LICENSED COMMERCIAL BANKS INCORPORATED OUTSIDE SRI LANKA
Liquidator. 50, The Director of Bank Supervision shall be appointed as the
liquidator for the purposes of this Part.
Liquidation. 51. No voluntary liquidation of a licensed commercial bank
incorporated or established in Sri Lanka by or under any written
law shall be effected without the prior authorization of the
Monetary Board obtained in writing. The authorization shall be
granted only if it appears to the Monetary Board that
(a) the licensed commercial bank is solvent and has
sufficient liquid assets to repay its depositors and
other creditors without delay ; and

(b) the liquidation has been approved by the
affirmative vote of the shareholders of at least threefourths of the outstanding shares entitled to vote at a
meeting called expressly for this purpose :
Provided that if the liquidation is to be affected in
whole or in part through the sale of any of the assets
of the licensed commercial bank to, and the
assumption of its deposit liabilities by, another
licensed commercial bank, the Monetary Board may,
upon a finding of imminent danger of insolvency,
waive the requirement for shareholder approval:

Provided further, that the provisions of paragraph (c)
of subsection (1) of section 12 shall not apply to such
assumption of liabilities.

Licensed
52. Where a licensed commercial bank has received the
commercial authorization of the Monetary Board to liquidate, such bank shall
bank to
(a) immediately cease to carry on business, exercising
cease to
only such powers as are necessary to effect an orderly
carry on
liquidation;
business
(b) repay sums of money due to its depositors and
other creditors;
(c) wind up all operations undertaken prior to the
receipt of the authorization.

Notice of 53. Any licensed commercial bank which is subject to voluntary
liquidation liquidation shall, within thirty days of the receipt of the
to be sent to authorization referred to in section 51 cause a notice of
depositors, voluntary liquidation, to be sent by registered post to all
creditors &c. depositors, to the creditors, and persons otherwise entitled to
the funds or property held by such licensed commercial bank as
a fiduciary, lessor or a safe deposit box or bailee. The Monetary
Board shall specify the information to be included in the notice.
The Monetary Board may, where it considers it expedient so to
do, exempt the posting of such notice to specified persons upon
a showing of reasonable cause therefor by such licensed
commercial bank. The notice shall be kept displayed in a
conspicuous place within the place of business of the licensed
commercial bank, and shall be given such other publicity as the
Monetary Board may direct.
Safeguard
rights of
depositors
and
creditors.

54. The authorization to go into voluntary liquidation shall not

Licensed
commercial
bank
removed
from list of
licensed

55. Where the Monetary Board is of the opinion that any licensed

prejudice the rights of a depositor or other creditor or owner to
payment in full of his claim and the rights on an owner of funds
or other property held by the licensed commercial bank. All
lawful claims shall be paid promptly and all funds and other
property held by the licensed commercial bank shall be returned
to their rightful owners within such maximum period as the
Monetary Board may determine.
commercial bank has discharged all its obligations as referred to
in section 54 the name of such bank shall be removed from the
list of licensed commercial banks and the outstanding assets
shall be distributed among its rightful owners in proportion to
their respective rights. No distributions shall be made until

commercial
banks.

(a) all claims of depositors or other creditors or owners
have been paid and, in the case of disputed claims,
before the licensed commercial bask has transmitted
to the Central Bank sufficient funds to meet any
liability that may arise after a judicial decision;
(b) any funds payable to depositors, other creditors
and owners who have not claimed them, have been
transmitted to the Central Bank ;

(c) any other funds or property held by the licensed
commercial bank which could not be returned to the
rightful owner in accordance with the provisions of this
section, have been dealt with in accordance with
section 72.
Compulsory 56. Where the Monetary Board is of the opinion that
liquidation.
(a) the assets of a licensed commercial bank whose
voluntary liquidation, it has authorized, will not be
sufficient for the full discharge of all its obligations ; or
(b) the completion of voluntary liquidation is unduly
delayed,

it shall forthwith take steps to revoke the licence
issued to such bank and commence proceedings for
the compulsory liquidation of such bank in conformity
with the procedures set out hereunder.
Director to
take charge
of all books
records and
assets.

57. When the cancellation of the licence of a licensed commercial

bank incorporated or established in Sri Lanka has become final in
terms of subsection (3) of section 9, the licensed commercial
bank shall forthwith suspend its business within and outside Sri
Lanka, and the Director of Bank Supervision shall direct that
liquidation proceedings in accordance with the provisions of this
Act be taken. As soon as possible after initiating the liquidation
proceedings an inventory or the assets and contingent liabilities
of the licensed commercial bank shall be made and a copy
thereof transmitted to the Monetary Board, which copy shall be
available at the office of the Monetary Board for examination by
the parties having an interest in the business of such bank.

Director of 58. The Director of Bank Supervision shall be vested with the full
Bank
and exclusive power of management and control of the affairs of
Supervision any licensed commercial bank for the purpose of compulsory
to have full liquidation and shall have the power
management
(a) to wind up its operations by the institution of
and control
liquidation proceedings in Court;
for the
(b) to stop or limit the payments of its obligations;
purpose of
liquidation.
(c) to execute any instrument in the same of the
licensed commercial bank; and

(d) to initiate, defend and conduct in its name any
action or proceedings to which the licensed
commercial bank may be a party.
Claims& c,. 59. Under liquidation proceedings
to be
(a) any term, statutory, contractual or otherwise, on
extended
the expiration of which a claim or right of the licensed
where
commercial bank would expire or be extinguished,
liquidation
shall by she operation of this section, be extended by
proceedings
six months from the date of the commencement of the
have been
proceedings;
instituted.
(b) any attachment or lien, except a lien existing six
months prior to the date as specified in paragraph (A),
shall be vacated, and no attachment or lien, except a
lien created by the Director of Bank Supervision, in the
application of the provisions of this Part, shall attach
to, any property or assets of the licensed commercial
bank in liquidation;
(c) any transfer of any assets of the licensed
commercial bank made after or in contemplation of its
insolvency shall be void,

Power at
60.
Director of
Bank Supervision to
terminate
contracts&
c,.

(1) Within a period of six months from the date on
which the cancellation of a licence becomes final, the
Director of Bank Supervision may, subject to the
provisions of any other law for the time being in force,
terminate
(a) any contract of employment entered into
with such bank;
(b) any contract for services to which such
licensed commercial bank was a party; or

(c) any obligation of the licensed commercial
banks including its obligations, if any, as a
lessee.
(2) A lessor who shall have received ninety days notice
that the Director of Bank Supervision is exercising
discretionary powers to terminate the lease shall have
no claim for rent other than rent accrued on the date
of termination of the lease, not for damages by reason
of such termination.
Termination 61. As soon as possible after the cancellation of a licence
of fiduciary becomes final, the Director of Bank Supervision shall make a final
functions. distribution by taking such steps as are necessary to terminate all
functions performed In a fiduciary capacity by the licensed
commercial bank and return all assets and property held by the
licensed commercial bank as a fiduciary to the owners thereof,
and settle its fiduciary accounts.

Director of 62. As soon as possible after the cancellation of a licence
Bank
becomes final, the Director of Bank Supervision shall dispatch by
Supervision registered post to all depositors, owners, other creditors, safe
to issue
deposit box lessees, and the bailers of property held by the
statement to licensed commercial bank, a statement of the nature and amount
depositors&c.,for which their claim is shown in the licensed commercial bank’s
books. The statement shall specify that any objections if any
must be filed with the Director of Bank Supervision before a
specified date not later than sixty days from the issue thereof,
and shall invite safe deposit box lessees and bailers to withdraw
their property in person. The Director of Bank Supervision may,
subject to confirmation by the Monetary Board, obtained prior to
the commencement of the sixty day period, exempt the dispatch
of the statements by post to specified persons upon the licensed
commercial bank showing reasonable cause therefor.
Safe deposit 63.
boxes.

(1) Any safe deposit box, the contents of which have
not been withdrawn before the date specified, shall be
open ed to the manner prescribed by the Director of
Bank Super vision. The contents and any unclaimed
property shall be held by the licensed commercial
bank as bailee, and
(a) all monies shall, upon direction by the
Monetary Board, be transferred to a special
account in the Central Bank;

(b) any article other than money shall, upon
direction by the Monetary Board, be referred
to the Minister for a direction as to the
method of disposal of the same.
2. The money referred to in paragraph (a) and articles
referred to in paragraph (b) shall be deemed to be
abandoned property for terms of the provisions of Part
IX. if the owner thereof) has, over a period of ten years
from the date of deposit of such money or articles, as
the case may be, not evidenced an interest in the
same. The provisions of section 72 shall apply in.
respect of such items as from the date of their
transfer.
Functions of 64. Within three months after the date specified in the notice for
Director of filing of objections or such longer period as may be determined
Bank
by Monetary Board, the Director of Bank Supervision, shall
Supervision
(a) reject any claim if he doubts the validity thereof;
in relation to
(b) determine the amount, if any, owing to each
liquidation
identifiable depositor or other creditor and the priority
proceedings
attaching to his claim under the provisions of this Act;
of a licensed
commercial
(c) prepare a Schedule of the scheme of work he
bank.
proposes to take;

(d) notify each person whose claim has not been
allowed in full, and publish once a week for three
consecutive weeks, a notice in three daily newspapers
in the Sinhala, Tamil and English languages, which
contains on intimation of the date and place, where
the Schedule of the scheme of work he proposes to
take, will be available for inspection.
The date so intimated, shall be a date not sooner than
thirty days from the date of the third publication in the
newspaper, upon which the Director of Bask
Supervision will file the Schedule in Court.

Objection to 65. Within twenty one days after the filing of the Schedule
Schedule. referred to in paragraph (c) of section 64, any depositor creditor,
shareholder or other interested person may file objections to any
step proposed to be taken. Any objections so filed shall be
considered by the Court upon such notice to the Director of Bank
Supervision and interested parties as the Court may specify. If an
objection is sustained, the Court shall direct that an appropriate
modification be made to the Schedule. After filing the Schedule
the Director of Bank Supervision may, from time to time, make
partial distribution to the holders of claims which are undisputed
or which have been allowed by the Court, on condition that a
proper reserve is established for the payment of disputed claims.
As soon as possible after all objections have been decided upon,
the Director of Bank Supervision shall make the final distribution.
Priority of
claims.

66.

(1) The claims set nut hereunder shall have priority as
against the general assets of the licensed commercial
bank in the order indicated below

(a) necessary and reasonable expenses
incurred by the Director of Bank Supervision
in the application of the provisions of this
Part;

(b) wages and salaries of officer’s and
employees of the licensed commercial bank in
liquidation for the three month period
preceding the revocation of the licence of the
licensed commercial bank;
(c) taxes, rates, and deposits owed to the
Government and Local authorities;

(d) fees and assessments due to the Monetary
Board ;
(e) savings and time deposits to the extent of
rupees five thousand or less ;
(f) other deposits.

(2) Alter payment of all other claims filed, with interest
thereon calculated at a rate to be fixed by the Director
of Bank Supervision, with the approval of the Court,
any remaining claims which were not filed within the
prescribed time shall be paid.
(3) If the amount available in respect of a particular
category of claims is insufficient to provide payment in
full,” the said amount shall be distributed pro-rata
among the parties of that claim-

Distribution 67. Any assets remaining after alt claims have been paid shall be
of assets. distributed among all the shareholders in proportion to their
participation.

Unclaimed 68. Funds remaining unclaimed after the final distribution
funds.
referred to in section 81 is made, which are not subject to the
other provisions under this Act, shall, upon direction by the
Monetary Board, be transferred to a special account in the
Central Bank. The Monetary Board may utilise such funds for
such purposes as may be determined by the Monetary Board
after consultation with the Minister. The funds shall be
abandoned property, in terms of Part IX of this Act, if the owner
has not, within the ten years immediately preceding the date of
the final distribution under section 61, evidenced any interest in
the funds. Section 72 shall apply in respect of such funds as from
the time of their transfer under this section.
Audited
69. Once all assets have been distributed in accordance with the
account to provisions of this Act, the Director of Batik Supervision shall
be
render an audited account to Court. Upon approval of the
submitted to account by Court, and where the Court makes an order to
Court.
terminate the liquidation, the Monetary Board shall be relieved of
any liability in connection with the liquidation. The Director of
Bank Supervision shall proceed to terminate the judicial
existence of the licensed commercial bank concerned, in
accordance with such provisions of the Companies Act, No. 17 of
1982, and applicable thereto, which are not inconsistent with the
provisions of this Act.
Closure of 70.
licensed
commercial
banks
incorporated
outside Sri
Lanka.

(1) When a licensed commercial bank incorporated
outside Sri Lanka wishes to close down its business in
Sri Lanka the approval of the Monetary Board for the
closure shall be granted, subject to such terms and
conditions as the Board may specify. Where approval
is granted by the Board the affairs of the licensed
commercial bank in Sri Lanka shall be wound up in
accordance with the procedures set out in subjection
(4),

(2) When a cancellation of the licence of a licensed
commercial bank incorporated outside Sri Lanka has
been made final under subsection (3) of section 9, the
licensed commercial bank shall terminate its business
in Sri Lanka and its affairs shall be wound up in
accordance with the provisions of subsection (4).

(3) When liquidation proceedings in respect of a
licensed commercial bank incorporated outside Sri
Lanka are started at the place where the head office is
located, the Monetary Board shall order the closure of
the licensed commercial bank in Sri Lanka.
(4) When the business of the licensed commercial
bank is closed down under subsections (1) or (2) or (3),
the licensed commercial bank which is the subject of
liquidation, shall retain only such powers as are
necessary to wind up its affairs within Sri Lanka, which
shall be done expeditiously and in an orderly manner.
The Director of Bank Supervision shall supervise the
winding up under subsection (1) or (2) or (3) of this
section, in accordance with the provisions of
subsections (1) and (3) of section 11, take all measures
necessary to ensure that no assets owned by the
licensed commercial bank, which is the subject of
liquidation are removed from. Sri Lanka until all
obligations and liabilities incurred by such bank, to
which the undertaking referred to in paragraph (c) of
subsection 2 of section 3 relates, have been met In
accordance with the undertaking. The provisions of
sections 63 and 68 shall apply to the winding up of the
affairs under this section,

(5) Where the Monetary Board is of the opinion that
the licensed commercial bank has discharged all the
obligations referred to in the preceding provisions of
this section. the name of such bank shall be removed
from the list of licensed commercial banks.
This Part to
prevail over
any other
law.

71. In the event of conflict or inconsistency between the

Provisions of this Part of this Act and the provisions, of the
Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422) or the Companies Act. No.17 of
1982, the provisions of this Part shall prevail.

Abandoned 72.
property.

PART IX
ABANDONED PROPERTY
(1) In addition to the articles referred to in sections 63
and 68 the articles enumerated in subsection (2) of
this section, held by a licensed commercial bank other
than such articles so held by an offshore unit of a
licensed commercial bank, shall be presumed to be
abandoned if the owner has, within a period of ten
years immediately after the date of deposit, or
payment of funds towards the purchase of shares or
other interests, or issuing of instruments, or the date
upon which funds held in a fiduciary capacity became
payable, or capable of being distributed, or the
expiration of the period for which the safe deposit box
was rented, as the ease may be

(a) not increased or decreased the amount of
the deposit or funds or presented the pass
book or other record for the crediting of
interest or dividends in respect of the articles
enumerated in paragraphs (a) and (b) of
subsection (2) of this section ;
(b) not increased or decreased the principal or
accepted payment of principle or income in
respect of funds held in a fiduciary capacity;

(c) not had any correspondence with the
licensed commercial bank concerning such
articles;
(d) not otherwise indicated an interest in the
articles as evidenced by a memorandum
concerning them by the licensed commercial
bank,
(2) The following shall be the articles referred to in
subsection (1) :

(a) any general deposit (demand, savings or
matured time deposit) made in Sri Lanka with
that licensed commercial bank together with
any interest or dividend thereon excluding
any lawful charges;

(b) any funds paid in Sri Lanka towards the
purchase of shares or other interests in a
licensed commercial bank together with any
interest or dividend, excluding any lawful
charges;
(c) any sum payable on cheques or on written
instruments, on which the licensed
commercial bank is directly liable;

(d) any intangible personal property and any
income or interest thereon held in a fiduciary
capacity for the benefit of another person ;

(e) any contents of a safe deposit box upon
which the rental period has expired and
concerning which notice has been sent by
registered post to the last known address of
the lessee and to which the lessee has failed
to respond within three years.
Abandoned 73.
property to
be
transferred
to a special
account.

(1) Any licensed commercial bank holding any
abandoned property referred to in section 72, shall
make a report to the Monetary Board in such form as
the Monetary Board may determine stating the nature
of the articles held and in the case of money, the
amount of money.

(2) Notwithstanding anything in any other law, all
monies included in the report shall, if the Monetary
Board directs, be transferred by the licensed
commercial bank to a special account in the Central
Bank and may be utilised by the Monetary Board for
such purposes as may be determined by the Monetary
Board after consultation with the Minister.
(3) The articles included in the report that do not fall
under subsection (2) shall be referred by the Monetary
Board to the Minister for such action as he shall
prescribe.
Publication
of notice
regarding
abandoned
property.

74. Within thirty days from the submission of the report required

by subsection (1) of section 73, the licensed commercial bank
shall publish a notice In the Sinhala, Tamil and English daily
newspapers stating the name of the owner and particulars
concerning the property and shall despatch, by registered post a
notice to the owner to his last known address containing
particulars concerning the property, provided that the Monetary
Board may exempt the licensed commercial bank from the
mailing of such notice upon the licensed commercial bank
showing reasonable cause therefor.

Repayment 75.
by the
Central
Bank.

(1) Where any person furnishes proof to the
satisfaction of the Monetary Board that moneys lying
to the credit of an account which was in his name or in
the name of a person from whom he derives title, have
been transferred to a special account in the Central
Bank under section 73 shall, subject to such terms,
conditions or restrictions as are imposed in respect of
such money by or under any written law be entitled to
the repayment of such moneys by the Central Bank
together with the interest payable on such moneys
upto the date of such repayment, in accordance with
such rates and conditions as are applicable to the
recount to the credit of which such money were lying
before they were transferred to the special account in
the Central Bank.

Failure to 76. Any licensed commercial bank which fails to file the report or
deliver
to pay or deliver property presumed to be abandoned as
property
required by section 74 shall be guilty of an offence under this
presumed to Act.
be
abandoned
to be an
offence.

PART X
GENERAL.
Declaration 77. Every director manager, officer or other person employed in
of secrecy. the business of any licensed commercial bank shall, before
entering upon his duties sign a declaration pledging himself to
observe strict secrecy in respect of all transactions of the bank,
its customers and the state of accounts of any person; and all
matters relating thereto, and shall by such declaration pledge
himself not to reveal any other matters which may come to his
knowledge in the discharge of his duties except
(a) when required to do so

(i) by a court of law;

(ii) by the person to whom such matters relate
;
(b) in the performance of his duties ; and

(c) in order to comply with any of the provisions of this
Act or any other law.
Protection 78. No suit or prosecution shall He against any member of the
for action Monetary Board or any officer or servant of the Central Bank for
this Act or any act which in good faith is done or purported to be done by
on the
the Monetary Board or by any officer or servant of the Central
directions of Bank under this Act; or against any director, officer or employee
the
of any licensed commercial bank for any act which in good faith
Monetary is done or purported to be done by him under this Act or on the
Board.
direction of the Monetary Board.
Offences.

79,

(1) Any person who contravenes the provisions of
subsection (1) of section 2, subsection (5) of section 3,
subsection (2) of section 15, subsection (2) of section
16, subsection (1) of section 17, subsection (2) of
section 33, subsection (2) of section 41, subsections
(9) and (10) of section 47 and section 77 of this Act or
any rule or regulation mark thereunder, and the
licensed commercial bank and every officer or servant
of such bank who knowingly and willfully authorizes or
permits such default, shall be guilty of an offence
under this Act and shall be liable, on conviction after
summary trial before a Magistrate, to imprisonment of
either description for a term not exceeding ‘ three
years or to a fine not exceeding one million rupees or
to both such imprisonment and such fine.
(2) Every person who is guilty of an offence under this
Act for which no punishment has been specified under
subsection (1), shall, after summary trial before
Magistrate, be liable to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding eighteen months or to a fine not exceeding
five hundred thousand rupees or to both such
imprisonment and such fine.

Persona who 80.
fail to take
reasonable
steps &c,.
under the
Act to be
guilty of an
offence.

(1) Any person who, being a director, manager, officer
or employee of a licensed commercial bank
(a) fails to take all reasonable steps to secure
compliance by the licensed commercial bank
with the requirements of that Act; or

(b) fails to comply with any direction issued
by the Monetary Board under the provisions
of this Act;

(c) fails to take all reasonable steps to secure
the correctness of any statement submitted
under the provisions of this Act;
(d) willfully makes a false entry or causes such
an entry to be made in any book or record or
in any report, slip, document, or statement of
the business, affairs, transactions, conditions,
assets or liabilities or accounts of such
licensed commercial bank; or

(e) willfully omits to make an entry in any
book or record in any report, slip, document
or statement of the business, affairs,
transactions, conditions, assets or liabilities or
accounts of such licensed commercial bank or
willfully causes any such entry to be omitted ;
or

(f) willfully alters abstracts, conceals or
destroys an entry in any book or record or in
any report, slip, document, or statement of
the business, affairs, transactions, conditions,
assets or liabilities or accounts of such
licensed commercial bank or willfully causes
any such entry to be altered, abstracted,
concealed or destroyed,
shall be guilty of an offence under this Act, and shall,
on conviction after summary trial by a Magistrate, be
liable to a term of imprisonment for a term not
exceeding eighteen months or to a fine not exceeding
one thousand rupees or to both such imprisonment
and fine.
(2) In any proceedings against a person under
subsection (1) it shall be a defence to prove that be
had reasonable grounds to believe that another person
was charged with the duty of securing compliance
with the requirements of this Act or with the duty of
ensuring that these statements were accurate and that
such person was competent and in a position to
discharge that duty.

Offence by a 81. Where an offence under this Act is committed by a body
body
corporate, every person, who at the time of the commission, of
corporate. the offence was a director or an officer of the body corporate,
shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence unless he proves
that the offence was committed without his knowledge, or that
he exercised all due diligence to avoid the commission of such
offence.
Regulations. 82.

(1) The Minister may make regulations in respect of
matters required by this Act to be prescribed or in
respect of which regulations are authorized to be
made.

(2) Every regulation made by the Minister shall be
published in the Gazette and shall come into operation
on the date of such publication or on such later date
as may be specified in the regulation.

(3) Every regulation made by the Minister shall, as
soon as is convenient after its publication in the
Gazette, be brought before Parliament for approval-

(4) Every regulation which is not so approved shall be
deemed to be rescinded as from the date of such
disapproval but without prejudice to anything
previously done there under. Notification of the date
on which any regulation is deemed to be rescinded
shall be published in the Gazette.
Licensed
83. A licensed commercial bank which is granted a licence in
Commercial terms of section 5 shall be deemed to be
bank
(i) an approved credit agency for purposes of the Trust
deemed to
Receipt Ordinance (Chapter 85) and the Mortgage Act
be an
(Chapter 89) ;
approved
(ii) an ” approved bank” for purposes of the Finance
credit
Act, No. 65 of 1961.
agency.

Amendment

PART XI
REPEAL

84. The Monetary Law Act, (Chapter 422) is hereby amended by

to the
the repeal of sections 118A, 121A and 121B of that Act.
Monetary
Law Act
(Cap.422).
Amendment 85. The Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982 is hereby amended by
to the
the repeal of Part XIV of that Act.
Companies
Act, No.17
of 1982.

PART XII
INTERPRETATION
interpretation.86. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires

“accommodation ” means any loan or overdraft or advance or
any commitment to grant any loan or overdraft or advance,
including a commitment to accept a contingent liability;
” banking business ” means the business of receiving funds from
the public through the acceptance of money deposits payable
upon demand by cheque, draft, order or otherwise, and the use
of such funds either in whole or in part for advances, investments
or any other operation either authorized by law or by
“customary banking practices;

” capital funds ” means paid-up or assigned capital and the
reserve fund as provided for in section 2;
” Central Bank ” means the Central Bank of Sri Lanka established
under the Monetary Law Act, (Chapter 422) ;
” close relation ” means spouse or dependant child;

“company ” means a company formed and registered under the
Companies Act, No. 17 of 1982 ;
“concern” means a company or firm;

“designated foreign currency” means a foreign currency
determined as a designated foreign currency by the Monetary
Board ;
” director ” means

(a) in relation to a licensed commercial bank
incorporated in Sri Lanka, any person by whatever
designation he may be called, carrying out or
empowered to carry out substantially the same
functions in relation to the direction of the licensed
commercial bank as those carried out by a director of
a company incorporated under the Companies Act;
(b) in relation to a licensed commercial bank
incorporated outside Sri Lanka, any person by
whatever designation he may be called earring out or
empowered to carry out substantially the same
functions in relation to the direction of the licensed
commercial bank as those carried out by a director of
a company incorporated under the Companies Act and
the person in Sri Lanka responsible for carrying out the
functions of such licensed commercial bank who shall
be designated the principal authorized agent or his
alternate;

“Director of Bank Supervision “means the Heads of the
Department el Bank Supervision of the Central Bank established
under the Monetary Law Act (Chapter 422) ;
” domestic banking business ” means any banking business that
is not subject to Part IV of this Act, dealing with off-shore
banking;
” head office of a commercial bank ” means the place where the
office of the Board of directors of the commercial bank is
located;
” liquid assets ” means
(a) cash;

(b)balances with licensed commercial banks;
(c) money at call in Sri Lanka;

(d) treasury bills and securities issued or guaranteed
by the Government of Sri Lanka which have a maturity
not exceeding one year;
(e) goods receipts ;

(f) import and export bills ;

(g) such other assets as may be determined by the
Monetary Board;
“local Authority” means any Municipal Council, Urban Council or
any Development Council and includes any Authority created and
established by or under any law to exercise, perform and
discharge, powers, duties, and functions corresponding to or
similar to the powers, duties and functions, exercised, performed
and discharged by any such Council;

” Monetary Board” means the Monetary Board of the Central
Bank of Sri Lanka established under the Monetary Law Act,
(Chapter 422) ;
“non-resident” means an individual company, body corporate or
other judicial person or any unincorporated body not included in
the definition of
” resident”; “place of business” means any branch or office of” a
licensed commercial bank in Sri Lanka including a mobile office
open to the public;

“public corporation” means any corporation, board or other body
which was or is established by or under any written law other
than the Companies Ordinance, with funds or capital wholly or
partly provided by the Government by way of grant, loan or
otherwise;
“qualified auditor” means

(a) an individual who, being a member of the Institute
off Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, or of any other
Institute established by law, possesses a certificate to
practice as an Accountant, issued by the Council of
such Institute;
(b) a firm of Accountants each of the resident partners
of which, being a member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants of Sri Lanka or of any other Institute
established by law, possesses a certificate to practice
as an Accountant issued by the Council of such
Institute ;

” resident ” means

(a) a citizen of Sri Lanka residing in Sri Lanka;

(b) an individual who is not a citizen of Sri Lanka but
who has been, in Sri Lanka for at least six months and
continues or intends to be in Sri Lanka;
(c) a company incorporated in Sri Lanka, or a body
corporate established under any written law or any
firm, partnership or other organization in Sri Lanka;

(d) a branch subsidiary, affiliate, extension, office or
any other unit of a company or other judicial person
established under the laws of any foreign country,
operating in Sri Lanka;
” substantial interest” means

(a) in relation to a company means the holding of a
beneficial interest by another company or an individual
or his close relation, whether singly or taken together,
in the shares thereof the paid-up value of which
exceeds rupees one million or tea per centum of the
paid-up capital of the company, whichever is law, or
the existence of a guarantee or indemnity given by an
individual or his close relation or by another company
on behalf of such company;
(b) in relation to a firm, means the beneficial interest
held therein by an individual or his close relation,
whether singly or taken together, which represents
more than ten per centum of the total capital
subscribed by all partners of the said firm or the
existence of a guarantee or indemnity given by an
individual or his or her spouse or parent or child on
behalf of such firm.

Schedules

© Copyright 2016. Ministry of Justice - Sri Lanka. All Rights Reserved
Developed by Lanka Logistics & Technologies Ltd. - Ministry of Defence

!

"

#

$

%

