221
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

SAINT LUCIA
______
No.11 of 2011
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
PART I
PRELIMINARY
1. Short title and commencement
2. Interpretation
3. Application
4. State to be bound
PART II
APPOINTMENT, FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF THE
DATA PROTECTION COMMISSIONER
5. Appointment of Data Protection Commissioner
6. Resources of the office of the Commissioner
7. Restriction on employment
8. Tenure of office
9. Functions of the Commissioner
10. Independence of functions
11. Oath and Confidentiality
12. Powers of the Commissioner
13. Delegation of functions of the Commissioner
14. Power of the Commissioner to obtain information
15. Contents of information notice
16. Failure or refusal to comply with information notice
17. Insufficient information pursuant to the information notice
18. Powers of investigation
19. Form of complaint
20. Notice of investigation
21. Power to request assistance
22. Powers of entry and search
23. Warrant to enter and search premises
24. Obstruction of Commissioner or authorized officer
25. Power of Commissioner to issue enforcement notice
26. Contents of enforcement notice

[ 2011.

222
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

27. Failure to comply with enforcement notice an offence
28. Investigations in private
29. Referral to Director of Public Prosecutions
30. Instruments of the Commissioner
31. Protection of the Commissioner and staff
PART III
OBLIGATION ON DATA CONTROLLERS
32. Data Protection Principles
33. Collection of personal data
34. Consent for processing of personal data
35. Criteria for processing sensitive personal data
36. Processing of sensitive personal data
37. Processing concerning health or medical purposes
38. Processing and disclosure for research and statistical purposes
39. Processing concerning legal offences
40. Accuracy of personal data
41. Use of personal data
42. Security of personal data
43. Duty to destroy personal data
44. Unlawful disclosure of personal data
45. Transfer of personal data
PART IV
REGISTRATION OF DATA PROTECTION CONTROLLERS
46. Requirement to register
47. Registration as a data controller
48. Duration of registration
49. Register of Data Controllers
50. Inspection of Register
51. Certificate issued by Commissioner
PART V
RIGHTS OF DATA SUBJECTS AND OTHERS
52. Right to access personal data
53. Compliance with request for access to personal data
54. Discretion in relation to access to personal data

223
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

55. Denial of access to personal data
56. Right of rectification, etc. of inaccurate personal data
57. Right to prohibit processing of personal data for direct marketing
PART VI
EXEMPTIONS
58. National Security
59. Crime and taxation
60. Health and social work
61. Regulatory activities
62. Journalism, literature and art
63. Research, history and statistics
64. Information available to the public under an enactment
65. Disclosure required by law or in connection with legal proceedings
66. Legal professional privilege
67. Domestic purposes
68. Written authorization of Commissioner in certain cases
PART VII
MISCELLANEOUS
69. Appeals to Court
70. Hearing of proceedings
71. Offences and penalties
72. Offences by directors, etc. of bodies corporate
73. Annual Report
74. Regulations
SCHEDULE 1
SCHEDULE 2

224
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

I ASSENT

PEARLETTE LOUISY,
Governor-General.
April 6, 2011.

SAINT LUCIA
————

No. 11 of 2011
AN ACT to make provision for the protection of individuals in
relation to personal data and to regulate the collection,
processing, use, and disclosure of personal data in a
manner that recognizes the right of privacy of individuals
with respect to their personal information and for related
matters.
[ ON ORDER ]
BE IT ENACTED by the Queen’s Most Excellent Majesty, by
and with the advice and consent of the House of Assembly and the
Senate of Saint Lucia, and by the authority of the same, as follows:

225
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

PART I
PRELIMINARY
Short title and commencement

1.—(1) This Act may be cited as the Data Protection Act 2011.
(2) This Act shall come into force on a day to be fixed by
the Minister by Order published in the Gazette.
Interpretation

2. In this Act —
“alternative format” in relation to personal data, means a
format that allows a person with a sensory disability
to read or listen to the personal data;
“authorized officer” means an officer or employee acting
under the direction of the Commissioner or an officer
or employee to whom the Commissioner has delegated
his or her powers under section 13;
“Caribbean Community” or “Community” means the
Caribbean Community established by Article 2 and
includes the Caribbean Single Market and Economy
(CSME) established by the provisions of the revised
CARICOM Treaty;
“Commissioner”(a) means the Data Protection Commissioner appointed
pursuant to section 5; and
(b) includes an authorized officer of the Commissioner
authorized by him or her in that behalf;
“correct” in relation to personal information, means to alter
that information by way of correction, deletion, or
addition; and “correction” has a corresponding
meaning;
“Court” means the High Court or a Judge of the High
Court;
“data” includes representations of facts, information or
concepts that are being prepared or have been
prepared in a form suitable for use in an electronic

226
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

system including a computer program, text, image,
sound, video and information within a database or
electronic system;
“data controller” means a person who, either alone or with
others, processes data or determines how personal
data are processed or processes personal data;
“Data Protection Principles” includes the principles set out
in Schedule 2;
“data subject” means the natural person who is the subject
of personal data;
“document”(a) means any medium in which information is recorded,
whether printed or on tape or film or by electronic
means or otherwise; and
(b) includes any map, diagram, photograph, film,
microfilm, video- tape, sound recording, or machine
readable record or any record which is capable of being
produced from a machine-readable record by means
of equipment or a program, or a combination of both,
which is used for that purpose by the establishment
which holds the record;
“enforcement notice” means a notice issued by the
Commissioner under section 25;
“information notice” means a notice issued by the
Commissioner under section 14;
“Minister” means the Minister responsible for Information
and Broadcasting;
“Permanent Secretary” means the officer for the time being
exercising the highest level of administrative functions
within any Government Ministry;
“personal data” means information about a data subject
that is recorded in any form including (a) information relating to the race, national or ethnic
origin, religion, age, sexual orientation, sexual life or
marital status of the data subject;
(b) information relating to the education, medical,
criminal or employment history of the data subject or

227
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

information relating to the financial transactions in
which the individual has been involved or which refers
to the data subject;
(c)

any identifying number, symbol or other particular
designated to the data subject;

(d) the address, fingerprints, Deoxyribonucleic Acid
(DNA), or blood type of the data subject;
(e)

the name of the data subject where it appears with
other personal data relating to the data subject or
where the disclosure of the name itself would reveal
information about the data subject;

(f)

correspondence sent to an establishment by the data
subject that is explicitly or implicitly of a private or
confidential nature, and replies to such
correspondence that would reveal the contents of the
original correspondence; or

(g) the views or opinions of any other person about the
data subject;
“prescribed” means prescribed by the Regulations made
by the Minister;
“processing” in relation to information or data, means
obtaining, recording or holding the information or data
or carrying out any operation or set of operations on
the information or data, including(a) organization, adaptation or alteration of the
information or data;
(b) retrieval, consultation or use of the information or
data;
(c)

disclosure of the information or data by transmission,
dissemination, or otherwise making available; or

(d) alignment, combination, blocking, erasure or
destruction of the information or data;
“public authority” includes any body, for the purposes of
this Act(a) established by or under the Constitution;

228
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

(b) established by statute;
(c)

which forms part of any level or branch of
Government;

(d) owned, controlled or substantially financed by funds
provided by Government or the State; or
(e)

carrying out a statutory or public authority function:
Except that a body referred to in paragraph (e) is a
public authority only to the extent of its statutory or
public functions;

“Register” means the Register of Data Controllers required
to be kept by the Commissioner pursuant to section
49;
“Regulations” means Regulations made pursuant to section
74;
“relevant person”, in relation to a data subject, means(a) where the data subject is a minor, a person who has
parental authority over the minor or has been
appointed as his or her guardian by the Court;
(b) where the data subject is physically and mentally unfit,
a person who has been appointed his or her guardian
by the Court;
(c)

in any other case, a person duly authorized in writing
by the data subject to make a request under section
52;

“sensitive personal data” means personal data consisting
of information on a data subject’s(a) racial or ethnic origins;
(b) political opinions;
(c)

religious beliefs or other beliefs of a similar nature;

(d) physical or mental health or condition;
(e)

sexual orientation or sexual life; or

(f)

criminal or financial record;

“third party” means a person other than the data subject,
the data controller and such other person who under

229
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

the direct responsibility of the data controller is
authorized to process personal data.
Application

3.—(1) This Act applies to a data controller in respect of any
data if —
(a) the data controller is established in Saint Lucia and the
data is processed in the context of the business of that
establishment; or
(b) the data controller is not established in Saint Lucia but
uses equipment in Saint Lucia for processing data
otherwise than for the purpose of transit through Saint
Lucia.
(2) A data controller falling within subsection 1(b) shall
nominate for the purposes of this Act a representative established
in Saint Lucia.
(3) For the purposes of this section, the following is to be
treated as established in Saint Lucia —
(a) an individual who is ordinarily resident in Saint Lucia
or is a national of the Caribbean Community;
(b) a body incorporated under the Companies Act, Cap
13.01;
(c) a partnership or other unincorporated association
formed under the laws of Saint Lucia; and
(d) any person who does not fall within paragraphs (a),
(b) and (c) but maintains in Saint Lucia an office, branch
or agency through which he or she carries on any
activity related to data processing.
State to be bound

4. This Act binds the State.

230
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

PART II
APPOINTMENT, FUNCTIONS AND POWERS OF THE
DATA PROTECTION COMMISSIONER
Appointment of Data Protection Commissioner

5.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), there shall be a Data
Protection Commissioner who shall be appointed in writing by
the Governor General acting on the advice of the Prime Minister
after the Prime Minister has consulted the Cabinet and the
Leader of the Opposition.
(2) A person appointed to be the Data Commissioner under
subsection (1) shall be an attorney- at- law within the meaning
of the Legal Profession Act, Cap. 2.04, with at least ten years
standing at the bar and shall have training or experience in
economics, finance, information security, technology, audit or
human resource management.
(3) A person shall not be appointed or continue to hold
office as Commissioner if that person (a) is a Member of Parliament;
(b) is a Judge or Magistrate;
(c) is a member of a local authority;
(d) has a financial or other interest in any enterprise or
activity which is likely to conflict with the discharge of
his or her functions as the Commissioner;
(e) is an undischarged bankrupt; or
(f) has at any time been convicted of any offence involving
dishonesty or moral turpitude.
Resources of the office of the Commissioner

6.—(1) There shall be appointed such officers and employees
as may be necessary to enable or assist the Commissioner to
discharge the duties and to perform the functions conferred on
the Commissioner under this Act effectively and efficiently.
(2) The office of Commissioner must have an independent
budget appropriated by Parliament and controlled by the
Commissioner.

231
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

(3) Parliament shall appropriate annually, for the use of
the office of the Commissioner, such sums of money as may be
necessary for the proper exercise, performance and discharge,
by the Commissioner, of his or her functions, powers and duties
under this Act.
Restriction on employment

7. The Commissioner shall not hold any other office of
employment in respect of which emoluments are payable.
Tenure of office

8.—(1) The Commissioner shall hold office for a term of five
years and is eligible for reappointment on the expiration of his
or her term of office.
(2) The Commissioner may resign from office by letter
addressed to the Governor General and shall in any case vacate
the office of Commissioner on reaching the age of sixty-five years.
(3) The Commissioner may be removed from office only for
inability to discharge the functions of his or her office, whether
arising from infirmity of body or mind or any other cause, or
for misbehaviour.
(4) The Commissioner shall vacate office if any
circumstances arise that, if he or she were not Commissioner,
would cause him or her to be disqualified for appointment as
such by virtue of section 5(3).
(5) Where —
(a) a vacancy arises in the office of Commissioner; or
(b) by reason of illness, absence from the country or other
sufficient cause, the Commissioner is unable to perform
his or her functions under this Act;
the Governor General acting on the advice of the Prime Minister
after he or she has consulted the Cabinet and the Leader of the
Opposition may appoint a suitable person, to act in that office
or perform the functions of the Commissioner, as the case may
be.

232
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

Functions of the Commissioner

9. The Commissioner shall —
(a) create and maintain a register of all data controllers;
(b) create and maintain a public register of all processing
operations according to notifications submitted to him
or her as specified in this Act;
(c) exercise control on all data processing activities and,
either of his or her own motion or at the request of a
data subject, verify whether the processing of data is
carried on in accordance with this Act or the
Regulations;
(d) promote self-regulation among data controllers;
(e) instruct the data controller to take such measures as
may be necessary to ensure that the data processing is
undertaken in accordance with this Act or the
Regulations;
(f) receive and investigate reports and claims from data
subjects or associations representing the data subject
violations of this Act or the Regulations, and take such
remedial action as he or she considers necessary or as
may be prescribed under this Act, and to inform such
data subjects or associations of the outcome;
(g) issue such directions or public statements as may be
required of him or her for the purposes of this Act;
(h) encourage the drawing up of suitable codes of conduct
by the various sectors affected by this Act and ascertain
that the provisions of such codes are in accordance
with this Act and for such purpose the Commissioner
may seek the views of data subjects or their
representatives;
(i) take such measures as may be necessary so as to bring
the provisions of this Act to the knowledge of the
general public;
(j) promote by education and publicity, an understanding
and acceptance of the data protection principles and
of the objects of the principles;

233
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

(k) advise the Government on any legislative measures that
are required to be taken in relation to privacy and data
protection;
(l) inquire generally into any matter including an
enactment or law or any practice or procedure whether
governmental or non-governmental, or any technical
development if it appears to the Commissioner that
the privacy of data subjects is being or may be infringed;
(m) examine any legislation that makes provision for the
collection of personal data by any public authority or
the disclosure of personal data by one public authority
to any other public authority and report to the Minister
the results of that examination;
(n) either of his or her own motion or on request, report to
the Minister as the need arises on any matter affecting
the privacy of a data subject, including any
recommendations relating to the need for or the
desirability of, taking legislative, administrative or other
action to give protection, or better protection, to the
privacy of the data subject;
(o) collaborate with supervisory authorities of other
countries to the extent necessary for the performance
of his or her functions or duties, in particular by
exchanging all useful information, in accordance with
any Convention to which Saint Lucia is a party or any
other international obligation of Saint Lucia;
(p) generally monitor compliance by governmental and
non-governmental bodies with this Act and the
Regulations;
(q) prepare and issue or approve, in consultation with the
Minister, appropriate codes of practice or guidelines
for the guidance of business persons and institutions
handling personal data;
(r) undertake research into and monitor developments in
data processing and computer technology to ensure
that any adverse effects of such developments on the
privacy of data subjects are minimized, and include
the results of such research and monitoring, if any, in

234
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

his or her annual report in accordance with section
73;
(s) provide advice, with or without request, to a Minister
or a public authority on any matter relevant to the
operation of this Act and report to the Minister as the
need arises on the desirability of the acceptance by Saint
Lucia of any international instrument relating to the
privacy of data subjects;
(t) ensure compliance with this Act and the Regulations;
(u) do any thing incidental or conducive to the
performance of any of the preceding functions; and
(v) exercise and perform such other functions as are
conferred or imposed on the Commissioner under this
Act, or any other enactment.
Independence of functions

10. In the exercise of his or her functions under this Act the
Commissioner shall act independently and is not subject to the
direction or control of any other person or authority.
Oath and confidentiality

11.—(1) The Commissioner, and every authorized officer shall
take the oath specified in Schedule 1 before the Governor
General.
(2) A person who is or has been the Commissioner, an officer
of the Commissioner’s staff or an agent of the Commissioner
shall not make use of or divulge, either directly or indirectly,
any data or information obtained as a result of the exercise of a
power or in the performance of a duty under this Act, except(a) in accordance with this Act or any other enactment; or
(b) as authorized by an Order of the Court.
(3) A person who, without lawful excuse, contravenes
subsection (2), commits an offence and is liable on summary
conviction to a fine not exceeding twenty five thousand dollars
or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to
both.

235
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

Powers of the Commissioner

12.—(1) The Commissioner shall, for the purpose of carrying
out his or her functions do all such acts as appear to him or her
to be requisite, advantageous or convenient for, or in connection
with the carrying out of his or her functions under this Act.
(2) The Commissioner may, in relation to carrying out of
the investigation of any complaint under this Act(a) summon and enforce the appearance of persons before
the Commissioner and require the person to give oral
or written evidence on oath and to produce such
documents and things as the Commissioner considers
requisite to the full investigation and consideration of
the complaint, in the same manner and to the same
extent as a Judge of the High Court;
(b) administer oaths;
(c) receive and accept such evidence and other
information, whether on oath or by affidavit or
otherwise, as the Commissioner sees fit, whether or not
the evidence or information is or would be admissible
in a Court of law;
(d) enter any premises occupied by any public authority
on satisfying any security requirements of the authority
relating to the premises;
(e) converse in private with any person in any premises
entered pursuant to paragraph (d) and otherwise carry
out such inquiries within the power of the Commissioner
under this Act as the Commissioner sees fit; and
(f) examine or obtain copies of or extracts from books or
other records found in any premises entered pursuant
to paragraph (d) containing any matter relevant to the
investigation.
(3) The Commissioner may, during the investigation of any
complaint under this Act, examine any information recorded
in any form held by a public authority and information that the
Commissioner may examine under this subsection shall not be
withheld from the Commissioner by any person and on any
grounds.

236
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

(4) Any document or thing produced pursuant to this
section by any person or public authority shall be returned by
the Commissioner within ten days after a request is made to the
Commissioner by that person or authority, but nothing in this
subsection precludes the Commissioner from again requiring
its production in accordance with this section.
Delegation of functions of the Commissioner

13.— (1) The Commissioner may designate one or more
officers or employees under the administrative control of the
Commissioner to exercise, discharge or perform any of the
power, duties or functions of the Commissioner under this Act,
that are specified in the designation.
(2) The Commissioner may delegate any of the investigating
and enforcement powers conferred on the Commissioner by this
Act to any authorized officer and to any police officer designated
for that purpose by the Commissioner of Police.
Power of the Commissioner to obtain information

14.—(1) The Commissioner may, by notice in writing served
on any person, request that person to furnish to him or her in
writing in the time specified —
(a) access to personal data;
(b) information about and documentation of the processing
of personal data;
(c) information related to the security of processing of
personal data; and
(d) any other information in relation to matters specified
in the notice as is necessary or expedient for the
performance by the Commissioner of his or her functions
and exercise of his or her powers and duties under this
Act:
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), where the personal
data is processed for the purpose of compliance with a legal
obligation to which the data controller is subject, the Minister
may by Regulation prescribe rules and procedures for the
purposes of implementation of this subsection.

237
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

(3) Where the information requested by the Commissioner
is stored in a computer, disc, cassette, or on microfilm, or
preserved by any mechanical or electronic device, the person
named in the information notice shall produce or give access to
the information in a form in which it can be taken away and in
which it is visible and legible.
(4) A notice required or authorized by this Act to be served
on or given to any person by the Commissioner may —
(a) if that person is an individual, be served on that person
at his or her usual or last known address or place of
business:
(i) by delivering personally to the person;
(ii) by sending it to the person by post addressed to
him or her; or
(iii) by leaving it for the person;
(b) if that person is a body corporate or partnership, be
served:
(i) by sending it by post to the proper officer of the
body corporate at its principal office;
(ii) by addressing it to the proper officer of the
partnership and leaving it at the office of the proper
officer.
Contents of information notice

15.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the information notice
specified in section 14 must state(a) that the person to whom the notice is addressed has a
right of appeal under section 69 against the requirement
specified in the notice within thirty days from the
service of the notice on him or her; and
(b) the time for compliance with a requirement specified
in the information notice, which time must not be
expressed to expire before the end of the period of thirty
days specified in paragraph (a).
(2) Where a notice of appeal against a decision made under
section 14 is lodged with the Commissioner, the information

238
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

required need not be furnished, and section 16 applies pending
the determination or withdrawal of the appeal.
(3) If the Commissioner considers that by reason of special
circumstances the information is required urgently for the proper
performance of his or her functions and exercise of his or her
powers under this Act, the Commissioner may apply to a Judge
in Chambers for communication of the information.
(4) A law in force in Saint Lucia or rule of law prohibiting
or restricting the disclosure of information does not preclude a
person from furnishing to the Commissioner any information
that is necessary or expedient for the performance by the
Commissioner of his or her functions and this subsection does
not apply to information that in the opinion of the Minister or
the Minister for national security is, or at any time was, kept for
the purpose of safeguarding the security of the State or
information that is privileged from disclosure in proceedings in
any Court.
Failure or refusal to comply with information notice

16.—(1) A person shall not (a) without reasonable excuse, fail or refuse to comply with
a requirement specified in an information notice, or
(b) in purported compliance with an information notice
furnish information to the Commissioner that the
person knows to be false or misleading in a material
respect.
(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and is liable on summary conviction to a fine not
exceeding twenty-five thousand dollars or to a term of
imprisonment not exceeding six months or to both.
(3) It is a defence for a person charged with an offence
under this section to prove that he or she exercised all due
diligence to comply with the information notice.

239
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

Insufficient information pursuant to the information notice

17. If the Commissioner cannot, pursuant to a request under
section 14(1), obtain sufficient information in order to conclude
that the processing of personal data is lawful, the Commissioner
may prohibit the data controller from processing personal data
in any other manner than by storing the personal data.
Powers of investigation

18.—(1) The Commissioner may investigate, or cause to be
investigated, whether any provisions of this Act or the
Regulations have been, are being or are likely to be contravened
by a data controller in relation to a data subject if (a) the data subject complains to the Commissioner of a
contravention of this Act, or
(b) the Commissioner is satisfied that there are reasonable
grounds to investigate a matter under this Act.
(2) Where a complaint is made to the Commissioner under
subsection (1), the Commissioner shall (a) investigate the complaint or cause it to be investigated
by an authorized officer, unless he or she is of the
opinion that it is frivolous or vexatious; and
(b) as soon as reasonably practicable, notify the data
subject concerned in writing of his or her decision in
relation to the complaint and that the data subject may,
if aggrieved by the decision of the Commissioner appeal
against the decision to the Court under section 69.
(3) This Act does not preclude the Commissioner from
receiving and investigating complaints that are submitted by a
person authorized in writing by the data subject concerned, to
act on behalf of that data subject, and a reference to a data
subject in any other section of this Act includes a reference to a
person so authorized.
Form of complaint

19.—(1) A complaint pursuant to this Act must be made to the
Commissioner in writing unless the Commissioner authorizes
otherwise.

240
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

(2) The Commissioner shall give such reasonable assistance
as is necessary in the circumstances to enable any person who
wishes to make a complaint to the Commissioner, to put the
complaint in writing.
Notice of investigation

20. Before commencing an investigation of a complaint
pursuant to this Act, the Commissioner shall notify, in the case
of a public authority, the Permanent Secretary, and in any other
case the person responsible for the administration or
management of the public authority or establishment, of the
intention to carry out the investigation and shall include in the
notification the substance of the matter under investigation.
Power to request assistance

21.—(1) For the purposes of gathering information or for the
proper conduct of any investigation concerning compliance
with this Act, the Commissioner may seek the assistance of such
persons or authorities, as the Commissioner thinks fit and that
person or authority may do such things as are reasonably
necessary to assist the Commissioner in the performance of the
Commissioner’s functions.
(2) Any person assisting the Commissioner pursuant to
subsection (1), shall for the purpose of section 13 be deemed to
be an authorized officer.
Powers of entry and search

22.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), the Commissioner or an
authorized officer who is accompanied by a police officer may
at any time enter any premises, for the purpose of discharging
any functions or duties under this Act or the Regulations only
on production of a warrant issued by a Magistrate under section
23.
(2) An authorized officer shall not enter any premises unless
he or she is accompanied by a police officer and shows to the
owner or occupier of the premises a warrant issued by a
Magistrate under section 23.

241
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

Warrant to enter and search premises

23.—(1) If a Magistrate is satisfied by information on oath
supplied by the Commissioner or an authorized officer that there
are reasonable grounds for suspecting that:
(a) a data controller has contravened or is contravening
any of the data protection principles; or
(b) an offence under this Act has been or is being
committed,
and that evidence of the contravention or of the commission of
the offence is to be found on any premises specified by the
Commissioner or an authorized officer, the Magistrate may issue
a warrant authorizing the entry and search of the premises.
(2) A warrant issued under subsection (1) must authorize
a police officer accompanied by the Commissioner or an
authorized officer at all reasonable times within seven days of
the date of the warrant to enter the premises to (a) request the owner or occupier to produce any
document, record or data;
(b) examine any document, record or data and take copies
or extracts from the document record or data;
(c) inspect, examine, operate and test any data equipment
found on the presmises;
(d) request the owner of the premises entered into, or any
person employed by him or her, or any other person on
the premises, to give to the authorized officer all
reasonable assistance and to answer all reasonable
questions either orally or in writing.
(3) The police officer shall at the time of execution of the
warrant, show the warrant and supply a copy of the warrant
to the person who owns or occupies the premises in respect of
which a warrant is issued.
(4) The Commissioner or an authorized officer shall provide
an inventory of the type of data collected or seized to the data
controller or the owner or occupier of premises who supplies
the data to the Commissioner or the authorized officer.

242
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

Obstruction of Commissioner or authorized officer

24.—(1) A person shall not obstruct or impede the
Commissioner, an authorized officer or any other person acting
on behalf or under the direction of the Commissioner in the
discharge and performance of the duties and functions conferred
on the Commissioner by this Act.
(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and is liable, on summary conviction, to a fine not
exceeding twenty-five thousand dollars or to a term of
imprisonment not exceeding six months or to both.
Power of Commissioner to issue enforcement notice

25.—(1) If the Commissioner is of the opinion that a data
controller has contravened or is contravening a provision of
this Act, other than a provision the contravention of which is
an offence, the Commissioner may, by an enforcement notice
in writing served on the data controller, require the data
controller to take such steps as are specified in the enforcement
notice within such time, as is specified in the enforcement notice,
to comply with the relevant provision.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), if
the Commissioner is of the opinion that a data controller has
contravened a Data Protection Principle, the Commissioner may
issue an enforcement notice requiring the data controller to (a) rectify or erase any of the data concerned; or
(b) supplement the data with such statement relating to
the matters dealt with by the data controller as the
Commissioner may approve.
(3) A data controller who, as required under subsection
(2)(b), supplements data that is inaccurate or not kept up to
date, is not deemed to be in contravention of the Data Protection
Principles.
Contents of enforcement notice

26.—(1) An enforcement notice issued by the Commissioner
under section 25 must -

243
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

(a) specify any provision of this Act that, in the opinion of
the Commissioner, the data controller has contravened
or is contravening and the reasons for the Commissioner
having formed that opinion; and
(b) subject to subsection (2), inform the data subject of his
or her right to appeal to the Court under section 69
against the requirement specified in the notice within
thirty days from the service of the notice on him or her.
(2) Subject to subsection (3), the time specified in an
enforcement notice for compliance with a requirement specified
in the enforcement notice shall not be expressed to expire before
the end of the period of thirty days specified in subsection (1)
(b) and, if an appeal is brought against the requirement, the
requirement need not be complied with, pending the
determination or withdrawal of the appeal.
(3) If the Commissioner (a) by reason of special circumstances, is of the opinion
that a requirement specified in an enforcement notice
must be complied with urgently; and
(b) such enforcement notice includes a statement to that
effect,
subsections (1) (b) and (2) do not apply in relation to the notice,
but the notice must contain a statement of the right of appeal of
the applicant under section 69, and must not require compliance
with the requirement before the end of the period of seven days
beginning on the date on which the notice is served.
(4) On compliance by a data controller with a requirement
under subsection (2) of section 25, the data controller shall, as
soon as may be and in any event not more than thirty days
after such compliance, notify (a) the data subject concerned; and
(b) any person, where the Commissioner considers it
reasonably practicable to do so, to whom the data were
disclosed during the period beginning twelve months
before the date of the service of the enforcement notice
concerned and ending immediately before such
compliance, of the rectification, erasure or statement

244
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

concerned, if such compliance materially modifies the
data concerned.
(5) The Commissioner may cancel an enforcement notice
and, if he or she does so, shall notify in writing the person on
whom it was served accordingly.
Failure to comply with enforcement notice an offence

27.—(1) A person shall not, without reasonable excuse, fail
or refuse to comply with a requirement specified in an
enforcement notice.
(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and is liable, on summary conviction, to a fine not
exceeding twenty-five thousand dollars or to a term of
imprisonment not exceeding six months or to both.
Investigations in private

28.—(1) All deliberations or hearings in relation to an
investigation under this Act may be conducted in private.
(2) In the course of a deliberation or hearing in relation to
an investigation under this Act by the Commissioner, the person
who made the complaint and the Permanent Secretary or the
person responsible for the administration of the public authority
or in any other case, the chief executive officer of the entity or
establishment concerned, shall be given an opportunity to make
representations to the Commissioner, but none is entitled as of
right to be present during representations made to the
Commissioner by any other person.
Referral to Director of Public Prosecutions

29. On completion of an investigation under this Act, the
Commissioner shall, where the investigation reveals that an
offence has been committed under this Act or any regulations
made under this Act, refer the matter to the Director of Public
Prosecutions for necessary action.
Instruments of the Commissioner

30. Any document purporting to be an instrument made,
issued, or signed by the Commissioner must be received in

245
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

evidence and must, until the contrary is proved, be deemed to
be an instrument made, issued or signed by the Commissioner.
Protection of the Commissioner and staff

31. An action or other proceedings for damages must not
be instituted against the Commissioner, or against any person
acting on behalf or under the direction of the Commissioner,
for anything done, reported or said in good faith in the exercise
of a discretion or in the discharge or performance of any power,
duty or function of the Commissioner under this Act.
PART III
OBLIGATION ON DATA CONTROLLERS
Data Protection Principles

32. The data controller shall comply with the Data
Protection Principles set out in Schedule 2, in relation to all
personal data processed by the data controller.
Collection of personal data

33.—(1) Subject to Part VI, a data controller shall not collect
personal data unless —
(a) the data is collected for a lawful purpose connected
with a function or activity of the data controller; and
(b) the collection of the data is necessary for that purpose.
(2) Where a data controller collects personal data directly
from a data subject, the data controller shall at the time of
collecting the personal data ensure that the data subject
concerned is informed of (a) the fact that the personal data is being collected;
(b) the purpose for which the personal data is being
collected;
(c) the intended recipients of the personal data;
(d) the name and address of the data controller;
(e) whether or not the supply of the personal data by that
data subject is voluntary or mandatory;

246
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

(f) the consequences for that data subject if all or any part
of the requested personal data is not provided;
(g) whether or not the data collected will be further
processed and whether or not the consent of the data
subject would be required for the further processing;
and
(h) the data subject’s right of access to, the possibility of
correction of and destruction of, the personal data to
be provided.
(3) A data controller shall not be required to comply with
subsection (2):
(a) in respect of a data subject where(i) compliance with subsection (2) in respect of a second
or subsequent collection will be to repeat, without
any material difference, what was done to comply
with that subsection in respect of the first collection;
and
(ii) not more than twelve months have elapsed between
the first collection and the second or subsequent
collection.
(b) where:
(i) compliance is not reasonably practicable at the time
of collection, provided that the data controller makes
available to the data subject all the relevant
information specified in subsection (2) as soon as
practicable; or
(ii) the personal data is used in a form in which the
data subject concerned cannot or could not
reasonably expect to be identified.
(4) Where personal data is not collected directly from the
data subject concerned, the data controller or any person acting
on his or her behalf shall ensure that the data subject is informed
of the matters specified in subsection (2).
(5) Subsection (3) does not operate to prevent a second or
subsequent collection from becoming a first collection where

247
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

the data controller has complied with subsection (2) in respect
of the second or subsequent collection.
Consent for processing of personal data

34.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a data controller shall not
process personal data unless the data controller has obtained
the express consent of the data subject.
(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), a data controller may
process personal data without obtaining the express consent of
the data subject where the processing is necessary (a) for the performance of a contract to which the data
subject is a party;
(b) in order to take steps required by the data subject prior
to entering into a contract;
(c) in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject;
(d) for compliance with any legal obligation to which the
data controller is subject;
(e) for the administration of justice;
(f) for the performance of an activity that is carried out in
the public interest or in the exercise of official authority
vested in the data controller or in a third party to whom
the personal data is disclosed;
(g) for a purpose that concerns a legitimate interest of the
data controller or of such a third party to whom personal
data is provided, except where such interest is
overridden by the interest to protect the fundamental
rights and freedoms of the data subject and in particular
the right to privacy.
(3) Where the data controller processes personal data under
paragraphs (f) and (g) of subsection (2), the data subject shall,
except where otherwise provided in any other law in force in
Saint Lucia, be entitled to object at any time to the data controller
on compelling legitimate grounds to the processing of the
personal data.
(4) Where the data controller processes personal data with
the consent of the data subject, the data subject may at any

248
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

time revoke his or her consent for compelling legitimate grounds
relating to his or her particular situation.
(5) A data controller who contravenes this section commits
an offence and is liable on summary conviction to a fine not
exceeding twenty-five thousand dollars or to imprisonment for
a term not exceeding six months.
Criteria for processing sensitive personal data

35. A person shall not process sensitive personal data —
(a) except in cases provided for(i) in subsection (2) of section 34 or sections 36, 37 and
38;
(ii) in regulations prescribed by the Minister having
regard to the public interest; or
(b) unless the data subject(i) has given his or her explicit consent to the
processing; or
(ii) has published the personal data.
Processing of sensitive personal data

36. The data controller may process sensitive personal data
if appropriate safeguards are adopted and the processing is
necessary (a) for the purposes of exercising or performing any right
or obligation which is conferred or imposed by any law
in force in Saint Lucia on the data controller;
(b) in order to protect the vital interests of the data subject
or another person in a case where(i) consent cannot physically or legally be given by or
on behalf of the data subject; or
(ii) the data controller cannot reasonably be expected
to obtain the consent of the data subject;
(c) in order to protect the vital interests of another person,
in a case where consent by or on behalf of the data
subject has been unreasonably withheld.

249
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

Processing concerning health or medical purposes

37.—(1) Sensitive personal data may be processed for health
and hospital care purposes, if the sensitive personal data is
processed by a health practitioner or other person subject to the
obligation of professional confidentiality and the processing is
necessary for(a) preventive medicine and the protection of public health;
(b) medical diagnosis;
(c) health care or treatment; or
(d) management of health and hospital care services.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1) “health practitioner”
means a person who is registered pursuant to the Health
Practitioners Act, 2006 No. 33.
Processing and disclosure for research and statistical purposes

38.—(1) A data controller may process or disclose sensitive
personal data or may cause sensitive personal data in his or her
custody or control to be processed or disclosed for a research
purpose, including statistical research only if (a) the research purpose cannot reasonably be
accomplished unless that data is provided in
individually identifiable form;
(b) the data is disclosed or processed on condition that the
data is not to be used for the purpose of contacting a
person to participate in research;
(c) any record linkage is not harmful to the data subject
and the benefits to be derived from the record linkage
are clearly in the public interest;
(d) the disclosure or processing is necessary for the purposes
stipulated in section 34(2)(f);
(e) the person responsible for the administration of the
public authority or in any other case, the chief executive
officer of the establishment concerned, has approved
conditions relating to the following:
(i) security and confidentiality;
(ii) the removal or destruction of the individual
identifiers at the earliest reasonable time;

250
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

(iii) the prohibition of any subsequent use or disclosure
of that data in individually identifiable form without
the express authorization of the public authority or
establishment concerned; and
(f) the person to whom the sensitive personal data is
disclosed has signed an agreement to comply with the
approved conditions, this Act and any of the public
authority’s or establishment‘s policies and procedures
relating to the confidentiality of personal data.
(2) Personal data may be provided to be used for the
purposes referred to in subsection (1), unless otherwise provided
by applicable rules on secrecy and confidentiality.
Processing concerning legal offences

39.—(1) Data relating to offences, criminal convictions or
security measures may only be processed under the control of a
public authority.
(2) The Minister may by regulations authorize any person
to process the data referred to in subsection (1), subject to such
suitable specific safeguards as may be prescribed.
(3) A complete register of criminal convictions may only be
kept under the control of a public authority.
Accuracy of personal data

40. A data controller shall take all reasonable steps to ensure
that personal data in his or her possession —
(a) remains accurate; and
(b) is kept up-to-date where such personal data requires
regular updating.
Use of personal data

41. A data controller shall ensure that personal data is —
(a) kept only for one or more specified and lawful purposes
for which the personal data is to be processed;

251
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

(b) not used or disclosed in any manner incompatible with
the purposes for which the personal data has been
processed;
(c) adequate and relevant for the purpose for which the
personal data is to be processed; and
(d) not kept for longer than is necessary for the purpose
for which the personal data is to be processed.
Security of personal data

42.—(1) A data controller shall —
(a) take appropriate security and organizational measures
for the prevention of unauthorized access to, alteration
of, disclosure of, accidental loss, and destruction of the
personal data in the data controller’s control; and
(b) ensure that the measures provide a level of security
appropriate to –
(i) the special risks that exist in the processing of the
personal data; and
(ii) the nature of the personal data being processed.
(2) A data controller shall take all reasonable steps to ensure
that any person employed by the data controller is aware of
and complies with the relevant security measures referred to in
subsection (1).
(3) Without prejudice to subsection (1), in determining the
appropriate security measures, in particular, where the
processing involves the transmission of personal data over an
information and communication network, a data controller shall
have regard to —
(a) the state of technological development available; and
(b) the cost of implementing any of the security measures.
Duty to destroy personal data

43. Where the purpose for keeping personal data has lapsed,
the data controller shall destroy the personal data and render
the personal data inaccessible as soon as reasonably practicable,
in accordance with the Regulations.

252
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

Unlawful disclosure of personal data

44.—(1) A data controller shall not without lawful authority
disclose personal data in any manner that is incompatible with
the purposes for which the personal data has been collected.
(2) A person, other an employee or agent of a data controller
acting within his or her mandate, shall not —
(a) obtain access to personal data, or obtain any
information constituting such personal data, without
the prior authority of the data controller by whom the
personal data is kept; and
(b) disclose the personal data or information to another
person.
(3) A person shall not offer to sell personal data where that
personal data has been obtained in contravention of this section.
(4) For the purposes of subsection (3) an advertisement
indicating that personal data is or may be for sale, constitutes
an offer to sell the personal data.
(5) A person who contravenes this section commits an
offence and is liable on summary conviction to a fine not
exceeding twenty-five thousand dollars or to a term of
imprisonment not exceeding six months or to both.
Transfer of personal data

45.—(1) Subject to subsection (2), a data controller shall not
transfer personal data to a country or territory outside Saint
Lucia unless –
(a) the country or territory to which the personal data is
being transferred has comparable safeguards to those
in Saint Lucia for the protection of the rights and
freedom of the data subject in relation to the processing
of personal data; and
(b) the Commissioner has authorized the data controller
to transfer the personal data to the country or territory
outside Saint Lucia.
(2) Subsection (1)(a) does not apply if —

253
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

(a) the data subject has given his or her consent to the
transfer;
(b) the transfer is necessary –
(i) for the performance of a contract between the data
subject and the data controller, or for the taking of
steps at the request of the data subject with a view
to entering into a contract with the data controller;
(ii) for the conclusion of a contract between the data
controller and a person, other than the data subject,
which is entered at the request of the data subject,
or is in the interest of the data subject for the
performance of such a contract; or
(iii) to safeguard national security or where section 56
applies;
(c) the matter concerns public security; or
(d) the transfer is made on such terms as may be approved
by the Commissioner as ensuring the adequate
safeguards for the protection of the rights of the data
subject.
PART IV
REGISTRATION OF DATA PROTECTION CONTROLLERS
Requirement to register

46.—(1) A person shall not process personal data as a data
controller unless that person is registered as a data controller is
made in accordance with section 47.
(2) A person, who without reasonable excuse processes any
personal data without being registered under this Act commits
an offence and is liable on summary conviction to a fine not
exceeding twenty-five thousand dollars or to a term of
imprisonment not exceeding six months or to both.
Registration as a data controller

47.—(1) An application for registration as a data controller
must be made in writing to the Commissioner and the person
shall furnish the particulars required under section 49(a), (c),
(d),(e) and (f).

254
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

(2) Subject to subsection (3), the Commissioner shall grant
an application for registration, unless the Commissioner
reasonably believes that (a) the particulars proposed for inclusion in an entry in
the register are insufficient or any other information
required by the Commissioner either has not been
furnished, or is insufficient;
(b) appropriate safeguards for the protection of the privacy
of the data subjects concerned are not being, or will
not continue to be, provided by the data controller; or
(c) the person applying for registration is not a fit and
proper person in the determination of the
Commissioner.
(3) On registration as a data controller, the applicant shall
pay the prescribed fee.
(4) Where the Commissioner refuses an application for
registration, the Commissioner shall, as soon as reasonably
practicable notify, in writing, the applicant of the refusal (a) specifying the reasons for the refusal; and
(b) informing the applicant that he or she may appeal
against the refusal under section 69.
Duration of registration

48.—(1) A registration under this Part is for a period not
exceeding twelve months and on the expiry of such period, the
relevant entry must be cancelled unless the registration is
renewed.
(2) The period specified under subsection (1) is calculated (a) in the case of a first registration, from the date on which
the relevant entry was made in the register; and
(b) in the case of a registration which has been renewed,
from the date on which registration was renewed.
(3) The Commissioner may register an applicant for a period
shorter than twelve months if, on examining the application,

255
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

the Commissioner determines that the shorter period is adequate
for the processing of the data in respect of which the application
is made.
(4) The Commissioner may renew a registration on
application by the data controller, and on payment of the
prescribed fee.
Register of Data Controllers

49. The Commissioner shall keep a register to be known as
the Register of Data Controllers in which he or she shall cause
to be entered in relation to each data controller, the following
particulars:
(a) the name and address;
(b) the date of registration;
(c) a description of the personal data processed by the data
controller and of the categories of data subjects to
which they relate;
(d) a description of the purpose for which the personal data
is processed;
(e) a description of any recipient or recipients to whom
the data controller intends or may wish to disclose the
personal data; and
(f) the names, or a description of, any countries or
territories outside the Caribbean Community the State
to which the data controller directly or indirectly
transfers, or intends or may wish directly or indirectly
to transfer, the personal data.
Inspection of Register

50.—(1) The Register of Data Controllers shall be kept in the
office of the Commissioner and shall at all reasonable times be
available for inspection by any person free of charge.
(2) A person may, on payment of the prescribed fee, obtain
from the Commissioner a certified copy of, or a certified copy of
an extract from any entry in the Register.

256
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

Certificate issued by Commissioner

51. In any proceedings in which the registration of a person
as a data controller is in question, a certificate under the hand
of the Commissioner that there is no entry in the Register in
respect of the person as a data controller, is proof in the absence
or evidence to the contrary of that fact.
PART V
RIGHTS OF DATA SUBJECTS AND OTHERS
Right to access personal data

52.—(1) This section applies to a person who has reasonable
grounds to believe that he or she is the subject of personal data
that has been or is being processed by a particular data controller.
(2) A data controller shall on the written request of a data
subject or a relevant person —
(a) provide a written response to the data subject or the
relevant person setting out the following –
(i) whether the data kept by the data controller includes
personal data relating to the data subject or the
relevant person;
(ii) a description of that personal data, if any;
(iii) the purposes for which the personal data are being
or are to be processed;
(iv) the source from which the information is being
collected;
(v) the logic that is involved in any automatic processing
of personal data concerning the data subject or the
relevant person;
(vi) the recipients or classes of recipients to whom they
are or may be disclosed; and
(b) permit the data subject or the relevant person to
examine the personal data in accordance with the
regulations or supply the data subject or the relevant
person with a copy of any personal data referred to in
paragraph (a) on payment of the prescribed fee.

257
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

(2) Where access to personal data is given under this Act
and the data subject or relevant person has a sensory disability
and requests that access be given in an alternative format, access
must be given in an alternative format if:
(a) the personal data already exists in an alternative format
that is acceptable to the data subject or relevant person;
or
(b) the data controller considers it to be reasonable to cause
the personal data to be converted.
(3) Where any personal data referred to under subsection
(1) is expressed in terms that are not intelligible without
explanation, the data controller shall supply the information
with an explanation of the terms.
(4) The information to be supplied pursuant to a request
under this section must be supplied by reference to any personal
data at the time when the request is received, except that it may
take account of any amendment or deletion made between that
time and the time when the information is supplied.
Compliance with request for access to personal data

53.—(1) Subject to this section and section 54 and to the
payment of the prescribed fee, a data controller shall comply
with a request under section 52 not later than thirty days after
the receipt of the request.
(2) Where a data controller is unable to comply with the
request within the period specified in subsection (1), the data
controller shall before the expiry of the specified period –
(a) inform the data subject or the relevant person who has
made the request on behalf of the data subject, that the
data controller is unable to comply with the request
and shall if required state the reasons for the data
controller’s inability to comply; and
(b) obtain an extension of time from the data subject or
relevant person or endeavour to comply with the request
in such time as may be mutually agreed between the
data subject or relevant person and the data controller.

258
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

(3) If the parties do not, within forty-eight hours of the
data subject or relevant person being informed under paragraph
(2)(a), agree to an extension of the thirty days, the data controller
shall apply to the Commissioner without delay, and the
Commissioner shall, without delay, fix a new deadline for
compliance.
Discretion in relation to access to personal data

54.—(1) A data controller may refuse to comply with a request
made under section 52 where —
(a) the data controller is not supplied with such information
as the data controller may reasonably require in order
to satisfy the data controller as to the identity of the
person making the request, and to locate the information
which the person seeks; or
(b) compliance with such request will be in contravention
with his or her confidentiality obligation imposed under
this Act or any other enactment.
(2) Where a data controller cannot comply with a request
made under section 52 without disclosing personal data relating
to another person, the data controller may refuse the request
unless (a) the other individual has consented to the disclosure of
his or her personal data to the person making the
request; or
(b) the data controller obtains the written approval of the
Commissioner.
(3) In determining for the purposes of subsection (2) (b)
whether it is reasonable for the Commissioner to approve a
request without the consent of the other individual concerned,
regard must be had, in particular, to (a) any duty of confidentiality owed to the other individual;
(b) any steps taken by the data controller with a view to
seeking the consent of the other individual;
(c) whether the other individual is capable of giving
consent; and
(d) any express refusal of consent by the other individual.

259
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

(4) Where a data controller has previously complied with a
request made under section 52 by a data subject or relevant
person, the data controller is not obliged to comply with a
subsequent identical or similar request under section 52 by that
data subject or relevant person unless a reasonable interval has
elapsed between compliance with the previous request and the
making of the current request.
(5) In determining, for the purposes of subsection (4),
whether request under section 52 are made at reasonable
intervals, regard must be had to —
(a) the nature of the data;
(b) the purpose for which the data is processed; and
(c) the frequency with which the data is altered.
Denial of access to personal data

55.—(1) A data controller shall not comply with a request
under section 52 where —
(a) he or she is being requested to disclose information given
or to be given in confidence for the purposes of –
(i) the education, training or employment, or
prospective education, training or employment, of
the data subject;
(ii) the appointment, or prospective appointment, of
the data subject to any office; or
(iii) the provision, or prospective provision, by the data
subject of any service;
(b) the personal data requested consist of information
recorded by candidates during an academic,
professional or other examination;
(c) such compliance would, by revealing evidence of the
commission of any offence other than an offence under
this Act, expose him or her to proceedings for that
offence.
(2) The data controller shall notify the data subject or
relevant person, in writing, of a refusal of a request made by a
data subject or relevant person and shall include a statement of

260
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

the reasons for the refusal and an indication that the data subject
or relevant person may complain to the Commissioner about
the refusal.
Right of rectification, etc. of inaccurate personal data

56.—(1) Where personal data processed by a data controller
to which access has been given under any enactment, contains
personal data of a data subject which the data subject claims:
(a) is incomplete, incorrect, misleading, or excessive;
(b) not relevant to the purpose for which the data is held;
the data controller shall, on application of the data subject, cause
such data to be rectified, blocked, erased, destroyed or annotated
as appropriate.
(2) Where a data controller has permitted a third party to
have access to personal data referred to in subsection (1), he or
she shall, as soon as reasonably practicable, request the third
party to rectify, block, erase, destroy or annotate the data, as
appropriate.
(3) Where a data controller or a third party fails to rectify,
block, erase or destroy personal data referred to in subsection
(1) (a) and (b), a data subject may apply to the Commissioner to
have such data rectified, blocked, erased, destroyed, rendered
inaccessible or annotated as appropriate.
(4) On being satisfied by an application under subsection
(3) that the personal data is the data referred to in subsection
(1) (a) and (b), the Commissioner shall direct the data controller
to rectify, block, erase, destroy render inaccessible or annotate
the data and any other personal data in respect of which he or
she is the data controller.
(5) The Commissioner may direct the data controller to
notify third parties to whom data has been disclosed, of any
rectification, blocking, erasure, destruction or annotation of the
data, if the Commissioner —
(a) issues a direction under subsection (4); or
(b) is satisfied on the application by an individual that
personal data of which the individual is the data subject

261
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

were inaccurate and have been rectified, blocked,
erased, destroyed or annotated.
(6) The data controller shall comply with a direction issued
under this section within fourteen days of receipt of the direction.
Right to prohibit processing of personal data for direct marketing

57.—(1) A person may, at any time, by notice in writing,
request a data controller —
(a) to stop; or
(b) not to begin,
the processing of personal data in respect of which he or she is
a data subject, for the purposes of direct marketing.
(2) Where the data controller receives a request under
subsection (1) (a), he or she shall, without delay and in any
event not more than thirty days after the request has been
received, where the personal data are kept (a) only for purposes of direct marketing, erase the data;
and
(b) for direct marketing and other purposes, stop processing
the personal data for direct marketing.
(3) Where the data controller receives a request under
subsection (1) (b), the data controller (a) shall, where the personal data are kept only for the
purpose of direct marketing, as soon as reasonably
practicable and in any event not more than thirty days
after the request has been received, erase the personal
data; or
(b) shall not, where the personal data are kept for direct
marketing and other purposes, process the personal
data for direct marketing after the expiry of thirty days.
(4) The data controller shall notify the data subject in writing
of any action taken under subsections (2) and (3) and, where
appropriate, inform the data subject of the other purposes for
which the personal data is being processed.

262
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

(5) Where a data controller fails to comply with a notice
issued pursuant to subsection (1), the data subject may make a
complaint to the Commissioner.
(6) In this section, “direct marketing” means a
communication, by whatever means, of any advertising or
marketing material which is directed to particular individuals.
PART VI
EXEMPTIONS
National Security

58. The Minister may by Order exempt a data controller
from complying with any provision of this Act if the Minister
determines that such non-compliance is required to safeguard
national security.
Crime and taxation

59. A data controller which is a public authority is exempt
from:
(a) the Second, Third, Fourth and Eighth Data Protection
Principles specified in Schedule 2;
(b) sections 34, 35, 40, 41, and 45; and
(c) Part V in respect of blocking personal data, to the extent
to which the application of such provisions would be
likely to prejudice any of the matters specified in this
section;
(d) if the processing of personal data is required for the
purposes of (i) the prevention or detection of crime;
(ii) the apprehension or prosecution of offenders; or
(iii) the assessment or collection of any tax, duty or any
imposition of a similar nature.
Health and social work

60.—(1) A data controller is exempt from the application of
section 52 where the personal data to which access is being
sought relates to the physical or mental health of the data subject

263
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

or any relevant person and the application of that section is
likely to cause serious harm to the physical or mental health of
the data subject or of any relevant person.
(2) The Minister may, by Order published in the Gazette
waive the obligations imposed under section 52, on a public
authority, voluntary organizations and any other similar body
as may be prescribed, where the public authority, voluntary
organization or other body carries out social work in relation to
a data subject or any other individual, and the application of
that section is likely to prejudice the carrying out of the social
work.
Regulatory activities

61.—(1) This section applies to the processing of personal data
by a data controller for the purposes of discharging any of the
relevant functions —
(a) designed for protecting members of the public against (i) financial loss due to dishonesty, malpractice or other
serious improper conduct, or by the unfitness or
incompetence of, persons concerned in the
provision of banking, insurance, investment or other
financial services or in the management of bodies
corporate;
(ii) financial loss due to the conduct of discharged or
undischarged bankrupts; or
(iii) dishonesty, malpractice or other seriously improper
conduct by, or the unfitness or incompetence of,
persons authorized to carry on any profession or
other activity;
(b) conferred on the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank, the
Director of Financial Services and the Financial
Intelligence Unit, by or under any enactment;
(c) for protecting charitable trusts and other bodies
involved in charitable work against misconduct or
mismanagement in administration;
(d) for protecting the property of charitable trusts and other
bodies specified in paragraph (c) from loss or
misapplication;

264
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

(e) for the recovery of the property of charitable trusts and
other bodies specified in paragraph (c);
(f) for securing the health, safety and welfare of persons
at work;
(g) for protecting persons other than persons at work
against risk to health or safety arising out of or in
connection with the actions of persons at work; or
(h) designed for –
(i) protecting members of the public against conduct
which adversely affect their interests by persons
carrying on a business;
(ii) regulating agreements or conduct which have as
their object or effect the prevention, restriction or
distortion of competition in connection with any
commercial activity; or
(iii) regulating conduct on the part of one or more
undertakings which amounts to the abuse of a
dominant position in a market.
(2) The processing of personal data by a data controller for
the purpose of discharging any of the relevant functions referred
to in subsection (1) (a) to (h), is exempt from the application of
sections 34, 35, 40, 41 and 45 to the extent that the application
of these sections would be likely to prejudice the proper
discharge of the relevant functions.
Journalism, literature and art

62.—(1) The processing of personal data for journalistic,
literary and artistic purposes is exempt from the provisions
specified in subsection (2) where —
(a) such processing is undertaken with a view to the
publication of any journalistic, literary or artistic
material;
(b) the data controller involved in such processing
reasonably believes that the publication would be in
the public interest; and

265
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

(c) the data controller reasonably believes that compliance
with any such provisions would be incompatible with
such purposes.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the processing of
personal data is be exempt from —
(a) the Second, Fourth and Eighth Data Protection
Principles and the part of the Third Data Protection
Principle which states that personal data must be
relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes
for which they are to be processed;
(b) sections 34, 35, 40, 41, and 45; and
(c) Part IV in respect of blocking personal data.
Research, history and statistics

63.—(1) Subject to subsections (2), (4), and (5), personal data
which is processed only for research, historical or statistical
purposes is be exempt from the Fourth Data Protection Principle.
(2) The exemption provided for under subsection (1) is not
applicable where —
(a) the personal data is not processed to support measures
or decisions with respect to particular individuals; and
(b) the personal data is not processed in such a way that
such processing would substantially damage or
substantially distress any data subject or will likely
cause such damage or distress.
(3) For the purposes of —
(a) the Second Data Protection Principle; and
(b) sections 34, 35, 40 and 41, further processing of personal
data only for research, historical or statistical purposes
is not regarded as incompatible with the purposes for
which such data was obtained provided that the
conditions under subsection (2) are satisfied.

266
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

(4) The personal data processed for research, historical or
statistical purposes is also exempt from the provisions of Part V
where (a) the conditions under subsection (2)(a) and (b) are
satisfied; and
(b) the results of the research or any resulting statistics are
not made available in a form which identifies any of
the data subjects concerned.
Information available to the public under an enactment

64. Where personal data consists of information that the
data controller is obliged under an enactment to make available
to the public, such data is exempt from (a) the Second, Third, Fourth and Eigth Data Protection
Principles;
(b) sections 34, 35, 40, 41, 42, 43 and 44; and
(c) Part V in respect of blocking personal data.
Disclosure required by law or in connection with legal proceedings

65. The disclosure of personal data by a data controller is
exempt from (a) the Second, Third, and Fourth Data Protection
Principles;
(b) sections 34, 35, 40, 41, 42, 43 and 44; and
(c) Part V in respect of blocking personal data;
(d) if the disclosure of the personal data is –
(i) required under any enactment or by a Court order;
(ii) necessary for the purpose of, or in connection with,
any on-going or prospective legal proceedings;
(iii) necessary for the purpose of obtaining legal advice;
or
(iv) otherwise necessary for the purpose of establishing,
exercising or defending legal rights.

267
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

Legal professional privilege

66. Personal data is exempt from —
(a) the Second, Third, and Fourth Data Protection
Principles; and
(b) section 40, where the personal data consist of
information in respect of which a claim to legal
professional privilege or confidentiality as between
client and legal practitioner could be maintained in legal
proceedings, including prospective legal proceedings.
Domestic purposes

67. Where personal data is processed by an individual only
for the purposes of that individual’s personal, family or
household affairs or for recreational purposes, the personal data
is exempt from —
(a) the Data Protection Principles; and
(b) Parts IV and Part V.
Written authorization of Commissioner in certain cases

68. The investigations on the data processing described in
Part VI are subject to the written authorization of the
Commissioner.
PART VII
MISCELLANEOUS
Appeals to Court

69.—(1) An appeal may be made to and heard and determined
by the Court against —
(a) a requirement specified in an enforcement notice or an
information notice;
(b) a decision of the Commissioner in relation to a
complaint; or
(c) any decision of the Commissioner in respect of the
performance of his or her duties and powers under this
Act.

268
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

(2) An appeal must be brought within thirty days from the
service on the person concerned of the relevant notice, or, as
the case may be, the receipt by such person of the notification
of the relevant refusal or decision.
(3) Where —
(a) a person appeals to the Court pursuant to paragraph
(a), (b) or (c) of subsection (1);
(b) the appeal is brought within the period specified in the
notice; and
(c) the Commissioner has included a statement in the
relevant notice or notification to the effect that by reason
of special circumstances he or she is of opinion that the
requirement or prohibition specified in the notice should
be complied with, or the refusal specified in the
notification should take effect urgently;
the Court may determine on application made to it in that
behalf, that non-compliance by the person with a
requirement or prohibition specified in the notice during
the period ending with the determination of withdrawal
of the appeal or during such other period as may be
determined by the Court does not constitute an offence.
Hearing of proceedings

70. The whole or any part of any proceedings under this
Act may, at the discretion of the Court, be heard otherwise than
in public.
Offences and penalties

71.—(1) A person who contravenes this Act commits an
offence.
(2) If a specific penalty is not provided for an offence, the
person is liable —
(a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding ten
thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months or to both;
(b) in the case of a body corporate, to a fine not exceeding
one hundred thousand dollars.

269
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

Offences by directors, etc. of bodies corporate

72. If any provision of this Act is contravened by a body
corporate and the contravention is proved to have been done
with the consent or connivance of or to be attributable to any
neglect on the part of any individual, being a director, manager,
secretary or other officer of that body corporate, or an individual
who was purporting to act in any such capacity that individual,
as well as the body corporate, commits an offence and is liable:
(a) in the case of the individual, to a fine not exceeding ten
thousand dollars or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding six months, or to both.
(b) in the case of the body corporate, to a fine not exceeding
one hundred thousand dollars.
Annual Report

73.—(1) The Commissioner shall as soon as practicable after
the thirty-first day of December of each year, prepare an annual
report on the activities of the office of Commissioner and cause
a copy of the report to be laid before the Parliament no later
than 31 March in each subsequent year.
(2) Without limiting the generality of subsection (1), the
report must include —
(a) a statement about the operation of approved and issued
codes of practice;
(b) any recommendation that the Commissioner thinks fit
relating to the compliance with this Act, and in
particular the Data Protection Principles.
Regulations

74.—(1) The Minister may, after consultation with the
Commissioner, make Regulations for giving effect to the purpose
of this Act and for prescribing anything required or authorised
by this Act to be prescribed.
(2) Notwithstanding the generality of subsection (1),
Regulations made under this section may prescribe –

270
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

(a) rules and procedures relating to access by the
Commissioner of data held in instances where the data
controller processes data for compliance with a legal
obligation;
(b) guidelines for the disposal of personal data held by a
data controller;
(c) guidelines for the contents of any notifications or
applications made pursuant to this Act;
(d) the fees that may be levied by the Commissioner;
(e) the extension of the application of this Act to any
particular activity or sector;
(f) the issuing and approval of codes and guidelines; and
(g) guidelines and rules relating to the provisions of this
Act.
(3) All Regulations made under this Act are subject to
negative resolution of Parliament.

271
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

SCHEDULE 1

[ 2011.

Section 11

FORM OF OATH
(AFFIRMATION FOR DATA PROTECTION COMMISSIONER)

I, ……………………………………………………., make oath/solemnly affirm/
declare that I will faithfully and honestly fulfill my duties as authorized
officer/Commissioner in conformity with the Data Protection Act 2010
and without fear or favour affection or ill-will and that I shall not without
the due authority in that behalf disclose or make known any matter or
thing which comes to my knowledge by reason of my duties as
Commission, authorized officer, employee.

272
No. 11]

Data Protection Act

SCHEDULE 2

[ 2011.

Section 32(1)

DATA PROTECTION PRINCIPLES
(a)

First Principle - Collection Limitation Principle: Personal data shall
be processed fairly and lawfully in accordance with section 33.

(b)

Second Principle – Purpose Specification Principle: Personal data
shall be obtained only for one or more specified and lawful purposes,
which purpose shall be specified not later than at the time of data
collection, and such personal data shall not be further processed in
any manner incompatible with that purpose or those purposes in
accordance with sections 33 and 41.

(c)

Third Principle – Data Quality Principle: Personal data shall be
relevant and not excessive in relation to the purposes for which
they are to be processed and, to the extent necessary for those
purposes, shall be accurate, complete and up-to-date in accordance
with sections 40 and 41.

(d)

Fourth Principle – Use Limitation Principle: Personal data shall
not be disclosed, made available or otherwise used for purposes
other than those specified under this Act and such personal data
processed for any purpose shall not be kept longer than is necessary
for that purpose or those purposes in accordance with sections 41,
42 and 44.

(e)

Fifth Principle – Security Safeguard Principle: Personal data shall
be protected by reasonable security safeguards and appropriate
technical and organizational measures shall be taken against
unauthorized or unlawful processing of personal data and against
such risks as accidental loss, unauthorized access, use, modification,
or destruction of data in accordance with section 33.

(f)

Sixth Principle – Accountability Principle: A data controller shall
be accountable for complying with measures which give effect to
the data protection principles and shall ensure that personal data
is processed in accordance with the rights of the data subject under
this Act in accordance with section 33.

(g)

Seventh Principle – Individual Participation Principle: A data subject
shall have the right to know what data is held about him by a data
controller and shall have a right to ensure that all reasonable
measures are taken to complete, correct, block, erase or annotate
data to the extent that such data is incomplete or incorrect, having

273
No. 11 ]

Data Protection Act

[ 2011.

regard to the purposes for which they are processed in accordance
with sections 33 and 56.
(h)

Eighth Principle – Transfer of Data Principle: Personal data shall
not be transferred to a country or territory outside the State unless
that country or territory ensures an adequate level of protection

for the rights and freedoms of data subjects in relation to
the processing of personal data in accordance with section
45.

Passed in the House of Assembly this 22nd day of March,
2011.
ROSEMARIE HUSBANDS-MATHURIN,
Speaker of the House.

Passed in the Senate this 24th day of March, 2011.

EVERISTUS JN. MARIE
Deputy President of the Senate.

SAINT LUCIA
PRINTED BY THE NATIONAL PRINTING CORPORATION
CASTRIES
2011

[ Price : $26.50 ]

18

