SAINTVINCENTAND THE GRENADINES
FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT, 2003
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
SECTION
PARTI
PRELIMINARY
1. Short title
2. Commencement
3. Object of Act
4. Interpretation
5. Non-application of Act
6. Act to bind State
PART II
PUBLICATION OF CERTAIN DOCUMENTS AND INFORMATION
7. Publication of information concerning functions, etc, of public authorities
8. Certain documents to be available for inspection and purchase
9. Unpublished documents not to prejudice public
PART III
RIGHT OF ACCESS TO INT?ORMATION
10. Right of access
11. Access to certain documents
12. Access to documents otherwise than under this Act
13. Requests for access
14. Duty to assist applicant
15. Transfer of request for access

E

I

16. Time-limit for determining requests
17. Access to documents
18. Deletion of exempt information
19. Fees
20. Forms of access
21. Deferral of access
22. Refusal of access in certain cases
23. Decisions to be made by authorised persons
24. Reasons for decisions to be given
PART IV
EXEMPTDOCUMENTS
25. Cabinet documents
26. Documents affecting national security, defence and international relations
27. Documents affecting enforcement or administration of the law
28. Documents affecting legal proceedings or subject to legal professional privilege
29. Documents to which secrecy provisions apply
30. Documents affecting personal privacy
31. Documents relating to trade secrets, business affairs etc
32. Documents affecting national economy
33. Documents containing material obtained in confidence
34. Documents disclosure of which would be contempt of court or contempt of
Parliament
35. Disclosure of exempt documents in the public interest
36. Duty of authorities to act in good faith

PART V

MLSC ELLANEOUS

37. Protection against actions for defamation or breach of confidence
38. Protection in respect of offences
39. Judicial review

40. Report to Parliament
41. Regulations

42. Preservation of records and documents

43. Non derogation from Privacy Act, No. of 2003

315

SAINT VINCENTAND THE GRENADINES
ACT NO. 27 OF 2003
I ASSENT
DR FREDERICK BALLANTYNE
Governor-General
15th December, 2003

[L.S.]

AN ACT to give rights of access to official documents of the government
and public authorities to members of the public and to provide for
connected matters.

BE IT ENACTED by the Queen's Most Excellent Majesty, by and
with the advice and consent of the House of Assembly of Saint Vincent
and the Grenadines and by the authority of the same, as follows:
PARTI
PRELIMINARY
1.

This Act maybe cited as the Freedom of Information Act, 2003.

2. This Act shall come into operation on a day to be appointed by
the Minister, by order published in the Gazette.
3. (1) The object of this Act is to extend the right of members of
the public to access information in the possession of public authorities by
(a) making available to the public information about the
operations of public authorities and, i n particular,
ensuring that the rules and practices affecting members
of the public in their dealings with public authorities are
readily available to persons affected by those rules and
practices;

Short title
Commencement

Object of Act

316
Freedom of Information

No. 27

2003

(b) creating a general right of access to information in
documentary form in the possession of public
authorities limited only by exceptions and exemptions
necessary for the protection of essential public interests
and the private and business affairs of persons it respect
of whom information is collected and held by public
authorities; and
(c) creating a right to bring about the amendment of records
containing personal information that is incomplete,
incorrect or misleading.
(2) The provisions of this Act shall be interpreted so as to further
the object set out in subsection (1) and any discretion conferred by this
Act shall be exercised as far as possible so as to facilitate and promote,
promptly and at the lowest reasonable cost, the disclosure of information.
Interpretation

4.

In this Act
"applicant" means a person who has made a request in
accordance with section 13 and shall include a person who
is acting on behalf of a minor or of a person under a disability;
"chief executive officer" includes the officer for the tine being
exercising the highest level of administrative functio is within
any public authority;
"document" means information recorded in any form, whether
printed or on tape or film or by electronic means or otherwise
and includes any map, diagram, photograph, film, microfilm,
videotape, sound recording, or machine-readable record or
any record which i s c apable of being produced from a
machine-readable record b y means o f equipment o r a
programme (or a combination of both) which is used for that
purpose by the public authority which holds the record;
"enactment" means an Act or an Instrument (including rules,
regulations or by-laws) made under an Act;

317
Freedom of Information

No. 27

"exempt document" means a document which, by virtue of any
provision of Part IV, is an exempt document.
"exempt information" means information the inclusion of which
in a document causes the document to be an exempt
document;
"Minister" means the Minister who has been assigned
responsibility for information under the Constitution;
"personal information" means information about an identifiable
individual that is recorded in any form including, without
restricting the generality of the foregoing (a) information relating to the race, sex, national or ethnic
origin, religion, age or marital status of the individual;
(b) information relating to the education or the medical,
criminal or employment history of the individual or
information relating to financial transactions in which
the individual has been involved;
(c) any identifying number, symbol o r other particular
assigned to the individual;
(d) the address, fingerprints or blood type of the individual;
(e) the name of the individual where it appears with other
personal information relating to the individual or where
the disclosure of the name itself would reveal
information about the individual;
(f)

correspondence sent to a public authority by the
individual that is explicitly or implicitly of a private or
confidential nature, and replies to such correspondence
that would reveal the contents of the original
correspondence; o r

(g) the views or opinions of any other person about the
individual;
"prescribed" means prescribed by the Minister by regulations
made under this Act;

2003

318
Freedom of Information

No. 27

2003

"public authority" includes
(a) Parliament, or any committee of Parliament;
(b) the Cabinet as constituted under the Constitution;
(c) a Ministry or a department or division of a Ministry;
(d) a local authority;
(e) a public statutory corporation or body;
(f)

a body corporate or an incorporated body established
for a public purpose, which is owned or controlled by
the State;

(g) an embassy, consulate or mission of the State or any
office of the State situated outside of Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines whose functions include the provision
of diplomatic or consular services for or on behalf of
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
(h) any other body designated by the Minister by
regulation made under this Act, to be a public authority
for the purposes of this Act;
"responsible Minister" in relation to a public authority means
the Minister of Government to whom responsibility for the
public authority is assigned.
Non-application
of Act

5.

(1) This Act does not apply to
(a) the Governor-General; or
(b) a commission of inquiry issued by the Governor-General
(2) For the purposes of this Act
(a) a court, or the holder of a judicial office or other office
pertaining to a court in his capacity as the holder of that
office, shall not be regarded as a public authority;
(b) except in a judicial capacity a registry or other office of
court administration, and the staff of such a registry or
other office of court administration in their capacity as
members of that staff in relation to those matters

319

No. 27

Freedom of Information

2003

which relate to court administration, shall be regarded
as part of a public authority.
6.

This Act shall bind the State.

Act t o bind State

PART II
PUBLICATION OF CERTAIN DOCUMENTS AND INFORMATION
7.

(1) A public authority shall, with the approval of the Minister
(a) cause to be published in the Gazette as soon as
practicable, but not later than twelve months, after the
date of availability of the forms approved by the Minister
(i) a statement setting out the particulars of the
organisation and functions of the public authority,
indicating, as far as practicable, the decision-making
powers and other powers affecting members of the
public that are involved in those functions, and
particulars o f any arrangement that exists for
consultation with or representations by, bodies and
persons outside the Government administration in
relation to t he formulation o f policy in, or t he
administration of, the public authority;
(ii) a statement of categories of documents that are
maintained in the possession of the public authority;
(iii) a statement of the material that has been prepared
by the public authority under this Part for
publication or inspection by members of the public,
and the places at which a person may inspect or
obtain that material;
(iv) a statement of the procedure to be followed by a
person when a request for access to document is
made to a public authority;
(b) during the year commencing on the first day of January
next following the publication, in respect of a public
authority, of the statement published under that

Publication of
i nformation
concerning
functions, etc, of
public authorities

320
Freedom of Information

No. 27

2003

subparagraph (a) that is the first statement published
under that subparagraph, and during each succeeding
year, cause to be published in the Gazette statements
bringing up to date the information contained in the
previous statement or statements published under that
subparagraph.
(2) A form approved by the Minister under subsection (1) shall
be such as he considers appropriate for the purpose of assisting members
of the public to exercise effectively their rights under this Act.
(3) Nothing in this section requires the publication of
information that is of such a nature that its inclusion in a docume it would
cause that document to be an exempt document.
(4) Where a public authority comes into existence on or after
the date of commencement of this Act, it shall comply with subsection (1)
as soon as practicable after the date it so comes into existence.
Certain

docu-

ments to be available for inspection
and purchase

8. (1) This section applies to documents that are provided by the
public authority for the use of, or are used by, the public authority or its
officers in making decisions or recommendations, under the public
authority, with respect to enactment or scheme administered by the public
authority, with respect to rights, privileges or benefits, or to obligations,
penalties or other detriments, to or for which persons are or may be entitled
or subject, being
(a) manuals or other documents containing interpretations,
rules, guidelines, practices or precedents including, but
without limiting the generality of the fo. • e going,
precedents in the nature of letters of advice providing
information t o bodies o r persons o utside th ~- public
authority;
(b) documents containing particulars of such a scheme,
not being particulars contained in any other enactment;
and
(c) documents containing statements of the manner, o r
intended manner, of administration or enforcement of
such an enactment or scheme,

No. 27

321
Freedom of Information

but not including documents that are available to the public as published
otherwise than by the public authority or as published by another public
authority.
(2) A public authority shall
(a) cause copies o f all documents to which this section
applies that are in use from time to time to be made
available for inspection and for purchase by members
of the public;
(b) not later than twelve months after the date of
commencement of this Act, cause to be published in the
Gazette, a statement (which may take the form of an
index) specifying the documents of which copies are, at
the time of preparation of the statement, so available
and the place or places where copies may be inspected
and may be purchased; and
(c) within twelve months after the date of the first publication
of the statement under paragraph (b) and thereafter at
intervals of not more than twelve months, cause to be
published in the Gazette, statements bringing up to date
information contained i n the previous statement or
statements.
(3) The public authority may not comply fully with paragraph
2(a) before the expiration of twelve months from the date of commencement
of this Act, but shall, before that time, comply with that paragraph as far as
is practicable.
(4) This section does not require a document of the kind referred
to in subsection (1) containing exempt information to be made available in
accordance with subsection (2), but, if such a document is not so made
available, the public authority shall, if practicable, cause to be prepared a
corresponding document, altered only to the extent necessary to exclude
the exempt information, and cause the document so prepared to be dealt
with in accordance with subsection (2).
(5) Where a public authority comes into existence on or after
the date of commencement of this Act, subsections (2) and (3) shall apply

2003

No. 27

322
Freedom of Information

2003

in relation to that public authority as if the references in those subsections
to the date of commencement of this Act were references to the date the
public authority so comes into existence.
Unpublished
documents not to
prejudice public

9. If a document required to be made available in accordance with
section 8, being a document containing a rule, guideline or practice relating
to a function of a public authority, was not made available and included in
a statement in the Gazette, as referred to in that section, a member of the
public who was not aware of that rule, guideline or practice shall not be
subjected to any prejudice by reason only of the application of that rule,
guideline or practice in relation to the thing done or omitted to be done by
him if he could lawfully have avoided that prejudice had he been aware of
that rule, guideline or practice.
PART III
RIGHT OFACCESS TO INFORMATION

Right of access

Access to certain
documents

10. Subject to this Act, every person shall have a right of ~ ccess in
accordance with this Act, to an official document other than an exempt
document.
11. Where
(a) a document is open to public access, as part of a public
register or otherwise, in accordance with another
enactment; or
(b) a document is available for purchase by the public in
accordance with arrangements made by a public
authority,
the access to that document shall be obtained in accordance with that
enactment or arrangement, as the case may be.

Access t o
documents
otherwise than
under this Act

12. Nothing in this Act shall prevent a public authority from p-iblishing
or giving access to documents (including exempt documents), otherwise
than as required by this Act, where it has the discretion to do so or is
required by law to do so.

Requests for
access

13. (1) A person who wishes to obtain access to a document of a
public authority shall make a request in writing to the public authority for
access to the document.

No. 27

323
Freedom of Information

2003

(2) A request shall identify the document or shall provide such
information concerning the document as is reasonably necessary to enable
a responsible officer of the public authority to identify the document.
(3) A request may specify in which of the forms of access set
out in section 20 the applicant wishes to be given access.
(4) Subject to section 22, a request maybe made for access to all
documents of a particular description that contain information of a specified
kind or which relate to a particular subject matter.
14. (1) A public authority shall take reasonable steps to assist any
person who

Duty to assist
applicant

(a) wishes to make a request under section 13; or
(b) has made a request which does not comply with the
requirements of subsection 13(2),
to make a request in a manner which complies with that section.
(2) Where a request in writing is made to a public authority for
access to a document, the public authority shall not refuse to comply with
the request on the ground that the request does not apply with subsection
13(2), without first giving the applicant a reasonable opportunity o f
consultation with the public authority with a view to the making of a
request in a form that complies with that section.
15. (1) Where a request is made to a public authority for access to a
document and the request has not been directed to the appropriate public
authority, the public authority to which the request is made shall transfer
the request t o the appropriate public authority and inform the person
making the request accordingly.

Transfer of
request for
access

(2) Where a request is transferred to a public authority i n
accordance with this section, it shall be deemed to be a request made to
that public authority and received on the date on which it was originally
received.
16. A public authority s hall t ake reasonable st eps t o e nable an
applicant to be notified of the decision on his request (including a decision

Time-limit for
determining
request

324
Freedom of Information

No. 27

2003

for deferral of access under section (21) as soon as practicable b it in any
case not later than thirty days from the date on which the reques. is duly
made.
Access to
documents

17. Where a request for access to a document is duly made and
(a) the request is approved by the public authority; and
(b) subject to section 19, any fee required to be paid before
access is granted has been paid,
access to the document shall be given forthwith in accordance with this
Act.
18. (1) Where

Deletion
of exempt
i nformation

(a) a decision is made not to grant a request for access to a
document on the ground that it is an exempt document;
and
(b) it is practicable for the public authority to graft access
to a copy of the document with such deletio,is as to
make the copy not an exempt document; and
(c) it appears from the request, or the applicant
subsequently indicates, that the applicant would wish
to have access to such a copy,
the public authority shall give the applicant access to such a copy of the
document.
(2) Where access is granted to a copy of a document in
accordance with subsection (1), the applicant shall be informed that it is
such a copy and also be informed of the provisions of this Act by virtue of
which any information deleted is exempt information.
19. The Minister may from time to time by regulation prescribe or

Fees

alter
(a) the fees t o be charged by a public authority for the
making of a request for access to a do • ument;
(b) the fees payable where access to a document s to be
given in the form of printed copies in some

No. 27

325
Freedom of Information

2003

other form such, as on tape, disk, film, electronic means
or other material;
(c) the manner in which any fees payable under this Act is
to be calculated and the maximum amount it shall not
exceed; and
(d) exempt any person or category of persons from
paying any fees under this Act, where the information
contained in the document for which access is requested
is in the public interest.
Forms of access

20. (1) Access to a document may be given to a person in one or
more of the following forms:
(a) a reasonable opportunity to inspect the document;
(b) provision by the public authority o f a copy of the
document;
(c) in the case of a document that is an article or thing from
which sounds or visual images are capable of being
reproduced, the making of arrangements for the person
to hear or view those sounds or visual images;
(d) in the case of a document by which words are recorded
in a manner in which they are capable of being
reproduced in the form of sound or in which words are
contained in the form of shorthand writing or in codified
form, provision by the public authority o f a written
transcript of the words recorded or contained in the
document.
(2) Subject t o subsection ( 3) and to section 18, where the
applicant has requested access in a particular form, access shall be given
in that form.
(3) If the form of access requested by the applicant
(a) would interfere unreasonably with the operations of the
public authority; or

No. 27

326
Freedom of Information

2003

(b) would be detrimental to the preservation of the
document or, having regard to the physical nature of
the document, would not be appropriate; or
(c) would involve an infringement of copyright (o'. ier than
copyright owned by the Government) subsisting in the
document,
access in that form may be refused and access given in another form.
Deferral of access

21. (1) A public authority which receives a request may defer the
provision of access to the document concerned until the happening of a
particular event (including the taking of some action required by law or
some administrative action), or until the expiration of a specified time,
where it is reasonable to do so in the public interest or having regard to
normal and proper administrative practices.
(2) Where the provision of access to a document is deferred in
accordance with subsection (1), the public authority shall, in informing
the applicant of the reasons for the decision, indicate, as far as practicable,
the period for which the deferment will operate.

Refusal of access
in certain cases

22. A public authority dealing with a request may refuse to grant
access to a document i n accordance with the request, withou,', having
caused the processing o f the r equest to have been undertaker., if the
public authority i s satisfied t hat the work involved i n proce: sing t he
request would substantially and unreasonably interfere with tha normal
operations of the public authority, and i f before refusing to provide
information on these grounds, the public authority has taken reasonable
steps to assist the applicant to reformulate the application so as to avoid
causing such interference.

Decisions to
be made by
authorised
persons

23. A decision in respect of a request made to a public authority may
be made, on behalf of the public authority, by the chief executive officer of
the public authority or, subject to the regulations, by an officer of the
public authority acting within the scope of authority exercisable by him in
accordance with the arrangements approved by the chief executive officer
of the public authority.

Reasons for
decisions t o
be given

24. (1) Where in relation to a request for access to a document of a
public authority, a decision is made under this Part that the applicant is not
entitled to access to the document in accordance with the request

No. 27

327
Freedom of Information

2003

or that provision of access to the document be deferred or that no such
document exists, the public authority shall cause the applicant to be given
notice in writing of the decision, and the notice shall
(a) state the findings o n a ny material q uestion of f act,
referring to the material on which those fmdings were
based, and the reasons for the decision;
(b) where the decision relates to a public authority, state
the name and designation o f the person giving the
decision;
(c) where the decision does not relate to a request for access
to a document which if it existed, would be an exempt
document but access is given to a document in
accordance with section 18, state that the document is a
copy of a document from which exempt information has
been deleted;
(d) where the decision is to the effect that the document
does not exist, state that a thorough and diligent search
was made to locate the document;
(e) inform the applicant of his right to apply to court for a
review of the decision and the time within which the
application for review is required to be made.
(2) A public authority is not required to include in a notice under
subsection (1) any matter that is not of such a nature that its inclusion in
a document to be an exempt document.
PART IV
EXENIPTDOCUMENTS
25. (1) A document is an exempt document if it is
(a) a document that has been submitted to the Cabinet for
its consideration or is proposed b y a Minister of
Government to be so submitted, being a document that
was brought into existence for the purpose of
submission for consideration by the Cabinet;

Cabinet
documents

No. 27

328
Freedom of Information

2003

(b) an official record of any deliberation or decision of the
Cabinet;

(c) a document that is a draft of a copy of, or of a part of, or
contains an extract from, a document referred to in paragraph (a) or (b); or
(d) a document the disclosure of which would im olve the
disclosure of any deliberation or decision of the Cabinet, other than a document by which a decision of the
Cabinet was officially published.
(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to a document that contains
purely statistical, technical or scientific material unless the disclosure of
the document would involve the disclosure of any deliberation or decision
of Cabinet.
(3) For the purposes of this Act, a certificate signed by the
Secretary to the Cabinet or a person performing the duties of the Secretary,
certifying that a document is one of a kind referred to in a paragraph of
subsection (1), establishes conclusively that it is an exempt document of
that kind.
(4) Where a document is a document referred to in paragraph
(1) (c) or (d) by reason only of matter contained in a particular part or
particular parts o f the document, a certificate under subsectic n (2) i n
respect of the document shall identify that part or those part, oft he
document as containing the matter by reason of which the certificate is
given.
(5) In this section, any reference to "Cabinet" shall be read as
including a reference to a committee of the Cabinet.
Documents
affecting n ational
security, defence
and international
relations

26. (1) A document is an exempt document if disclosure of the
document under this Act would be contrary to the public interest for the
reason that the disclosure
(a) would prejudice the security, defence or international
relations of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines;
(b) would divulge any information or matter
communicated in confidence by o r on behalf of the

No. 27

329
Freedom of Information

2003

Government of another country to the Government of
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.
(2) Where a responsible Minister is satisfied that the disclosure
under this Act of a document would be contrary to the public interest for
a reason referred to in subsection (1), he may sign a certificate to that
effect and such a certificate, so long as it remains in force, shall establish
conclusively that the document is an exempt document referred to in
subsection (1).
(3) Where a responsible Minister is satisfied as mentioned in
subsection (2) by reason only of the matter contained in a particular part or
particular parts of a document, a certificate under that subsection in respect
of the document shall identify that part or those parts of the document as
containing the matter by reason of which the certificate is given.
27. A document is an exempt document if its disclosure under this
Act would, or would be reasonably likely to
(a) prejudice the investigation of a breach or possible breach
of the law or the enforcement or proper administration
of the law in a particular instance;
(b) prejudice the fair trial of a person or the impartial
adjudication of a particular case before a court of law or
a tribunal established by law;
(c) disclose, or enable a person to ascertain the identity of
a confidential source of information in relation to the
enforcement or administration of the law;
(d) disclose methods or procedures for preventing,
detecting, investigating, or dealing with matters
arising out o f breaches or e vasions o f the 1 aw, t he
disclosure of which would, or would be reasonably likely
to, prejudice the effectiveness of those methods or
procedures; or
(e) endanger the lives or physical safety of persons engaged
in or in connection with law enforcement.

Documents
a f f e c tin g
enforcement or
administration of
the law

No. 27

330
Freedom of Information

2003

Documents
affecting legal
proceedings or
subject to legal
professional
privilege

28. (1) A document is an exempt document if it is of such a nature
that it would be privileged from production in legal proceedings on the
ground of legal professional privilege.

to
Documents
which
secrecy
provisons apply

29. A document is an exempt document if it is a document tc which a
prescribed provision of an enactment, being a provision prohibiting or
restricting disclosure of the document or of information or other matter
contained in the document, applies.

Documents
affecting p ersonal
privacy

30. (1) A document is an exempt document if its disclosure under
this Act would involve the unreasonable disclosure of personal information
of any individual (including a deceased individual).

(2) A document of the kind referred to in section 8 (1) is not an
exempt document by virtue of subsection (1) by reason only of the inclusion
in the document of matter that is used or to be used for the purpose of the
making of decisions or recommendations referred to in section 8 (1).

(2) Subject to subsection (4), the provisions of subsection (1)
do not have effect in • relation to a request by a person for access to a
document by reason only of the inclusion in the document of matters
relating to that person.
(3) Where a request by a person other than a person referred to
in subsection (2) is made to a public authority for access to a document
containing personal information of any individual (including a deceased
individual) and the public authority decides to g rant acces3 t o the
document, the public authority shall, if practicable, notify the individual
who i s the subject of that information ( or in the case o f a o eceased
individual, that individual's next-of-kin) of the decision and of the right to
apply to the High Court for judicial review of the decision and :the time
within which the application for review is required to be made.
Documents
relating to trade
secrets, business
affairs etc.

31. (1) A document is an exempt document if its disclosure under
this Act would disclose:
(a) trade secrets;
(b) any other information having a commercial value that
would b e, or could reasonably b e expected t o be,
destroyed or diminished if the information were
disclosed; or

331
Freedom of Information

No. 27

2003

(c) information (other than trade secrets or information to
which paragraph (b) applies) concerning a person in
respect of his or her business or professional affairs or
concerning the business, commercial or financial affairs
of an undertaking, being information
(i)

the disclosure of which would, or could reasonably
be expected to, unreasonably affect that person
adversely in respect of his or her lawful business or
professional affairs or that undertaking in respect
of its lawful business, commercial or financial affairs;
or

(ii) the disclosure of the information under this Act
would be contrary to public interest by reason that
the disclosure would be reasonably likely to
prejudice the ability of the Government or a public
authority to obtain similar information in the future
for the purpose of administration of the law.
(2) The provisions of subsection (1) do not have effect in relation
to a request by a person for access to a document by reason only of the
inclusion in the document of information concerning
(a) the business or professional affairs of that person; or
(b) the b usiness, c ommercial or financial a ffairs o f a n
undertaking of which that person, or a person on
behalf that person made the request, is the proprietor.
32. (1) A document is an exempt document if its disclosure under
this Act would be contrary to the public interest by reason that it would be
reasonably likely to have a substantial adverse effect on the national
economy.
(2) The kinds of documents to which subsection (1) may apply
include but are not restricted to, documents containing information relating
to
(a) currency or exchange rates;

Documents
affecting
n a t i o n a l
economy

No. 27

332
Freedom of Information

2003

(b) interest rates;
(c) taxes, including duties of customs or of excise;
(d) the regulation or supervision of banking, insurance and
other financial institutions;
(e) proposals for expenditure;
(f)

foreign investment in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

(g) borrowings'by the Government.
Documents
containing
material obtained
in confidence

33. (1) A document is an exempt document if its disclosure under
this Act would divulge a ny information o r m atter communicated in
confidence by or on behalf of a person or a government to a public a ithority,
and
(a) the information would be exempt information if it were
generated by a public authority; or
(b) the disclosure of the information under this Act would
be contrary to the public interest by reason that the
disclosure would be reasonably likely to impair the ability
of a public authority to obtain similar information in the
future.
(2) This section does not apply to information
(a) acquired by a public authority from a business, commercial
or financial undertaking; and
(b) that relates to trade secrets or other matters o f a
business, commercial or financial nature.

Documents
disclosure
of
which would be
contempt of court
or contempt of
Parliament

34. A document is an exempt document if public disclosure of the
document would, apart form this Act and any immunity of the state

(a) be in contempt of court;
(b) be contrary to an order made or given by a commission
or by a tribunal or other person or body having power
to take evidence on oath;

No. 27

333
Freedom of Information

2003

(c) infringe the privileges of Parliament.
35. Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, a public authority shall
give access to an exempt document where there is reasonable evidence
that significant

Disclosure o f
exempt
document
in the public
i nterest

(a) abuse of authority or neglect i n the performance of
official duty;
(b) injustice to an individual;
(c) danger to the health or safety of an individual or of the
public; or
(d) unauthorised use of public funds;
has or is likely to have occurred or in the circumstances giving access to
the document is justified in the public interest having regard both to any
benefit and to any damage that may arise from doing so.
36. (1) The Minister may, in consultation with a public authority, by
order, declare a document to which sections 25 to 35 are not applicable, to
be an exempt document for the purposes of this Act on the grounds of
national interest.

Duty of
authorities
to act in
good faith

(2) In considering whether or not to claim exemption under this
Part, the public authority shall act in good faith and use its best endeavours
to achieve the object of this Act to afford to members of the public maximum
access to official documents consistent with national or public interest.
PART V
NUSCELLANEOUS
37. (1) Where access has been given to a document and
(a) the access was required by this Act to be given; or

(b) the access was authorised by an officer having authority,
in accordance with section 2 3, to make decisions i n
respect of requests, in the bona fide belief that the access
was required by this Act to be given,

Protection
against actions
for defamation
or breach of
confidence

No. 27

334
Freedom of Information

2003

no action for defamation or breach of confidence shall lie by reas rn of the
authorising or giving of the access, against the Government or a public
authority or against the officer who authorised the access or any person
who gave the access.
(2) The giving of access to a document (including an exempt
document) in consequence of a request shall not be taken, for the purposes
of the law relating to defamation or breach of confidence, to constitute an
authorisation or approval of the publication of the document or of its
contents by the person to whom the access was given.
Protection in
respect of
offences

38. Where access has been given to a document and
(a) the access was required by this Act to be given; or
(b) the access was authorised by a Minister or by an officer
having authority, in accordance with section 23 to make
decisions in respect of requests, in the bona fide belief
that the access was required by this Act to be given,
cons-,rued

neither the person authorising the access nor any person
in
the giving of the access is guilty of a criminal offence by reason only of
the authorising or giving of the access.
Judicial review

39. (1) Any person aggrieved by a decision of a public authority
under this Act may apply to the High Court for judicial review of the
decision.
(2) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, where an
application for judicial review of a decision of a public authority under this
Act is made under subsection (1), that application shall be heard and
determined by a Judge in Chambers, unless the Court directs otherwise.
(3) In this section "decision of a public authority" includes the
failure of a public authority to comply with provisions of this Act.

Report to
Parliament

40. (1) The Minister shall, as soon as practicable after the
thirty-first of December of each year, prepare a report on the c -)eration
of this Act during that year and cause a copy of the report to be laid
before Parliament.

No. 27

335
Freedom of Information

2003

(2) Each responsible Minister shall, in relation t o the public
authorities within his portfolio, furnish to the Minister such information as
he requires for the purposes of the preparation of any report under this
section and shall comply with any prescribed requirements concerning
the furnishing of that information and the keeping of records for the
purposes of this section.
41. (1) The Minister may from time to time make or alter regulations
for giving effect to the purposes of this Act and for prescribing anything
required or authorised by this Act to be prescribed.

Regulations

(2) Notwithstanding the generality of subsection (1), regulations
made under this section may prescribe
(a) the fees in respect of access to documents (including
the provision of copies or transcripts) in accordance
with this Act;
(b) the officers who may make decisions on behalf of a public
authority;
(c) requirements concerning the furnishing of information
and keeping of records for the purposes of section 40.
(3) All r egulations made under this Act shall b e laid b efore
Parliament as soon as may be after the making thereof and shall be subject
to negative resolution.
42. (1) A public authority shall maintain and preserve records or
cause to be maintained and preserved records in relation to its functions
and a copy of all official documents which are created by it or which come
at any time into its possession, custody or power for such period of time
as may be prescribed.
(2) • A person who wilfully destroys o r damages a record or
document required to be maintained and preserved under subsection (1),
commits an offence and is liable on summary conviction to a fine not
exceeding five thousand dollars or imprisonment for a term not exceeding
two years.

Preservation of
records
and
documents

336
Freedom of Information

No. 27

2003

(3) A person who knowingly destroys or damages a record or
document which is required to be maintained and preserved under
subsection (1) while a request for access to the record or document is
pending commits an offence and is liable on summary conviction to a fine
not exceeding e ight thousand dollars or imprisonment for a erm not
exceeding three years.
Non derogation
from Privacy Act,
No. 1 8 o f 2 003

43. Nothing in this Act shall be regarded as authorising
any derogation from or n on-compliance with any provision o f the
Privacy Act.

Passed in the House of Assembly this 27th day of June, 2003.
NICOLE HERBERT
Clerk of the House ofAssembly (Ag.)
Printed by the Government Printer at the Government Printing Office,
Kingstown, St. Vincent and the Grenadines.
2003

[ Price $13.20 ]

