ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF
WEST AFRICAN STATES

COMMUNAUTE ECONOMIQUE
DES ETATS DE L'AFRIQUE
DE L'OUEST

THIRTY-SEVENTH SESSION OF THE AUTHORITY OF
HEADS OF STATE AND GOVERNMENT

Ahuja, 16th February 2010

SUPPLEMENTARY ACT A1SA.1f01f10 ON PERSONAL DATA
PROTECTION WITHIN ECOWAS

THE HIGH CONTRACTING PARTIES,

MINDFUL of Articles 7, 8 and 9 of the ECOWAS Treaty as revised on the
establishment of the Authority of Heads of State and Government and defining its
composition and functions:
MINDFUL of the Supplementary Protocol AlSP.1f06f06
amendment of the revised Treaty of ECOWAS:

establishing the

MINDFUL of Article 4 paragraph g of the said Treaty relating to the Member
States' adherence to the promotion and protection of human and peoples'
rights in accordance with the provisions of the African Chaner on Human
and Peoples' Rights;
MINDFUL of Article 27, 32 and 33 of the said Treaty relating to Science and
Technology, and on the areas of Communication and Telecommunications;
MINDFUL of Article 57 of the said Treaty on judicial and legal cooperation, wt1ich
prescribes that the Member States undertake to promote judicial cooperation with
a view to harmonizing judicial and legal systems:
MINDFUL of ECOWAS Supplementary Act AlSA 1101/07 of 19 January 2007 on
the harmonization of the policies and regulatory framework of the Information and
Communication Technologies sector (lCT);
CONSIDERING the important progress made in the area of Information and
Communication Technologies (lCT) as well as the Internet which increasingly
raises the problem of personal data protection;
CONSCIOUS that a technology such as the Internet, wrth its facilities of profiling
and tracing of individuals, consmutes a favourable vector for gathering and

processing personal data:

CONSCIOUS also that the increasing use r:I Information and Communicaflon
Technology (lCT) may be prejudicial to the private and professional life of the
use~;

NOTING that, notwithstanding the existence of the national legislations relating to
the protection of privacy of the citizens in their pr!vate and professional life and
relating to the guarantee of the free movement of information, it becomes a
matter of urgency to fill the legal vacuum generated by the use of internet which
is a new instrument of communication;
CONSCIOUS of the necessity to fill this legal vacuum and establish a
harmonised legel framework in the process of pe~onal data;
DESIROUS of adopflng this Supplementary Act on the protection of personal
data:
AFTER THE OPINION of The ECOWAS Perliament deted 23 May 2009;
ON THE RECOMMENDATION of the Sixty-third Ordinary Session of the CounCil
of Ministers held at Abuja from from 20 to 21 November 2009;

HEREBY AGREE AS FOL.L.OWS:

CHAPTER I
GENERAL. PROVISIONS
Article 1:

Definitions

For the purposes of this Supplementary Act:
Authority of Protection
The data protection authority Shall be an independent administrative authority
responsible for ensuring that personal data is processed in compliance with the
provisions of this Supplementary Act;
Code of conduct refe~ to the data-use charte~ drafted by the data conlloller in
order 10 institute the rightful use of IT resources, the Ir'lternet, and electronic
communications of the structure concerned, and which have been approved by
the data protection Authority;
Consent of the data subject is any manifestation of specific, unequivocal, free,
informed and express will by which the data subject or his legal, judicial or
agreed representative accepts that his personal data be processed either
manually or electronically;

-2 -

.-,;:D~~

00

~
~ r::: ,:,,". f'I ~

The recipient of personal data processing is any individual to whom the data
may be disclosed, alld who is nol the data subject, the data controller, the data
processor, or pel1lons who by virtue of their functions are responsible for
processing such dala;
Personal data means any information relating to an identified individual or who
may be directly or indirectly identifiable by reference to an identification number
or one or several elements related to their phySical, physiological. genetic,
psychological, cultural, social, or economic identity;

Sensitive data means personal data relating to an individual's religious,
philosophical, political, trade union opinions or activities, to his sexual life, racial
origin or health, relating to social measures, proceedings, and criminal or
adminislrafrve sanctions;
Health data means any information about the physical and mental health of the
data subject, includirlg the above-mentioned genetic data;
Personal data file means any structured set of data that is accessible according
to defined cmeria, whether the set is centralised, decentralised, or distributed
functionally or geographically;
Combining personal data refers to any connection mechanism that consists of
linking data processed for a given purpose with other data processed for a
purpose that mayor may not be identical, or that are linked by one or several
data controllers;
Data subject means an individual who is the subject of personal data
processing',

Direct prospecting means any message sent, on whatever medium and of
whatever nature, in particular a commercial, political or charitable message,
aimed at promoting, directly or indirecUy, goods, services or the image of a
person selling goods or providing services;
Data controller means any publiC or private individual or legal entity, body or
association who, alone or join~y with others, decides to collect and process
personal data and determines the purposes lor which such data are processed;
Data processor means any public or private individual or legal entity, body or
association who processes data on behalf of the data controller;
Third party means any public or private individual or fagal entity, body or
aSSociation oll1er than the data subject, the data controiler, the data processor
and any oUler persons placed under the direct authority of the data controller or
the data processor, who is authorised to process data;

-3-

",,"'Eo.,.

~

~
~t::tlO<oIf'1~

Personal data processing refers

to any operation or set of operations carried

out or not, with the assistance of processes that mayor may not be automated,
and applied to data, such as obtaining, using, recording, organisation,
preservation, adaptation, alteration, retrieval, saving, copying, consultation,

utilisation, disclosure by transmission, dissemination or otherwise making
available, alignment or combination, as well as blocking, encryption, erasure or
destruction of personal data.

CHAPTER II
LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION
Article 2:

Aims

Each Member State shall establish a legal framework of protection for prrvacy of

data relating to the collection, processing, transmission, storage, and use of
personal data without prejudice to the general interest of the State.

Article 3:

Scope

The following shall be subject to this Slipplementary Act:
1) Collection, processing, transmission, storage, and use of personal data by
any individual, by government, local authorities, and public or private legal
entities;

2) Any automated or un-automated processing of data that is contained or
may be included in a file, with the exception of those processes mentioned
under Article 4 of this Supplementary Act:
3) Any processing carried out in an UEMOA or ECOWAS Member State;
4) Any processing of data related to public security, defence, investigation
and pmsecution of criminal offences or State security, subject 10 such
exemptions as are defined by specific pmvisions stipulated in other legal
texts in force.

Articls 4:

Exclusions

This Supplementary Act shall not apply to data pmcessing carried out by an
individual in the exclusive frameworn of his personal or domestic activities.

- 4-

CHAPTER III
REQUIRED FORMALITIES FOR EXECUTING PERSONAL DATA
PROCESSING
Article 5:

Formality for declaration

With the exception of the cases set out under Articles 6, 11 and 12 of this
Supplementary Act, processing of personal data shall be subject to a declaration
to be made to the data protection Authority.
Article 6: Personal processing forthe public service
Personal data processing lI1at is carried out on behalf of the State, a public
establishment or local authority, or a body incorporated under private law and
running a public service, shall be decided upon by a legislative or regulatory Act
passed subsequent to the reasoned opinion ofll1e data protection Authority.
Such processing shall concem:
1) National security, defence or public security;

2) The prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal
offences or the application of criminal sentences or security measures;
3) Populatkln census;

4) Personal data that reveal directly or indirectly an individual's racial,
ethnic or regional origins, parentage, pomical, philosophical or
religious opinions, membership of a trade union, or which relate to his
health or sexual life;

5) Management of salaries,

pensions,

taxes,

duties,

and

other

assessments.
ArtiCle 7:

Formalities of requests for opinions and authorizations

Requests for opin'lons, notmcations, and other requests for authorisation must
specify:
1) the identity and address of the data controller or, if the latter is not
established on the territory of an ECOWAS or UEMOA Member state,
those of his duly mandated representa~ve;
2) the purpose(s) for which the data is intended
as general description of its functions;

to be processed, as well

3) the expected combinations or other forms of linkage with other
processes;
4) the type of personal data processed, its origin, and the categorfes of

d," "bj''''' ro."od by Ih.

pro:,',,,

~ ~ ~tL

5} the period of preservation of the processed data;
6} the officers} responsible for executing the processing, as well as the
categories of persons who, by virtue of their functions or for service
requirements, have direct access to the recorded data.;
7) the recipients to whom such data may be disclosed;
8} the function of the person or department to wtlOm application shall be
made for right of access;
9} the steps taken to ensure the security of the processing and of the
data;
10)an indication that the data is processed by a data processor;

11)where personal data is expected to be transferred to third countries
that are not members of ECOWAS or UEMOA, subject to reciprocity.
Article 8:

Deadline

The data protecl1on Authority shall give its opinion within a set period of time
starting from the date of receipt of the request for opinion or authOrisation.
Nevertheless, this period of time mayor may no! be extended, on the basis of a
reasoned deciSion of the data protection Authority.
Article 9:

Medium for the opinion or request for notification

The opinion or notification or request for authorisation may be sent to the data
protection Authority by postal or e~ctronic medium.
Article 10:

Exemption from declaration

For the most common categories of personal data processing that are not likely
to violate privacy or liberties, the protection Authority may draw up and publish
standards aimed at simplifying or waiving the notification obligation.
Article 11:

Exemption from formalities

The following shall not be subject to the preconditions indicated in the Articles
below:
I} ProcesSing mentioned under Article 4 of this Supplementary Act;
2) Processing with the sole objective of keeping an exclusively private

mg;".'

-6-

~,

3) Data processing by an association or any non-prafrt and fa'ith-based,
philosophical or trade union body, where such data correspond 10 the
object of the association or body, and only concem their members and
are not to be disclosed to third parties.
Article 12:

Types of processing to be executed after authorization

The following shall be subject to authorisation from the data protection
authority:
1) ProcesSing of pef1ional data relating to genetic data and health
research;
2) Processing of personal data relating to offences, sentences, or
security measures;
3) Processing of personal data for the purpose of combining files, as
defined under Arflele 37 of this Supplementary Act;
4) Processiflg relating to a national identification number or any such
other identification:
5) Processing of personal data that includes biometric data;
6) Processing of pef1ioflal data for reasons of public iflterest, in particular
for historical, statistical or scientific purposes.
Article 13:

Referral to the protection Authorlty

Application may be submitted to the data protection Authority by any ifldividual
acting on his own behalf, through his lawyer or by .my other duly-authorized
indiVidual or legal entity.
CHAPTER IV
INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR THE PROTECTION
OF PERSONAL DATA
Article 14:

Establishment

1) Within the ECOWAS space, each Member State shall establish Its own data
protection Authority. AflY State that does not have shall be encouraged to
establish one.
2) The data protection Authority shall be an indepefldenl admiflistrative Authority
responsible for ensuring that personal data is processed in compliance with
the provisions of this Supplementary Act.

- 7-

Article 15:

Composition

Each Member State shall take necessary measures to detefmine the
membership of the data protection Authority. This Authority must be composed of
qualified persons in the field of law, infonnation communication technology and
any other field of knowledge to achieve the objectJves defined in Article 2 of this
Supplementary Act
Article 16:

Incompatibility

Membership of the data protection Authority shall be incompatible with
membership of government, the exercise of business executives, and ownership
of shares in businesses in the infonnatlon or telecommunications sectors.
Article 17:

Immunity

1) Members of the data protection Authority shall enjoy full immunity in respect of
opinions expressed in the exercise of, or during the tenure of their function.
2) They shall receive no instructions from any Authority In discharging their
duties.
Article 18:

Professional Secrecy and Rules of Procedure

1) Members of the data protection Authority shall be subject to professional
secrecy, in line wnh texts in force in each Member State.
2) Each dala protection Authonty shall draft its rules of procedure, which shall
stipulate in particular, the rules governing deliberations, appraisal and
presentation of applications.
Article 19:

Responsibilities

1) The Data Protection Authority shall ensure that leTs do not constitute a threat
to public liberties and privacy. To this end, it shall:

,}

inform data subjects and data controllers of their rights and
obligations;

b}

respond to all requests for an opinion relating to processing of
personal data:

c}

Infonn data subjects and data controllers of theif rights and
obligations;

d}

authorize the processing of files in a certain number of cases, in
particular sensitive files;

,}

examine the prerequisite condrtlons for Implementing personal data

pcooo,,;o,

8

~ ~t

f)

receive claims, petil'lons, and complaints relating to processing of
personal data and inform plaintiffs of action taken on such matters;

g)

immediately inform the judicial authority of certain types of offences of
which rt may gain knowledge;

h)

carry out verifications of any processing of personal data, using sworn
officials;

i)

impose administrative and financial sanctions on data controller1l;

j)

update a register of personal data processing and make it available to
the public;

k)

advise individuals and bodies who process personal data or who carry
out trials and experiments;

I)

authorize transborder transfers of personal data;

ml

make suggestions as to the simplification and improvement of the
legislative and regulatory framework governing data processing:

n)

set up mechanisms for cooperation with personal data protection
authorrties of third countnes;

0)

participate in international negotiations concerning the protection of
personal data;

p)

draft an activrty report according to a well defined schedule, for
submission to the President of the Republic or the Speaker of the
National Assembly, the Prime Minister, or the Minister of Justice:

q)

In compliance with the provisions in force in the ECOWAS Member
States, sworn agents may be called upon to participate in carrying
out verification missions.

2) The data protection Authority may lssue the following notices:

al a warning to a data controller who does not comply with the
obligations enshrined in this Supplementary Act;
b) A formal demand to desist from the violations WIthin a time
stipulated by the Authority.
3) In case of emergency, when processing and use of personal data leads
to:
a

violation of rights and liberties, the Data Protection Authority,
hearing inter paries, may decide:

- 9-

a) To suspend the processing;
b) To block certain personal data processed;
c) To temporarily or permanently prohibit any processing that is
contrary to the provisions of this Supplementary Act.
Article 20:

Sanctions

Where the data processor does not confonn with the fonnal notice addressed to
him, the protection Authority may, after procedures inter partes, take the following
sanctions against him:
1) provisional withdrawal of the authorization granted;
2) definitive withdrawal of the authorizaflon; and
3) a fine.
Artlcle 21:

Appeel

The sanctions and decisions of the Data Protection Authority may be subject to
appeal.
Article 22:

Budget

The data protection Authority shall receive a budget allocation from government
to enable it carry out its missions.

CHAPTER V:
PRINCIPLES GUIDING THE PROCESSING OF PERSONAL DATA
Article 23:

Principle of consent and legitimacy

1) Processing of personal data shall be considered legitimate where the data
subject has given his consent.
2) Nonetheless, the requirement for consent may be waived when the processing
is necessary:
a) in order to comply with a legal obligation that is binding upon the
data controller;
b) for the implementation of a public interest mission or relevant to the
exercise of public authority that is vested in the data controller or
the third party to whom the data is disclosed;

c) for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is a
party or for the application of pre-contractual measures adopted at
his request;
d) for safeguarding the interests or rights and fundamental liberties of
the data subject.
Article 24:

Principle of legality and fairness

The collection, recording, processing, storage, and transmission of personal data
must be carried out in a legal. fair, and non-fraudulent manner.
Article 25:

Principia of purpose, relevance and preservation

1) Personal data shall be obtained for specrtied, explicit, and lawful purposes and
shall not be further processed in any manner incompatible with sucl1 purposes.
2) It shall be adequate and relevant in relation
collected and further processed.

to the purposes for which it is

3) It shall be kept for a period whicl1 shall not exceed the period required for the
purposes for which they were obtained or processed.
4) Beyond the reqUired per"lod, data may only be kept with a view to responding
specifically to processing for historical, statistical, and research purposes, in line
with existing legal provisions.
Article 26:

Principle of accuracy

Personal data obtained shall be accurate and. where neceSSary, kept up to date.
All reasonable measures shall be undertaken to ensure that data that is
inaccurate and incomplete in relation to the purposes for which it is obtained and
further processed shall be erased or rectrtied.
Article 27:

Principle of transparency

The principle of transparency implies that the data controller is obliged to provide
information about the processing of personal data.
Articte 28:

Principle of confidentiality and security

Personal data shall be processed confidentially and shall be protected. in
particular when processing Includes transmission of data on a network.

- 11 -

Article 29',

Principle of choice of data processor

Where processing is camed out on behalf of a data controller, the laller must
choose a data processor providing sufficient guarantees, It is the responsibility of
the data controller as well as the data processor to ensure compliance with the
security measures defined in this Supplementary Act
Article 30:

Specific principles

Within the ECOWAS space, it is prohibited to obtain and process data that
reveals the rac'laI, ethnic or regional origin, parentage, po[rlical opinions, religious
or philosophical beliefs, trade union membership, sexual life, genetic data or
more generally data on tha state of health of a data subject.
Article 31:

Exceptions

The prohibition stipulated under (Article 30) shall not apply in the following
instances:
1) processing of personal data relateing to data manifestly made public
by the data subject;
2) the data subject has given his wrttten consent, on whatever medium,
to such processing, and in line with texts in force;
3) processing of personal data is necessary to protect the vital interests
of the data subject or another person where the data subject is
physically or legally incapable of giving consent;
4) processing, in particular of genetic data, is necessary for establishing,
exercising or defending a legal right;
5) where legal proceedings or a criminal investigation is underway;
6) processing of personal data is necessary for reasons of public interest,
in particular for histOrical, staUstical or scientific purposes;
7) for the performance of a contract to which the data subject is a party or
for the application of pre-contractual measures adopted at the request
of the data subject prior to entering into a contract;
8) the processing is necessary for compliance wrth any legal or
regulatory obligation to which the data controller is subject;
9) the processing is necessary for the implementation of a public interest
mission or is carried out by a public authority or is assigned by a public
authortty to the data controller or to a third party to whom iJ1e data is
disclosed;

- 12-

10} the processing is carried out in the coul1!e of its legitimate activ~ies
by a foundation, an association or any other non-profit making body
that exists for political, philosophical, religious, mutual benef~ or
trade union purposes, Nevertheless, such processing shall relate
only to membel1! of such a body or individuals who have regular
contact with it in connection w'rth its purpose and shall not involve
disclosure of personal data to third parties without the consent of tile
pel1!ons concerned.
Article 32:

Case of personal data processing carried out for purposes
of journalism, research, artistic or literary expression

Processing of personal data that is carried out for the purposes of journalism,
research, artistic or literary expression shall be allowed when such processing is
executed solely for the purposes of literary and artistic expression; or in the
exerc'lse of the professional activfty of joumalist or researcher. in compliance w~h
the ethical rules oftl1ese professions.
Article 33;

Application of the provisiOns of the law relating to the print
media or the audiOvisual and criminal law sector

The proviSions of this Supplementary Act shall not preclude the enforcement of
legal provisions relating to the wrftten or aUdiovisual press and the criminal code,
whiCh stipulate the conditions for exercising the right to response and prevent,
limit. redress and, where necessary, punish infringements of privacy and the
reputation of individuals.
Article 34:

Prohibition of direct prospecting

Within the ECOWAS space, direct prospecting by whatever means of
communication, using pSl1!onal data in any fooo of an individual who has not
slated his prior consent to receiving sud! prospecting shall be prohibited.
Article 35:

Basis of a Court decision

1) No court decision implying an assessment of the behaviour of an individual
shall be based on the processing by automatic means of personal data for
the purpose of evaluating certain aspects of their pel1!onality
2) No decision that has legal effect on an individual shall be based solely on
processing by automatic means of personal data for the purpose of defining the
profile of the sibject or evaluating certain aspects of their pel1!onality.

- 13-

Article 36: Transfer of personal data to a non-member ECOWAS country
1) The data controlier shall transfer personal data to a non-member ECOWAS
country on~ where such a country provides an adequate level of protection for
privacy, freedoms and the fundamental r"lghts of individuals In relation to the
processing or possible processing of such data.

2) The data controller shall inform the Data Protection Authority prior to any
transfer of personal data to such a third country
Article 37:

Networicing files containing personal data

Networking of fIles as described under Article 12 of this Supplementary Act shall
enable attainment of legal or statutory objectives that hold a legitimate interest
for data controllers. It shall not lead to discrimination nor prejudice the rights,
liberties and guarantees of data subjects, nor be accompanied by appropriate
security measures, and must take into account the relevance of the data being
combined.
CHAPTER VI
RIGHTS Of THE INDIVIDUAL WHOSE PERSONAL DATA ARE THE
SUBJECT OF PROCESSING
Artids 38:

Right to information

The data controller shall provide the individual Whose personal data is being
processed with Ihe following Information, no later than at the time of collec!"lon of
the data and irrespective of the means and media:
1) his identity and, where applicable, the identity of his representative:
2) the defined purpose{s) for which the data is to be processed;

-14-

3) the categories of data involved;
4) the recipient or recipients to whom the data is likely to be disclosed;
5) the ability

to request removal from the file;

6) the existence of a right of access to data concerning him, and to
rectification of such data;
7) the period of preservallon of the processed data;
8) the possibility of any transfer of data to a third country.

Article 39:

Right of access

Any individual whose personal data is the subject of processing may request
from the data controller by way of questions:
1) information enabling them to be informed of and conlest such processing;
2) confirmation of the fact that the persona! data of which that individual is
Ihe data subject is or is not being processed;
3) disclosure of persona! data of which that individual is the data subject, as
weil as any available information about the origin of such data;
4) information relating to the purposes of the processes, the categories of
personal data processed and the recipients or classes of recipients to
whom they are disclosed.
Article 40:

Right to object

1) An individual is entitled, for leg~imate reasons, to object to processing of
personal data of which he is the data subject.
2) Such an individual is enti~ed, on the one hand, to be informed prior to personal
data of which that individual is the data subject being disclosed for the first time
to a third party or used on behalf of a third party for purposes of prospecting, and
on the other hand, to be given expressly the right to object, free of charge, to
such disclosure or use.
Article 41:

Right to rectification and destruction

If personal data of which an individual is the data subject are inaccurate,
incomplete, questionable, outdated or prohibited from collection, use, disciosure
or preservation, he is entitled to ask the data controller to have such data
rectified, supplemented, updated, blocked or destroyed, as appropriate.

- 15-

CHAPTER VII
OBLIGATIONS OF THE PERSONAL. DATA CONTROLLER

ArtiCle 42:

Obligations of confidentiality

Processing of personal data shall be confidential. It shall be carried out
exclusively by persons acting under the authorFty of the data controller and solely
upon his instructions
Article 43:

Obligations of Security

The data controller shall take all necessary precautions in relation to the nature of
data, and in particular to ensure that it is not deformed, damaged or accessible to
unauthorised third parties.

Article 44:

Obligations of Preservation

Personal data shall be kept for a period of time set by a regulatory text and only
for the purposes for which they were obtained.
Article 45:

Obligations of Durability

1) The data controller shall take all the necessary measures to ensure that the
personal data processed can be utilised, no matter the technical medium.
2) He shall particularry ensure that technological development does not constitute
an obstacle to such utilisation.

CHAPTER VIJI
FtNAL PROVISIONS
Article 46:

Amendment and reView

1) Any Member State. the Council of Ministers and the ECOWAS Commission
may submit proposals for the amendment and review of this Supplementary Act.
2) All amendment and revision proposals shall be submftted to the ECOWAS
Commission for onward communication to the Member States no more than thirty
(30) days after reception. The Council of Ministers Shall examine the amendment

- 16-

and revision proposals on expiry of a period of three (3) months granted the
Member States to enter their observations.
3} The amendments and revisions shall be adopted by the Council of Ministers
and shall be submitted to the Authority of Heads of State and Government for
approval and signature. The said amendments and revisions shall come into
force in conformity with the provisions of Article 48 of this Supplementary Act.

Article 47:

Publication

This Supplementary Act shall be published by the Commission in the Official
Journal of the Community within thirty (30) days of signature by the AuthOrity of
Heads of Slate and Government. It shall equally be published by each Member
State in its national Gazette tl1irty (30) days after notification by the CommiSSion.

Article 48:

Entry into force

This Supplementary Act shall enter Into force upon publication in the Official
Journal of the Community and in the Official Gazette of each Member State.
This Supplementary Act shall be annexed to lI1e ECOWAS Treaty of which It
shall be an integral part.
Article 49:

Oepository authority

This Supplementary Act shall be deposrted with the Commission whicl1 shall
transmit certified true copies of this Supplementary Act to all the Member states
and shall register it with the African Union, the United Nations Organisation and
all other regional and intemational organizations cooperating wrth ECOWAS and
such organisations as the Council may determine by virtue of Articles 83, 84 and
85 of the Revised ECOWAS Treaty.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF WE, THE HEADS OF STATE AND GOVERNMENT
OF THE ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES HAVE
SIGNED THIS SUPPLEMENTARY ACT
DONE AT ABUJA ON 16TH DAYOF FEBRUARY 2010

IN A SINGLE ORIGINAL IN ENGLISH, FRENCH AND PORTUGUESE, THE
THREE (3) TEXTS BEING EQUALLY AUTHENTIC.

- 17 -

H. E. r. Jean Mane EHO OU
MinISter of Foreign AIIa,,路s.
African Integration. Franrophony
And Beninol5 In the Diaspora
For and on behalf of the Pre.ident
of the Republic of Benin

taise COMPAORE
PrE.ident of Fa.o
President of the Councit of Ministers

H. E. Mr. Jose BRITO
Minister of Foreign Affairs.
Cooperation and CDmmunlties
Forthe Govemment of Cabo Verde

H. E. Mr. Youssouf BAKAYOKO
Minister of Foreign Allairs
For and on behalf 01 the President
or the Repubtic of Cote d路lvoire

H. E. Dr. Aja tsatou NJtE_SAtDY
Vice President.
For and on behalf of the President of the Gambia

r'~~

H. E. Pro John Evans ATTA-MtLLS
PrE"dent and Commander in Chief
01 the Republic 01 Ghana

I

H.E. Maram Bac.i SANHA
Pre.ident
aftne Republic of GUinea Bissau

,
H. E. Mrs. Ellen JOHNSON_StRLEAF
President of the REpublic of Liberia

H. E. Dr. Badara ALfOU路MACALOU
M,ni.ter of Matlans In t',e Dlaspora and
African Integration
For and on behalf 01 the President
of the Republic of Mall

Page-18-

H. E. Dr. GI>Odluck Ebele JONATHAN
~o,

Acting President.
Commander路in-Chiel of t\1e Armed Forces
of the Federal Republic of Nigeria
Chairman of lIle Authority
of Heads of State and Government of
ECQWAS

(~
H. E. M. Abdoulaye WADE

H. E. Ernest Bai KOROMA
President 01 the Republic 01 Sierra Leone

President 01 the Republic 01 Senegal

"!II
"

:1

-

t

-

i

,"

H, E. Mr. Koffi ESAW
M,nister of Fore'gn Aflairs and Regional Integration
For and on behalf of Ihe President 01 t\1e Togol.. se Republic

,'.'

Page-19-


