GOVERNMENT NOTICE NO. 416 published on 28/12/2012
THE BANK OF TANZANIA (CREDIT REFERENCE BUREAU)
REGULATIONS, 2012

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
PART I
PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS
Section

Title

1.Citation
2. Application
3. Interpretation
4. Principles of Credit Reference Bureau
PART II
LICENSING
5. Prohibition on operating without license
6. Eligibility
7. Application for a license
8. Validity of license
9. Notice to revoke a license
10. Application for review
11. Surrender of license
12. Transfer of a license
13. Minimum capital requirements
14. Change in ownership
PART III
GOVERNANCE OF CREDIT REFERENCE BUREAU
15. Composition and responsibilities of board
16. Appointment of board member and senior management
PART IV
COLLECTION OF CREDIT INFORMATION
17. Nature of information
18. Sources of information

Bank of Tanzania (Credit Reference Bureau)
GN No. 416 (contd.)

19. Search inquiries
PART V
PROHIBITED INFORMATION
20. Prohibited information
PART VI
OBLIGATIONS OF THE CREDIT REFERENCE BUREAU
21. Collected information
22. Credit reports
23. Authorized users
24. Access to the credit reference bureau database
PART VII
OBLIGATIONS OF DATA PROVIDERS
25. Data providers obligations
26. Access to Credit Reference Databank
PART VIII
DATA SUBJECT RIGHTS AND PROTECTION
27. Consumer relations centre
28. The right to information and data
29. The right to challenge incorrect information
30. Record of challenges
31. Suspension to access
32. Fees
PART IX
POWERS OF THE BANK
33. Powers of the Bank
34. Inspections by the Bank
PART X
GENERAL PROVISIONS
35. Sale of credit information
2

Bank of Tanzania (Credit Reference Bureau)
GN No. 416 (contd.)

36. Retention period
37. Disposal of information
38. Public awareness
39. Indemnification
40. Penalties
41. Revocation of GN No. 178 of 2010

3

Bank of Tanzania (Credit Reference Bureau)
GN No. 416 (contd.)

THE BANK OF TANZANIA ACT
(CAP. 197)
______
REGULATIONS
_______
(Made under section 70 (1))
_______
THE BANK OF TANZANIA (CREDIT REFERENCE BUREAU) REGULATIONS, 2012

PART I
PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS
Citation

1. These Regulations may be cited as the Bank of Tanzania (Credit
Reference Bureau) Regulations, 2012.

Application

2. These Regulations shall apply to all credit reference bureaux.

Interpretation

3. In these Regulations, unless the context requires otherwise –

Cap.197

“Act” means the Bank of Tanzania Act;
“adverse information” means the denial of credit or change in the conditions
and terms of the credit based on credit information contained in a
credit report;
“authorized user” means a person authorized by a credit reference bureau to
receive credit reports;
“Bank” means the Bank of Tanzania;

4

Bank of Tanzania (Credit Reference Bureau)
GN No. 416 (contd.)

“borrower” includes a credit applicant and any other party to the credit who
has applied for or obtained a credit from a data provider;
“consent clause” means a written consent signed by a credit applicant which
consents to data providers obtaining from, or exchanging with, or
disclosing all credit information relating to the credit applicant to the
Credit Reference Databank, banks, financial institutions or credit
reference bureaux;
“credit” means an obligation to disburse a sum of money in exchange for the
right to repayment of the sum disbursed and outstanding which may
include the payment of interest or other charges on such sums and any
extension of the due date of a debt security or of any other right to
payment of a sum of money;
“credit applicant” includes borrower and any other party to the credit who has
applied for or obtained a credit from a provider of the data arising
from an agreement between the two;
“credit agreement” means an agreement between the creditor and the
borrower that sets out the rights and obligations of parties on the
disbursement and the repayment of the credit;
“credit history” means all credit information about a borrower which is
recorded or retained in any form by a credit reference bureau;
“credit information” means any information including but not limited to
information about a person’s specific identification, full name, date of
birth, place of residence, previous places of residence, marital status,
spouse’s name, place of employment, previous places of employment,
paying habits, outstanding debt obligations, assets and inquiries made
of credit history or information relating to a legal entity or business
that would identify the legal entity or business information on
incorporation, tax, directors, governance, outstanding debt obligations,
assets, inquiries made on credit history and other business details;

5

Bank of Tanzania (Credit Reference Bureau)
GN No. 416 (contd.)

“credit reference bureau” means an entity specialized in the collection and
sale of credit performance information for individuals and companies;
“Credit Reference Databank” means a computerized mechanism created by
the Bank to receive and supply credit information to banks, financial
institutions, credit reference bureaux and other institutions authorized
by the Bank, regarding the credit transaction of customers, including
off balance sheet operations;
“credit report” means information issued by credit reference bureau
containing all or part of data subjects’ credit history;
“data provider” means a person, business or government agency providing
credit information to a credit reference bureau;
“data subject” means an individual or a business entity whose data could be
collected, processed and disclosed to third parties in the credit
information sharing system;
Cap 212

“director” means a person appointed to carry out functions that are usually
carried out by a member of board of director of a company
incorporated under Companies Act and Companies Decree;
“guarantor” means a person who assumes the legal liability and guarantees
the creditor by means of a written pledge, to fulfill the effective
obligations of the borrower in case the later is not able to fulfill the
same;
“manner of payment” means the manner in which a borrower has repaid a
specific credit and, is displayed by a character that represents the
current payment status of the credit;
“minimum capital requirement” means paid up capital and fixed assets
directly related to the provision of credit reference bureau services;
“personal information” means information other than credit information about
an individual’s character, reputation, medical information, physical,
life style or about any other matter relating to the individual;

6

Bank of Tanzania (Credit Reference Bureau)
GN No. 416 (contd.)

“permissible purposes” means–
(a)
verifying accuracy of the credit information or resolving
disputes;
(b)
conducting credit investigation, affordability assessments and
credit scoring on new credit applications and renewal of
existing credit facilities;
(c)
executing credit agreements; and
(d)
conducting and executing financial fraud detection and
financial fraud prevention services or other similar types of
offences.
“search inquiry” means a request made by an authorized user, for credit
information from the credit reference bureau;
“significant shareholder” means a shareholder having five percent or more of
the voting shares of a credit reference bureau.
Principles of
Credit
Reference
Bureau

4. (1) The basic principles of operation of a credit reference bureau shall be
the collection, processing and protection of credit information in
accordance with these Regulations.
(2) The credit information maintained by the credit reference bureau
shall not be transferred outside the United Republic except in such cases as
the Bank may determine.

7

Bank of Tanzania (Credit Reference Bureau)
GN No. 416 (contd.)

PART II
LICENSING
Prohibition on
operating
without license

5. (1) A person shall not conduct business of a credit reference bureau
without a license issued by the Bank.
(2) Any person who contravenes the provision of sub regulation (1) shall(a) in the case of a person, be liable to a fine of Tanzania
shillings ten million;
(b) in the case of a company, directors of such company shall
be personally liable.

Eligibility

6. Any incorporated limited liability company shall be eligible to apply for a
credit reference bureau license.

Application for
a License

7. (1) Any person who intends to conduct the business of a credit reference
bureau shall in writing apply for a license to the Bank.
(2) The application referred to under sub-regulation (1) shall be
accompanied by (a)
certified copies of the certificate of incorporation and
Memorandum and Articles of Association;
(b)
documents that support the value of applicant’s capital base as
well as sources of funds;
(c)

feasibility study and business plan showing organizational
structure, internal monitoring procedures, mission statement
and goals, market analysis, ownership structure, governance
structure, management structure, description of projected
investments, projected financial statements for a minimum of
three years, analysis of profitability and business continuity
plan;

(d)

description of the applicant’s business premises and suitability
for credit reference bureau activities;

(e)

particulars of the directors and key management personnel
concerned with the management of the business, including
their educational and professional background;

(f)

declaration from significant shareholders and directors stating
whether any of them has ever been(i) convicted of any offence;

8

Bank of Tanzania (Credit Reference Bureau)
GN No. 416 (contd.)

(ii)
(iii)

the subject of civil case in connection with the credit
or credit reporting business;
refused any license other than a driving license.

(g)

an overview of operations including a description of systems,
design of data collection and dissemination, management
processes, development schedule of the software required for
operation, characteristics of products and services to be
provided to users, policy on service provision, proposed
security and control measures to prevent improper access to
credit information, operational manuals designed to ensure
that credit information provided is accurate and updated, the
proposed fee and cost structure of products;

(h)

proof of payment of non refundable license application fee;
and

(i)

any other documents and information as the Bank may
require.

(3) The Bank shall, within ninety days after the day of receipt of an
application, grant or refuse to grant the license and communicate the
reasons for its refusal to the applicant.
(4) An applicant whose application has been refused by the Bank may
appear before the panel constituted by the Bank to defend his
application orally and if the Bank is satisfied by such defense, it shall
grant the license.

9

Bank of Tanzania (Credit Reference Bureau)
GN No. 416 (contd.)

Validity of
License

8. A license issued under these Regulations shall remain valid unless
revoked.

Notice to
revoke a license

9. Where the Bank intends to suspend or revoke a license, it shall issue a
written notice and assign reasons of its intention to the licensee.

Application for
review

10. The licensee shall have the right, within twenty one working days from
the day of receipt of the notice of intention to suspend or revoke a license,
to apply to the Bank for review of such intention by stating the reasons
and provide further information to be considered by the Bank.

Surrender of
license

11. Where a licensee terminates business or has its license revoked, the
licensee shall be required to surrender the license to the Bank.

Transfer of a
license

12. A license issued under these Regulations shall not be transferred.

Minimum
capital
requirements

13. The Bank shall prescribe a minimum paid-up capital for credit reference
bureaux.

Change in
ownership

14. Any change in the significant shareholding structure of a credit reference
bureau shall require prior approval of the Bank.

PART III
GOVERNANCE OF CREDIT REFERENCE BUREAU
Composition
and
responsibilities
of Board

15.

(1) The board of directors of a credit reference bureau shall
consist of not less than five members the majority of whom shall be
non-executive.
(2)
The chairperson of the board shall be a non-executive member
of the board.
(3)
A board member shall not serve as a board member in more
than one credit reference bureau.
(4) Board members of credit reference bureau shall(a) have overall understanding of a credit reference bureau
operations and information technology systems;
(b) provide effective oversight of credit reference bureau
affairs;
(c) ensure regulatory compliance;
(d) review and approve policies and procedures; and
(e) ensure a credit reference bureau maintains at all times
10

Bank of Tanzania (Credit Reference Bureau)
GN No. 416 (contd.)

effective system for internal control.
Appointment
of board
member and
senior
management

16. (1) A credit reference bureau shall not appoint any person to a post of
senior management or member of a board of directors without obtaining
prior approval from the Bank.
(2) Where a member of senior management or board of directors of any
credit reference bureau ceases to hold the post of senior management or
board of director, the credit reference bureau shall, within seven working
days notify the Bank of the cessation and reasons thereof.

PART IV
COLLECTION OF CREDIT INFORMATION
Nature of
information

17. (1) Credit information collected and stored in the credit reference bureau
database shall include the borrower’s information and credit history.
(2) Credit Information to be shared under these Regulations shall be
determined by the Bank.

Sources of
information

18. Credit information may be collected from a borrower, data providers and
other entities engaged in regular basis in the extension of credit to
borrowers, guarantors or any other parties to a credit.

Search
inquiries

19. (1)A record shall be maintained of all search inquiries made on data
subject’s credit history.
(2) The record referred to sub-regulation (1) shall include date of the search
inquiry, name of the authorised user and location of the authorised user.
(3) Where a search inquiry results show that there is no record of the credit
subject, a record shall be created and maintained on the subject of the search
inquiry including the date of the search inquiry, the name of the authorised
user and the purpose of the search inquiry.

PART V
PROHIBITED INFORMATION
Prohibited
Information

20. (1) A credit reference bureau shall not maintain in its database or include in
the credit report any information relating to the borrower’s race, creed,
colour, ancestry, ethnic origin, religious or political affiliation, state of
11

Bank of Tanzania (Credit Reference Bureau)
GN No. 416 (contd.)

health or criminal record except financial fraud and other similar types of
offences.
(2) A credit reference bureau shall not place any additional information in
the database relating to –
(a)
information as to judgment six years after the judgment was filed
unless the borrower confirms that it remains unpaid in whole or in
part and such information appear in the credit history;
(b) information as to any judgment against a person unless mention is
made of the name and where available, the address of the judgment
creditor as given at the date of entry of the judgment and the
amount;
(c)
information as to the bankruptcy or liquidation of a person, after six
years from the date of the bankrupt’s discharge or liquidations
finalization;
(d) information regarding any judgment, collection or debt that is
statute barred after six years unless it is accompanied by evidence
appearing in the credit history that recovery is not barred by the
expiration of a limitation period;
(e)
information as to the payment or non-payment of taxes and
lawfully imposed fines after six years;
(f)
information as to writs that were issued against the person more
than twelve months after their issuance;
(g) any adverse information where more than six years have expired
since the adverse information was placed in the database or last
reaffirmed; or
(h) any other information as may be prescribed by the Bank.

PART VI
OBLIGATIONSOF THE CREDIT REFERENCE BUREAU
Collected
Information

21. Every credit reference bureau shall take all necessary precautions to ensure
that all credit information received or collected is (a) properly and accurately recorded, maintained, collated, synthesized or
processed in a timely manner;
(b) obtained from reliable sources which shall take responsibility for the
accuracy, completeness and timeliness of the information.
(c) properly placed in the correct credit history;
(d) protected against loss, including adequate business continuity plans,
data back up and disaster recovery facilities; and
(e) protected against unauthorized access, use, modification or disclosure.

Credit
reports

22.

(1) Acredit reference bureau shall implement the following measures in
relation to credit reports–

12

Bank of Tanzania (Credit Reference Bureau)
GN No. 416 (contd.)

(a)
(b)
(c)

(d)
(e)

(f)

(g)

Authorized
users

23.

establish controls and procedures to be applied when authorized
users request credit reports from the credit reference bureau;
maintain automated logs and audit trails of all accessed credit
information by authorized users;
maintain logs and audit trails of proven or suspected breaches of
security that would include details of credit history affected, details
of the breach, and any action taken as a result of an investigation;
review, on a regular basis, password controls of all credit reference
bureau personnel and authorized users;
monitor, on a regular basis, patterns of usage of credit reports by
authorized users, with a view to detecting and investigating any
unusual or excessive usage;
where necessary, conduct workshops in relation to these
Regulations and, in particular, good security practices for the
benefit of authorized users and other stakeholders that may be
deemed relevant; and
create operational guidelines to ensure adequate protection to
minimize the risk of unauthorized or in appropriate access of the
credit reference bureau database or interception of communications
made to, and from the credit reference bureau database.

(1) Every credit reference bureau shall, upon nomination of a person to
be an authorized user, conduct due diligence to satisfy itself that the
prospective user maintains an excellent reputation and conducts
business legally.
(2) Every credit reference bureau shall develop a standard application
form to be used when an authorized user requests approval to access the
credit reference bureau’s database.
(3) Every credit reference bureau shall execute an agreement with an
authorised user for access and usage of information maintained by the
credit reference bureau.
(4) Authorized users shall be granted access to credit reference bureau
database by way of user codes and passwords changed on a regular
basis.
(5) An authorized user shall(a) be allowed to obtain credit reports from a credit reference
bureau for permissible purposes; and
(b) not sell, transfer or otherwise use the credit information
obtained from the credit reference bureau for purposes other
than those outlined in the definition of permissible purposes.
13

Bank of Tanzania (Credit Reference Bureau)
GN No. 416 (contd.)

(6) Where an authorized user fails to comply with any of the conditions
set out under these Regulations, the credit reference bureau shall
immediately suspend authorized user’s access to information maintained
by credit reference bureau.
Access to the
credit
reference
bureau
database

24.

(1) An authorized user may only access a credit reference bureau
database with the written consent of a borrower on whom a search
inquiry is to be conducted.
(2)
Any subsequent search inquiry made to monitor or review
payment performance of the borrower in respect of a credit being
granted as a result of the initial search inquiry shall not require a written
consent before its commencement.
(3)
An authorized user shall maintain a hard copy of the written
consent, along with a copy of the person’s credit application, and
surrender the hard copy at the request of the Bank or the credit reference
bureau.
(4)
Where a credit reference bureau finds that an authorized user has
not obtained the prior written consent of the borrower, it shall suspend
the access to the credit reference bureau database to that authorised user
in respect of that credit inquiry.
(5)
The credit reference bureau may refuse future access to the credit
reference bureau database by an authorized user who fails to comply
with a requirement to obtain a written consent.

14

Bank of Tanzania (Credit Reference Bureau)
GN No. 416 (contd.)

PART VII

OBLIGATIONS OF DATA PROVIDERS
Data
Providers
obligations

25. (1) Every data provider shall enter into an agreement with credit reference
bureau that stipulates the conditions for supplying, obtaining and using credit
information.
(2) A data provider shall undertake to provide complete, accurate and timely
proprietary credit information that accurately identifies the data subject.
(3) Where credit information is found to be inaccurate by the credit reference
bureau or the accuracy of credit information is challenged by the data subject,
the data provider shall promptly investigate, when requested by the credit
reference bureau and the investigation shall be completed within fifteen
working days.
(4) A data provider shall be held responsible for any errors or inaccuracies in
the credit information submitted to the credit reference bureau.

Access to
Credit
Reference
Databank

26.

(1) The Bank shall provide every credit reference bureau with automated
access to the Credit Reference Databank through an interface constructed by
the credit reference bureau.
(2) Every credit reference bureau shall, prior to construction of the interface,
provide the Bank with an action plan for the interface construction for analysis
and approval.
(3) Every credit reference bureau shall ensure the constructed interface has
adequate security, control and protection measures.
(4) The access granted via the approved interface shall authorize every credit
reference bureau to obtain a copy of the credit information as received from
the data providers and no other uses shall be permitted.

15

Bank of Tanzania (Credit Reference Bureau)
GN No. 416 (contd.)

PART VIII

DATA SUBJECT RIGHTS AND PROTECTION
Consumer
relations
centre

27. Every credit reference bureau shall establish a consumer relations center to
deal with all requests made by the data subjects on credit information stored
in the credit reference bureau database.

The right to
information
and data

28.

(1) A data subject shall have the right to (a) know the type of information shared or to be shared in the
credit reference system;
(b) have access to a credit report related to that specific data
subject;
(c) request a free copy of data subject’s credit report once every
twelve months; and
(d) challenge information contained in the credit report.
(2) The request may be completed via fax, telephone, mail, internet and
in person indicating proper identification to the credit reference bureau.
(3) The credit report from the credit reference bureau shall be in hard
copy or uneditable electronic format.
(4) The credit reference bureau shall furnish a copy of requested credit
report within five working days of the date of request.

The right to
challenge
incorrect
information

29. (1) A credit reference bureau shall inform the data subjects of their right to
challenge the information maintained in the credit reference system at the
time the data subject requests a copy of their credit report.
(2) Where a data subject believes that credit information maintained in the
credit information system is inaccurate, erroneous or outdated, the data
subject may notify the credit reference bureau of the disputed information.
(3) Where a credit reference bureau is challenged of issuing credit report
containing inaccurate, erroneous or outdated information, it shall –
(a)
within two working days from date of receipt of the challenge,
endorse the disputed credit report with a note on specific items
which are subject to dispute, until such time when the dispute is
resolved;

16

Bank of Tanzania (Credit Reference Bureau)
GN No. 416 (contd.)

(b)

within fifteen working days from date of receipt of the
challenge, investigate and correct the disputed credit
information where the dispute emanates from the credit
reference bureau;

(c)

within two working days, inform the data provider about the
findings of the investigation, where the investigation findings
reveal that disputed credit information emanates from the data
provider;

(d)

notify the data subject of the outcome of the disputed credit
information.

(4)A data subject whose disputed credit information has been corrected
shall be provided with a correct credit report free of charge.
(5) Where the data provider maintains that the disputed information is
accurate and the data subject maintains that disputed information is
inaccurate, the data subject may appeal to the Bank.
(6) Where the investigation proves that the disputed information is correct,
the credit reference bureau may charge the data subject for costs incurred in
conducting the investigation.
Record of
challenges

30. Every credit reference bureau shall maintain a record of challenged
incorrect information in a format to be prescribed by the Bank.

Suspension to
access

31. Where a data provider fails to respond or conclude challenges within fifteen
working days, the credit reference bureau shall suspend access to credit
information and report the occurrence to the Bank.

Fees

32. A credit reference bureau may charge a fee for its services and shall notify
the Bank of its fee structure through periodic returns submitted to the Bank
as specified under regulation 33 (3).

PART IX
POWERS OF THE BANK
Powers of the
Bank

33.

(1) The Bank shall have powers to license, regulate and supervise credit
reference bureaux.
(2)In exercising its powers under sub-regulation (1), the Bank shall(a)
inspect credit reference bureau premises and operations to
17

Bank of Tanzania (Credit Reference Bureau)
GN No. 416 (contd.)

(b)
(c)

ensure compliance to these Regulations;
issue directive, guidelines and circulars for the better carrying
out of its supervisory functions under these Regulations;
impose sanctions on the credit reference bureau, their
shareholders, directors or senior management upon noncompliance to these Regulations.

(3) Every credit reference bureau shall submit to the Bank periodic
reports and statistics in a format and frequency prescribed by the Bank.
Inspections by
the Bank

34.

(1) The Bank may conduct physical inspections to any credit reference
bureau.
(2)
The Bank may, before conducting physical inspection, issue a
notice to the credit reference bureau.
(3)
The credit reference bureau shall, during physical inspection,
furnish any record and information requested by the Bank.
(4)
The Bank shall, after conducting physical inspection, provide
the credit reference bureau with a summary of findings on deficient
areas requiring correction and the credit reference bureau shall provide
an action plan for correction of the deficiencies.

PART X

GENERAL PROVISIONS
Sale of credit
information

35. A credit reference bureau shall not, apart from its own business of selling
credit report, sell, lease or transfer title to its credit information or any files
unless such sale, lease or transfer is done to another credit reference bureau
with approval of the Bank.

Retention
period

36. Every credit reference bureau shall retain credit information maintained in
its database until expiry of six years from the date of final loan repayment,
bankruptcy, assignment or write-off and thereafter may archive the same.

Disposal of
information

37. Where a credit reference bureau terminates business and surrenders its
licence due to bankruptcy or liquidation, the credit information stored in its
database shall be surrendered to the Bank by the receiver manager or
liquidator.

Public
awareness

38. Every credit reference bureau and data provider shall develop and maintain
a program of public awareness relating to rights and protection of the data
18

Bank of Tanzania (Credit Reference Bureau)
GN No. 416 (contd.)

subjects.
Indemnification

39. (1) A credit reference bureau shall execute an indemnity agreement with
the Bank to cover losses to the Bank resulting from incorrect credit report
provided to authorized users.
(2) A credit reference bureau shall be indemnified by a data provider for
any type of action or damage awards that may result from inaccurate credit
information reported to it, provided that the credit reference bureau has
taken all reasonable measures to ensure the information was correctly
processed.

Penalties and
sanctions

40. (1) Without prejudice to penalties and actions prescribed under the Act,
any person who fails to comply with provisions of these Regulations shall
be (a) suspended from accessing the Credit Reference Databank;
(b) suspended from the office where that person is a director, officer or
employee of a credit reference bureau;
(c) liable to a fine of not less than Tanzania shillings five hundred
thousand for every day during which the non-compliance continues;
(d) where that person holds a credit reference bureau license, liable to
revocation of that licence.

Revocation of
GN No. 178 of
2010

41. The Bank of Tanzania (Credit Reference Bureau) Regulations, 2010 are
hereby revoked.

WILLIAM A. MGIMWA,

Dar es Salaam,
6th December, 2012

Minister for Finance

19

