THE ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING ACT, 2006

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

Section

Title

PART!
PRELIMINARY PRovisioNs

Short title and commencement.
Application.
Interpretation.
PART II
THE FINANCIAL INTELLIGENCE UNIT AND THE

NATIONAL COMMITTEE

Establishment of the Financial Intelligence Unit.
Appointment of the Commissioner.
Powers and duties of FlU.
Employees of the FLU.
Establishment and composition of the National Committee.
Functions of the National Committee.
Meetings of the National Committee.
11 . Allowances and remunerations.
PART III
PROHIBITION OF MONEY LAUNDERING

Offence of money laundering.
Penalties for acts of money laundering.
Offences by corporate bodies.
PART IV
ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING SUPERVISION

Reporting persons to verify customer's identity.
Reporting persons to establish and maintain customer
records.
Reporting persons to report suspicious transactions.
Reporting persons to establish and maintain internal
reporting procedures.

2 No. 12

Anti-Money Laundering
Additional preventive measures by reporting persons.
Tipping off.
Secrecy obligation overridden.
Protection of reporting persons.
Obligation to report physical cross boarder transportation
of cash or bearer negotiable instruments.
PART V
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

Sources of fund.
Financial year.
Accounts and audit.
PART VI
MISCELLANEOUS PRovIsioNs

Immunity.
Application of proceeds of crime.
Regulations.

2006

No. 12

Anti-Money Laundering

2006 3

No. 12 OF 2006
I ASSENT,

President
[.... ...
An Act to make better provisions for prevention and prohibition
of money laundering, to provide for the disclosure of information
on money laundering, to establish a Financial Intelligence Unit
and the National Multi-Disciplinary Committee on AntiMoney Laundering and to provide for matters connected thereto.

ENACTED

by Parliament of the United Republic of Tanzania.
PART I
PRELIMINARY

PRovisioNs

1. This Act may be cited as the Anti-Money Laundering Act, 2006
and shall come into operation on such date as the Minister may, by notice
published in the Gazette, appoint.

Short title
and commencement

This Act shall apply to Mainland Tanzania as well as to Tanzania
Zanzibar.

Application

In this Act, unless the context requires otherwise:
"Act" means the Anti-Money Laundering Act, 2006;
"bank" has the meaning ascribed to it under the Banking and Financial
Institutions Act, 2006;

Interpretation

4 No. 12

Anti-Money Laundering

2006

"Bank" has the meaning ascribed to it under the Bank of Tanzania;

Cap. 256

"cash dealer" means A person who carries on a business of an insurer, an intermediary
insurance broker, a securities dealer or broker;
it person who carries on a business of dealing in gold bullion, of
issuing, selling or redeeming traveler's cheques, money orders
or similar instruments, or of collecting, holding and delivering or
transmitting money;
an operator of a gaming activity;
a trustee or a manager of a Collective Investment Scheme; and
an operator of a bureau de change;
"Chairman" means the Chairman of the National Committee appointed
under section 8;
"Commissioner" means the Commissioner of the FlU appointed under
section 5;
"Comparable body" means an overseas Government agency with
functions similar to those of the FlU;
"financial institution" has the meaning ascribed to it under the Banking
and Financial Institutions Act, 2006;
"forfeiture" has the meaning ascribed to it under the Proceeds of Crime
Act;
"Government" means the Government of the United Republic and where
appropriate includes the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar;
"Minister" means the Minister for the time being responsible for monetary
affairs;
"money laundering" means engagement of a person or persons, direct
or indirectly in conversion, transfer, concealment, disguising, use or
acquisition of money or property known to be of illicit origin and in
which such engagement intends to avoid the legal consequence of
such action and includes offences referred in section 12;
"National Committee" means the National Multi-disciplinary Committee
on Anti-Money Laundering Committee established by section 8;
"politically exposed person" means a foreign individual entrusted with pmminent
public functions including heads of state or government, senior politicians,
senior government,judicial or military officials, senior executives of state
ownd corporations or agencies;
"predicate offence" means (a) any dealing which amounts to illicit drug trafficking under the
law for the time being relating to narcotic drugs and
psychotropic substances;

No. 12

Anti-Money Laundering

terrorism, including terrorist financing;
illicit arms trafficking;
participating in an organized criminal group and racketeering;
trafficking in human beings and smuggling immigrants;
sexual exploitation, including sexual exploitation of children;
illicit trafficking in stolen or other goods;
corrupt practice;
counterfeiting;
armed robbery;
theft;
(I) kidnapping, illegal restraint and hostage taking;
smuggling;
extortion;
forgery;
(p)piracy;
hijacking;
insider dealing and market manipulation; or
illicit trafficking or dealing in human organs and tissues;
poaching;
tax evasion;
illegal fishing;
illegal mining;
environmental crimes; or
any other offence which the Minister may, by notice published
in the Gazette, declare, whether committed within the national
boundaries of the United Republic or outside the country;
"property" has the meaning ascribed to it under the Proceeds of Crime
Act;
"regulator" includes the Bank of Tanzania, the Capital Markets and
Securities Authority, the Insurance Supervisory Department, Gaming
Board or any other regulator who the Minister may, by Order published
in the Gazette, specify;
"reporting person" means -'
banks and financial institutions;
cash dealer;
an accountant, real estate agent, dealer in precious stones work
of artf or metals;
a regulator;
customs officer;
(1) attorneys, notaries and other independent legal professionals
when:

2006 5

Cap. 256

6 No. 12

Anti-Money Laundering

2006

assisting clients in preparing or executing transactions
involving:
(aa) the purchase or sale of real property or commercial
enterprises;
(bb) management of funds, securities or other assets which
belong to a client;
(cc)the opening or management of bank accounts, saving
accounts or portfolios;
(dd) the organization of contributions required to create,
manage or direct corporations or legal entities;
(ee) the creation, management or direction of corporations
or legal entities; and
(ff) the buying or selling of business entities;
acting on behalf of a client in any financial or real estate
transaction; and
auctioneers; and
any other person who the Minister may, by notice published in
the Gazette, specify;
"terrorist financing" means the provision of, or making available such financial or other related
services to a terrorist, group or entity which is concerned with
terrorist act; or
entering into or facilitating, directly or indirectly, any financial
transaction related to a dealing in property owned or controlled
by or on behalf of any terrorist or any entity owned or controlled
by a terrorist.
PART II
THE FINANCIAL INTELLIGENCE UNIT AND THE NATIONAL
COMMITTEE

Establishment of
the
Financial
Intelligence Unit

Appointment of
the
Commissioner

4.—(1) There shall be established under the Ministry of Finance an
Extra Ministerial Department to be known as a Financial Intelligence
Unit also known by an acronym FlU.

(2) The FlU shall be responsible for receiving, analyzing and
disseminating, suspicious transaction reports and other information
regarding potential money laundering or terrorist financing received from
the re*rting persons and other sources from within and outside the
United Republic.

5.—(1) The President shall appoint a person who has adequate
knowledge and experience in either economics, monetary affairs, finance,

No. 12

Anti-Money Laundering

2006

law, financial crimes or any other field that is beneficial to the execution
of this Act, to be the Commissioner of Flu.
(2) The Commissioner shall be responsible for the general Powers
and
administration of the Flu.
duties
6. For the purposes of section 4, the Financial Intelligence Unit shall:— of FlU
receive and analyze reports of suspicious transactions submitted
by the reporting persons pursuant to section 17;
disseminate any such reports to the appropriate law enforcement
agencies if, after having considered the report, FlU has
reasonable grounds to suspect that, the transaction involves
money laundering or any other predicate offence;
disseminate to the appropriate law enforcement agencies any
information derived from an inspection carried out pursuant to
paragraph (d), if it gives the FlU reasonable grounds to suspect
that, a transaction involves the proceeds of crime or financing
of terrorism;
instruct any reporting person to take such steps as may be
appropriate to facilitate any inspection anticipated by the FlU;
compile statistics and records, disseminate information within
the United Republic or elsewhere, make recommendations
arising out of any information received and advise the National
Committee as appropriate;
in consultation with the regulatory authorities of the relevant
reporting persons, issue guidelines to banks, financial institutions
and other reporting persons in respect of suspicious
transactions, record-keeping and reporting obligations provided
for in sections 16, 17,18 and 19;
create training requirements and provide such training for
reporting persons, judicial officers and law enforcement
officers;
consult with any relevant person, institution or organization for
the purpose of discharging its duties under this section;
(1) exchange information with overseas financial intelligence units
and comparable bodies; and
(j) liaise with the relevant investment and business registration and
licensing authorities in assessing genuine investors.
7.—( 1) There shall be appointed such number and categories
of employees of the Government or other public institutions of such

Employces of
Flu

7

8 No. 12

Anti-Money Laundering

2006

qualifications as may be considered necessary to assist the Commissioner
in the performance of FlU.
(2) In appointing such employees, the appointing authority shall in
particular have regard to persons with experience in law, finance, customs
and law enforcement.
(3)The employees referred to under subsection (I), shall hold office
for a term of five years and shall be eligible for re-appointment
(4) The employees of the FlU shall be subject to initial and periodical
disclosure offrnancial position in the manner as may be prescribed under
the regulations.
Establishment and
composition of
the
National
te mmlt

8.—(1) There is established for the purposes of this Act, a National
Multi-Disciplinary Committee on Anti-Money Laundering.
(2) The National Committee shall be composed of (a) one representative of the Bank of Tanzania, who shall be the
Chairman;
(b) one representative of the Ministry of Finance;
(C) one representative of the Ministry of Finance of the
Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar;
one representative of the Attorney-General's Chambers;
one representative of the Attorney-General's Chambers of
the Revolutionary Government of Zanzibar;
two representative of the Directorate of Criminal investigation,
one of whom shall'come from its office in Tanzania Zanzibar;
one representative of the Ministry responsible for foreign
affairs;
the Commissioner of the FlU;
one representative of the Capital Markets and Securities
Authority; and
one representative of the Tanzania Intelligence and Security
Service,
(3) The National Committee may co-opt any person who appears to
it to ha4ve special knowledge or experience in investigation of matters
relating to anti-money laundering.
(4) Members of the National Committee established under subsection
(I) shall be appointed by the Minister.

No. 12

Anti-Money Laundering

2006 9

The Minister shall appoint any employee from the public service
to be the Secretary of the National Committee.
The tenure of office for members of the Committee shall be
three years but shall be eligible for re-appointment for another term.
9. The functions of the National Committee shall be to
formulate, assess and improve the effectiveness of the policies
and measures to combat money laundering;
advise the Government on legislative, regulatory and policy
reforms in respect of anti-money laundering and combating
predicate offences;
(ö) generally, advise the Government in relation to such other
matters relating to anti-money laundering and predicate
offences.
-

10.—( I) The Members of the National Committee shall elect one
from their number to be the Vice-Chairman.
(2) The Chairman shall preside at every meeting of the National
Committee and in his absence the Vice-Chairman shall preside at the
same.

Functions Of
Ntional
Cornmittee

Meeting
of the
National
Comnuttee

In the absence of both, the Chairman and Vice-Chairman, the
members present shall elect one of their number to preside at that meeting.
A majority of the members of the National Committee shall
constitute a quorum at any meeting.
The National Committee may regulate its own procedure for the
conduct of its meetings.
There shall be paid to the members of the National Committee
such allowances or remunerations and other payments as shall be
determined by the Minister.

Allowances and
remunerations

PART III
'PRoHIBITIoN OF MONEY LAUNDERING

A person who—
(a) engages, directly or indirectly, in a transaction that involves
property that is proceeds of a predicate offence while he knows

Offence
laundering

10 No. 12

Anti-Money Laundering

2006

or ought to know or ought to have known that the property is the
proceeds of a predicate offence;
converts, transfers, transports or transmits property while he
knows or ought to know or ought to have known that such
property is the proceeds of a predicate offence, for the
purposes of concealing, disguising the illicitorigin of the property
or of assisting any person who is involved in the commission
of such offence to evade the legal consequences of his actions;
conceals, disguises or impedes the establishment of the true
nature, source, location, disposition, movement or ownership
of or rights with respect to property, while he knows or ought
to know or ought to have known that such property is the
proceeds of a predicate offence;
•
•

acquires, possesses, uses or administers property, while he
knows or ought to know or ought to have known at the time of
receipt that such property is the proceeds of a predicate
offence; or
participates in, associates with, conspires to commit, attempts
to commit, aids and abets, or facilitates and counsels the
commission of any of the acts described in paragraphs (a) to
(d).of this section,
commits offence of money laundering.

Penalties
for acts
ing

13. Any person who contravenes the provisions of section 12 shall,
on conviction:

if the person is an individual, be sentenced to a fine not exceeding
five hundred million shillings and not less than one hundred
million shillings or to a term of imprisonment not exceeding
ten years and not less than five years; or
if the person is a body corporate, be liable to a fine not exceeding
one billion shillings and not less than five hundred million shillings
or be ordered to pay the amount equivalent to three times the
market value of the property, whichever amount is greater.

OfTences
by
corporate
bodies

14.—(1) Where an offence under the provisions of section 12 is
committed by a body corporate or an association of persons, every person
who, at the time of the commission of the offence, was -

(a) a director, manager, controller or partner; or

No. 12

Anti-Money Laundering

2006 11

(b) concerned in the management of its affairs,
may be convicted of that offence and shall be liable to a penalty
specified in section 13 unless that person proves that, the offence
was committed without his consent or connivance and that he
exercised such diligence to prevent the commission of the offence
as he ought to have exercised, having regard to the nature of his
functions in that capacity and to the circumstanées pertaining to
commission of the offence.
The director, manager, controller, partner or a person concerned
in the management of affairs of a body corporate or an association may
be convicted for an offence under subsection (1) notwithstanding that,
such body corporate or association of persons has not been convicted of
the offence.
Any person who would have committed an offence if any act had
been done or omitted to be done by him.personally, commits that offence
and shall on conviction be liable to the same penalty as if such act had
been done or omitted to be done by his agent or officer in the course of
that agent's business or in the course of that officer's employment, as
the case may be, unless he proves that the offence was committed without
his knowledge or consent and he took all reasonable precautions to prevent
the doing of, or omission to do, such an act.
PART IV
ANTI-MONEY LAUNDERING SUPERVISION
15.-(1)A reporting person shall:
take reasonable measures to satisfy himself as to the true
identity of any applicant seeking to enter into a business
relationship with him or to carry out a transaction or series of
transactions with him, by requiring the applicant to produce an
official record reasonably capable of establishing the true
identity of the applicant;
in relation to politically exposed persons, in addition to
• performing normal due diligence measures:
have appropriate risk management systems to determine
whether the customer is a politically exposed person;
obtain senior management approval for establishing
business relationship with such customer;

Reporting
persons
om's
identity

12 No. 12

Anti-Money Laundering

2006

take reasonable measures to establish the source of wealth
and source of funds; and
conduct enhanced on-going monitoring of the business
relationship.
(2) The official record referred to under subsection (I) shall include:
a birth certificate or an affidavit to that effect;
a passport or other official means of identification;
in the case, of a body corporate, a copy of the organizations
Memorandum and Articles of Association and a certificate
of incorporation together with latest annual reports certified
by the the Chief Executive Officer of the Business Registration
and Licensing Authority; and
any other documents as may be prescribed by the Minister in
the regulations.
(3) Where an applicant requests a bank, financial institution or any
other reporting person to enter into:
a continuing business relationship;
in the absence of such a relationship, any transaction,
the bank, financial institution or any other reporting person shall take
reasonable measures to establish whether the person is acting on behalf
of another person.
(4) Where it appears to a reporting person that, an applicant requesting
him to enter into any transaction, whether or not in the course of a
continuing business relationship, is acting on behalf of another person,
the reporting person shall take reasonable measures to establish the true
identity of any person on whose behalf or for whose ultimate benefit the
applicant may be acting in the proposed transaction, whether as trustee,
nominee, agent or otherwise.
(5) In determining what constitutes reasonable measures for the
purposes of subsection (1), (2) or (4), regard shall be had to all the
circumstances of the case, and in particular:
to whether the applicant is a person based or incorporated in a
country in which there are in force provisions applicable to it
to prevent the use of the financial system for the purpose of
money-laundering or terrorist financing; and
to custom and practice as may from time to time be current in
the relevant field of business.

No. 12

2006 13

Anti-Money Laundering

(6) Nothing in this section shall require the production of any evidence
of identity where the applicant himself is a reporting person to which this Act
applies; or
there is a transaction or series of transactions taking place in
the course of a business relationship, in respect of which the
applicant has already produced satisfactory evidence of identity.

16.41) Every reporting person shall establish and maintain
records of all transactions of such amount of currency or its
equivalent in foreign currency as the Minister may, by order
published in the Gazette, specify to be carried out by that
person in accordance with the requirements of subsection
(3); and
where evidence of a person's identity is obtained in accordance
with subsection (1) of section 15, a record that indicates the
nature of the evidence obtained, and which comprises of either
a copy of the evidence or such information as would enable a
copy of it to be obtained.
-

(2) Records required under paragraph (a) of subsection (I) shall
contain particulars sufficient to identify:(a) the name, address and occupation or where appropriate
business or principal activity, of each person:conducting the transaction;
if known, on whose behalf the transaction is being
conducted, as well as the method used by the reporting
person to verify the identity of each such person;
(b) the nature and date of the transaction;
(c) the type and amount of currency involved;
(d) the type and identifying number of any account with the
reporting person involved in the transaction;
(e) if the transaction involves a negotiable instrument other than
curreney, the name of the drawer of the instrument, the name
of the institution on which it was drawn, the name of the payee,
if any, the amount and date of the instrument, the number, if
any, of the instrument and details of any endorsements
appearing on the instrument; and

Reporting
persons
to
establish
antain
customer
records

14 No.

12

Anti-Money Laundering

2006

(f) the name and address of the reporting person, and of the
officer, employee or agent of the reporting person who prepared
the record.
A reporting person shall keep records required under subsection
(I) for such period as the Minister may, by regulations presribe.
Where a reporting person is required by any provision of law to
release any document referred to in section 18 before the period
prescribed by the Minister, he shall retain a copy of the document and
shall maintain a register of released documents with such particulars as
may be prescribed in the Regulations to be made.
Reporting
persons
to report
suspicious

transac-

17.—( 1) Where a reporting person suspects or has grounds to suspect
that, funds or property are proceeds of crime, or are related or linked to
or are to be used for commission or continuation of a predicate offence
or has knowledge of a fact or an activity that may be an indication of
money laundering or predicate offence, he shall within twenty four hours
after forming that suspicion and, wherever possible, before any transaction
is carried out:take reasonable measures to ascertain the purpose of the
transaction or proposed transaction, the origin and ultimate
destination of the funds or property involved, and the identity
and address of any ultimate beneficiary; and
prepare a report of the transaction or proposed transaction in
accordance with subsection'(2), and communicate the
information to the FlU by any secure means as may be
specified by FLU.
A report required under subsection (1) shall contain such
particulars as may be specified in the Regulations to be made.
A reporting person who has reported a suspicious transaction or
proposed suspicious transaction in accordance with this Part shall, if
requested to do so by the FlU or a law enforcement agency investigating
the suspicious transaction, give such further information in relation to
such transaction.
Any person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1),
shall, on conviction:
(a) if the person is an individual, be liable to a fine not exceeding
five million shillings or imprisomnent for a term not exceeding
five years;

No. 12

Anti-Money Laundering

(b) if the person is a body corporate, be liable to a fine of not
exceeding ten million or three times the market value of the
property, whichever is greater.
18. A reporting person shall establish and maintain internal reporting
procedures by designating a person to whom its employees are to report
any suspicious transaction which comes to the employee's
attention in the course of employment that another person is
engaged in money-laundering or an act constituting a predicate
offence;
for enabling designated person to have reasonable access to
information that may be relevant to determining whether
sufficient basis exists to report the matter pursuant to section
17(1); and
requiring the designated person to report the matter pursuant
to section 17, in the event that he determines that sufficient
reasons exist.
19.—( I) A reporting person shall, in addition to requirements provided
for under section 18 take appropriate measures for the purpose of making employees
aware of domestic laws relating to money laundering and terrorist
financing, and the procedures and related policies established
and maintained by it pursuant to this Act; and
provide its employees with appropriate training in the recognition
and handling of transactions relating to money laundering or
financing of terrorism.
No person shall open or operate an account With a bank, financial
institution or any other reporting person in a false, disguised or anonymous
name.
A bank, financial institution or any other reporting person who
commits an offence under this Part, for which no penalty is specified,
shall on conviction:
if the prson is an individual, be liable to a fine not exceeding
five million shillings or to imprisonment for a period of twelve
months; and
if the person is a body corporate, be liable to a fine not exceeding
ten million shillings.

2006 15

Reporting
persons
to
establish
and
maintain
internal
reporting
procedures

Additional
preventive
measures
by
persons

16 No. 12

Tipping
off

Anti-Money Laundering

2006

(4) In determining whether a person has complied with any requirement
of subsection (1), the court shall have regard to all the circumstances of
the case, including such custom and practice as may from time to time
be current in the relevant trade, business, profession or employment, and
may take account of any relevant guidance adopted or approved by a
public authority or other body that supervises, regulates or is representative
of the trade, business, profession or employment carried on by that person.
20.—( I) No person shall disclose or warn any person involved in the
transaction or to an unauthorised third party, during the establishment or
course of customer relationship or when conducting. occasional
transactions that, a suspicious transaction report under section 17 may be
prepared, or.is being prepared or has been sent to the Financial
Intelligence Unit; or
any other information or matter, except so far as is required by
thisAct.
(2) Any person who contravenes the provisions of subsection (1),
shall, on conviction:
if the person is an individual, be liable to a fine of not less than
five hundred million shillings and not less than one hundred
million shillings or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding
ten years and not less than five years;
if the person is a body corporate, be liable to a fine not exceeding
one billion shillings and not less than five hundred million shillings
or three times the market value of the property, whichever
amount is greater.
(3) In proceedings for an offence under subsection (1), it shall be a
defence to prove that, the person did not know or have reasonable grounds
to suspect that, the disclosure was likely to prejudice any investigation of
money laundering or a predicate offence.

Secrecy
obligation
overridden

21. The provisions of this Part shall have effect, notwithstanding any
obligation as to secrecy or other restrictions, upon the disclosure of
information imposed by any law or otherwise.

Protection
of
reporting
persons
witness
and
informers

22.—(1) Notwithstanding any other written law, no action, suit or
other proceeding shall lie against any reporting person or any director,
officer, employee or representative ofthe reporting person on grounds
of breach of banking or professional secrecy or by reason of any loss
resulting from an investigation, prosecution or other legal action taken
against any person, following a report or information transmitted in good

No. 12

Anti-Money Laundering

faith under this Part whether or not the suspicion proves to be well
founded.
(2) In any criminal proceedings brought under this Act, the court
may, upon an application by the Attoney-General, order:
witness testmony to be given through the use ofcornmunication
technology such as video conferencing;
non-diclosure or limitations as to the identity and whereabouts
of a witness taking into account the security of the informer
or witness; or
any other protection as the court may. upon application by the
Attorney-General, order.
(3) The provisions of subsection (I) of this section shall apply equally
to victims in so far as are witnesses.
23.4 I) Any person, who enters or leaves the territory of the United
Republic of Tanzania while transporting or is about to transport or has
transported cash or a bearer negotiable instrument in any amount equal
or above the amount prescribed by the Minister in Regulations, shall be
subject to customs authorities which shall transmit that information to
the Financial Intelligence Unit.

2006 17

Obligation
to report
physical
cross
border
transportation of

The customs authority shall have power to seize the whole amount bearer
of the unreported cash or bearer negotiable instruments,
negotiable
instruWhere any person fails to comply with the reporting obligation ments
provided for under subsection (I), the competent authority may impose
any administrative sanction against such person.
PART V
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS

24. The funds of the FlU shall consist of—
such sums as may be appropriated by the Parliament; and
grants and donations lawfully received by the FlU.
25. The Financial year of the FlU shall be the period of twelve
calendar months beginning on the first day of July of every year.
26—(1 ) The FlU shall keep accounts and records of its transactions
and affairs and shall ensure that all moneys received are properly brought
to account and all payments out of its moneys are correctly made and
properly authorised and adequate control is maintained over its property.

Sources

of fund
Financial
year
Accounts
and audit

18 No. 12

Anhi-Money Laundering

2006

(2) The Commissioner shall, as soon as practicable but not later than
ninety days after the thirtieth day of June in each year, cause to be
submitted to the Controller and Auditor General, accounts and financial
records of the FlU, who shall audit them and prepare a report on the
accounts.
PART VI
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Immunity

Cap. 256

Regulations

27. No action shall be taken against the FlU, the Commissioner,
Members of the National Committee and employees of FlU in respect
of any act done or omission made by the FlU, Commissioner, members
of the Committee or any employee of the FlU in good faith, in the
exercise of the functions conferred on the FlU under this Act and the
Criminal Procedures Act.
28. The procedure in relation to arrest, information gathering
powers, trial, determination, confiscation, forfeiture, pecuniary penalty
and restraining orders and control of property liable to confiscation,
shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Proceeds of Crime
Act and the Criminal Procedure Act.
29.—(1) The Minister may make Regulations for the better carrying
out of the purposes and provisions of this Act.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (I), the Minister
may make regulations prescribing:
a) matters required or permitted by this Act to be prescribed;
(b) matters which are necessary or convenient to be prescribed
for carrying out or giving effect to this Act.
Passed in the National Assembly on the 13tlNovember, 2006.

Clerkofthational Assembly

