No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

THE ELECTRONIC AND POSTAL COMMUNICATIONS ACT, 2010
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
PART I
PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS
Section
1.
2.
3.

Title

Short title and commencement.
Application.
Interpretation.
PART II
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS
(a) Licensing

4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.

Power to issue licence and regulate electronic communication systems.
Types and duration of licences.
Application for licence.
Failure to submit documents or information.
Publication of notice of application.
Rejection of application.
Grant of licence.
Network facilities licence.
Network Service Licence.
Content services licence.
Application services licence.
Licence fees.
Individual licence.
Terms and conditions of an individual licence.
Additional obligations for network service licensees holding individual
licence.
Renewal of an individual licence.
Modification of a licence.
Material breach.

2 No. 3
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.

Electronic and Postal Communications

Suspension and cancellation of a licence.
Registration of installation and maintenance, importation and distribution
licence.
Transfer of licence.
Transfer of shares.
Requirement on shareholders.
(b)

27.
28.
29.
30.
31.

2010

Interconnection and access

Interconnection.
Access.
Co-location and infrastructure sharing.
Interconnection, access, co-location and infrastructure sharing.
Prices for services to the public.
PART III
POSTAL COMMUNICATIONS

32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
51.

Power to make Rules as to Postal Services.
Power to issue postal licence and to regulate provision of postal services.
Postal licence to be issued unconditionally or subject to condition.
Designation of Public postal licensee.
Application of postal licence.
Application for postal licence to be in writing.
Grant of postal licence.
Modification of postal licence.
Suspension or cancellation of postal licence.
Addresses and Postcodes publication.
Secrecy of correspondence, confidentiality and integrity of postal items.
Postal licensee liability for losing.
Posting and ownership of correspondence and postal item.
Delivery of correspondence and postal item.
Prohibitions in the Postal Services.
Power to make Postal Regulations.
Provision of postage stamps and power to make rules.
Philatelic or archival materials.
Exemption from postal charges.
Power to make rules as to the transmission by post of postal articles.

No. 3
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

3

Transmission by post of anything injurious, etc prohibited.
Prohibition of transmission by post of anything indecent.
Authority to make rules dealing with prohibited articles.
Obligation of licensee to inform the Authority.
Disposal of postal articles forfeited under this Act.
Power to make rules as to disposal of undeliverable postal articles.
Power to provide for postal financial services and to make rules thereon.
Powers of the President in emergency or in the national or public interest.

PART IV
COMPETITIVE PRACTICES AND CONDUCT
(a) Anti-Competitive Practices and Conduct
60.
61.

Anti-competitive practice and conduct.
Powers of the Authority on dominant licensee.
(b) Competition practices

62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.

Electronic communications licensees holding a dominant position.
Prices for services to the public offered by licensees holding a dominant
position.
Prohibition into collusive agreements.
Prohibition on tying or linking arrangements.
Guidelines as to the meaning of “dominant position”.
Register of authorizations.
Remedies for non-compliance.
Penalty for offences.
(c) Regulatory for-bearance

70.

Regulatory for bearance.

(d) Spectrum Management
71.

Authority to manage and assign the national radio frequency spectrum.

4 No. 3
72.
73.
74.
75.

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

Powers to allocate, reallocate, assign etc.
Prohibition to transfer frequency.
Offences.
Deposit before conviction.
(e) Spectrum Consultative Committee

76.
77.
78.

Establishment of the Spectrum Consultative Committee.
Powers of the Authority in spectrum management.
Spectrum allocation and assignment.
(f)

79.
80.
81.

Numbering and Electronic Addressing

Number and electronic address assignment.
Assignment exception.
Prohibition to Transfer numbers or electronic addresses.
(g) Technical Standards

82.
83.

Technical standards for equipment connected to a network.
Approval of equipment connected to a network.
(h) Central Equipment Identification Electronic Register (CEIR)

84.
85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.

Establishment of Central Equipment Identification Register.
Cellular identification information.
IMEI registration requirement.
Sub register.
Loss of mobile telephone.
Keeping of data base.
Power of Network Services provider to blacklist stolen mobile telephones.
(i) Subscribers information

91.
92.

Subscribers Database.
List and information of dealers.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

(j) Detachable SIMcard and built-in SIMcard mobile telephone registration

93.
94.
95.
96.

Registration requirement.
Provision of information.
Submission of information.
Change of information.

97.

Sale, distribution by dealer and use by subscriber.
(k) Duties of licensee, agents and customers

98.

Duty of confidentiality.

99.
100.
101.
102.

Disclosure of information by authorized person for official duties.
Duty to report theft, loss of mobile telephone or SIM card.
Duty to use registered mobile telephone and SIM card.
Duty to report change of ownership of mobile telephone or SIM card.
(l) Content Regulations

103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
112.
113.

Regulation of content-related matters.
Code of conduct for content services licensees.
Events of National interest.
News and current affairs.
Original and independent productions of local content.
Use of official language.
Advertising and sponsorship.
Content of an educational nature.
Content designed for visually-impaired and hearing-impaired persons.
Content of a political nature.
Counter-versions.
PART V
ENFORCEMENT

114. Power to take enforcement measures.
115. Powers to inspect.

5

6 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

PART VI
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
(a) Offences relating to electronic communications
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
122.

Failure to observe licence requirements.
Failure to observe assignment requirements.
Penalty for transmission of obscene communication.
Penalty for failure to obtain radio frequency spectrum licence.
Penalty for interception of communications.
Authorized person discloses interception to others.
Penalty for fraudulent use of Network Facilities, Network Services,
Applications Service and Content Services.
123. Penalty for interference of transmission of electronic communications.
124. Unauthorised access or use of computer system.

(b) Offences and penalties relating to SIM card
125. Sale, transfer or disposal of SIM cards without authority of Network
Service Licensee.
126. Failure to give satisfactory account of mobile telephone or SIM card.
127. Absence of reasonable cause for believing mobile telephone or SIM card
properly acquired.
128. Failure to report loss or theft of mobile telephone or SIM card.
129. Tampering with mobile telephones and SIM card.
130. Recording sale of mobile telephones and SIM card.
131. Use of unregistered SIM Card without licence.
132. False information or statement.
133. Obstruction to perform duties.
134. Offence of allowing use of blacklisted phone.
135. Tampering with blacklisted phones.
136. No prosecution if acts in course of employment or in good faith.
137. Prohibitions in respect of radio communication and telecommunication
equipment.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

7

(c) Offences relating to postal communications
138.
139.
140.
141.
142.
143.
144.
145.
146.
147.
148.
149.
150.

Penalty for operating without postal licence.
Penalty for transmission of prohibited articles.
Penalty for damaging or destroying letter boxes.
Penalty for affixing without authority anything to, or disfiguring a post
office.
Penalty for unlawfully detaining mails or opening mail bags.
Penalty for willfully retaining postal articles or mail bags.
Penalty for unlawfully diverting letters.
Penalty for unlawfully disclosing contents of postal article.
Penalty for making fictitious stamps.
Prohibition of false notices as to reception of letters.
Offences by officer, employee or agent of a public postal licensee.
Obstruction of public postal licensee.
Protection of installation or plant used by public postal licensee.
(d) Additional offences and penalties

151.
152.
153.
154.
155.
156.
157.
158.
159.
160.

Damaging postal or electronic communication installation or plant.
General offences.
Offences by body corporate.
Penalty for abetting, or attempting to commit offences.
Power of the Authority to compound certain offenses.
Recovery of fee or royalty from person owing money to the licensee.
Suit for unpaid fees or royalty.
Charges over assets.
Sale of charged assets.
Proof of outstanding fees or royalty.
PART VII
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

161.
162.
163.
164.

Access to public land.
Access to private land and acquisition of private property.
Power of search and seizure.
Admissibility of documents.

8 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

165. Regulations and Rules.
166. Requirement to put in place mechanisms to implement this Act.
167. Registration of all subscribers after commencement of the Act.

PART VIII
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
168. Transitional provisions.

PART IX
CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS
(a) AMENDMENT OF THE TANZANIA COMMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY ACT,
CAP. 172
169.
170.
171.
172.
173.
174.
175.
176.
177.
178.
179.
180.
181.
182.
183.

Construction.
Amendment of section 3.
Amendment of section 15.
Amendment of section 21.
Amendment of section 26.
Amendment of section 27.
Amendment of section 33 and 34.
Amendment of section 35.
Amendment of section 41.
Amendment of section 42.
Amendment of section 45.
Amendment of section 47.
Amendment of section 48
Amendment of section 51.
Amendment of the Schedule.
(b) AMENDMENT OF THE FAIR COMPETITION ACT, CAP. 285

184. Construction.
185. Amendment of section 65.
186. Repeals.

I ASSENT,

...~~
President

......
~~t~~(~~.(.~
An Act to make provisions for the enactment of electronic and postal
communications law with a view to keeping abreast with
developments in the electronic communications industry; to
provide for a comprehensive regulatory regime for electronic
communications service providers and postal communications
service providers, to establish the Central
Equipment
Identification Register for registration of detachable 81M card and
built-in 81M card mobBe phones; to provide for duties of electronic
communications and postal licensees, agents and customers,
content regulation, issuance of postal communication licences and
to regulate competitions and practices; to provide for offences
relating to electronic communications and postal communications
and to provide for transitional provisions, consequential
amendments and other related matters.

10 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

PART I
PRELIMINARY PROVISIONS
Short title
and
Commencement

1.(1) This Act may be cited as the Electronic and Postal
Communications Act, 2010.
(2) This Act shall come into operation on such date as the
Minister may, by notice published in the Gazette, appoint.

Application

2.(1) This Act shall apply to Mainland Tanzania as well as to
Tanzania Zanzibar.
(2) This Act shall not apply to Tanzania Zanzibar, with respect
to those activities, which by virtue of the Zanzibar Broadcasting
Commission Act, fall within the jurisdiction of the Zanzibar
Broadcasting Commission.

Interpretation

3. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires “abuse of the dominant position” means an act whereby(i)
a firm holds a position of such economic strength
that allows it to operate in a market without being
significantly affected by competition and it
engages in conduct that is likely to impede the
development or maintenance of effective
competition;
(ii) a tied selling firm exercises, predatory pricing,
exclusive dealing, market restriction and price
squeezing but does not include an act where by a
licensee’s vigorous competition takes business
from less efficient competitors;
“access” means the making available by one person or network, of
electronic communications services or electronic
communications networks, or parts thereof, to another
person or network, for the purpose of enabling (a) construction, maintenance and operation of an
electronic communications network;
(b) provision of an electronic communications

No. 3

Cap.172

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

11

service; and use of electronic communications
services;
(c) to construct, maintain and operate an
electronic communications network; and
(d) to provide an electronic communications
service;
“Applications
Service
Licence”
means
an
electronic
communications licence entitling the holder to provide one
or more applications services;
“application service licensee” means a holder of an application
service licence;
“assignee” means a person who holds an individual assignment or
who is registered under a class assignment;
“assignment” means an individual assignment or a class assignment;
“Authority” means the Tanzania Communications Regulatory
Authority established under Tanzania Communications
Regulatory Authority Act;
“authorized dealer” includes agent and distributor authorized by
applications service licensee to sell or distribute SIM cards
and, or non - SIM card devices to subscribers;
“blacklisting” means, to render a mobile telephone inactive by any
mobile cellular operator, and to deliberately disable any
access which any person in control of the said mobile
telephone may have, to any of the mobile cellular operators;
“blacklist” means all IMEI numbers reported as lost, stolen or
destroyed;
“broadcasting apparatus” means an apparatus for the reception of
television broadcast or for reception of sound broadcasts
and, where an apparatus is designed or constructed for the
reception of both television and sound broadcasts other than
those relating to television broadcasts, such apparatus shall
be deemed to comprise two sets of apparatus, one for the
reception of television which is television broadcasts and
another one for the reception of sound broadcast which is
radio, as the case may be;
“broadcasting flag” means a set of status bits or “flag” set in the data
stream of a digital television programme that indicates

12 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

whether or not the data stream can be recorded or if there is
any restrictions in the recorded content;
“broadcasting service” means a radio communication service in
which the transmissions are intended for direct transmissory
reception by members of the general public and “broadcast”
used as a verb shall be construed accordingly;
“broadcasting station” means all premises whatsoever used for the
purpose of carrying on broadcasting services together with
the transmitters, apparatus and equipment, including
vehicles required in connection with them;
“built-in SIM card” means embedded SIM card to mobile terminal
equipment;
“Central Equipment Identification Register” in its abbreviation
CEIR means an electronic database which holds unique
pairs of phone numbers and IMEIs in form of three lists
white list, black list and grey list;
“class assignment” means a declaration issued by the Authority
pursuant to this Act granting a class of persons, subject to
certain rules, rights to use
(a) frequencies; or
(b) numbers or electronic addresses;
“class licence” means a declaration issued by the Authority pursuant
to this Act authorizing a class of persons to provide
electronic communication services subject to requirements
as may be determined by the Authorty;
“conditional access” means to restrict television programme access
to certain groups of users either because of concerns for
privacy or the desire to collect revenue for the services. This
requires secure encryption of the programme content secure
decryption in a set top box for each viewer;
“Centre” means the Subscribers Information Centre established
under sub-part (i);
“co-location” means the accommodation of two or more switches,
antennas or other electronic communications equipment in
or on a single building, tower or other structure;
“computer” means an electronic device used to input, process store
and output data;

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

13

“content” means information in the form of speech or other sound,
data, text or images whether still or moving, except where
transmitted in private communications;
“content service” means service offered for speech or other sound,
text or images whether still or moving except where
transmitted in private communications;
“Content Service Licence” means an electronic communications
licence entitling the holder to provide one or more content
applications services;
“content service licensee” means a holder of a content service
licence;
“construction permit” means the authorization granted by the
Authority to an applicant whose applicant for the provision
of broadcasting services has been approved by the Authority
for the Construction of facilities for the provision of content
services;
“consumer” means any person who uses electronic communication
or postal product or services;
“convergence” means the integration of different networks into a
common digital platform that allows various services to be
deployed for example video, audio, text, graphics, data and
other new services;
“Courier Service” means specialized services for the speedy
collection, conveyance and delivery of postal articles other
than letter;
“customer” means any person who obtains or seeks to obtain
services of any kind from a person undertaking activities
pursuant to this Act, and includes subscribers;
“customer equipment” means equipment, including cabling,
hardware and software, employed on the customer side of
the network boundary;
“dealer” means a person who (a) carries on a trade, business or industry in which
electronic communication apparatus are assembled,
manufactured, imported, bought, sold, hired or
exchanged;

14 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(b)

2010

deals in motor vehicles in which broadcasting
apparatus are installed; or
(c) auctions broadcasting apparatus;
“Director General” means the Director General of the Authority;
“dominant licensee” means a licensee who has been determined by
the Authority to have more than thirty five percent of the
electronic communication or postal services market;
“electronic communication” means radio communication or, as
appropriate, the communication of information in the form
of speech or other sound, data, text or images, by means of
guided and unguided electromagnetic energy;
“electronic communication equipment” means an equipment used
for radio communication or, as appropriate, the
communication of information in the form of speech or
other sound, data, text or images, by means of guided or
unguided electromagnetic energy;
“electronic communications licence” means an individual licence or
a class licence;
“electronic communications licensee” means a person who holds an
individual licence or who is registered under a class licence;
“electronic communications market” covers all the electronic
communications market and services including fixed line
voice telephone, mobile and broadband communications
and cable and satellite television;
“electronic communications network” means any network that
enables or facilitates the provision of an electronic
communications service;
“electronic communications service” means any service the purpose
or effect of which is to enable or facilitate electronic
communication;
“electronic communication system” means any system used or
intended to be used for electronic communication;
“Electronic Serial Number in its abbreviation “ESN” means a
unique code or number used by electronic communications
network to identity an individual electronic communications
equipment;

No. 3

Cap.285
Cap.285

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

15

“Fair Competition Commission” means the Fair Competition
Commission established under the Fair Competition Act;
“Fair Competition Tribunal” means the Fair Competition Tribunal
established under the Fair Competition Act;
“financial services” means money orders, postal orders, postal
drafts, postal cheques, postal travelers’ cheques, giro, cashon-delivery, savings service, electronic commerce services
and any other related services;
“grey list” means entries that are temporarily blocked or temporarily
allowed;
“hybrid postal services” means services resulting from a process in
which an operator combines telecommunications and
information technology with a physical network to convert a
message into correspondence during the performance of
activities inherent in postal services;
“International Mobile Equipment Identity” in its abbreviation
“IMEI” means is a unique code used to identify an
individual mobile telephone in Global Systems for Mobile
Communication networks;
“individual assignment” means a document issued by the Authority
pursuant to this Act granting the holder, subject to certain
rules, rights to use(a) radio frequencies; or
(b) numbers and electronic addresses;
“individual licence” means a document issued by the Authority
pursuant to this Act authorizing the licensee, subject to
certain rules to (a) construct, maintain, own and make available one or
more network facilities;
(b) provide one or more network services; or
(c) provide one or more content services;
“installation or plant used for posts” means all buildings, lands
structures, machinery, equipment, boxes and receptacles
used or intended for use in connection with the transmission
of postal articles by post;

16 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

“interconnection” means the physical or logical linking of one
public electronic communications network to another for the
purpose of allowing the persons using one of them to be
able to
(a) communicate with users of the other network;
or
(b) make use of services provided by means of
the other one;
“letters” means any form of written communications in the nature of
current and personal correspondence and includes
postcards;
“licence” means a licence issued under the provisions of this Act;
“local shareholder” means shareholders of an applicant or licensee
who is Tanzanian national where it is an individual or
company registered in Tanzania with shares as required
under section 26 of this Act;
“mail bag” means any bag, container, envelope or covering in which
postal articles are conveyed;
“Minister” means the Minister responsible for communications
except in relation to content and broadcasting services;
“mobile telephone” means a mobile apparatus or mobile terminal
equipment which is capable of connection to a cellular
telecommunication system and which is used by a customer
to transmit or receive indirect communications over such
telecommunications system;
“multiplex” is a digital transmission channel which combines
programme material and other data in a digital form for
transmission via a frequency channel;
“multiplex operator” means that entity that compiles, operates
content offering on a digital multiplex that decides on the
conditional access and Subscriber Management System
(SMS) to be used and provides signal transmission to the
end user;

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

17

“network facilities” means any element, or combination of elements,
of physical infrastructure used principally for, or in
connection with, the provision of one or more network
services or multiplex operations, but not including customer
equipment;
“Network Service” means a service for the carrying of information
in the form of speech or other sound, data, text or images,
by means of guided or unguided electromagnetic energy but
does not include services provided solely on the customer
side of the network boundary;
“Network Service Licence” means an electronic communications
licence entitling the holder to provide one or more network
services;
“network service licensee” means a holder of a network service
licence;
“parcel” means a postal article which is posted at a post office as a
parcel or is received at a post office by parcel post;
“physical co-location” means a type of co-location where the party
controlling the building, tower or other structure in or on
which another party’s switches, antennas or other electronic
communications equipment are accommodated, also allows
the other party to operate those switches, antennas or other
electronic communications equipment;
“post” means a system for the collection, dispatch, conveyance,
handling and delivery of postal articles by or through a
public postal licensee;
“postcode” or ‘’postal code’’ means a series of letters or digits
appended to a postal address for the purpose of making the
processing and delivery of mail precise, easier and faster;
“post office’ means any building, house, room, vehicle or place
where postal articles are received, delivered, sorted, made
up or dispatched;
“postage” means the fee chargeable for the transmission by post of
postal articles;
“postage stamp” means any label or stamp for denoting any postage
or other sum payable in respect of a postal article, and
including any adhesive postage stamp or stamp printed,

18 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

impressed or otherwise indicated on a postal article, whether
the postage stamp is issued under this Act or by the
government of any other country;
“postal article” or “postal item” means material goods, with or
without mercantile value, that comply with the post ability
requirements determined by this Act and by regulation, and
that are delivered via a physical network to a specified
address or a person with a specified address;
“postal communications” means the communications of information
by means of post;
“postal exclusivity” means exclusive rights given to the public
postal operator to issue stamps, installing private and
posting letter boxes and the use of the words “Post Office”,
“letter box and postage stamps;
“postal licence” means a licence issued pursuant to Part III of this Act;
“postal licensee” means a person who holds a postal licence;
“postal service’ means conventional postal, hybrid postal and
couriers’ services;
“postal undertaking” means all the lands, buildings, and other property,
movable or immovable, vested in the Minister immediately
before the transfer date for the postal purposes of the Minister
and all assets, powers, rights, interests, privileges, debts,
liabilities and obligations connected therewith;
“postcard” means a card recognized as a postcard in accordance
with the terms of the convention regulating the affairs of the
Universal Postal Union;
“posting box” means any pillar box and wall box and any other box
or receptacle provided by or under the authority of a public
postal licensee for the purpose of receiving postal articles
for transmission by, or under the authority of, a public
postal licensee;
“public postal licensee” means a person designated by the Authority
under this Act;
“public postal licensee’s installation or plant” means any installation
or plant used for posts belonging to or used by a public
postal licensee;

No. 3

G.N.No. 186
of 2007

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

19

“radio communication” means electronic communications by means
of radio waves;
“service neutral” means in relation to the converged licensing
framework whereby a licensee is authorized to provide any
electronic communication service;
“shareholder” an individual or company; including a corporation
that legally owns one or more shares of stock in a joint
stock company;
“SIM card” means Subscriber Identity Module which is an
independent electronically activated device designed for use
in conjunction with a mobile telephone to enable the user of
the mobile telephone
transmit and receive indirect
communications by providing access to telecommunication
systems and enabling such telecommunication systems
identify the particular Subscriber Identity Module and its
installed information;
“subscriber” means a person who receives an applications service or
a content service under an agreement with or pursuant to
terms and conditions established by an applications service
licensee or a content service licensee;
“technology-neutral”, means the use any technology for the
provision of electronic communication services;
“TBC” means Tanzania Broadcasting Corporations established by
Tanzania Broadcasting Corporations (Establishment) Order;
“undeliverable postal article” means items which for some reasons
have not been claimed by addressee;
“Universal Communication Services” means a defined minimum set
of communications service of specified quality which is
available to all users independent of their geographical
location, and in the light of specific national conditions, at
an affordable prince;
“Universal Postal Services” means basic postal services within the
United Republic which includes the acceptance, conveyance
and delivery of letters up to 500gms, parcel and packets of
up to 10kgs, and financial services delivered at equal tariffs
and conditions accessible by all the population;

20 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

“virtual co-location” means a type of co-location where the party
controlling the building, tower or other structure in or on
which another party’s switches, antennas or other electronic
communications equipment are accommodated, operates
those switches, antennas or other electronic communications
equipment on behalf of the other party;
"user'' means any person or body of persons who uses or operates a
radio communication channel or frequency or runs
telecommunication systems or services;
“white list” means any unique pairs of subscriber number and IMEI
number as captured by a licensee of electronic
communication service where IMEI is not in the black list.
PART II
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS
(a) Licensing
Power to
issue licence
and regulate
electronic
communication systems

4. (1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, the Authority
shall have the power of licensing and regulating electronic
communication systems and services in the United Republic.
(2) The power conferred on the Authority under sub-section (1)
shall (a) include the right to issue licence and to regulate the
establishment, installation, use, working, maintenance,
development, construction, promotion, hiring and
selling of electronic communication systems and
services; and
(b) extend to every vessel or aircraft registered in the
United Republic and to every other vessel, aircraft and
any vehicle, whether mechanically propelled or not, in
the United Republic.
(3) The power conferred under this section shall not be
infringed by -

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(a)

(b)

(c)

2010

21

the running by any person solely for his own use or
for the purpose of his business and not for providing
any telecommunication services to another person or
electronic communication system in which all the
equipment comprised therein is situated (i)
on a single set of premises in a single
occupation;
(ii) in a vessel, aircraft or vehicle or in two or
more vessels, aircraft or vehicles mechanically
coupled together; or
the operation of the electronic communications system
in the course of their duties by the armed forces, the
police force and national security officers of the
United Republic; or
a licence granted under subsection (1) to a person or
class of persons; may be granted either to any person,
or class of persons and may in addition, contains
conditions requiring the interconnection or access to
electronic communication systems of any person or
class of persons licensed under sub section (1).

Types and
duration of
Licences

5. (1) Types of licences issued under this Act are –
(a) network facilities licences;
(b) network services licences;
(c) application services licences;
(d) content services licences;
(e) postal and courier services licences; and
(f) other licences as may be determined by the
Authority.
(2) The duration of the licence shall be as specified in the
Regulations made under this Act.

Application
for licence

6.(1) Any person or a company that wishes to operate any
electronic communications system or offer postal communications,
electronic communications or content services shall apply to the
Authority for a licence.

22 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

(2) An applicant for a licence shall be required to submit the
following information(a) a certificate of incorporation or registration;
(b) business plan for the proposed services;
(c) technical proposal for the services to be provided
including roll out plans;
(d) shareholding structure as prescribed under
section 26;
(e) previous experience in the provision of the
services;
(f) proof of the applicant being financially capable;
and
(g) any other information as the Authority may
require.
(3) Any applicant for electronic communication licence which
uses frequency bands that are competitive shall in addition to
requirements under subsection (2), submit the following (a) network plan and configuration for deployment;
(b) technical specifications and manuals of
equipment to be used; and
(c) products and services to be offered.
(4) Every applicant shall be required to have physical address
in a place within the United Republic and shall provide the same to
the Authority.
(5) A licensee shall inform the Authority of any change of
physical address.
(6)
Where an applicant for an individual licence has
submitted to the Authority all the relevant requirements for the
licence application, the applicant shall present business and
technical plans to the Authority.
Failure to
submit
documents
or
information

7. Where an applicant fails to submit documents or
informations as required under this Act, the Authority shall reject
the application and the applicant shall be so informed in writing.

No. 3
Publication
of notice of
application

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

23

8.(1) Upon receipt of an application, the Authority shall
publish a notice of the application in local newspapers inviting
comments from the public, within fourteen days from the date of
publication.
(2) The requirement for publication shall not apply to licence
of a duration below five years.

Rejection of
application

9.(1)
The rejection of an application pursuant to the
provisions of this Act shall not prevent the applicant from
resubmitting another application with the required information
except where a tender process is involved.
(2) Resubmission of application under sub-section (1) shall be
treated as a new application.

Grant of
licence

10.(1) On completion of evaluation process, the Authority
shall within thirty days notify the successful and unsuccessful
applicants the results of the application.
(2) Where frequency requirement is involved, the applicant shall
make a separate application for a radio frequency user licence.
(3) A grant of licence shall be subject to satisfaction of the
Authority that the facilities are in accordance with conditions
stipulated in the construction permit.

Network
facilities
licence

11. A person shall not install, operate, manage, construct,
maintain, own or make available network facilities in the United
Republic except under the terms and conditions of an individual
licence granted by the Authority.

Network
Services
Licence

12.(1) A person shall not operate, manage and provide
network services in the United Republic except in accordance with
the terms and conditions of an individual licence granted by the
Authority.
(2) An applicant for Network Services Licence shall, in
addition to conditions stipulated for in sections 6 and 26 of this Act,
submit the following-

24 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

(a) interoperability and compatibility of the system with
other systems; and
(b) availability of access to emergency services.
(3) The network services shall be operated and managed in the
United Republic by a holder of network services licence.
Content
services
licence

13.(1) A person shall not provide content services except in
accordance with the terms and conditions of an individual or class
licence granted by the Authority.
(2) Successful applicant for Content Service Licence shall be
given construction permit for a period of one year.
(3) The Authority shall define each content service licence in
relation to one of the following categories:
(a) public services;
(b) commercial services;
(c ) community services;
(d) non-commercial services;
(e) subscription broadcasting service;
(f) support services for subscription content services;
and
(g) any other licence as may be determined by the
Authority.
(4) Every Content Service Licensee shall be required to
enter into a service level agreement with the holder
of a Network Facilities Licensee for purposes of
transition and distribution of signals.

Application
Services
licence

14. A person shall not provide Application Services except in
accordance with the terms and conditions of an individual licence
granted by the Authority.

Licence fees

15.-(1) An applicant shall pay to the Authority the fees as may
be prescribed and such fees shall include-

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(a)
(b)
(c)

2010

25

an initial licence fee payable before the licence is
issued;
an annual fee of the amount specified in the Rules
made under this Act;
fee in respect of the assigned frequency, frequency
bandwidth or radio communication station; and

(d)

fee in respect of assigned electronic numbering
resource.
(2) The Authority may from time to time review the
licence fee.
Individual
Licence

16.(1) An individual licence shall be issued by the Authority
to any person fulfilling the eligibility requirements set forth in
section 6 and who, in the Authority’s reasonable opinion, is
financially and technically capable of meeting his statutory and
regulatory obligations as well as the obligations set forth in the
individual licence concerned.
(2) The Authority shall make Rules (a) setting forth in details the procedures to be
followed for the grant of an individual licence
under this section;
(b) determining the format of individual licence
application forms, which shall include a section
where the applicant indicates in details the training
and instruction programmes which intends to
implement in accordance with the obligations of
the individual licence;
(c) determining(i)
filing fees of individual licence
application forms; and
(ii)
initial licence fees payable for the actual
granting of individual licence.
(3) The procedures prescribed in the rules made under this
section shall be fair, non discriminatory and transparent.

26 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

Terms and
conditions of
an individual
licence

17. An individual licence shall include terms and conditions
set by the Authority including quality of service, licensed area,
interconnection, consumer protection, universal service obligation,
shareholding structure and roll out plan.

Additional
obligations
for network
service
licensee
holding
individual
licence

18.(1) A licensee holding individual licence shall be obliged
to provide network services, or ensure that a third party provides
essential applications services twenty-four hours a day or seven
days a week, at a level of quality as set by the Authority in all areas
without discrimination and shall include
(a) emergency service numbers;
(b) directory assistance service, enabling any subscriber
to obtain a telephone number through the assistance
of an operator or through automated means;
(c)
operator assistance service, enabling any subscriber
to obtain assistance regarding, amongst other things,
accessing services, setting up calls and remedying
faults; and
(d)

such other applications services as may be
reasonably determined by the Authority from time to
time.

(2) The essential applications services shall be provided in
accordance with the terms and conditions of a class licence granted
under this Act.
(3) A licensee of a network service shall provide the
following essential and emergency services free-of-charge (a) emergency service;
(b) operator assistance for remedying faults,
(c) customer assistance;
(d) crime stoppers;
(e) child help line;
(f) health help line;
(g) anti-corruption services;
(h) fire services;

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(i)
(j)

2010

27

ambulance services; and
any other services relating to human safety and life.

Renewal of
an individual
licence

19. The Authority shall renew an individual licence for a term
to be agreed between the Authority and the licensee concerned,
where the licensee(a) continues to fulfill the shareholding requirements set
forth in section 26;
(b) in the Authority’s reasonable opinion, continues to be
financially and technically capable of meeting its
statutory and regulatory obligations as well as the
obligations to be set forth in the individual licence
concerned; and
(c) has not, during the current term of the licence,
committed a material breach of this provisions.

Modification
of a licence

20.(1) The Authority and the licensee shall agree in writing
to modify a licence during the duration of the licence in either of the
following ways(a) by a licensee submitting to the Authority a written
request for modification of licence and the request for
modification shall be considered by the Authority to
establish whether or not such request is contrary to
the provisions of the Act or Regulations made there
under and shall respond to the licensee accordingly;
or
(b) by the Authority subject to sub-section (2) of this
section.
(2) The Authority shall, prior to modifying the licence, issue a
notice in writing, to the licensee stating the following(a) the reasons for the proposed modifications;
(b) the modification to the licence that the Authority
proposes to make; and
(c) the date by which the licensee shall respond in writing
to the proposed modifications within twenty eight
days from the date on which the Authority serves the
notice on the licensee.

28 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

(3) Where the licensee fails to respond in accordance with
this Act or where the licensee responds but subsequently withdraws
that response, the Authority may modify the licence as specified in
the notice.
(4) Where the licensee responds in accordance with subsection
(2)(c) the Authority may either(a) issue the licence modified in accordance with the
notice;
(b) issue the licence with modifications by incorporation
of the licensee’s response partially or wholly as it
may deem fit; or
(c) make no modifications to the licence.
Material
breach

21. The following shall constitute fundamental or material
breach (a)
failure of a licensee to commence constructions of the
network within twelve months from the date of
issuance of the licence;
(b) failure of a licensee to provide service to customers
within twelve months from the date of issuance of the
licence;
(c)
continuous interruption of service for a consecutive
or combined period of thirty days over any six
months period provided that the interruption is not a
result of force majeure;
(d) bankruptcy or filing of any insolvency proceeding
against the licensee or adjudication of the same in
favour of creditors of such proceeding is filed against
the licensee;
(e)
any proceeding or assignment of assets for the benefit
of creditors, or any state of the licensee which may be
considered as “insolvency” under any written law in
force;
(f)
repetition or continuation of an event of infraction
following written notice by Authority to cease
operation or a combination of the events of
infraction;

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(g)

(h)
(i)

(j)

2010

29

repeated failure of a licensee to pay licence fees as
provided under the rules or regulations made under
this Act;
failure to comply with any other condition set out in
the licence;
breach of joint venture contract by the majority
shareholder which results into the dissolution of the
joint venture or otherwise jeopardizes the
performance of the licensee; and
alienation of shares by majority shareholder without
prior approval of the Authority and to transfer,
subcontract or assign any interest in his shares or the
majority shareholder be reduced to a minority
shareholder.

Suspension
and
cancellation
of licence

22. The Authority may suspend or cancel a licence if (a) the licence is in material breach of licence conditions
provided for in section 21 or the provisions of section
26 and has not remedied any such breach within
thirty days of receiving notification of the breach
from the Authority;
(b) the licensee and the Authority have agreed in writing
to terminate the licence; or
(c) the licence terminates upon expiry of the term and is
not renewed.

Registration
of
installation
and
maintenance,
importation
and
distribution
licence

23.(1) Notwithstanding any other written law to the contrary,
a class licence shall be issued to any person who intends to
undertake the following activities –
(a) construction, installation and maintenance of
electronic communication equipment or broadcasting
apparatus;
(b) importation of electronic communication equipments;
(c) distribution of electronic communication equipments;
(d) selling of electronic communication equipments
including broadcasting apparatus; and

30 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

(e)

providing V-SAT services and any other services to be
determined by the Authority:
Provided that such person shall register and apply to the Authority
to obtain approval of appropriate class licence, upon payment of fee
as may be prescribed by the Authority.
(2) The Authority shall make rules prescribing the format of
class licence and registration forms referred to in sub-section (1).
(3) A person who undertake the activities of importation or
distribution of communication equipment or broadcasting apparatus
shall issue a warranty for a minimum of one year to protect the
consumer.
(4) Any person registered and granted a class licence under
this section shall not be bound by the requirement on shareholders
under section 26.
Transfer of
licence

24.(1) A licence issued under this Act shall not be
transferred, assigned, pledged or otherwise disposed off without
prior written consent of the Authority.
(2) Where a licensee proposes to transfer a licence, the licensee
and the person to whom the licence is proposed to be transferred to,
shall jointly submit a request in writing to the Authority for consent
of the transfer.
(3) The transferor shall submit the request together with the
transferee’s documents to the Authority for consent of the transfer.
(4) An application to transfer a licence shall be treated by the
Authority in the same manner as a request for the issuance of a
licence under this Act.

Transfer of
shares

25. Any shareholder or licensee shall not transfer, alienate,
sub-contract or assign any interest in his shares under the licence
without approval of the Authority.

No. 3
Requirement
on
shareholders

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010 31

26.(1) Notwithstanding any provision of any other law, a
company incorporated in the United Republic holding an individual
or class licence under this Act shall be required(a) in the case of electronic communication or postal
licensee where the shareholding structure has a
minimum local shares holding requirements as an
ongoing obligation throughout the life of the licence;
and
(b) in the case of content service licensee where the local
shareholding structure has a minimum of fifty one per
cent of the shares as an ongoing obligation throughout
the life of the licence.
(2) The Minister shall, in consultation with the Authority,
make regulations prescribing the minimum local shareholding
requirement and procedure for approval and transfer of shares of
electronic communications and postal licence.

Cap .79

(3) Existing licensee of Network Facilities, Network Services,
Application Services or Content Services shall, notwithstanding the
provisions of any other written law to the contrary, within three
years from the commencement of this Act, and in accordance with
requirements of the Capital Market and Securities Act, be required
to offer shares to the public and subsequently list with the stock
exchange.
(4) Any person licensed as Network Facilities, Network
Services, Application Services or Content Services after
commencement of this Act shall be required to offer shares to the
public and subsequently list with the Stock Exchange in accordance
with the requirement of the Capital Markets and Securities Act
within three years from the date of grant of the licence.
(b) Interconnection and access

Interconnection

27. The Authority shall(a)

regulate all interconnection arrangements between

32 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

(b)

(c)
(d)

Access

2010

network service licensees where there is market
failure;
issue interconnection negotiations procedure and
guidance on approval or rejection of interconnection
agreements;
place all interconnection agreements in the public
register; and
arbitrate or appoint an arbitrator to arbitrate on
interconnection disputes.

28.(1) Every electronic communications licensee has the
right for the purposes of enabling the provision of electronic
communications services to the public, to negotiate an agreement
for access to(a) electronic communications network elements of any
network facilities licensee; and
(b) electronic communications services provided by any
network service licensee,
that appear in a list as published in the Gazette by the Authority,
and, when solicited in writing by an electronic communications
licensee, every network facilities licensee and every network service
licensee has, for the purposes of enabling the provision of electronic
communications services to the public, the obligation to negotiate
such an agreement.
(2) The Authority shall (a) regulate access arrangements between network
service licensees;
(b) issue access negotiations procedure and guidance on
approval or rejection on interconnection agreements;
and
(c) place all access agreement in the public register.

Co-location
and
infrastructure sharing

29.(1) The Authority shall have the powers to(a) regulate the co-location arrangements
network facilities licensees;

between

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(b)
(c)

Cap. 80

2010

33

issue access negotiations procedure and guidance on
approval or rejection on co-location agreements; and
place all co-location agreement in the public register.

(2) The Authority shall, on infrastructure sharing determine
standards of communication infrastructure and shall regulate(a) passive network elements including towers, masts,
ducts, poles, power systems and cooling systems,
among network facilities licensee;
(b) active network elements including microwave
transmission fibre, antenna access network and
related elements and infrastructure sharing amongst
network facilities licensees;
(c) infrastructure sharing arrangements between network
facilities licensees;
(d) in liaison with the Tanzania Civil Aviation Authority
established under Tanzania Civil Aviation Act the
establishment of broadcasting stations so as to prevent
harmful interference with aircraft navigation systems.
(3) The provisions of this section shall not apply to towers,
masts, ducts, poles, power systems and cooling systems, which have
been constructed prior to the commencement of this Act.

Interconnection,
access, colocation and
infrastructure sharing

30. The Authority shall (a)
set forth rules procedures to be followed in
settlement of interconnection, access, co-location
and infrastructure sharing disputes; and
(b)

Prices for
services to
the public

have a mandate to approve or reject communication
services
providers’
infrastructure
sharing
agreements.

31.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act and any
regulations or declarations made under this Act, electronic
communications licensees may, for the applications services and

34 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

content services which they provide to the public, set and revise
such prices as they deem appropriate.
(2) The prices so determined by an electronic communications
licensee shall respect the following principles (a) be transparent, based on objective criteria, and nondiscriminatory;
(b) not contain discounts that unreasonably prejudice the
competitive opportunities of other licensees providing
applications services and content services to the
public; and
(c) take account the regulations and recommendations of
the international organizations of which the United
Republic is a member.
(3) Each electronic communications licensee shall(a) file with the Authority the prices so determined at
least two weeks prior to their introduction; and
(b) publish the prices at its own expense in the public
media at least one week prior to their introduction.
(4) An electronic communications licensee shall provide all its
application services and content services in accordance with the
prices filed with the Authority.
(5) The Authority shall be entitled to carry out reviews of the
prices referred to in this section in order to ensure that they respect
the principles set forth in sub-section (2).
(6)
Electronic communications licensees shall, for the
application services or content services which they provide to the
public, make sufficient detailed billing information to enable
customers to verify whether or not they have been billed correctly.
(7) The Authority shall have powers from time to time to carry
out reviews of rates and charges applied by electronic
communications service licensees in provision of the licensed
services.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

35

PART III
POSTAL COMMUNICATIONS
Powers to
make rules
as to the
types of the
postal
service

32. The Authority shall make rules describing the types of
postal services in terms of their nature, form and scope, the mode of
postage, technology used, service standards and attributes.

Power to
issue postal
licence and
to regulate
provision of
postal
services

33.(1) The Authority shall have the power to issue postal
licence for(a) conveying by post from one place to another whether
by land or by sea or by air all letters, postcards and
commercial valuable documents;
(b)

performing all incidental services of receiving,
collection, sending, dispatching and delivering all
letters and postcards, except those letters falling
within any of the following categories (i)
trade announcements, circulars,
printed extracts from newspapers,
or advertisements, not addressed to
any person;
(ii)
letters delivered by an employee of
the sender;
(iii)
letters delivered by a messenger
employed by the sender especially
for the purpose, not being a person
employed or engaged in the course
of his business or employment in
delivering procuring the delivery of
letters;
(iv)
letters exceeding 500 grammes in
weight per letter;
(v)
letters concerning goods sent with
the goods and delivered therewith;
(vi)
letters carried to or from a post
office;

36 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

(vii)

letters carried in accordance with
an agreement entered into by the
licensee;
(viii) transfers
between
document
exchanges;
(ix)
letters carried to the premises of a
provider of electronic main service
for the purposes of being
transmitted as electronic mail, or
letters carried from the premises of
such a person after having been so
transmitted;
(x)
letters carried and delivered by a
private friend without hire, reward
or other profit; and
(xi)
letters carried and delivered
personally by the sender.
(2) Where any question arises as to whether or not any postal
article is a letter within the meaning of this Act, the decision of the
Authority shall be final.
Postal
licences to
be issued
unconditionally or
subject to
condition

34.(1) The Authority may grant a postal licence on such
terms and conditions and in consideration of such payments as it
thinks fit to any person for the doing of any act or the performance
of service falling within section 33 as is specified in the postal
licence, and anything done in accordance with a postal licence
granted under this section shall not constitute an infringement of the
privilege conferred by section 33.
(2) A postal licence granted under sub-section (1) may be
granted either to any person, class of persons or particular person,
and may include without prejudice to the power to impose
conditions conferred by that subsection and conditions requiring the
payment of a fee to the Authority on the grant of the postal licence
or the payment to the Authority of a periodic fees during the validity
of the postal licence or to both of such amount as may be
determined under the postal licence.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

37

(3) A payment required by sub-section (2) to be rendered to
the Authority may be recovered by it in any court of competent
jurisdiction as if it were a simple contract debt.

Designation
of public
postal
licensee

35.-(1) The Authority shall have the power to designate a
public postal licensee to perform all or any of the functions relating
to the operation and provision of universal postal services in the
United Republic.
(2) The Public postal licensee shall have postal exclusivity
rights to issue stamps, installing private and installing posting letter
boxes and use of the word “post office” “letter box” and “postage
stamps” for a period to be determined by the Authority.

Application
of postal
licence

36. No person shall operate postal services in the United
Republic unless that person is licensed as a postal licensee under
this Act.

Application
for postal
licence to be
in writing

37.(1) Any application for a postal licence under this Act
shall be addressed in writing to the Authority.

Grant of
postal
licence

(2) The Authority may, in consideration of any application
under this Act, require the applicant to produce evidence or
information to show the capacity to operate postal systems and
services as the Authority may deem necessary to enable it make a
decision.
(3) The Authority may require an application for a postal
licence to be accompanied by such a fee as the Authority may from
time to time describe.
38.-(1) The Authority may, subject to sub-section (2) of this
section grant a postal licence to an applicant under this Act if it is
satisfied that the information supplied to the Authority by the
applicant it suitable to operate the postal system and services.
(2) The Authority shall upon receipt of application, consider it
and within sixty days may in its absolute discretion either, grant a
postal licence or refuse the application.

38 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

(3) A postal licence granted under this Act may be renewed on
its expiry on application within the prescribed period by the
Authority.
(4) No postal licence shall be transferred except with the prior
consent in writing of the Authority.
Modification
of postal
licence

39.(1) The Authority may modify the conditions of a postal
licence granted under this Act.
(2) The Authority shall, prior to making modifications of the
conditions of a postal licensee under this section give notice to the
licensee by(a) stating that it proposes to make modifications in the
manner as specified in the notice and the
compensation payable for any damage cause thereby;
and
(b) specifying the time not being less than twenty eight
days from the date of service of the notice on such a
licensee within which written representation in
respect to the proposed modification may be made.
(3) Upon receipt of any representation referred to under
subsection (2), the Authority shall consider such a representation
and may(a) reject the representation; or
(b) amend the proposed modifications or compensations
payable in accordance with the representation or other
wise, and in either event, it shall issue a direction in
writing to licensee requiring him to make proposed
modification specified in the notice or any other
modifications as subsequently amended by the
Authority within reasonable time.

No. 3
Suspension
or
cancellation
of postal
licence

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

39

40.(1) Where the Authority is satisfied that a person who is
granted a postal licence under this Act or any postal regulations
made under this Act is contravening any of the conditions of the
postal licence or the provisions of this Act the Authority may cancel
or suspend the licence.
(2) Any person aggrieved by the decision of the Authority
under this section may appeal to the Fair Competition Tribunal.

Addresses
and
Postcodes
publication

Secrecy of
correspondence,
confidentiality and
integrity of
postal items

41. The Authority shall (a)
allocate, manage and regulate addresses, and
postcodes; and
(b)
regulate the publication and sale of postcode list
and directories in compliance with the principle of
publicity and requiring postal licensees to keep
deliveries and postcode directories to be available
to public free of charge.
42.(1) A postal licensees shall be responsible for the
inviolability of the secrecy of correspondence and for the
confidentiality and integrity of postal items.
(2) Notwithstanding sub-section (1), correspondence and other
postal items may legally be opened only in exceptional
circumstances expressly established under this section.
(3) The following acts shall not constitute violations of the
secrecy of correspondence or of the confidentiality and integrity of
postal items by(a) opening correspondence or obtaining knowledge of
its contents when performed by a person residing at
the same address as the addressee;
(b) submission of correspondence to the verification and
control performed by competent police, senior staff of
the Authority or Government customs or revenue
official;
(c) opening of postal items that present signs of
containing material subject to taxation;

40 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(d)
(e)

Postal
licensee
liability for
losing

2010

opening of correspondence or postal items earmarked
for destruction by Authority or postal licensee; and
opening of correspondence or postal items that
present signs of containing material or substance
whose dispatch, use or distribution is prohibited.

43.-(1) The postal licensee shall be responsible for
correspondences and postal items entrusted to it and pay
compensation to customers for losing, misplacing, delivery or
failing to guarantee the integrity of correspondence or postal items
in the form and amount specified in rules made by the Authority.
(2) The compensation of correspondences and postal items
dispatched or received from abroad, shall comply with the
international conventions and treaties ratified by the United
Republic.
(3) The postal licensee shall not assume liability to the
customer for losing, misplacing, delaying delivery or failing to
guarantee the integrity of correspondence or a postal item if that
customer(a) owing to user behavior involving an infringement of the
law or regulation; and
(b) owing to defects or risks inherent in the nature of
correspondence or postal items.
(4) Any postal customer who has correspondence or a postal
item lost, misplaced, delivered with delay, spoiled or damaged in
conditions specified in this Act shall apply to the postal operator
compensation in the form and amount specified in the regulations.
(5) Where the postal licensee fails to comply with the request
for compensation, the postal customer may complain to the
Authority in the form and period specified in the regulations.

Posting and
ownership of
correspondence and
postal item

44.(1) A postal article shall be deemed to have been posted
if it is deposited into a posting box or handed over to an employee
or agent of a postal licensee authorized to receive it.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

41

(2) Correspondences and postal items which have been
posted shall remain the property of the sender until final delivery to
the addressee or to the displayed address, except when they are
apprehended by a competent authority;
(3) A postal article shall be in the course of transmission by
post from the time of its being posted with or handled over to the
postal licensee to the time of its being delivered to the addressee, or
its being returned to the sender or otherwise disposed of in
accordance with this Act.
Delivery of
correspondence and
postal item

45. For the purposes of this Act a postal article shall be
deemed to be delivered if it is delivered into the private letter box or
private bag of the addressee or is left at the house or office of the
addressee, or with the addressee, or with his employee, or agent, or
other person authorized to receive it and, where the addressee is a
guest or is resident at a hotel, hostel or lodging of a similar nature, if
it is left with the proprietor or manager thereof or with his agent.

Prohibitions
in the Postal
Services

46.(1) A postal licensee may refuse to accept
correspondence or a postal item that does not fulfill the
requirements established in this Act or by regulations made under it
with regard to shape, weight, value, dimensions, safety, packaging,
franking, registration or address, including the correct postcode.
(2) The public postal licensee shall not receive, distribute
or deliver anywhere in the United Republic or dispatch abroad any
of the following articles
(a)

correspondence or a postal item whose weight
dimension, volume, shape, address franking or
packaging is in breach of the regulations or the
international conventions and accords approved by
the United Republic; or

(b)

an explosive, fetid, corrosive, radioactive, perishable,
with other characteristic that may constitute a hazard
to damage other correspondence, postal items or

42 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

constitute a hazard to public health and safety such
as(i)
firearms or armaments of description;
(ii) drug and other prohibited narcotic substances
except those legally authorized or dispatched
for medical or scientific purposes;
(iii) live animals or plants except those allowed by
international conventions ratified by United
Republic;
(iv) dead animals;
(v) correspondence or postal items whose
envelope, container or packaging contains
words, image, drawing or other messages of an
injurious, threatening or offensive nature;
(vi) correspondence or postal items whose
circulation in United Republic on export or
imports is prohibited; or
(vii) perishable foodstuffs.
(3) Failure to comply with any of the provisions of this section
shall entail retention of the offending correspondence or postal item
by the postal licensee or its apprehension by the competent
authority, in accordance with the rules and without prejudice to the
applicable administrative and penal sanctions.
(4) The sender shall be liable to the postal licensee for any
damage caused by failure to comply with the portability
requirements established in this Act, except in cases of error or
negligence by the postal licensee involved in any of the activities
inherent in postal services.
(5) The Correspondence or postal items subject to legal or
fiscal formalities shall be accepted only under total and exclusive
liability on the sender’s part as to compliance with such
requirements.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

43

(6) The Authority may establish special rules regarding the
packaging and safety of correspondence or postal items to enable
them to be received, distributed or delivered in the situations to
which this section refers.
Power to
make Postal
Regulations

47.(1) The Minister may make postal regulations for purpose
of carrying out the provisions of this Act.
(2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection (1), the
Minister may make regulations for or with respect to all or any of
the following matters(a) the classes and the conditions for the grant of postal
licences by the Authority; and
(b) the regulations of postal tariffs.

Provision of
postage
stamps and
power to
make rules

48.(1) A public postal licensee may, subject to such
directions as the Authority may give, cause postage stamps to be
provided of such kinds and denoting values as the licensee may
determine.
(2) The postage stamps provided under sub-section (1) shall
be used for the prepayment of postage or other fees or sums
chargeable under this Act in respect of postal articles, except where
the public postal licensee determines, directs that prepayment may
be made in some other manner.
(3) The Authority may make rules for the use of postage
stamps as prepayment of fees or other sums chargeable under any
written law by any government agency for services rendered and the
recovery of the revenue from the licensee.

Philatelic
materials

49.(1) All philatelic archival materials produced by a public
postal licensee shall belong to the government and shall be kept in
such custody as the Authority directs.
(2) For the purpose of subsection (1), philatelic archival
material shall include
(a) postage stamps;

44 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(b)
(c)

Exemption
from postal
charges

2010

artworks, proofs, progressive sheets; printed sheets
and printing plates of postage stamps; and
date-stamps, slogan dyes, and other artifacts used in
connection with the production of postage stamps.

50.(1) The Authority may make rules as to the exemption of
certain classes of persons from postal charges on letter-post items
and fees or other charges payable for services rendered.
(2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the
foregoing power, the rules made under sub-section (1) may exempt
letter-post items for charitable purposes from postal charges.

Power to
make rules
as to the
transmission
by post of
postal
articles

51.(1) The Authority may make rules as to the transmission
by post of postal articles and in particular such rules may(a) provide for the performance of supplementary
services in respect of transmission by post of postal
articles;
(b) prescribe the special charges or fees to be charged for
the supplementary services provided;
(c) prohibit the transmission by post of postal articles not
specified in section 46 or lay down special conditions
on which such articles, may be transmitted by post; or
(d) provide for the payment of compensation for the loss
or damage in course of transmission by post of postal
articles, and the conditions under which such
compensation may be paid and the limit of the
amount of such compensation.
(2) For the purposes of this section, supplementary services
include the registration, insurance and storage of postal articles,
Poste Restante and any other form of supplementary service.

Transmission by post
of anything
injurious, etc
prohibited

52.(1) A person shall not send by post any article or thing
which is likely to injure any person or postal article in the course of
transmission by post.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

45

(2) Except as otherwise provided by regulations made under
this Act and subject to the condition as may be prescribed, no person
shall send by post any explosive, inflammable, dangerous, filthy,
noxious or deleterious substance, any sharp instrument not properly
protected, or any living creature which is either noxious or likely to
injure any person or any postal article in course of transmission by
post.
(3) No person shall send by post opium, morphine, cocaine or
any narcotic except under such rules as the Authority may make in
this behalf.
(4) Nothing in this section shall affect the provisions of any
written law relating to deleterious drugs.
Prohibition
of
transmission
by post of
anything
indecent

53. A person shall not send by post any (a) indecent or obscene printing, painting, photograph,
lithograph, engraving, book or card, or any other
indecent or obscene article;
(b)

(c)

(d)
Authority to
make rules
dealing with
prohibited
articles

postal article having or on the cover, have any words
marks or designs of any indecent, obscene, seditious,
scurrilous, threatening or grossly offensive character;
postal article bearing any fictions stamp or purporting
to be prepaid with any postage stamp which has
previously been used to prepay any other postal
article or which has been previously used in payment
of any stamp duty; or
other article which the Authority may prohibit.

54. The Authority may make rules for preventing the sending
and delivery of articles prohibited under this Act and detaining,
disposing of, or destroying any such postal article sent or tendered
for transmission by post.

46 No. 3
Obligation
of Licensee
to inform the
Authority

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

55.(1) Where a postal article sent by post is reasonably
suspected by the licensee to be sent is in contravention of this Act,
any rules made there under or any other written law, the licensee
shall immediately inform and hand over such postal article to the
Authority or any authorised officer.
(2) On receiving the information made under sub-section (1),
an authorised officer shall detain such postal article for opening and
examination.

Disposal of
postal
articles
forfeited
under this
Act

56.(1) Where a postal article opened or examined under this
Act or of any other written law is found to be in contravention or to
have been posted in contravention, the Authority or authorised
officer may direct that the postal article be returned to the sender or
forwarded to its destination, in each case charged with such
additional postage, as the Authority may prescribes unless otherwise
dealt with under sub-sections (2), (3), (4), and (5) of this section.
(2) Any postal article sent by post contravenes section 46
may, under the directions of the Authority or authorised officer, be
forfeited and destroyed.
(3) Any postal article sent by post contravenes section 52
may, under the directions of the Authority or authorised officer, be
destroyed.
(4) Any postal article sent by post in contravention of
section 53 shall be dealt with as the Authority may direct.

Cap.403

(5) Notwithstanding any provisions in any written law to
the contrary, where any postal article opened under this Act is found
to be in contravention of the Customs (Management and Tariff) Act,
shall be handed over to the customs Department to be dealt with in
accordance with that Act.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

47

(6) Any postal article opened under this Act and found to
contain any valuable or saleable enclosure shall, together with its
contents, be safely kept pending its disposition under this section,
and a list of any such postal articles together with a memorandum of
the contents thereof shall be made and preserved.
(7) The detention, destruction or disposal under this Act of
a postal article or its enclosure shall not relieve any person from
liability for any offence under this Act or any other written law.
Power to
make rules
as to
disposal of
undeliverable postal
articles

57. (1) The Authority may make rules as to the disposal of
undeliverable postal articles.
(2) The rules made under sub-section (1) may (a)

(b)

(c)

Power to
provide for
postal
financial
services and
to make
rules thereon

prescribe the period during which undeliverable
postal articles at a post office shall remain in that
office;
provide for the publication of lists of undeliverable
postal articles, or of any class of undelivered postal
articles; and
provide for the manner in which undeliverable postal
articles shall be finally dealt with or disposed of.

58.(1) The Authority may allow the public postal licensee
to carry out postal financial services on its own account or on behalf
of government and non-government agencies and may make rules as
to such services prescribing for.
(2) For the purposes of this section, "postal financial
services" includes money orders, postal orders, postal drafts, postal
cheques, postal travellers’ cheques, giro, cash-on-delivery, and
collection of bills, savings service, subscription to newspapers and
periodicals and any other form of financial service.

48 No. 3
Powers of
the President
in
emergency
or in the
national or
public
interest

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

59.(1) The President may, on occurrence of any event
which gives rise to an emergency, or in the interest of national or
public security, authorize the Authority to (a) suspend the public postal licence of postal licensee
and take temporary possession of any post office
under the control of any such licensee;
(b) withdraw either totally or partially the use of any
postal service from any person or class of persons or
from the public at large; or
(c)
order that any postal article or class of postal articles
or any letter or class of letters to or from any person
or class of persons or relating to any specific subject
shall not be conveyed, intercepted, detained or
delivered to any officer mentioned in the order to be
opened, examined or dealt with in such a manner as
the President may direct, or that postal article or
postal articles or letter or letters or the contents
thereof shall be disclosed to an officer mentioned in
the order.
(2) The President may also authorize any other public
officer employed by the government to carry out the powers
conferred under sub-section (1).
(3) The licensee shall give all necessary assistance
whenever required to do so by an officer carrying out any of the
powers conferred under this section.
PART IV
COMPETITION PRACTICES AND CONDUCT
(a) Anti-Competitive Practices and Conduct

Anticompetitive
practice and
conduct

60.(1) A dominant licensee shall not take advantage of its
power in a market for the supply of electronic and postal services
with a view to -

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(a)

(b)
(c)

2010

49

eliminating or substantially damaging another
licensee in the market in which it operates or in any
other market;
preventing the entry of any other person in that
market or any other market; and
deterring any other licensee from engaging in
competitive conduct in that or any other market.

(2) A dominant licensee shall not discriminate between
persons who acquire or make use of electronic communication
service in the market in which he operates in relation to (a) any fees or charge for the service provided;
(b) the quality of service provided; or
(c)
any form or condition on which the service is
provided;
(3) Nothing in sub-section (2)(a) shall prevent a dominant
licensee from making a reasonable allowance, subject to the
approval of the Authority, for the cost of providing an electronic and
postal services where the difference results from (a)
different quantities in which the service is
supplied;
(b)
different transmission capacities needed for the
supply of the service;
(c)
different places from, or to which the service is
provided;
(d)
different periods for which the service is provided;
(e)
different performance characteristics of the service
provided; or
(f) doing an act in good faith to meet a price or benefit
offered by a competitor;
(4) Where it appears to the Authority that a dominant
licensee telecommunications systems provider is taking or intends
taking any action which has or is likely to have the effect of giving
an undue preference to or causing undue discrimination against any
person or category of persons, the Authority may, after giving the
dominant licensee concerned an opportunity to be heard, direct the

50 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

licensee by written notice to cease or refrain from taking such
action, as the case may be.
(5) A person who contravenes any of the provisions of this
section commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a
fine not exceeding twenty thousand US dollars or its equivalent in
Tanzania shillings.
Powers of
the
Authority on
dominant
licensee

61. The Authority shall have powers to determine dominant
position of electronic communication licensee in the relevant
market.

(b) Competition practices
Electronic
communications
licensees
holding a
dominant
position

62.(1) The Authority shall, not later than 31 December of
each year, publish in the Gazette a list for the following calendar
year of (a) all electronic communications markets that will or are
likely to exist; and
(b)

electronic communications licensees determined by
the Authority to hold for each electronic
communications market a dominant position.

(2) The Authority shall determine an electronic
communications licensee to hold a dominant position in a given
electronic communications market for a given calendar year for the
electronic
communications
market
and
the
electronic
communications licensee has more than thirty five percent, acting
alone, be able to profitably and materially restrain or reduce
competition.
(3)
The Authority shall produce and make public
guidelines, for use by the Authority, on the manner of defining an
electronic communications market and of determining whether a
licensee holds a dominant position therein.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

51

(4) The Authority shall be entitled at any time, by notice
published in the Gazette, to modify for the remainder of the calendar
year concerned, any list published pursuant to sub-section (1) of this
section, subject to a notice period of at least four weeks.
Prices for
services to
the public
offered by
licensees
holding a
dominant
position

63.(1) Any application service licensee or content service
licensee that has, for the calendar year in question, been deemed to
hold a dominant position in a given electronic communications
market in accordance with section 60 of this Act, shall, as concerns
that electronic communications market-

(a)

submit to the Authority for its prior approval the
prices it intends to charge to the public for each
applications service and each content applications
service, together with a detailed justification of such
prices; and
(b) refrain from applying the prices in question until they
have been approved by the Authority in accordance
with sub-section (2).
(2) Subject to sub-section (4), the Authority shall issue a
written decision approving or disapproving the prices so submitted,
together with the reasons for such decision, within four weeks of the
receipt of submission.
(3) The Authority shall base its decision on the extent to
which the prices proposed by the licensee(a)
in respect of the principles set forth in section 31(2);
(b) are reasonably cost oriented; and
(c) meets criteria as the Authority may reasonably
consider relevant.
(4) The Authority may make reasonable requests for
additional information from the applications service licensee or
content service licensee concerned and, where it does so, the time
limit set forth in sub-section (2), shall recommence upon receipt of
the additional information requested.

52 No. 3
Prohibition
on entering
into
collusive
agreements

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

64. A licensee shall not enter into any understanding,
agreement or arrangement, whether legally enforceable or not,
which provides for (a)
(b)
(c)
(d)

rate fixing;
market sharing;
boycott of a supplier of apparatus; or
boycott of another competitor.

Prohibition
on tying or
linking
arrangements

65. A licensee shall not, at any time or in any
circumstances, make it a condition for the provision or supply of a
product or service in a communications market that the person
acquiring product or service in the communications market is also
required to acquire or not to acquire any other product or service
either from himself or from another person.

Guidelines
as to the
meaning of
“dominant
position”

66.(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act the Authority
may publish guidelines for determination of a dominant licensees.
(2) The guidelines may specify the matters which the
Authority may take into account, including (a) the relevant economic market;
(b) global technology and commercial trends affecting
market power;
(c) the market share of the licensee;
(d) the licensee’s power to make independent rate setting
decisions;
(e) the degree of product or service differentiation and
sales promotion in the market; and
(f)
any other matters which the Authority deems fit.
(3) Where the conduct of a dominant licensee has the effect
or may have the effect of substantially lessening competition the
Authority may make an order requiring the dominant licensee to(a) cease the said conduct;
(b) impose a fine; and
(c) impose any other appropriate remedy.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

53

Register of
authorisations

67. The Authority shall maintain a register of current
authorisations of a conduct under this section in accordance with
provisions of this Act.

Remedies
for noncompliance

68.(1) The Authority or a person may seek an interim or
interlocutory injunction against any conduct prohibited in this
section.
(2) A person shall obtain a certificate from the Authority
for leave to proceed to the court for enforcement of the provisions of
this section except in the case of an injunction.

Penalty for
offences

69. A person who contravenes any prohibition under this
Part commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine
not less than five hundred thousand shillings or to imprisonment for
a term not less than five years or to both and shall be liable to a
further fine of one thousand shillings for every day or part of a day
during which the offence continues.
(c) Regulatory for-bearance

Regulatory
forbearance

70.(1) The Authority may forbear from applying to a
licensee or a class of licensees, in any of its geographic markets, any
provision of sub-part (b) and any regulation, declaration, guideline
or other rule issued, if the Authority reasonably considers, after
consultation with the Minister, that(a) application of such provision, regulation, guideline or
rule is not necessary for(i)
the protection of consumers; or
(ii) the promotion of competition amongst
licensees; and
(b) forbearance from applying such provision, regulation,
guideline or rule is consistent with the provisions of
this Act.
(2) Where, pursuant to the provision of sub-section (1), if
the Authority decides to forbear from applying any provision,
regulation, guideline or rule, it shall, without undue delay, publish a

54 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

notice of forbearance in the Gazette, setting forth the details of, and
the reasons for the decision, and inviting interested parties to make
submissions in relation to that decision within a period specified in
that notice, but in any event not shorter than four weeks from the
date of publication of that notice.
(3) The Authority shall give due and proper consideration
to any representation it may receive in accordance with sub-section
(2) and shall thereupon issue its final decision.
(d) Spectrum Management
Authority to
manage and
assign the
national
radio
frequency
spectrum

71.(1) The Authority shall have powers to manage and
control all radio communication frequencies spectrum or frequency
channels and provide mechanisms governing allocation and
assignment to persons for limited periods of time by issuing licences
under conditions determined by the Authority.
(2) The Authority shall make rules (a) governing
harmful
interference
to
other
communications;
(b) establishing minimum performance standards of
electronic appliances’,
in regard to manufacture, import, sale, shipment and use of such
devices or appliances.
(3) The Authority shall from time to time (a) classify radio stations, prescribe the nature of service
to be rendered by each station, assign bands of
frequencies to each class of stations and assign
frequencies and time during which it may operate;
(b) make regulations to(i)
prevent interference between stations under
this Act;
(ii)
require stations to maintain such records of
communications or signals as the Authority
may deem necessary; and
(iii)
require stations to submit to the Authority
reports as the Authority may from time to
time require.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

55

(4) The Authority shall have power to inspect all radio
installations associated with stations required to be licensed under
this Act to ascertain whether they confirm to the requirements of the
regulations in regarding to construction, installation and operation.
Powers to
allocate,
reallocate,
assign etc

72.(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of any written law,
compact, concession, contract, deed, deed of settlement, licence,
memorandum of understanding or any other kind of agreement or
provision to the contrary, the Authority shall, in the maintenance of
its control over radio communication frequencies spectrum or
frequency channels have power to allocate, reallocate, assign,
reassign, issue, reissue, redistribute, retrieve, suspend, cancel, or
otherwise modify the distribution amongst users or licensees of any
radio communication frequencies or frequency channels.
(2) The Authority may exercise the powers conferred by
subsection (1) where(a) as a result of any investigations or inquiry carried out
by it or any other public authority; or
(b) in the ordinary course of performing its functions,
under this Act, pursuant to sub-section (10); and
(c) the Authority is of the view that it is necessary or
desirable in the public interest that it exercises its
powers in relation to any user or licensee of any radio
communication frequencies or frequency channels.
(3) Where the Authority carries out an investigation or
inquiry pursuant to sub-section (2)(a) and it is proved to its
satisfaction that a user or licensee of a radio communication
frequencies or frequency channels, who has had the opportunity to
be heard by the Authority is(a) utilizing the radio communication frequencies
Spectrum or frequency channels for purposes other
than those originally permitted; or
(b) not utilizing the radio frequencies efficiently or
effectively;

56 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

(c)

misusing, abusing or hoarding the radio
communication frequencies or frequency channels or
frequencies;
(d) engaging in practices intended to drive competitors
out of business or deter any other licensee or user
from establishing a competitive business in the
country or in any specific area or location within the
country;
(e) carrying out acts intended or likely to hurt, injure,
infringe, harm or interfere with the radio
communication frequencies or frequency channels or
frequencies of other users or licensees;
(f) using or operating a radio communication frequencies
or frequency channels or frequency without having a
licence issued under this Act; or
(g) contravening any other conditions in relations to the
assigned frequencies,
the Authority shall exercise the power conferred by sub-section (1)
and in writing notify the user or licensee of a radio communication
frequencies or frequency channels the decision of the Authority and
direct him as to what he is supposed to do to comply with that
decision.
(4) When the Authority takes the measures under subsection (6) in pursuance of sub-section (3), no compensation shall be
paid by the Authority or any other authority to the user or licensee
of radio communication frequencies or frequency channels.
(5) Where in the ordinary course of performing its functions
under this Act, pursuant to sub-section (2)(b) or upon complaint to
the Authority by a user or licensee of a radio communication
frequencies or frequency channels or frequency or by any other
authority, the Authority thinks it desirable to consider whether or
not it shall exercise any of the powers under sub-section (1) in
relation to any user or licensee, it shall by notice in writing notify to
any person intended or likely to be affected by the exercise, stating(a) the measure that it proposes to institute; and

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(b)

2010

57

the time not exceeding twenty eight days within
which any party affected or likely to be affected may
make representations to the Authority.

(6) Where no representations are submitted by any person in
response to any notice specified in sub-section (5), the Authority
shall proceed to institute measures under sub-section (1).
(7) Where any party makes representations to the Authority
in pursuance of sub-section (5), the Authority shall within fourteen
days of receipt of such representations, consider those
representations including whether or not any compensation is
payable under this Act, and may(a) reject the representations or any of them.;
(b) amend the proposed measures in response to the
representations;
(c) decide to exercise any of the powers conferred by
sub-section (2); and
(d) direct in writing the user or licensee of radio
communication frequencies or frequency channels or
frequency concerned to give effect to the decision of
the Authority.
(8) Upon receipt of a decision of the Authority on the
representations pursuant to sub-section (7) the user or licensee to
whom the decision of the Authority relates, shall not institute any
action in any court of law in relation to the said decision if(a) he has not previously made any representations to the
Authority; and
(b) he institutes any action, it shall be in the High Court,
and the action shall be on procedural issues or on
grounds that the decision of the Authority was based
on extraneous factors.
(9) In exercising its powers conferred under sub-section (1)
the Authority may fix or prescribe the minimum or maximum
number or amount of radio communication frequencies or frequency
channels
which any user or licensee may be granted for the
purposes of this Act.

58 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

(10) In the exercise of any power, the performance of any
duty or the discharge of any right, privilege or obligation by any
person or authority in pursuance of the provisions of this Act, shall
always be regarded to the fact that all radio communication
frequencies or frequency channels are national resource which is
held in trust for the people by the Government, and maintained and
controlled by the Authority for carrying out the purposes and
provisions of this Act.
(11) A person who is aggrieved by a decision of the
Authority under this section may, within twenty eight days of the
notice of the decision of the Authority appeal to the High Court on
procedural issues or on grounds that the decision of the Authority
was based on extraneous factors.
Prohibition
to transfer
frequency

73. A person to whom radio frequency have been assigned
shall not be permitted to transfer the rights to use such frequency to
any third party, whether for remuneration or otherwise.

Offences

74.(1) Any person who fails, neglects or refuses to
comply with any directions of the Authority given under sub-section
(3), (6) or (7) of section 72 commits an offence.
(2) Any person who commits an offence under sub-section
(1) shall upon conviction be liable to a fine of not less than two
billion five hundred thousand million Tanzanian shillings and in
case of a continuing offence to a further fine of not less than seventy
five million Tanzanian shillings for everyday or part thereof during
which the offence continues after conviction.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-sections (1) and
(2), any person who willfully contravenes or fails to comply with
the conditions imposed on his licence granted under this Act in
relation to the use of a radio communication frequencies or
frequency channel, shall have his licence cancelled.

No. 3
Deposit
before
conviction

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

59

75.(1) The Authority may require any licensee who has
been issued a frequency user licence to deposit an amount not
exceeding one billion two hundred million Tanzanian shillings or
execute a bond to be secured against the assets of a user or licensee
of a similar amount to defray any cost or liability incurred by the
Authority or any other person which may arise out of any criminal
or civil process in relation to this Act.
(2) Refusal or failure to pay the deposit or execute a bond
under sub-section (1) shall be deemed to be an offence against this
subsection, and shall be punishable as a continuing offence.
(3) Where a user or licensee is sentenced to pay a fine under
this section, the court shall order forfeiture to the United Republic
any deposit made or bond executed under this Act.
(e) Spectrum Consultative Committee

Establishment of the
Spectrum
Consultative
Committee

76.(1) The Authority shall establish a Spectrum
Consultative Committee which shall consist of the following
members –
(a) one member of the Board of the Authority who shall
be the Chairman of the Committee;
(b)

four members appointed by the Authority consisting
of experts of Spectrum from the public sector, private
sector, military and academic;

(c)

one senior officer of the Authority from the
department responsible for Spectrum Management
who shall be the Secretary of the Committee;

(d)

one senior lawyer of the Authority; and

(e)

one senior officer of the Authority from the
department responsible for licensing.

60 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

(2) The Authority may determine functions of the
Committee which shall carry out the functions in relation to (a) advise on National Spectrum issues; or
(b) prepare issues for discussion at International fora.
Powers of
the
Authority in
spectrum
management

77.(1) The Authority shall have powers to manage and
control all radio communication frequencies spectrum or frequency
channels and provide mechanisms governing allocation and
assignment to persons for limited periods of time by issuing licences
under the conditions determined by the Authority.
(2) The Authority shall make rules (a) governing allocation, assignment and use of radio
frequencies or frequency channels;
(b) governing harmful interference to other radio
communications stations and services;
(c) establishing minimum performance standards of
electronic equipment, appliances and devices in regard
to manufacture, import, sale, shipment and use of such
equipment, appliances or devices;
(3) The Authority shall manage the radio frequency
spectrum through the National frequency spectrum plan, under this
Act.

Spectrum
allocation
and
assignment

78.(1) A national frequency spectrum plan developed by
the Authority shall –
(a) be divided into such number of frequency bands as
the Authority deems appropriate for the purpose of
regulating radio communications under this Act;
(b) designate one or more bands to be used primarily for
the general purpose of the government;
(c) specify the general purpose for which any other band
may be used including the reservation of any band,
whether for present or future use for public or
community purposes or for the prevention or control
of interference;

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

61

(d)

provide for one or more purposes for which any part
of a band and include any particular frequency or
frequency channel which may be used whether with
regard to a specified geographic area, period or
otherwise; and
(e) include such other matters as the Authority deems
necessary to give full effect to the spectrum plan.
(2) The Authority may develop a new national frequency
spectrum plan to replace an existing national frequency spectrum
plan, when the need arises, and prior to that the Authority shall issue
a public notice in that respective.
(3) The Authority may revise, vary or revoke a national
frequency spectrum plan under sub-section (2), and shall issue a
Public Notice to that effect.
(4) Where the Authority has developed a new national
frequency spectrum plan under sub-section (2) or has revised, varied
or revoked any existing national frequency spectrum plan under subsection (1), the new national frequency spectrum plan or the revised,
varied or revoked spectrum plan shall supersede the existing
National frequency spectrum plan or to the extent of the revision,
variation or revocation, as the case may be.
(5) The Authority may make rules for spectrum assignment
plan which shall consist of(a) methods, procedures and timetable to be followed for
issuing an assignment;
(b) subdivision of the relevant frequency bands in the
spectrum plan for the purposes of issuing an
assignment;
(c) amount of the frequency spectrum in relevant bands
frequency band that is to be reserved for future use or
for public or community services;
(d) conditions which may be included in an assignment to
be issued; and
(e) any other matter as the Authority may deem
necessary.

62 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

(6) The spectrum assignment plan and any material
modification of it shall be made available to the public for comment,
and any comments received shall be considered by the Authority
before issuing an assignment.
(7) The procedures for spectrum assignments shall be
determined by the Authority, as the case may be, and may include
the following(a) the method of determining the price;
(b) the method of payment of the assignment's fees;
(c) the advertisement of the proposed assignment;
(d) the potentiality of applications including the type of
technology that may be used;
(e) the intensity of demand;
(f) the extent of spectrum usage;
(g) qualitative factors such as (i)
band quality;
(ii) flexibility of band usage;
(iii) availability of equipment for use in the band;
(iv) ranges of band; and
(v) any other matters as the Authority may deem
necessary.
(8) The Authority may modify or vary the spectrum
assignment plan as it deems fit, under the provisions of Radio
Communication and Frequency Spectrum Regulations.
(9) The Authority shall from time to time (a) classify radio stations, prescribe the nature of service
to be rendered by each station, assign radio frequency
bands to each class of station and the time during
which it may operate; and
(b) make rules with respect to(i)
manage and prevent interference between
stations and to carry out the requirements
under this Act;

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(ii)

(iii)

2010

63

require communication stations to maintain
such records of radio communications
operations or signals as the Authority may
deem necessary;
require communication stations to submit
to the Authority such reports as the
Authority may from time to time require.

(10) The Authority shall have power to (i)
inspect all wireless Network and radio
installations associated with stations
required to be licensed under this Act; and
(ii)
ascertain whether the wireless networks and
radio stations conform to the requirements
of the regulations and licence conditions.
(f) Numbering and Electronic Addressing
Number and
electronic
address
assignment

79.
The Authority shall regulate all electronic
communication numbering and electronic addresses and ensure
efficient use by (a) performing proper planning, allocations and
monitoring;
(b) maintaining the national electronic communication
numbering and electronic address register for all
carriers and operators in respect of resources which
have been assigned;
(c) performing an oversight role on the management of
country’s code Top Level Domain (ccTLD); and
(d) maintaining electronic address registrer of electronic
numbers assigned to service providers and their
subscribers list.

Assignment
exception

80.-(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Act, no
assignment shall be required for the activities listed in a declaration
to be issued by the Authority.

64 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

(2) The Authority may by declaration published in the
Gazette, after consultation with the Minister, exempt a person or
class of persons from the requirement to hold an individual
assignment or a class assignment.
Prohibition
to transfer
numbers or
electronic
addresses

81. No person to whom electronic numbers or electronic
addresses have been assigned shall be permitted to transfer his rights
to use such numbers or electronic addresses to any third party,
whether for remuneration or otherwise.
(g) Technical Standards

Technical
standards for
equipment
connected to
a network

82.-(1)
The Authority shall be responsible for the
establishment and publication of technical standards relating to all
regulated services in the United Republic of Tanzania.
(2) In establishing such standards, the Authority shall(a) where appropriate, seek submissions from other
interested parties, in particular those persons likely to
be most affected by the publication of such standards;
and
(b) participate in standardization activities and take due
account of any relevant standards prescribed by
international organizations to which the United
Republic belongs, such as the International
Telecommunications Union and other sub-regional
groupings.

Approval of
equipment
connected to
a Network

83.-(1) Any equipment to be used for connection to any
electronic communications network for the purpose of receiving
and, or transmitting electronic communication signals shall be
approved by the Authority.
(2) Subject to applicable procedures and fees, the Authority
shall, at the request of any electronic communications licensee,
equipment manufacturer or equipment supplier, conduct type
approval tests, and issue type approval certificates, in respect of

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

65

electronic communications equipment intended for use in the United
Republic of Tanzania.
(3) The Authority shall, in conducting type approval of
equipment, be guided by the technical standards formulated by the
Authority under this Act.
(h) Central Equipment Identification Register (CEIR)
Establishment of
Central
Equipment
Identificaion Register

84.-(1) There shall be established an equipment register
known as Central Equipment Identification Register.

Cellular
identification
information

85.-(1) The Central Equipment Identification Register shall
maintain white list, black list and grey list.

(2) The register shall be maintained by the Authority within
its structure as the Authority may deem fit.

(2) White list shall hold information on any mobile
telephone used in any networks.
(3) Black list shall hold information of all reported lost or
stolen or destroyed mobile telephone.
(4) Grey list shall hold information of any pair that does not
fit in the white or black list.
(5) White, black and grey lists shall contain all unique
mobile telephone number or as IMEI number pairs.
IMEI
registration
requirement

86. All cellular operators shall capture any pair of
subscriber number and IMEI number generated in the network.

Sub register

87. Each Network Services Licensee shall maintain a subregister containing all the entries submitted to the CEIR and update
black list.

66 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

Loss of
Mobile
telephone

88. A subscriber shall report loss of his mobile telephone to
the serving Network Services Licensee who shall accordingly effect
such changes to the register.

Keeping of
data base

89. Every subscriber information shall be kept within the
Authority.

Power of
Network
Services
licensee to
blacklist
stolen
mobile
telephones

90.-(1) A Network Services Licensee shall blacklist
reported stolen, lost or damaged mobile telephones.
(2)
The procedure to blacklist reported stolen, lost or
damaged mobile telephone shall include (a)
a consumer whose mobile telephone has been stolen,
lost or damaged shall report to the Network Service
Licensee; or
(b) the network services licensee shall block the SIM
card and deactivate the stolen mobile telephone so
that it cannot be used on any network in Tanzania.
(3) All licensee shall create a procedure on blacklisting
mobile telephone and publish for consumer information.
(i) Subscribers Information

Subscribers
Database

91.-(1) There shall be a database kept within the Authority
in which all Subscriber Information shall be stored.
(2) The Authority shall take charge of monitoring and
supervision of the information stored in accordance with sub-section
(1).
(3) Every application services licensee shall be required to
submit to the Authority once a month a list containing its
subscriber’s information.
(4) The Authority shall issue guidelines on details of subscribers information to be submitted.

No. 3
List and
information
of dealers

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

67

92.-(1) Every application service licensee shall keep and
maintain records of all dealers engaged in selling or distribution of
SIM card.
(2) Every application service licensee shall submit to the
Authority once a month a verified list of dealers or outlet nationwide
which they engage.

(j) Detachable SIM card and built-in SIM card mobile telephone registration
Registration
requirement

93.-(1) Every person who owns or intends to use detachable
SIM card or built-in SIM card mobile telephone shall be obliged to
register SIM card or built in SIM card mobile telephone.
(2) Any person who sells or, in any other manner provides
detachable SIM card or built-in SIM card mobile telephone to any
potential subscriber shall(a) where the potential subscriber is a natural person,
obtain and fill in a form which contain the following
information(i)
the full name of the potential subscriber;
(ii)
identity card number or any other document
which proves identity of the potential
subscriber; and
(iii)
residential and business or registered
physical address, whichever is applicable;
(b) where the potential subscriber is a legal person, obtain
and fill in relevant a form accompanied with a
certified copy of(i)
certificate of registration or incorporation;
(ii)
business license;
(iii)
Tax
Payer
Identification
Number
Certificates; and
(iv)
where applicable, the Value Added Tax.

68 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(c)

2010

obtain from the potential subscriber any other
information which the person who sells or in any
other manner provides the detachable SIM card or
built-in SIM card mobile telephone deems necessary.

(3) Subject to the provision of sub-section (2), the
application service licensee, operator or the distributor, agent, dealer
authorised to sell or provide the detachable SIM card and, or built-in
SIM card mobile telephone by the respective application service
licensee or operator shall, before filling in the form , verify all the
information obtained.
(4) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), the licensee
or respective distributor, agent or dealer authorized to sell or provide
the detachable SIM card and, or built-in SIM card mobile telephone
by the respective licensee shall retain in hard copy or electronically
all photocopies of documents obtained under sub-section (2).
Provision
of
information

94.-(1) Any person desiring to own and use detachable SIM
card or built-in SIM card mobile telephone shall before purchase
thereof avail to the application service licensee or to the authorized
distributor, agent, dealer or any person selling or distributing the
detachable SIM card or built in SIM card mobile telephone all the
information specified under section 93.

Submission
of
information

95. An authorised distributor, agent, or dealer dealing with,
selling or distributing the detachable SIM card or built in SIM card
mobile telephone shall within fifteen days from the date of sale or
distribution submit to the respective Application Services Licensee
all the information and documents obtained under section 93 of this
Act.

Change of
information

96. Any change to the information required in detachable
SIM card and, or built-in SIM card mobile telephone registration
shall be registered with the Network Services Licensee or operator
within fifteen days from the date of occurrence of such change.

No. 3
Sale,
distribution
by dealer
and use by
subscriber

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

69

97.(1) A dealer shall not sell or distribute in any manner a
detachable SIM card or built-in SIM card mobile telephone without
prior authorization of the respective application service licensee.
(2) Every subscriber shall in pursuant to the provisions of
this section use a registered SIM card and, built in SIM card mobile
telephone.
(3) Any subscriber or dealer selling or distributing
detachable SIM card or built-in SIM card mobile telephone without
prior authorization of respective application service licensee
commits an offence.

(k) Duties of network service licensee or operator, agents and customers
Duty of
confidentiality

98.-(1) A person who is member, employee of application
service licensee, or its agent, shall have a duty of confidentiality of
any information received in accordance with the provisions of this
Act.
(2) No person shall disclose the content of information of
any customer received in accordance with the provisions of this Act,
except where such person is authorised by any other written law.

Disclosure
of information by
authorized
person for
official
duties

99. A person shall not disclose any information received or
obtained in exercising his powers or performing his duties in terms
of this Act except (a) where the information is required by any law
enforcement agency, court of law or other lawfully
constituted tribunal;
(b) notwithstanding the provision of this section, any
authorized person who executes a directive or assist
with execution thereof and obtains knowledge of
information of any communication may (i)

disclose such information to another law
officer to the extent that such disclosure is
necessary for the proper performance of the
official duties of the authorised person

70 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

(ii)

Duty to
report theft,
loss of
mobile
telephone or
SIM card

2010

making or the law enforcement officer
receiving the disclosure; or
use such information to the extent that such
use is necessary for the proper performance
of official duties.

100.(1) Where a mobile telephone or detachable SIM card
is lost, destroyed or stolen, the owner of that equipment or
detachable SIM card shall report such loss, theft or destruction in
person or through a person duly authorised by him to police and to
the application service licensee or to whose network the owner
subscribed.
(2) Any authorised person, who receives the report provided
in subsection (1), shall provide the reporter with written proof of the
report which shall be accompanied with a special number.
(3) The customer shall, at the time of filling a report,
produce unique identity number of the lost, stolen or damaged
detachable SIM card or mobile telephone.

Duty to use
registered
mobile
telephone
and SIM
card

101. A person who owns, posses, or controls a mobile
telephone or detachable SIM card shall have a duty to register
mobile telephone or detachable SIM card.

Duty to
report
change of
ownership of
mobile
telephone or
SIM card

102.(1) Any person who owns, possess or has control of
mobile telephone or detachable SIM card shall have a duty to report
any change of ownership or possession of mobile telephone or SIM
card to the respective application services licensee or to the network,
the owner is subscribed to.
(2) Any person who owns, possesses or has control of
mobile telephone or detachable SIM card which was previously
owned by another person shall have a duty to register that said
mobile telephone or detachable SIM card as provided for under
section 99 of this Act.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

71

(l) Content Regulation
Regulation
of contentrelated
matters

103.(1) The Minister may make regulations upon
recommendation of the Committee on content related matters.
(2) In exercising its powers, the Authority acting upon
recommendation of the Content Committee may make rules on
content related matters.

Code of
conduct for
content
services
licensees

104.(1)The code of conduct contemplated in this section
shall
(a)
(b)

be binding on all Content Service Licensees;
prohibit the provision of content which is indecent,
obscene, false, menacing or otherwise offensive in
character.

(2) Without derogating from the generality of subsection
1(b), the code of conduct shall be designed to achieve the following
objectives
(a) the protection of children;
(b) the exclusion of material likely to encourage or incite
the commission of crime, from content provided by
content service licensees;
(c) the presentation of comprehensive, accurate and
impartial news;
(d) the presentation of religious material in a balanced
and responsible manner;
(e) the protection of the public against offensive and
harmful content;
(f) appropriate
regulation
of
advertising
and
sponsorships; and
(g) the prevention of communication methods or
techniques that communicate a message to viewers or
listeners, or otherwise influence their minds, without
their being aware, or fully aware, of what has
occurred, or that has the potential for doing so.

72 No. 3
Events of
National
Interest

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

105.(1) The regulations pertaining to the provision of
content regarding events of National interest shall(a)

(b)
(c)

be designed to ensure that content regarding events of
national interest shall be reasonably accessible to
members of the public simultaneously with the
occurrence of such events or without undue delay
after the occurrence of such events;
clearly identify the nature of events that fall to be
categorized as events of national interest; and
not interfere unduly with the commercial affairs of
content service licensees.

(2) Events of National interest shall include, but not be
restricted to significant sporting events that are of interest or
importance to a substantial proportion of mainland Tanzanian
society.
(3)
The Authority shall make rules or regulations to
regulate Subscription Content Service Provider from acquiring
exclusive rights that prevent or hinder the public broadcaster from
broadcasting sporting events that are of national interest.
News and
current
affairs

106.(1) The regulations relating to news and current
affairs shall be made to ensure that content service licensees provide
news and information on current affairs(a) on a regular basis;
(b) that is accurate, balanced, impartial and fair; and
(c) dealing with international, regional, national and,
where appropriate, local matters.
(2) The regulations relating to news and current affairs shall
give due regard to the commercial interests of content service
licensees.

No. 3
Original and
independent
productions
of local
content

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

73

107.(1) The regulations pertaining to local content,
independent and original productions shall be made to(a) stimulate the production of content in mainland
Tanzania;
(b) prevent the excessive provision by content
applications service licensees of(i)
content that is not relevant to, or not
conducive to the development of, as
appropriate, mainland Tanzanian society;
and
(ii)

which is already, or has previously been
made, available to the public.

(2) The regulations pertaining to local content, independent
and original productions may specify(a) the extent to which content service licensees shall
provide and shall include(i)
the content produced in mainland Tanzania;
(ii)
the content produced by independent
producers; and
(iii)
the content of an original nature;
(b) the times of the day or week when such content is
provided.
Use of
official
language

108. The Minister may make regulations on the use and
promotion of the use of official languages in a content provided by
Content Service Licensees.

Advertising
and
sponsorship

109. Without derogating from the generality of the power
of the Authority to make rules pertaining the advertising and
sponsorships of such rules it may include the following provisions (a)

prohibiting, restricting or regulating advertisements of
specified goods, products, services, activities,
prohibiting, restricting or regulating specified forms
and methods of advertising or sponsorship;

74 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(b)
(c)

Content of
an
educational
nature

2010

prohibiting, restricting or otherwise regulating
political advertising;
restricting or otherwise regulating the extent of
coverage of advertising and sponsorships which a
Content Service Licensee may give in the provision
of its service, including, but not limited to(i)
the maximum amount of time to be allocated
to advertisements in any hour or other
period;
(ii)
the minimum interval which elapse between
any two periods allocated to advertising;
(iii)
the number of such periods to be allowed in
any hour or day;
(iv)
the prominence that may be given to
advertisements or sponsorships; and
(v)
the exclusion of advertisements or
sponsorships from a specified part of a
licensed service.

110.(1) The rules made by the Authority in relation to the
provisions of content of an educational nature may impose an
obligation on Content Service Licensees, or on certain specified
classes of Content Service Licensees, to ensure that a specified
proportion of content provided by each one of them constitutes
content of an educational nature.
(2) The rules contemplated in sub-section (1) shall (a)
include an appropriate definition of the term “Content
of an educational nature”;
(b) specify the extent to which content service licensee(i)
shall be obliged to finance the production of
content of an educational nature; and
(ii)
may acquire and provide content of an
educational nature produced by other
persons;
(c)
include provisions designed to ensure that content
of an educational nature provided by content service
licensee;

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(d)

(e)

Content
designed for
visuallyimpaired and
hearingimpaired
persons

2010

75

require content service licensees, or specified
classes of content applications service licensees, to
ensure that a specified proportion of the content
provided by them constitutes content of an
educational nature are(i)
of high quality; and
(ii)
suitable to meet the needs and
requirements of mainland Tanzanian
society;
may distinguish between different categories of
content of an educational nature and impose
differential obligations on content service licensees
in relation to such categories.

111.(1)The regulations made by the Minister relating to
the provision of content designed to cater for the needs and interests
of persons with sight or hearing impairments may determine the
following(a)
the extent to which content service licensees, or
certain specified classes of content service licensees,
shall promote the understanding and enjoyment of
content provided by such content service licensees by
persons(i)
who are deaf or hard of hearing;
(ii)
who are blind or partially sighted; and
(iii)
with a dual sensory impairment;
(b) the means by which such understanding and
enjoyment should be promoted; and
(c)
different classes of content to which such regulations
or rules shall apply.
(2) The content by persons of the nature described in
paragraph (a) of sub-section (1) shall include, but not be limited to
the(a) accompaniment of content by subtitling;
(b)

accompaniment of content by audio-description for
the blind; or

76 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(c)

2010

translation of content into sign language.

(3) In making rules under this section, the Authority shall
have regard to the following (a) the extent of the benefit which is conferred by the
relevant form of assistance for disabled people;
(b) the size of the intended audience or recipients of the
content concerned;
(c) the number of persons who would be likely to benefit
from the relevant form of assistance, and the extent of
the likely benefit to them;
(d) the technical difficulty of providing the relevant form
of assistance; and
(e) the cost of providing the relevant form of assistance.
Content of a
political
nature

112.(1) Any regulation made by the Minister in relation to
the provision of content of a political nature, other than political
advertising, may(a) not prohibit content service licensees from providing
content of a political nature;
(b) regulate the provisions of content of a political nature
by Content Service Licensees in a manner which is
consistent with the fundamental objectives, directives,
principles , basic rights and duties set out in Parts II
and III of the Constitution of the United Republic.
(2) The regulation under sub-section (1) may differentiate
between different classes of Content Services Licensees and may
establish and differential standards in respect of the provision of
content of a political nature by such classes of Content Service
Licensees.

Counterversions

113.(1) A Content Service Licensee shall broadcast a
counter-version presented by any person affected by an assertion of
fact in any programme transmitted by that licensee, if the person
concerned claims that the assertion of fact is in fact false.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

77

(2) Notwithstanding the provision of sub-section (1), a
content service licensee shall not transmit a counter version where (a) the person or organization concerned has no direct
interest in the transmission of the counter-version; or
(b) the counter-version is not of reasonable length, and in
particular, if it is substantially longer than the part of
the broadcast which dealt with the false assertion of
fact;
(3) The counter-version referred to in subsection (1) shall(a) be limited to a factual account;
(b) not contain any material which may reasonably be
anticipated to expose the content service licensee to
legal action if such material were to be broadcasted;
(c) be made in writing;
(d) specify the programme and the assertions to which
objection is raised; and
(e) be signed by the person affected or, in the case of an
organization, by the Chief Executive Officer.
(4) No person or body of persons affected shall be entitled
to insist on the transmission of a counter-version as contemplated in
sub-section (1) where the counter-version is presented to the content
service licensee after the expiry of a period of thirty days from the
date of broadcast of the false assertion of fact.
(5) The Content Service Licensee shall, subject to the
provisions of sub-sections (2) and (4)(a) at the first opportunity, but not later than ten days
from receipt of a counter-version referred to in
subsection (1), broadcast the counter-version within
the same programme or programme section as the one
in which the false assertion was made and at the same
time of day or, not be possible, at time equal in value
to that of the programme objected to;
(b) broadcast the counter-version without any omissions
and interruptions; and

78 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(c)

2010

broadcast the counter-version free of charge.

(6) A Content Service Licensee shall immediately upon
receipt of the counter version referred to in sub-section (1) inform
the Authority of that fact, and shall keep and store the programme
objected to and the counter-version until the content service licensee
receives a notice to the contrary from the Authority.
(7) This section shall not apply to a broadcast of a public
meeting or of the National Assembly.
PART V
ENFORCEMENT
Power to take
enforcement
measures

114. The Authority may take enforcement measures against
any person who contravenes licence conditions, regulations and
provisions of this Act.

Powers to
inspect

115.(1) The Authority may appoint any person to carry
out inspection for the purposes of this Act.
(2) An inspector or authorized officer of the Authority may
carry out an inspection of an electronic communication service
station, postal services station or office and either licence issued
under this Act, plant, apparatus or premises used by licensees to
provide the licensed services.
PART VI
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES
(a) Offences relating to electronic communications

Failure to
observe
licence
requirements

116.(1) Any person who installs, operates, constructs,
maintains, owns or makes available network facilities without
obtaining any relevant individual licence, commits an offence and
shall be liable upon conviction to a fine of not less than five million

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

79

Tanzanian shillings or imprisonment for a term not less than twelve
months or to both.
(2) Any person who provides network services without
obtaining any relevant individual licence, commits an offence and
shall be liable upon conviction to a fine of not less than six million
Tanzanian shillings or imprisonment for a term not less than twelve
months or to both.
(3) Any person who (a)
provides application services without having first
obtained any relevant individual licence;
(b)
provides content services without having first
obtained any relevant individual licence, or any
relevant class licence commits an offence and shall
be liable upon conviction to a fine of not less than
five million Tanzanian shillings or imprisonment
for a term not less than twelve months or to both;
(c)
imports,
distributes,
or
sells
electronic
communication equipment or apparatus or;
establishes, installs, maintains and operates an
electronic communication system or imports non
type
approved
electronic
communication
equipment or apparatus into the United Republic
without a licence,
commits an offence and shall be liable upon conviction to a
fine of not less than five million Tanzanian shillings or
imprisonment for a term not less than twelve months or to
both.

Failure to
observe
assignment
requirements

117.(1) Any person who uses radio frequency spectrum
without obtaining any relevant individual assignment, commits an
offence and shall be liable upon conviction to a fine of not less than
two billion five hundred thousand million Tanzanian shillings or
imprisonment for a term not less than twelve months or to both and
incase of continuing offence, to a fine of not less than seventy five

80 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

million Tanzanian shillings for everyday during which the offence
continues after conviction.
(2) Notwithstanding the provision of sub-sections (1) and
(3) any person who willfully contravenes or fails to comply with the
conditions imposed on his licence granted under this Act in relation
to the use of radio communication channel or frequency, shall have
his licence cancelled.
(3) Any person who uses one or more numbers or
electronic addresses without having first obtained any relevant
individual assignment, or any relevant class assignment, commits
an offence and shall be liable upon conviction to a fine of not less
than five million Tanzanian shillings or imprisonment for a term
not less than twelve months or to both, and shall be liable to a fine
of seven hundred and fifty Tanzanian shillings for every day during
which the offence is continued after conviction.
Penalty for
transmission
of obscene
communication

118. Any person who(a) by means of any network facilities,
network
services, applications services or content services,
knowingly makes, creates, or solicits or initiates the
transmission of any comment, request, suggestion or
other communication which is obscene, indecent,
false, menacing or offensive in character with intent
to annoy, abuse, threaten or harass another person;
(b) initiates a communication using any applications
services, whether continuously, repeatedly or
otherwise, during which communication may or may
not ensue, with or without disclosing his identity and
with intent to annoy, abuse, threatens or harass any
person at any number or electronic address;
(c)

by means of any network services or applications
service provides any obscene communication to any
person; or

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

81

(d)

permits any network services or application services
under the person’s control to be used for an activity
described in section 117 (3),
commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not
less than five million Tanzanian shillings or to imprisonment for a
term not less than twelve months, or to both and shall also be liable
to fine of seven hundred and fifty thousand Tanzanian shillings for
every day during which the offence is continued after conviction.
Penalty for
failure to
obtain radio
frequency
spectrum
licence

119. Any person who uses radio frequency spectrum
without having first obtained any relevant class license commits an
offence and shall be liable upon conviction to a fine of five million
Tanzanian shillings or imprisonment for a term not less than twelve
months or to both fine and imprisonment and in case of a
continuing offence to a fine of not less than one million five
hundred thousand Tanzanian shillings.

Penalty for
interception
of communications

120. Any person who, without lawful authority under this
Act or any other written law(a) intercepts, attempts to intercept, or procures any
other person to intercept or attempt to intercept any
communications; or
(b) discloses, or attempts to disclose to any other person
the contents of any communications, knowingly or
having reason to believe that the information was
obtained through the interception of any
communications in contravention of this section; or
(c) uses, or attempts to use the contents of any
communications, knowingly having reason to believe
that the information was obtained through the
interception of any communications in contravention
of this section,
commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine of
not less than five million Tanzanian shillings or to imprisonment
for a term not less than twelve months, or to both.

82 No. 3
Authorized
person
discloses
interception
to others

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

121.(1) Any person who is authorized under this Act
intentionally discloses, or attempts to disclose, to any other person
the contents of any communications, intercepted by means
authorized by this Act(a) knowing or having reason to believe that the
information was obtained through the interception of
such communications in connection with a criminal
investigation;
(b) having obtained or received the information in
connection with a criminal investigation; or
(c) improperly obstructs, impedes, or interferes with a
duly authorized criminal investigation,
commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine of
not less than five million Tanzanian shillings or to imprisonment
for a term not less than twelve months, or to both.
(2) It shall be lawful under this Act for an officer,
employee or agent of any network facilities provider, network
service provider, application service provider or content service
provider whose facilities or services are used in communications, to
intercept, disclose, or use those communications in the normal
course of his employment while engaged in any activity which is a
necessary incident to the performance of his facilities or services or
to the protection of the rights or property of the provider of the
facilities or services, but the provider shall not utilize the facilities
or services for observing or random monitoring unless it is for
mechanical or service quality control or checks.

Penalty for
fraudulent
use of
network
facilities,
network
services,
applications
service and
content
services

122. Any person who(a) dishonestly transmits or allows to be transmitted any
communication or obtains a service provided by a
licensed network facilities provider, network services
provider, applications services provider or content
services provider with intent to avoid payment of any
rate or fee applicable to the provision of that facility
or services; or

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(b)

2010

83

posses, obtains or creates a system designed to
fraudulently use or obtain any network facilities,
network service, applications service or content
service,

commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not
less than five million Tanzanian shillings or to imprisonment a for a
term not less than two years, or to both.
Penalty for
interference
of
transmission
of electronic
communications

123.(1) Any person who without probable cause,
interferes with or obstructs the transmission or reception of any
electronic communications commits an offence and upon
conviction shall be liable to a fine of not less than five million
Tanzanian shillings or to imprisonment for a term not less than two
years or to both.
(2) When a court is convicting a person of an offence
under this section may in addition to any penalty that may impose,
order forfeiture to the Authority of any electronic communication
equipment or other material in relation to or in connection with the
means the offence was committed.
(3)
Not withstanding sub-section (2), no order for
forfeiture shall be made by the Court where it is proved that the
electronic communication equipment in question is not owned by
the person so convicted.

Unauthorised
access or use
of computer
system

124.-(1) There is hereby established a National Computer
Emergency Response Team (CERT), which shall coordinate
response to cyber security incidents at the national level and
cooperate with regional and international entities involved with the
management of cyber security incidents.
(2) The Minister may make regulations with respect
to the composition and duties of CERT.
(3) Any person who secures unauthorized access to a
computer or intentionally causes or knowingly causes loss or
damage to the public or any person, destroy or delete or alter any
information in the computer resources or diminish its value or

84 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

utility or affect it injuriously by any means, commits an offence and
on conviction shall be liable to a fine not less than five hundred
thousand Tanzanian shillings or to imprisonment for a term of not
exceeding three months or to both.
(b) Offences and penalties relating to SIM card
Sale, transfer,
or disposal of
SIM cards
without
authority of
Network
Service
Licensee
Failure to
give
satisfactory
account of
mobile
telephone or
SIM card

126. Any person who is found in possession of any mobile
telephone or SIM - card in regard to which there is reasonable
suspicion that it has been stolen and is unable to give a satisfactory
account of such possession, commits an offence and is liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand Tanzanian
shillings or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months.

Absence of
reasonable
cause for
believing
mobile
telephone or
SIM card
properly
acquired

127.-(1) Any person who in any manner acquires or
receives into his possession from any other person a stolen mobile
telephone or SIM card without having reasonable cause to believe
that at the time of such acquisition or receipt that mobile telephone
or SIM card was the property of the person from whom he acquires
or receives it or that person has been duly authorised by the owner
to deal with it or dispose of, is guilty of an offence.

125. Any dealer or person who sells or distributes any SIM
– cards without authorization of the appropriate Network Service
Licensee shall be guilty of an offence and be liable on conviction to
a fine of seven million Tanzanian shillings or to imprisonment for a
term of two years or to both.

(2) In the absence of evidence to the contrary which raises a
reasonable doubt, proof of such possession is sufficient evidence of
the absence of reasonable doubt.
(3) Any person who commits an offence under this section
shall on conviction be liable to a fine of seven million Tanzanian
shillings or to imprisonment a term of two years or to both.

No. 3
Failure to
report loss or
theft of
mobile
telephone or
SIM card

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

85

128. Any person who fails to report the loss, theft or
destruction of a mobile telephone or SIM card commits an offence.
(2) Whenever a person is charged with an offence under
sub-section (1) and it is proved that such person was, at the time,
the owner or authorised possessor of the mobile telephone or SIM
card alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, proof that the
person has failed to produce such mobile telephone or SIM- card
within seven days of a written request by a police or other law
enforcement officer, shall, in the absence of evidence to the
contrary which raises reasonable doubt, be sufficient evidence that
the mobile telephone or SIM card has been lost, stolen or destroyed.
(3) Any person who commits an offence under this section
shall on conviction be liable to a fine of three hundred thousand but
not more than five hundred thousand Tanzanian shillings or to
imprisonment for a term of six months or to both.

Tampering
with mobile
telephones
and SIM card

129. Any person who, intentionally and unlawfully in any
manner(a) tempers, modifies, alters, reconfigures or interferes
with mobile telephone or SIM card or any part
thereof; and
(b) reverse engineers, decompiles, disassembles or
interferes with mobile telephone or SIM card, or any
part thereof,
commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of
thirty million Tanzanian shillings or to imprisonment for a term not
exceeding ten years or both.

Recording
sale of
mobile
telephone
and SIM
card

130.(1) Any person who sells or in any other manner
provides, any mobile telephone or SIM card to any other person,
natural or legal, without recording the particulars of that person as
required by section 102 of this Act, commits an offence and on
conviction shall be liable to a fine of three million Tanzanian
shillings or to imprisonment for a term of twelve months or to both.

86 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

(2) Where the offender is a network service licensee or
operator it shall be liable to a fine of fifteen million Tanzanian
shillings.
(3) Where the offender is an employee of the Network
Service licensee or a legal person, he shall be liable to the same
penalty as provided under sub-section (1).
Use of
unregistered
SIM Card

131. Any person who knowingly uses or causes to be used
an unregistered SIM card commits an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand Tanzanian
shillings or imprisonment for a term not exceeding three months.

False
information
or statement

132. Any person who furnishes information or makes a
statement knowing that such information or statement is false,
incorrect or misleading or not believing it to be true, commits an
offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine of three million
Tanzanian shillings or to imprisonment for a term of twelve months
or to both.

Obstruction
to perform
duties

133. Any person who obstructs, hinders or interferes with
an authorised person to execute any direction issued under this Act
or assists with the execution thereof, commits an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine not exceeding three million
Tanzanian shillings or to imprisonment for a term of twelve months
or to both.

Offence of
allowing use
of black
listed phone

134. Any Network service licensee who allows any black
listed mobile telephones to operate commits an offence and shall be
liable to a conviction to a fine of seventy five million Tanzanian
shillings or imprisonment for a term of five years or to both.

Tampering
with
blacklisted
phones

135. Any person who physically electronically tempers
with any blacklisted mobile telephone commits an offence and shall
be liable on conviction to a fine of one million five hundred
thousand Tanzanian shillings or imprisonment for a term of five
years or to both.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

87

No
prosecution if
acts in course
of
employment
or in good
faith

136. No person shall be liable to prosecution for a
contravention of this Act if he acts in the course of his employment
or in good faith assists an authorised person and believes that such
authorised person is acting in accordance with this Act.

Prohibitions
in respect of
radio
communication and
electronic
communication
equipment

137.(1) No person shall –
(a) offer for sale, sell or possess for sale any electronic
equipment;
or
communication
broadcasting
apparatus; or
(b) possess any radio communication equipment,
except in accordance with a licence issued under this Act.
(2) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with
sub-section (1) commits an offence.
(c) Offences relating to postal communications

Penalty for
operating
without
postal licence

138. Any person who(a) conveys, otherwise than in accordance with the terms
of a valid postal licence, and letter or postal article;
(b) performs any service incidental to conveying,
otherwise than in accordance with the terms of a
valid postal licence, any letter or postal article;
(c) sends, tenders or delivers in order to be sent
otherwise than in accordance with the terms of a
valid postal licence, any letter or postal article as
aforesaid ;and
(d) makes a collection of letters or postal articles as
aforesaid for the purpose of sending them otherwise
than in accordance with the terms of a valid postal
licence,
commits an offence and shall, be liable on conviction in case of a
first offence to a fine of not less than five hundred thousand
Tanzanian shillings and in the case of a subsequent offence, to a

88 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

fine of not exceeding four hundred and fifty million Tanzanian
shillings for every day during which the offence continues.
Penalty for
transmission
of prohibited
articles

139. Any person who sends by post any postal article or
any thing which is injurious, indecent or prohibited under this Act,
commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine not
less than five million Tanzanian shillings or to imprisonment for a
term not less than twelve month or to both.

Penalty for
damaging or
destroying
letter boxes

140. Any person who places in or against any letter box
provided public postal by the licensee for the reception of postal
articles any fire, match or light, or any explosive, dangerous, filthy,
noxious, or deleterious substance or any fluid, or commits a
nuisance in or against any such letter box, or does anything likely to
destroy or damage any such letter box or its appurtenances or
contents, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a
fine of not less than five million Tanzanian shillings or to
imprisonment for a term not less than twelve months or to both.

Penalty for
affixing
without
authority
anything to,
or spoil the
appearance
of a post
office

141. Any person who, without due authority affixes any
placard, for advertisement, notice, list, documents, board or other
thing in or on, or paints, tars, or in any way spoils the appearance
of, any post office, commits an offence and shall, on conviction be
liable to a fine of not less than five million Tanzanian shillings.

Penalty for
unlawfully
detaining
mails or
opening mail
bags

142. Any person who, except under the authority of this
Act or in obedience to the order in writing of the Minister or the
Authority or the directions of a competent court, detains the mails
or any postal article in the course of transmission by post or on any
pretence opens a mail bag in course of transmission by post
commits of an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine of
not less than five million Tanzanian shillings.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

89

Penalty for
willfully
retaining
postal articles
or mail bags

143. Any person who fraudulently retains or unlawfully
secretes or makes away with or keeps or detains or when required
by an authorised officer neglects or refuses to deliver up, any postal
article in the course of transmission by post which ought to have
been delivered to any other person, or a mail bag containing a
postal article, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable
to a fine of not less five million Tanzanian shillings or
imprisonment for a term of not less than two years or to both .

Penalty for
unlawfully
diverting
letters

144.
Any person who, willfully and maliciously with
intent to injure any other person, either opens or causes to be
opened any letter which ought to have been delivered, or does any
act whereby the due delivery of a letter to any person is prevented
or impeded, commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable
to a fine not less than five million Tanzanian shillings or
imprisonment for a term of not less than six months or to both.
145. Any person who reveals, discloses or in any way
makes known the contents of any postal article opened under the
authority of this Act, except so far as may be necessary for the
purpose of returning the same or so far as may be authorised by the
Authority in writing, commits an offence and shall, on conviction,
be liable to a fine not less than five million Tanzanian shillings or
imprisonment for a term of not less than twelve months or to both.

Penalty for
unlawfully
disclosing
contents of
postal article

Penalty for
making
fictitious
stamps

146.(1) Any person who(a)

(b)
(c)

(d)

makes or knowingly alters, deals in, hawks,
distributes, or sells any fictitious stamp or knowingly
uses for postal purposes any fictitious stamp;
has in his possession without lawful excuse any
fictitious stamp;
makes or without lawful excuse, has in his
possession, any dye plate, instrument or materials for
making any fictitious stamp; or
makes issues or sends by post any stamped or
embossed envelope, wrapper, card, form or paper in
imitation of one issued under the authority of the
licensee,

90 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

commits an offence and shall, on conviction, be liable to a fine of
not less five million Tanzanian shillings or to imprisonment for a
term not less than two years or to both .
(2) Any stamp, plate, instrument or materials found in the
possession of any person in contravention of this Act shall be seized
and forfeited.
(3) Forfeiture under this section may be declared by a
Magistrate's Court, and all things forfeited shall be dealt with as the
court may direct.
(4) Nothing in this section shall be held to exempt any
person from any punishment to which he may be liable under any
other law.
Prohibition
of false
notices as to
reception of
letters

147. Any person who, without authority from the
Authority, places or maintains in or on any house, wall, door,
window, box, pillar, or other place, belonging to him or under his
control, any of the following words, letters, or marks(a) the words "post office" or "postal office";
(b)

the words "letter box", accompanied with words,
“letters”, or “marks”, which signify or imply or may
reasonably lead the public to believe that it is a post
office letter box;
(c) any words, letters, or marks which signify or imply
or may reasonably lead the public to believe that any
house or place is a post office, or that any box is a
post office letter box,
commits an offence and shall, on conviction, in case of the first
offence be liable to a fine not less than five million Tanzanian
shillings and, on a subsequent conviction, to a fine of not exceeding
three hundred for every day during which the offence so continues.

No. 3
Offences by
officer,
employee or
agent of a
public postal
licensee

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

91

148. Any officer, employee or agent of a public postal
licensee who destroys or throws away any postal articles in the
course of transmission by post or anything contained therein(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)
(e)
(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)

steals or otherwise dishonestly misappropriates or
secretes any postal article in the course or
transmission by post or anything contained therein;
except in obedience to an order under the hand of the
Minister or the direction of a court, willfully opens or
causes to be opened contrary to his duty any mail bag
or postal article in the course of transmission by post
or willfully detains or delays or causes to be detained
or delayed the mail bag or postal articles;
issues or causes to be issued a document specified for
use in connection with the remittance of money with
fraudulent intent;
fraudulently puts any wrong official mark or a postal
article;
fraudulently alters, removes or causes to disappear
any official mark on a postal article;
being entrusted with the delivery of any postal
article, knowingly demands or receives any sum of
money which is not chargeable under this Act;
sends by post, or puts into any mail bag any postal
article upon which postage has not been paid or
charged intending thereby to defraud the public
postal licensee of the postage on the postal article;
being entrusted with the preparation or custody of
any document relating to the public postal licensee,
fraudulently prepares the document incorrectly, or
alters, or secretes or destroys the document; or
being employed to carry or deliver any mail bag or
postal article in the course of transmission by post
does any act with intent to induce the belief that he
has visited a place, or delivered a postal article or
mail bag, which he has not visited or delivered,

92 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine not
less than five million Tanzanian shillings or to imprisonment for a
term not less than three years or to both.
Obstruction
of public
postal
licensee

Protection of
installation or
plant used by
public postal
licensee

149. Any person who (a) while on any premises used for the purposes of the
business of a public postal licensee, intentionally
obstructs the course of business of the licensee
concerned; or
(b) assaults or intentionally obstructs or incites any
person to obstruct or impedes an officer or employee
of a public postal licensee in the performance of his
duties,
commits an offence and on conviction shall be liable to a
fine of five million Tanzanian shillings or to imprisonment
for a term of not less than twelve months or to both.
150.(1) No person shall, without the written approval of a
public postal licensee (a) lay or carry any mains, pipes, conduits, circuits or
wires in, along, through, across, over or under any
street or place in a manner which is likely to interfere
with or cause damage to any installation or plant used
for postal services;
(b)

perform any work of laying, installing, construction
or maintaining any equipment for postal services; or

(c)

affix any placard, advertisement, notice or other thing
in or on, paint, tar or in any way disfigure any
installation or plant used for postal services.

(2) Any approval under sub-section (1) may be granted or
withheld by the licensee concerned or may be granted upon such
terms and conditions as the licensee concerned thinks fit to impose.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

93

(3) Any dispute relating to the withholding of any approval
under sub-section (1), or the terms and conditions attached to the
granting or such approval, shall be referred to the Authority whose
decision shall be final.
(4) Where an offence under sub-section (1) is due to the
act or default of some other person, that other person shall be guilty
of the offence and may be charged and convicted of the offence by
virtue of this subsection whether or not proceedings are taken
against the first-mentioned person.
(5) In any proceedings for an offence under sub-section
(1), it shall be a defence for the person charged to prove that he
took all reasonable steps and exercised all due diligence to avoid
committing the offence.
(6) Where the defence provided by sub-section (5)
involves an allegation that the author of the offence was due to the
act or default of another person, the person charged shall not
without leave of the court, be entitled to rely on that defence unless,
within a period ending seven clear days before the hearing, he has
served on the prosecutor a notice in writing giving such information
identifying or assisting in the identification of that other person as
was then in his possession.
(7) Any person who contravenes or fails to comply with
the provision of sub-section (1) commits an offence and shall, in
addition to the forfeiture of any equipment seized, be liable on
conviction to a fine not less five million Tanzanian shillings and, in
the case of a continuing offence, a fine not less than five million
Tanzanian shillings for every day during which the offence
continues after conviction.

94 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

(d) Additional offences and penalties
Damaging
postal or
electronic
communication
installation or
plant

151.(1) Any person who willfully removes, destroys or
damages any installation or plant used for postal or Electronic
communication services commits an offence and shall be liable on
conviction to a fine not less than one million shillings, or to
imprisonment for a term not less than three years or to both.
(2) Notwithstanding sub-section (1), any person who
damages or suffers to be damaged any cable of a communication
system belonging to or under the management or control of a public
postal licensee commits an offence and shall be liable on conviction
to a fine not less than one million shillings, or to imprisonment for a
term not less than three years or to both.
(3) Where an offence under sub-section (2) is committed
by any person acting as the agent or employee of another person, or
being otherwise subject to the supervision or instructions of another
person for the purposes of any employment in the course of which
the offence was committed, that other person shall without
prejudice to the liability of the first-mentioned person, be liable
under that subsection in the same manner and to the same extent as
if he had personally committed the offence unless he proves to the
satisfaction of the court that the offence was committed without his
consent or connivance or that it was not attributable to any neglect
on his part.
(4) In any proceedings for an offence under the provision
sub-section (2), it shall be a defence for the person charged to prove
that he took all reasonable precautions and exercised all due
diligence to avoid the Authority of the offence.

General
Offences

152.(1) Subject to the specific penalties set forth
elsewhere in this Act, any person who contravenes or fails to
comply with a provision of this Act commits an offence and is
liable on conviction, for each such breach, to a fine not less than
five million Tanzanian shillings or to imprisonment term not less
than twelve months or to both.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

95

(2) Subject to any specific penalties set forth therein, any
person who contravenes or fails to comply with a provision of a
regulations, rules, guidelines, declarations, determinations or other
decision issued pursuant to this Act, including, without limitation,
in respect of interconnection, access and co-location rights and
obligations, commits an offence and is liable on conviction, for
each breach, to a fine of not less than five million Tanzania
shillings or to imprisonment for a term not less than six months or
to both.

(3) Any person who without lawful excuse contravenes or
fails to comply with any term or condition expressed in a licence he
holds, commits an offence and is liable on conviction, for each such
breach, to a fine not less than five hundred thousand shillings.
(4) Any person who(a) fails or refuses to furnish a return to supply
information in the manner and within the time
prescribed by the Authority or furnishes a false or
incomplete return or supplies false or incomplete
information;
(b) on being required to do so, fails or refuses to produce
to an inspector or a duly authorized officer of the
Authority a license, book, record or any document
relating to any electronic communication service,
equipment or apparatus or relating to postal service
which is in his possession or under his control; or
(c) obstructs, in any manner, an inspector or officer of
the Authority to perform any duties authorized to be
performed under the provisions of this Act,
commits an offence and is liable on conviction, for each
such breach, to a fine of not less than five million
Tanzanian shillings or to imprisonment for a term of not
less than twelve months or to both.

96 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

Offences by
body
corporate

153. Where an offence under this Act has been committed
by a body corporate, any person who at the time of the commission
of the offence was a director, manager or other principal officer of
the body corporate or was purporting to act in such capacity shall,
as well as such body corporate, be deemed to have committed that
offence unless he proves that the offence was committed without
his consent or connivance and that he exercised all due diligence to
prevent the commission of the offence as he ought to have
exercised, having regard to the nature of his functions in that
capacity and to all the circumstances.

Penalty for
abetting, or
attempting to
commit
offences

154. Any person who abets the commission of any offence
punishable under this Act, or attempts to commit any offence so
punishable, shall, on conviction, be liable to the penalty provided
for that offence.

Power of the
Authority to
compound
certain
offences

155.(1) Where a person commits an offence under this
Act, the Director General may, at any time prior to the
commencement of court proceedings (a)
(b)

compound the offence other than offences related to
theft fraud, forgery and other similar offences ; and
order the person to pay a sum of money specified by
the Director General but not exceeding the amount of
the fine prescribed for the offence.

(2) The Director General may compound an offence under
this section if the person concerned admits in writing
that the person has committed the offence.
(3)
(3) Where the Director General compounds an offence
under this section, in accordance with the order referred to in subsection (1) 
(a) shall be in writing, specifying the offence committed,
the sum of money to be paid and the date for
payment and have attached the written admission
referred to in sub-section (2);

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(b)
(c)

2010

97

shall be final and no subject to any appeal; and
may be enforced in the same manner as an order of
the High Court for the payment of the amount stated
in the Order.

(4) Where the Director General compounds an offence
under this section, the person concerned shall not be liable for a
penalty in respect with that offence.

Recovery of
fee or royalty
from person
owing money
to the
licensee

156.(1) Where this section applies, the Director General
may by notice in writing require any person (a) owing or who may subsequently owe money to the
licensee;
(b) holding or who may subsequently hold money for or
on account of the licensee;
(c) holding or who may subsequently hold money on
account of a third person for payment to the licensee;
or
(d) having authority from a third person to pay money to
the licensee,
and the payer shall pay, on account of and to the extent of the fee
due by the licensee, the money to the Director General on the date
specified in the notice.
(2) Any person who contravenes the provision of subsection (1) commits an offence, and shall be liable on summary
conviction to a fine twice the amount stated on the notice or in
default to imprisonment for a term not less than two years or to
both.
(3) The Director General shall serve the payer with the
notice referred to in sub-section (1) and, as soon as practicable after
that service, serve the licensee with a copy of the notice.

98

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

(4) The date specified in the notice under sub-section (1)
shall not be a date before (a) the money becomes payable to the licensee; and
(b) the payer is served with the notice.
(5) A notice under sub-section (1) ceases to have effect
where the fee or royalty with respect to which the notice is issued is
paid or otherwise satisfied.
(6) Where a person served with a notice is unable to
comply with the notice by reason of lack of moneys owing to, or
held for, the licensee shall, as soon as practicable and in any event
before the payment date specified in the notice, notify the Director
General accordingly in writing setting out the reasons for the
inability to comply.
(7) Where a notice is served on the Director General under
subsection (6), the Director General may, by notice in writing (a) accept the notification and cancel or amend the notice
issued under sub-section (1); or
(b) reject the notification.
(8) A person making a payment pursuant to a notice under
subsection (2) is treated as having acted under the authority of the
licensee and of all other persons concerned and is hereby
indemnified in respect of the payment against or proceedings, civil
or criminal, and all processes, judicial or extra-judicial,
notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in any written law, a
contract or agreement.
(9) For the purpose of this section, “money” includes a
debt obligation dominated or payable in money.
Suit for
unpaid fees
or royalty

157. A person who fails to pay fees or royalties to the
Authority commits an offence and shall be liable in any court of
competent jurisdiction.

No. 3
Charges over
assets

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

99

158.(1) The Authority may cause a charge to be created
in its favor over the assets of a licensee who has defaulted payment
of fees or royalty on or before the date the fee or royalty is due.
(2) The Authority shall create a charge referred to in subsection (1) by serving a licensee with a notice in writing specifying
the licensee, the assets charged, the extent of the charge as provided
for in sub-section (3), the licensee to which the charge relates and
details regarding the Authority’s power of enforcement under
section 116.
(3) The assets of a debtor licensee charged under subsection (2) are charged to the extent of the fee or royalty payable,
interest accruing with respect to that fee or royalty and any costs of
charge and sale.
(4) A charge created under sub-section (2) shall not have
effect until (a) where interest in land or buildings is charged, the
Authority files an application to register the charge
under sub-section (6); and
(b) in any other case, the notice is served on the debtor
licensee under sub-section (2).
(5) A charge created under sub-section (2) shall be
released when the debtor licensee pays to the Authority in full the
amounts referred to in sub-section (3) that are secured by the
charge.
(6) Where the Authority creates a charge over an interest
in land or buildings under sub-section (2), the Registrar of Titles or
otherwise referred to as the Registrar shall, without fee, register the
charge on the title of the interesting land or buildings.
(7) Where a charge over an interest in land or buildings is
released under sub-section (5), the Registrar shall, without fee,
remove the entry of the charge from the title of the interest in land
or buildings within thirty days of the release.

100 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

(8) The activities of the Authority under this section,
irrespective of whether they result in the transfer of title to an asset,
are exempt from stamp duty
(9) The Authority may at any time serve on a debtor
licensee a notice in writing specifying any costs of charge and sale
with respect assets of the debtor licensee incurred by the Authority
to the date of service and requiring the debtor licensee to pay those
costs to the Authority by the date specified in the notice.
(10) For the purpose of this section “ costs of charge and
sale” with respect to assets means any expenditure incurred or to
be incurred by the Authority or an authorized agent(a) under this section with respect to creating or
releasing a charge over the assets; or
(b) under section 114 with respect to taking possession
of, holding and selling the charged assets.
Sale of
charged
assets

159.(1) The Authority shall notify the licensee of the
Authority’s intention to sell charged assets owned by the licensee.
(2) The notice issued under sub-section (1) may be
incorporated into or accompany a notice referred to in section 158
and shall be in writing, served on the debtor licensee and specify(a)

(b)

the charged assets, the Authority’s intention to sell
those assets and the proposed method and timing
of the sale; and
in the case of tangible assets that the Authority
intends to take possession of, the manner in and
the place at which the possession shall occur.

(3) The Authority(a) may take possession of tangible assets referred to in
sub-section (1) notice, whether directly or through an
authorized agent, at any time after the notice is
served;

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(b)

(c)

(d)

2010

101

for the purposes of taking possession, may enter at
any time, any premises described in the sub-section
(1) notice and request the assistance of the Police;
shall, at the time of taking possession, provide the
debtor licensee with an inventory of assets seized;
and
where the assets are tangible assets other than an
interest in land or buildings, store the assets at the
cost of the debtor licensee, at any place the Authority
considers appropriate

(4) Where the Authority serves a debtor licensee with a
notice under sub-section (1), the Authority may, after public notice,
sell the charged assets but not before(a) where the charged assets are an interest in land or
buildings thirty days after taking possession under
sub-section (3);
(b) where the charged assets are perishable tangible
assets, one day after taking possession under subsection (3);
(c) where the charged assets are tangible assets other
than those referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) , ten
days after taking possession under subsection (3);
and
(d) in any other case, ten days after service of notice
under sub-section (1).
(5) The proceeds of sale under sub-section (4) shall be
used to pay the costs of charge and sale of the assets sold, then to
pay the fee or royalty due and interests accrued with respect to that
fee or royalty and any remainder shall be paid to the debtor
licensee.
(6) After applying sale proceeds in accordance with subsection (5) the Authority shall serve the debtor licensee with a
written notice detailing the manner in which the sale proceeds have
been applied.

102 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

(7) If the proceeds of a sale applied in accordance with
sub-section (5) are insufficient to pay in full the costs of the charge
and sale, the fee and royalty due and interest accrued with respect to
that fee or royalty, the Authority may proceed to collect the
insufficiency with fresh actions charge and sale of other assets.
(8) This section does not restrict the exercise of any other
avenues the Authority has for recovery of fees and royalties.
(9) The activities of the Authority under this section,
irrespective of whether they result in the transfer of tittle to an asset,
are exempt from stamp duty.
Proof of
outstanding
fees or
royalty

160. In proceedings for recovery by the Authority of the
outstanding fees or royalty, production of a certificate signed by the
Director General of the Authority or a person acting on his behalf in
that capacity stating the name and address of the debtor licensee
and the amount of fees or royalty payable by the debtor licensee is
prima facie evidence of the amount of fees or royalty payable by
such licensee.
PART VII
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Access to
public land

161.-(1) A network facilities licensee or network services
licensee shall, for the purposes of enabling the provision of any
electronic communications service to the public(a)
seek the consent of a local government authority or
public body stating the nature and extent of the act
to be done upon any public land;
(b)

enter upon any public land under control of a local
government authority or other public body in order
to construct, erect, place, maintain, examine, alter
or remove any line, pole or radio link installation
which is, respectively, either the property of the

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

(c)

2010

103

network facility licensee or is under the control of
the network service licensee; and
a local government authority or other public body
may, upon request under paragraph (a), permit
subject to such conditions, including the payment
of service and property fees for the use of the
property, time or more of execution of works, or
for any other related activity undertaken by the
telecommunication operator under the section as
may be agreed between the telecommunication
operator and the relevant local authority.

(2) A licensee dissatisfied with the terms or conditions
imposed by a local government authority under paragraph (c), may
apply to the land tribunal for the review of such terms conditions
within thirty days without unduly interfering with the use and
enjoyment of such public property.
(3) Where any significant damage to land or property is
caused, by reason of the exercise of the powers conferred by this
section, the owner or occupier of the land shall be entitled to
receive compensation for it from the network facilities licensee or
network services licensee.
(4) The licensee shall, in respect of services operated,
maintained or offered under his licence, take all proper and
adequate safety measures to safeguard life or property, including
exposure to any electrical emission or radiations emanating from
equipment or installation or installation from such operations.
Access to
private land
and
acquisition of
private
property

162.-(1) Where, for the purposes of enabling the provision
of electronic communications service to the public, a network
facilities licensee or network services licensee reasonably requires
to enter upon private land, or to effect the acquisition of private
property or an interest in private property, and no reasonable
alternatives to such entry or acquisition exist, the network facilities
licensee or network services licensee shall be entitled to seek and

104 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

obtain consent of the land or property owner for the entry onto such
land or acquisition of such property or property interest.
(2) Where a network facilities licensee or network services
licensee seeks to enter upon private land, or to effect the acquisition
of private property or an interest in private property, a network
facilities licensee or network services licensee shall provide notice
of the proposed entry or acquisition to the owner of the land or
property, and other land or the property owners who may
reasonably be expected to be affected by the proposed entry or
acquisition, and seek their written comments.
(3) Where the land or property owner and the network
facilities licensee or network services licensee, as the case may be,
cannot agree, the network facilities licensee or network services
licensee may apply to the relevant authority having jurisdiction over
such private land or property in order to request that the authority
order the proposed entry or undertake the proposed acquisition
under applicable land laws.
(4) Where any significant damage to land or property is
caused, by reason of the exercise of the powers conferred by this
section, the owner or occupier of the land shall be entitled to
receive compensation for it from the network facilities licensee or
network services licensee.
Power of
search and
seizure

163.-(1) A police officer or an employee authorized by the
Authority may, if he has reasonable grounds to believe that an
electronic communication system or service has been established,
installed, maintained, operated or provided in contravention of this
Act or any regulations made there under or in breach of any licence
issued by the Authority that the electronic communication
equipment used is of a type that is not approved by the Authority in
the case of any (a) communication equipment or any electronic
communication system or service, other than any
radio communication system or service, ether and

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

105

inspect any place in which the electronic
communication equipment is used or the electronic
communication system or service is established,
installed, maintained, operated or provided, and may
seize any electronic communication system or
equipment found therein which appears to be used for
or in connection with electronic communication; and
(b) radio communication system or service, enter any
place in the United Republic or stop or board any
vessel, aircraft or vehicle and inspect any place and
may seize any radio communication system or
equipment found therein which appears to be used for
or in connection with radio communications.
(2) Where any police officer or any employee authorised
by the Authority has reasonable grounds for believing that an
offence has been or is being committed under sections 113, 114,
115 and 121, he may seize electronic communication system ,
equipment, radio communication system or equipment used in the
commission of the offence.
(3) If there is no prosecution with regard to any equipment
or system seized under this section, the equipment or system shall
be taken and deemed to be forfeited to the Authority unless a claim
is made within two months from the date of seizure.
(4)
Any person asserting that he is the owner of the
equipment or system may personally or by his authorized agent
give written notice to the Authority that he claims the same.
(5) On receipt of the notice, the Authority may direct that
the equipment or system be released or may refer the matter to a
Resident Magistrate’s Court or a District Court.
(6) The Resident Magistrate’s Court or the District Court
may proceed to the examination of the matter and upon
examination shall order that the equipment or system be forfeited or
released.

106 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

Admissibility
of documents

164.(1) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary (a)
any document, or copy of or extract from any
document, relating to the affairs of any person that
has been seized or obtained by;
(b)
any statement of a person relating to the affairs of
any person has been seized or obtained by; or
(c)
any statement of a person relating to the affairs of
the person that is made to, an officer of the
Authority in accordance with the provisions of this
Act, is admissible in any proceedings with respect
to any offence under this Act.
(2) A document, copy, extract or statement is admissible
under sub-section (1) irrespective of whether any person we
induced to provide the document, copy or extract or making the
statement by reason that the person was led to believe (a)
that the Director General or any officer of the
Authority might, on any terms, settle the institution
or prosecution of proceedings, or
(b)
that the decision of the Director General or any
officer of the Authority as to whether to settle the
institution or prosecution of proceedings would be
influenced by the fact that the person confessed to
being guilty of an offence and provided full
facilities for investigation.

Regulations
and Rules

165. The Minister may make Regulations to regulate
multiplex operator and transition from analogue to digital
broadcasting and any other regulations and Rules which are not
inconsistent with this Act as he considers necessary or desirable to
give effect to the provisions of this Act.

Requirement
to put in
place
mechanisms
to implement
this Act

166.-(1) The licensee shall put in place mechanisms within
its organization or its main agents for keeping information and
register his customers as required by this Act.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

107

(2) A licensee who contravenes the provision of subsection
(1) commits an offence.
Registration
of all
subscribers
after
commencement of the
Act

167. The licensee shall register all new subscribers within
three months from the date of commencement of this Act.

PART VIII
TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
Transitional
provisions
and savings
Cap.306
Cap.172

168.(1) Notwithstanding the enactment and operation of
this act in relation to the relevant sectors, any licence issued under
the Tanzania Communications Act, the Broadcasting Services Act
and Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority Act, shall
remain in force in accordance with the terms and conditions of such
licence.
(2) Regulations or rules made under the repealed Acts
shall, to the extent that they are not inconsistent with this Act,
remain in force until they are revoked or replaced by regulations or
rules made under this Act.
(3) The Minister or as the case may be the Authority, may,
where it is necessary for the orderly transition to the regulatory
framework introduced by this Act, by notice published in the
Gazette make such modifications to regulations or rules made under
the previous Acts as it is reasonably considered appropriate.
(4) This Act shall not operate so as to affect in a prejudicial
way the rights of any person under a licence or permit granted prior
to the commencement of this Act or any contract entered into prior
to the commencement of this Act.

PART IX
CONSEQUENTIAL AMENDMENTS
(a) THE TANZANIA COMUNICATIONS REGULATORY AUTHORITY ACT
Constru‐

169. This Part shall be read as one with the Tanzania

108 No. 3

ction

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

Cap. 172

Communications Regulatory Authority Act, hereinafter referred as
“principal Act” .

Amendment of
Section 3

170. The principal Act is amended in section 3 by deleting
the following definitions:
“Review panel” and “Internal Review Committee”.

Amendment of
Section 15

171. The principal Act is amended in section 15(2) by(a)
inserting between paragraph (a) and (b) the
following“(b) such powers as provided for under the Second
Schedule;”
(b)
re-naming paragraph (b) as paragraph (c).

Amendment of
Section 21

172. The principal Act is amended in section 21 by (a)

inserting immediately after section 21 the following
new section.
“Judicial
22.(1) In any judicial
proceedings proceedings to which the Authority is
where the
Authority is not a party and which deal with the
interpretation or application of this Act
not a party
or any regulations made or licence
issued under this Act, or in which any
matter related to electronic or postal
communications arises, the court before
which such proceedings are being
conducted may, upon its own initiative
or at the request of any party to such
proceedings, require the Authority to
make oral or written submissions to the
court within such period as the court
may specify.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

109

(2) The powers of the court
under sub-section (1) shall be subject to
the following:
(a) the Authority shall not be
obliged to make any
submissions unless the
matter in respect of
which such submissions
are
required
relates
specifically to electronic
or
postal
communications;
(b) any submissions made by
the Authority shall be (i)
considered by the
court but not be
binding upon the
court;
(ii) confined to the legal
and technical issues
relevant
to
the
proceedings
concerned, and shall
not deal with the
factual aspects of
those proceedings
unless the court
specifically require
the Authority to
make submissions
on such factual
aspects;
(iii)
made on oath to the
extent that they deal
with the factual
aspects
of
the
proceedings

110 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

concerned,
as
contemplated
in
paragraph (ii) of
this sub-section.
(c) the parties to the
proceedings shall be
entitled to (i)
reply to or comment
on any submissions
of a legal or
technical
nature
made by or on
behalf
of
the
Authority; and;
(iii)
reply
to
or
comment on any
written
submissions
on
factual
matters
made by or on
behalf
of
the
Authority,
and
cross-examine any
person who gives
oral evidence on
factual matters on
behalf
of
the
Authority.
(3) No member or employee of
the Authority shall be held personally
liable for any act or default of the
Authority done or omitted bona fide in
the course of carrying out the
responsibilities and functions of, or
exercising the power conferred upon
the Authority.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(b)

Amendment of
section 26

111

re-numbering sections 13, 14, 15, to 80 as sections
14, 15, 16 to 81 respectively.

173. The principal Act is amended in section 26(2) by
deleting paragraph (a) and substituting for it the following “(a)

Amendment of
section 27

2010

The Board shall appoint within its members one
member to be the chairperson of the Committee;
and”

174. The principal Act is amended in section 27 by
inserting immediately after section 27 the following new sections:
“Functions of
the Committee

27A.(1) In addition to the functions
conferred upon it by the Authority in terms
of section 30 of this Act, the Committee
shall (a) as
soon
as
reasonably
practicable
after
the
commencement of this Act,
make recommendations to the
Minister or the Authority, as
the case may be, regarding the
making of regulations and
rules of the content of services
provided by content service
licensees and, in particular,
regarding
the
following
aspects(i)
a code of conduct
applicable to different
market segment of
content provided by
content
services
licensees;

112 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vii)

(viii)

2010

the
provision
of
content relating to
events of national
interest;
the
provision
of
content relating to
news and current
affairs;
the extent to which
content provided by
content applications
service
licensees
should be produced in
the United Republic,
should
constitute
original productions
and
should
be
produced
by
independent
producers;
the
languages
in
which content is to be
made available by
content
service
licensees;
the
provision
of
content
of
an
educational nature;
the
provision
of
content designed to
cater for the needs and
interests of deaf and
visually-impaired
persons;
the
provision
of
content of a political
nature;

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

113

(ix)

advertising
and
sponsorships;
(x)
protection of children;
and
(xi)
community
broadcasting.
(b) from time to time, as it deems
necessary,
make
recommendations
to
the
Minister and the Authority, as
the case may be regarding:
(i)
the
amendment
or
revocation
of
regulations or rules
made by the Minister or
the Authority pursuant
to
recommendations
made by the Committee
in terms of paragraph
(a) of this sub-section;
(ii)
the introduction of such
new regulations or rules
relating to matters listed
in paragraph (a) of this
sub-section
(1)
or
relating
to
matters
reasonably incidental to
the matters so listed.
(2) The power of the Minister in
terms of section 33 of this Act to give
directions to the Committee shall not apply
to the formulation of recommendations
under sub-section (1).

114 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

(3) In exercising its power of
making recommendations to the Minister or
the Authority in terms paragraph (a) of subsection (1) of this section, the Committee
shall(a) seek
to
promote
the
development and growth of
the communications industry
in the United Republic;
(b) have due regard to the rights
to freedom of expression and
information entrenched in
Article 18 of the Constitution;
(c) promote the dissemination of a
diverse range of information,
education content and the
provision
of entertainment
which,
when
viewed
collectively, caters for all
language, cultural and other
interest groups;
(d) endeavor
to
promote
investment in, and the stability
of,
the
communications
industry;
(e) seek
to
facilitate
the
achievement of the objectives
listed in section 13 of this Act;
(f) promote
standards
that
provide adequate protection to
members of the public from
the inclusion of offensive and
harmful material in content
provided
by
content
applications service licensees;

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
(g)

2010

115

promote standards, in relation
to content provided by content
applications service licensees,
that
provide
adequate
protection to members of the
public and other persons from(i)
unfair treatment in
such content; and
(ii) unwarranted
infringements
of
privacy.

(4) The Minister or the Authority
shall, after receipt of a recommendation from
the Committee, make regulations or rules of
the
nature
contemplated
in
such
recommendation.
Committee’s
procedure

27B.(1) Whenever the Committee
intends to make recommendations to the
Minister or the Authority regarding the
making of regulations and rules, as
contemplated in subsection (2) of section 31,
the Committee shall publish a notice in the
Gazette(a) expressing its intention to
make
the
proposed
recommendations
(b) specifying the subject matter
of
the
proposed
recommendations;
(c) inviting interested persons to
make
written
or
oral
submissions, or both written
and oral submissions, as the
Committee in its discretion
may determine, in relation to

116 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

(d)

2010

the subject matter of the
proposed recommendations;
and
specifying the time periods for
the
making
of
such
submissions.

(2) Any interested person shall be
entitled to make submissions to the
Committee in the manner and within the
period specified in the notice contemplated
in subsection (1), regarding the proposed
recommendations.
(3) After considering all submissions
by interested parties, it shall publish its draft
recommendations in the Gazette, together
with an invitation to interested parties to
submit written comments on the draft
recommendations to the Committee within
twenty one days of the publication of such
invitation.
(4) The Committee after considering
the comments made by interested parties in
terms of subsection (3), the Committee shall
make its recommendations to the Minister or
the Authority, as the case may be and shall
simultaneously give notice in the Gazette of
such recommendations.
(5) The Authority shall make rules
or regulations to regulate acquisition by the
Subscription Content Service Providers of
exclusive rights for broadcasting sporting
events that are of national interest.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

117

(6) The Content Service Providers
shall comply with copyright law and
regulations.
(7) The Subscription Broadcasting
Licensees shall apply encryption to prevent
access to unauthorized subscription of their
content.
(8) The Subscription Broadcasting
Licensees shall comply with broadcasting
flag provision.”

Amendment of
sections 33
and 34

175. The principal Act is amended in sections 33 and 34 by
repealings them.

Amendment of
section 35

176. The principal Act is amended in section 35 by deleting
the whole of it and substituting for it the following:
“Decision be
placed on the
public register

35.(1) A decision by the Authority,
a Committee of the Authority, member or
employees of the Authority shall, if there is
no preference of an appeal against such
decision, be placed on the Public Register.
(2) Where there is an appeal or
intended appeal against a decision of the
Authority, a Committee of the Authority or a
member or employee of the Authority, that
decision shall not be placed on the Public
Register until the appeal is determined.”

Amendment of
section 41

177. The principal Act is amended in section 41 as
renumbered by deleting the whole of it and substituting for it the
following-

118 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications
“Procedure
and powers of
the Authority

2010

41.(1) The Authority may make
an order requiring a party to (a)
(b)

(c)

supply goods or services for
specified periods;
to pay the costs of another
party or of a person appearing
at the hearing or producing
documents;
to pay the costs of another
party or of a person appearing
at the hearing or producing
documents.

(2) Without prejudice to the
generality of subsection (1), the Authority
may make further order (a) dismissing a complaint;
(b) imposing fines;
(c) for specific performance;
(d) for refunds;
(e) appointing trustees;
(f) setting up of escrow accounts;
and
(g) for such other relief as may be
deemed
necessary
or
reasonable.”
Amendment of
section 42

178. The principal Act is amended in section 42 as
renumbered by inserting immediately after subsection (4) the
following “(5) Any decision of the Authority in exercising
regulatory powers granted under this Act shall be given
effect to, whether or not the aggrieved party institutes or
intends to institute an action in a court of law, quasi judicial
body or makes any further representations to the Authority
after the decision is made.”

No. 3
Amendment of
section 45

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

119

179. The principal Act is amended in section 45 as
renumbered by (a)

(b)

deleting sub-section (3) and substituting for it the
following:
“(3) A compliance order may require a
person to refrain from the conduct which is in
contravention of the provisions of this Act or
regulations made under this Act or sector
legislations to take actions required to be taken in
order to comply with this Act or to pay fine as
accessed by the Authority.”
inserting immediately after sub-section (6) the
following new subsections:
“(7) Any person who willfully delays or
obstructs an inspector or a police or other
authorized officer in the exercise of powers
conferred upon him by or under this Act; commits
an offence and shall be liable on conviction to a fine
not exceeding five million shillings or to
imprisonment for a term not exceeding twenty four
months or to both that fine and that imprisonment.
(8) A court convicting a person of an
offence under this Act may, in addition to any
penalty that it may impose, order the forfeiture to
the government of any electronic communication or
broadcasting apparatus or other material in relation
to it in connection with or by means of which the
offence was committed.
(9) Notwithstanding sub-section (2), no
order of forfeiture shall be made where it is proved
that the broadcasting apparatus in question is not
owned by the person so convicted, and if the owner
proves that he did not have any knowledge of the
unlawful use of the apparatus by the person so

120 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

convicted and could not have reasonably prevented
such use.”
Amendment of
section 47

180. The principal Act is amended in section 47 as
renumbered by deleting the words “five hundred” appearing at the
end of sub-section (4) and substituting for it the word “three
thousand”.

Amendment of
section 48

181. The principal Act is amended in section 48 as
renumbered by deleting sub-section (7) and substituting for it the
following “(7) For the purpose of the provision of this
section, a penalty for non-compliance of an order of the
Authority made under this Act shall be a fine which shall be
equal to a civil debt as assessed by the Authority.”

Amendment of
section 51

Cap.286

Amendment of the
Schedule

182. The principal Act is amended in section 51 as
renumbered by deleting subsection (2) and substituting for it the
following subsection“(2) The accounts of the Authority may at any time
and shall, at the end of each financial year, be audited by a
person registered as an auditor under the Accountants and
Auditors (Registration) Act, appointed by Controller and
Auditor General in consultation with the Authority.”
183.
The principal Act is amended by inserting
immediately after the First Schedule the following new Second
Schedule –

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

121

“SECOND SCHEDULE
________
Made under section 15, 16 and 17
_______
POWERS OF THE AUTHORITY
1. To grant radio frequency licences for electronic communication
purposes and to supervise and enforce compliance with the provisions of
such licences.
2. To grant licences for operating electronic communication and
postal services and to supervise and enforce compliance with the provision
of such licences.
3. To give directions to any person granted a licence under this
Act or any regulations made thereunder.
4. To levy such charges and fees for the granting of licences,
radio frequency spectrum rights, administration of radio frequency
spectrum registrations, equipment approvals, sellers of electronic
communication equipments and electronic communication apparatus and
other services provided by the Authority as may in its opinion be
appropriate.
5. To give general guidelines in determination of tariffs.
6. To lay down standards and codes of conduct to be observed by
all operators and users of electronic communications and postal system and
services.
7. To regulate the interconnection of and access to systems of
operators of electronic communication and postal systems and services.
8. To control and regulate the management and allocation of
numbering plans and schemes electronic communications and postal
systems and services.

122 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

9. To control and regulate and interference to electronic
communications system in the United Republic by radio waves or,
electrical or other means.

10. To control and regulate the importation for sale dealing in and
use of electronic communication equipment and electronic apparatus.
11. To utilize all the property of the Authority, movable and
immovable, in such manner as the Authority may think expedient including
the raising of loans by mortgaging such property.
12. To lease or let, with or without taking a premium, any
property vested in or acquired by it or to grant easements, rights of way,
temporary licences or other rights or privileges over, under through of in
respect of any land or building belonging to or vested in the Authority
upon such terms and conditions as the Authority think fit.
13. To carry out such other works or activities as may appear to
the Authority to be requisite, advantageous or convenient in pursuance of
its regulatory role with a view to making the best use of any of the assets of
the Authority.
14. To engage in conjunction with other authorities, international
agencies or organizations in matters or regulation for the purposes of
promotion electronic communication and postal systems and services.
15. to enter into all such contracts for the supply of goods or
materials or for the execution of works or any other contract as may be
necessary for the discharge of its duties and functions under this Act.
16. To receive and process complaints by users of electronic
communication and postal services.
17. To impose sanctions set by regulations for the violation by
any licensed operator of any law or under the terms of its licence.
18. To conduct administrative processes and hearing to resolve
technological issues, inter-carrier disputes, user complaints or other matters
which affect the structure and functioning of the electronic communication
or postal sectors of the United Republic.

No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

123

19. To ensure the proper maintenance of accounting systems by
all licensed operators.
20. To guarantee equal access to monopoly or other licensed
electronic communications.
21. To homologate and establish a process for authorization of
equipment permitted to be connected to the electronic communications
network in the United Republic.
22. To homologate and establish a process for authorization of
equipment permitted to be connected to the electronic communications
network in the United Republic.
23.

To research and report on new technologies.

24. To keep the government appraised of obligations under
international electronic communications treaties.
25. To oversee compliance with international electronic
communications treaties.
26. To cooperate technically with the government and to define
strategic policy.
27. To propose national technological development.
28. To propose international electronic communications and
postal policy to the government.
29. To prepare policies for development of the national
technology.
30. To create criteria for the opening and restructuring of services
as and where appropriate and to ensure the compatibility of public systems,
interconnection and quality of service.
31. To resolve issues of interconnection between networks where
the operators involves are not able to reach agreement on terms of
interconnection.

124 No. 3

Electronic and Postal Communications

2010

32. To inform the public of reports, studies and regulations as and
when published.
33. To announce in a local gazette and invite comment by
interested parties on new contemplated regulation or policies.
34. To do field investigations concerning:
(a) compliance by licensed operators with the law and the
terms of their licences;
(b) any allegation that a non-licensed operator is providing
service;
(c) any complaints filed by or against licensed or no-licensed
operators;
(d) ensuring that licensed operators are providing only those
services permitted by their licences;
(e) periodic measuring of quality of service;
(f)
periodic sampling of users as to quality and extent of
service.
35. To receive, review and evaluate accounting and other reports
required to be filled by operators.
36. To raise public awareness to the structure and regulation of the
electronic communications and postal sectors.
37. To conduct or to supervise the conduct of proficiency
examinations which are conditional to the grant of licences by the
Authority.
38. To receive donations and contributions from any source and
raise funds by all lawful means.
39. To do any other act or thing incidental to any of its functions.”
(b)

Construction Cap
285

AMENDMENT OF THE FAIR COMPETITION ACT, CAP 285

184. The Fair Competition Act here in after referred to as
the “principal Act is amended.

Amendment

of section 65

Repeals
Cap.306

185. The principal Act is amended by adding immediately
after subsection (4) the following"Advice
"65(5).
Where, in the course of
to the Fair
performing its functions under this Act, the
Competiti
Fair Competition Authority, encounters any
on
matter related to electronic or postal
Authority
communications, as those terms are defined
in the Electronic and Postal Communications
Act, it shall request the written advice of the
Tanzania
Communications
Regulatory
Authority on such matter and. upon
receiving
such request.
the Tanzania
Communications Regulatory Authority shall
have the power to provide the Fair
Competition Authority with such advice."

186.-(1) The following enactments are hereby repealed:
(a)
(b)

the Broadcasting Services Act; and
the Tanzania Communications Act.

