Family Educational Rights and
Privacy Act Regulations
34 CFR Part 99

99.12 What limitations exist on the right
to inspect and review records?

Subpart A-General
Section
99.1 To which educational agencies or
institutions do these regulations apply?
99.2 What is the purpose of these
regulations?
99.3 What definitions apply to these
regulations?
99.4 What are the rights of parents?
99.5 What are the rights of students?
99.7 What must an educational agency
or institution include in its annual
notification?
99.8 What provisions apply to records of
a law enforcement unit?

Subpart B-What are the Rights
of Inspection and Review of
Education Records?
Section
99.10 What rights exist for a parent or
eligible student to inspect and review
education records?
99.11 May an educational agency or
institution charge a fee for copies of
education records?

Subpart C-What are the
Procedures for Amending
Education Records?
Section
99.20 How can a parent or eligible
student request amendment of the
student's education records?
99.21 Under what conditions does a
parent or eligible student have the right
to a hearing?
99.22 What minimum requirements exist
for the conduct of a hearing?

Subpart D-May an Educational
Agency or Institution Disclose
Personally Identifiable
Information from Education
Records?
Section
99.30 Under what conditions is prior
consent required to disclose
information?
99.31 Under what conditions is prior
consent not required to disclose
information?
99.32 What recordkeeping requirements
exist concerning requests and
disclosures?

1

99.33 What limitations apply to the
redisclosure of information?
99.34 What conditions apply to
disclosure of information to other
educational agencies or institutions?
99.35 What conditions apply to
disclosure of information for Federal or
State program purposes?

99.62 What information must an
educational agency or institution submit
to the Office?
99.63 Where are complaints filed?
99.64 What is the investigation
procedure?
99.65 What is the content of the notice
of investigation issued by the Office?

99.36 What conditions apply to
disclosure of information in health and
safety emergencies?

99.66 What are the responsibilities of the
Office in the enforcement process?

99.37 What conditions apply to
disclosing directory information?

99.67 How does the Secretary enforce
decisions?

99.38 What conditions apply to
disclosure of information as permitted
by State statute adopted after
November 19, 1974, concerning the
juvenile justice system?

(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g, unless
otherwise noted).

99.39 What definitions apply to the
nonconsensual disclosure of records by
postsecondary educational institutions in
connection with disciplinary proceedings
concerning crimes of violence or nonforcible sex offenses?

The authority citation for this part
continues to read as follows:

PART 99 – FAMILY EDUCATIONAL
RIGHTS AND PRIVACY ACT (FERPA)

(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g, unless
otherwise noted).
Subpart A-General

Subpart E -What are the
Enforcement Procedures?
Section
99.60 What functions has the Secretary
delegated to the Office and to the Office
of Administrative Law Judges?
99.61 What responsibility does an
educational agency or institution have
concerning conflict with State or local
laws?

§ 99.1 To which educational agencies
or institutions do these regulations
apply?
(a) Except as otherwise noted in § 99.10,
this part applies to an educational agency
or institution to which funds have been
made available under any program
administered by the Secretary,
if(1)The educational institution provides
educational services or instruction, or
both, to students; or

2

(2) The educational agency is authorized
to direct and control public elementary
or secondary, or postsecondary
educational institutions.
(b) This part does not apply to an
educational agency or institution solely
because students attending that agency
or institution receive nonmonetary
benefits under a program referenced in
paragraph (a) of this section, if no funds
under that program are made available to
the agency or institution.
(c) The Secretary considers funds to be
made available to an educational agency
or institution if funds under one or more
of the programs referenced in paragraph
(a) of this section(1) Are provided to the agency or
institution by grant, cooperative
agreement, contract, subgrant, or
subcontract; or (2) Are provided to
students attending the agency or
institution and the funds may be paid to
the agency or institution by those
students for educational purposes, such
as under the Pell Grant Program and the
Guaranteed Student Loan Program
(Titles IV-A-l and IV-B, respectively, of
the Higher Education Act of 1965, as
amended).
(d) If an educational agency or
institution receives funds under one or
more of the programs covered by this
section, the regulations in this part
apply to the recipient as a whole,
including each of its components (such
as a department within a university).

The purpose of this part is to set out
requirements for the protection of
privacy of parents and students under
section 444 of the General Education
Provisions Act, as amended.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g)
Note to § 99.2: 34 CFR 300.610 through
300.626 contain requirements regarding
the confidentiality of information
relating to children with disabilities who
receive evaluations, services or other
benefits under Part B of the Individuals
with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA).
34 CFR 303.402 and 303.460 identify
the confidentiality of information
requirements regarding children and
infants and toddlers with disabilities and
their families who receive evaluations,
services, or other benefits under Part C
of IDEA. 34 CFR 300.610 through
300.627 contain the confidentiality of
information requirements that apply to
personally identifiable data, information,
and records collected or maintained
pursuant to Part B of the IDEA.
§ 99.3 What definitions apply to these
regulations?
The following definitions apply to this
part:
"Act" means the Family Educational
Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, as
amended, enacted as section 444 of the
General Education Provisions Act.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g)

(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g)

"Attendance" includes, but is not limited
to-

§ 99.2 What is the purpose of these
regulations?

(a) Attendance in person or by paper
correspondence, videoconference,

3

satellite, Internet, or other electronic
information and telecommunications
technologies for students who are not
physically present in the classroom; and
(b) The period during which a person is
working under a work-study program.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g)
“Biometric record,” as used in the
definition of “personally identifiable
information,” means a record of one or
more measurable biological or
behavioral characteristics that can be
used for automated recognition of an
individual. Examples include
fingerprints; retina and iris patterns;
voiceprints; DNA sequence; facial
characteristics; and handwriting.

address; telephone listing; electronic
mail address; photograph; date and place
of birth; major field of study; grade
level; enrollment status (e.g.,
undergraduate or graduate, full-time or
part-time); dates of attendance;
participation in officially recognized
activities and sports; weight and height
of members of athletic teams; degrees,
honors and awards received; and the
most recent educational agency or
institution attended.
(b) Directory information does not
include a student's –
(1) Social security number; or
(2) Student identification (ID) number,
except as provided in paragraph (c) of
this section.

(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g)

(b) The term does not include specific
daily records of a student's attendance at
an educational agency or institution.

(c) Directory information includes a
student ID number, user ID, or other
unique personal identifier used by the
student for purposes of accessing or
communicating in electronic systems,
but only if the identifier cannot be used
to gain access to education records
except when used in conjunction with
one or more factors that authenticate the
user's identity, such as a personal
identification number (PIN), password,
or other factor known or possessed only
by the authorized user.

(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g (a)(5)(A))

(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(a)(5)(A))

"Directory information" means
information contained in an education
record of a student that would not
generally be considered harmful or
an invasion of privacy if disclosed.

“Disciplinary action or proceeding”
means the investigation, adjudication, or
imposition of sanctions by an
educational agency or institution with
respect to an infraction or violation of
the internal rules of conduct applicable
to students of the agency or institution.

"Dates of attendance"
(a) The term means the period of time
during which a student attends or
attended an educational agency or
institution. Examples of dates of
attendance include an academic year, a
spring semester, or a first quarter.

(a) Directory information includes,
but is not limited to, the student's name;

4

"Disclosure" means to permit access to
or the release, transfer, or other
communication of personally
identifiable information contained in
education records by any means,
including oral, written, or electronic
means, to any party except the party
identified as the party that provided or
created the record.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(b)(1) and
(b)(2))
"Educational agency or institution"
means any public or private agency or
institution to which this part applies
under § 99.1(a).
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g (a)(3))

(3)(i) Records relating to an individual
who is employed by an educational
agency or institution, that:
(A) Are made and maintained in the
normal course of business;
(B) Relate exclusively to the individual
in that individual's capacity as an
employee; and
(C) Are not available for use for any
other purpose.
(ii) Records relating to an individual in
attendance at the agency or institution
who is employed as a result of his or her
status as a student are education records
and not excepted under paragraph
(b)(3)(i) of this definition.

"Education Records"
(a) The term means those records that
are:

(4) Records on a student who is 18 years
of age or older, or is attending an
institution of postsecondary education,
that are:

(1) Directly related to a student; and
(2) Maintained by an educational agency
or institution or by a party acting for the
agency or institution.
(b) The term does not include:
(1) Records that are kept in the sole
possession of the maker, are used only as
a personal memory aid, and are not
accessible or revealed to any other
person except a temporary substitute for
the maker of the record.
(2) Records of the law enforcement unit
of an educational agency or institution,
subject to the provisions of § 99.8.

(i) Made or maintained by a physician,
psychiatrist, psychologist, or other
recognized professional or
paraprofessional acting in his or her
professional capacity or assisting in a
paraprofessional capacity;
(ii) Made, maintained, or used only in
connection with treatment of the student;
and
(iii) Disclosed only to individuals
providing the treatment. For the purpose
of this definition,"treatment" does not
include remedial educational activities or
activities that are part of the program of
instruction at the agency or institution;
(5) Records created or received by an
educational agency or institution after an

5

individual is no longer a student in
attendance and that are not directly
related to the individual's attendance as a
student.
(6) Grades on peer-graded papers before
they are collected and recorded by a
teacher.

(b) The name of the student’s parent or
other family members;
(c) The address of the student or
student’s family;
(d) A personal identifier, such as the
student’s social security number, student
number, or biometric record;

(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(a)(4))
"Eligible student" means a student who
has reached 18 years of age or is
attending an institution of postsecondary
education.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(d))
"Institution of postsecondary education"
means an institution that provides
education to students beyond the
secondary school level; "secondary
school level" means the educational
level (not beyond grade 12) at which
secondary education is provided as
determined under State law.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(d))
"Parent" means a parent of a student and
includes a natural parent, a guardian, or
an individual acting as a parent in the
absence of a parent or a guardian.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C.1232g)
"Party" means an individual, agency,
institution, or organization.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(b)(4)(A))

(e) Other indirect identifiers, such as the
student’s date of birth, place of birth,
and mother’s maiden name;
(f) Other information that, alone or in
combination, is linked or linkable to a
specific student that would allow a
reasonable person in the school
community, who does not have personal
knowledge of the relevant
circumstances, to identify the student
with reasonable certainty; or
(g) Information requested by a person
who the educational agency or
institution reasonably believes knows the
identity of the student to whom the
education record relates.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g)
"Record" means any information
recorded in any way, including, but not
limited to, hand writing, print, computer
media, video or audio tape, film,
microfilm, and microfiche.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g)

The term includes, but is not limited to--

"Secretary" means the Secretary of
the U.S. Department of Education or an
official or employee of the Department
of Education acting for the Secretary
under a delegation of authority.

(a) The student’s name;

(Authority: 20 U.S.C.1232g)

"Personally Identifiable Information"

6

"Student," except as otherwise
specifically provided in this part, means
any individual who is or has been in
attendance at an educational agency or
institution and regarding whom the
agency or institution maintains
education records.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(a)(6))
§ 99.4 What are the rights of parents?
An educational agency or institution
shall give full rights under the Act to
either parent, unless the agency or
institution has been provided with
evidence that there is a court order, State
statute, or legally binding document
relating to such matters as divorce,
separation, or custody that specifically
revokes these rights.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g)
§ 99.5 What are the rights of students?
(a)(1) When a student becomes an
eligible student, the rights accorded to,
and consent required of, parents under
this part transfer from the parents to the
student.
(2) Nothing in this section prevents an
educational agency or institution from
disclosing education records, or
personally identifiable information from
education records, to a parent without
the prior written consent of an eligible
student if the disclosure meets the
conditions in § 99.31(a)(8),
§ 99.31(a)(10), § 99.31(a)(15), or
any other provision in § 99.31(a).
(b) The Act and this part do not prevent
educational agencies or institutions from

giving students rights in addition to
those given to parents.
(c) An individual who is or has been a
student at an educational institution and
who applies for admission at another
component of that institution does not
have the rights under this part with
respect to records maintained by that
other component, including records
maintained in connection with the
student's application for admission,
unless the student is accepted and
attends that other component of the
institution.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C.1232g(d))
§ 99.7 What must an educational
agency or institution include in its
annual notification?
(a)(l) Each educational agency or
institution shall annually notify parents
of students currently in attendance, or
eligible students currently in attendance,
of their rights under the Act and this
part.
(2) The notice must inform parents or
eligible students that they have the right
to(i) Inspect and review the student's
education records;
(ii) Seek amendment of the student's
education records that the parent or
eligible student believes to be inaccurate,
misleading, or otherwise in violation of
the student's privacy rights;
(iii) Consent to disclosures of personally
identifiable information contained in the
student's education records, except to the

7

extent that the Act and § 99.31 authorize
disclosure without consent; and
(iv) File with the Department a
complaint under §§ 99.63 and 99.64
concerning alleged failures by the
educational agency or institution to
comply with the requirements of the Act
and this part.
(3) The notice must include all of the
following:
(i) The procedure for exercising the right
to inspect and review education records.
(ii) The procedure for requesting
amendment of records under § 99.20.
(iii) If the educational agency or
institution has a policy of disclosing
education records under § 99.31 (a) (1),
a specification of criteria for determining
who constitutes a school official and
what constitutes a legitimate educational
interest.
(b) An educational agency or institution
may provide this notice by any means
that are reasonably likely to inform the
parents or eligible students of their
rights.
(1) An educational agency or institution
shall effectively notify parents or
eligible students who are disabled.
(2) An agency or institution of
elementary or secondary education shall
effectively notify parents who have a
primary or home language other than
English.
(Approved by the Office of Management
and Budget under control number 18750246)

(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g (e) and (f))
§ 99.8 What provisions apply to records
of a law enforcement unit?
(a) (1) "Law enforcement unit" means
any individual, office, department,
division, or other component of an
educational agency or institution, such as
a unit of commissioned police officers or
non-commissioned security guards, that
is officially authorized or designated
by that agency or institution to(i) Enforce any local, State, or Federal
law, or refer to appropriate authorities a
matter for enforcement of any local,
State, or Federal law against any
individual or organization other than the
agency or institution itself; or
(ii) Maintain the physical security and
safety of the agency or institution.
(2) A component of an educational
agency or institution does not lose its
status as a "law enforcement unit" if it
also performs other, non-law
enforcement functions for the agency
or institution, including investigation of
incidents or conduct that constitutes or
leads to a disciplinary action or
proceedings against the student.
(b) (1) Records of law enforcement unit
means those records, files, documents,
and other materials that are(i) Created by a law enforcement unit;
(ii) Created for a law enforcement
purpose; and
(iii) Maintained by the law enforcement
unit.

8

(2) Records of law enforcement unit
does not mean –
(i) Records created by a law enforcement
unit for a law enforcement purpose that
are maintained by a component of the
educational agency or institution other
than the law enforcement unit; or
(ii) Records created and maintained by a
law enforcement unit exclusively for a
non-law enforcement purpose, such as a
disciplinary action or proceeding
conducted by the educational agency
or institution.
(c)(1)Nothing in the Act prohibits an
educational agency or institution from
contacting its law enforcement unit,
orally or in writing, for the purpose of
asking that unit to investigate a possible
violation of, or to enforce, any local,
State, or Federal law.
(2) Education records, and personally
identifiable information contained in
education records, do not lose their
status as education records and remain
subject to the Act, including the
disclosure provisions of § 99.30, while
in possession of the law enforcement
unit.
(d) The Act neither requires nor
prohibits the disclosure by any
educational agency or institution of its
law enforcement unit records.

education records?
(a) Except as limited under § 99.12, a
parent or eligible student must be given
the opportunity to inspect and review the
student's education records. This
provision applies to
(1) Any educational agency or
institution; and
(2) Any State educational agency (SEA)
and its components.
(i) For the purposes of subpart B of this
part, an SEA and its components
constitute an educational agency or
institution.
(ii) An SEA and its components are
subject to subpart B of this part if the
SEA maintains education records on
students who are or have been in
attendance at any school of an
educational agency or institution subject
to the Act and this part.
(b) The educational agency or
institution, or SEA or its component,
shall comply with a request for access to
records within a reasonable period of
time, but not more than 45 days after it
has received the request.
(c) The educational agency or institution,
or SEA or its component, shall respond
to reasonable requests for explanations
and interpretations of the records.

(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(a)(4)(B)(ii))

Subpart B-What are the Rights
of Inspection and Review of
Education Records?
§ 99.10 What rights exist for a parent
or eligible student to inspect and review

(d) If circumstances effectively prevent
the parent or eligible student from
exercising the right to inspect and review
the student's education records, the
educational agency or institution, or
SEA or its component, shall-

9

(1) Provide the parent or eligible student
with a copy of the records requested; or
(2) Make other arrangements for the
parent or eligible student to inspect and
review the requested records.
(e) The educational agency or institution,
or SEA or its component, shall not
destroy any education records if there is
an outstanding request to inspect and
review the records under this section.
(f) While an educational agency or
institution is not required to give an
eligible student access to treatment
records under paragraph (b)(4) of the
definition of "Education records" in
§ 99.3, the student may have those
records reviewed by a physician or other
appropriate professional of the student's
choice.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(a)(1)(A)
and (B))
§ 99.11 May an educational agency or
institution charge a fee for copies of
education records?
(a) Unless the imposition of a fee
effectively prevents a parent or eligible
student from exercising the right to
inspect and review the student's
education records, an educational agency
or institution may charge a fee for a copy
of an education record which is made for
the parent or eligible student.
(b) An educational agency or institution
may not charge a fee to search for or to
retrieve the education records of a
student.

§ 99.12 What limitations exist on the
right to inspect and review records?
(a) If the education records of a student
contain information on more than one
student, the parent or eligible student
may inspect and review or be informed
of only the specific information about
that student.
(b) A postsecondary institution does not
have to permit a student to inspect and
review education records that are:
(1) Financial records, including any
information those records contain, of his
or her parents;
(2) Confidential letters and confidential
statements of recommendation placed in
the education records of the student
before January 1, 1975, as long as the
statements are used only for the purposes
for which they were specifically
intended; and
(3) Confidential letters and confidential
statements of recommendation placed in
the student's education records after
January 1, 1975, if:
(i) The student has waived his or her
right to inspect and review those letters
and statements; and
(ii) Those letters and statements are
related to the student's:
(A) Admission to an educational
institution;
(B) Application for employment; or
(C) Receipt of an honor or honorary
recognition.

(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(a)(1))

10

(c)(1) A waiver under paragraph
(b)(3)(i) of this section is valid only if:
(i) The educational agency or institution
does not require the waiver as a
condition for admission to or receipt of a
service or benefit from the agency or
institution; and
(ii) The waiver is made in writing and
signed by the student, regardless of age.
(2) If a student has waived his or her
rights under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this
section, the educational institution shall:
(i) Give the student, on request, the
names of the individuals who provided
the letters and statements of
recommendation; and
(ii) Use the letters and statements of
recommendation only for the purpose for
which they were intended.
(3)(i) A waiver under paragraph (b)(3)(i)
of this section may be revoked with
respect to any actions occurring after the
revocation.
(ii) A revocation under paragraph
(c)(3)(i) of this section must be in
writing.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(a)(1) (A),
(B), (C), and (D))

Subpart C-What Are the
Procedures for Amending
Education Records?
§ 99.20 How can a parent or eligible
student request amendment of the
student's education records?
(a) If a parent or eligible student believes

the education records relating to the
student contain information that is
inaccurate, misleading, or in violation
of the student's rights of privacy, he or
she may ask the educational agency or
institution to amend the record.
(b) The educational agency or institution
shall decide whether to amend the record
as requested within a reasonable time
after the agency or institution receives
the request.
(c) If the educational agency or
institution decides not to amend the
record as requested, it shall inform the
parent or eligible student of its decision
and of his or her right to a hearing under
§ 99.21.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(a)(2))
§ 99.21 Under what conditions does a
parent or eligible student have the right
to a hearing?
(a) An educational agency or institution
shall give a parent or eligible student, on
request, an opportunity for a hearing to
challenge the content of the student's
education records on the grounds that the
information contained in the education
records is inaccurate, misleading, or
in violation of the privacy rights of the
student.
(b)(1) If, as a result of the hearing, the
educational agency or institution decides
that the information is inaccurate,
misleading, or otherwise in violation of
the privacy rights of the student, it shall:
(i) Amend the record accordingly; and
(ii) Inform the parent or eligible student
of the amendment in writing.

11

(2) If, as a result of the hearing, the
educational agency or institution decides
that the information in the education
record is not inaccurate, misleading, or
otherwise in violation of the privacy
rights of the student, it shall inform the
parent or eligible student of the right to
place a statement in the record
commenting on the contested
information in the record or stating why
he or she disagrees with the decision of
the agency or institution, or both.
(c) If an educational agency or
institution places a statement in the
education records of a student under
paragraph (b)(2) of this section,
the agency or institution shall:
(1) Maintain the statement with the
contested part of the record for as long
as the record is maintained; and

(c) The hearing may be conducted by
any individual including an official of
the educational agency or institution,
who does not have direct interest in the
outcome of the hearing.
(d) The educational agency or institution
shall give the parent or eligible student a
full and fair opportunity to present
evidence relevant to the issues raised
under § 99.21. The parent or eligible
student may, at their own expense, be
assisted or represented by one or more
individuals of his or her own choice,
including an attorney.
(e) The educational agency or institution
shall make its decision in writing within
a reasonable period of time after the
hearing.

(2) Disclose the statement whenever it
discloses the portion of the record to
which the statement relates.

(f) The decision must be based solely on
the evidence presented at the hearing,
and must include a summary of the
evidence and the reasons for the
decision.

(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(a)(2))

(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(a)(2))

§ 99.22 What minimum requirements
exist for the conduct of a hearing?

Subpart D-May an Educational
Agency or Institution disclose
Personally Identifiable
Information from Education
Records?

The hearing required by § 99.21 must
meet, at a minimum, the following
requirements:
(a) The educational agency or institution
shall hold the hearing within a
reasonable time after it has received the
request for the hearing from the parent
or eligible student.
(b) The educational agency or institution
shall give the parent or eligible student
notice of the date, time, and place,
reasonably in advance of the hearing.

§ 99.30 Under what conditions is prior
consent required to disclose
information?
(a) The parent or eligible student shall
provide a signed and dated written
consent before an educational agency or
institution discloses personally
identifiable information from the
student's education records, except as
provided in § 99.31.
12

(b) The written consent must:
(1) Specify the records that may be
disclosed;
(2) State the purpose of the disclosure;
and
(3) Identify the party or class of parties
to whom the disclosure may be made.
(c) When a disclosure is made under
paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) If a parent or eligible student so
requests, the educational agency or
institution shall provide him or her with
a copy of the records disclosed; and
(2) If the parent of a student who is not
an eligible student so requests, the
agency or institution shall provide the
student with a copy of the records
disclosed.
(d) "Signed and dated written consent"
under this part may include a record and
signature in electronic form that(1) Identifies and authenticates a
particular person as the source of the
electronic consent; and
(2) Indicates such person's approval of
the information contained in the
electronic consent.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g (b)(1) and
(b)(2)(A))
§ 99.31 Under what conditions is prior
consent not required to disclose
information?
(a) An educational agency or institution
may disclose personally identifiable

information from an education record of
a student without the consent required by
§ 99.30 if the disclosure meets one or
more of the following conditions:
(1)(i)(A) The disclosure is to other
school officials, including teachers,
within the agency or institution
whom the agency or institution has
determined to have legitimate
educational interests.
(B) A contractor, consultant, volunteer,
or other party to whom an agency or
institution has outsourced institutional
services or functions may be considered
a school official under this paragraph
provided that the outside party-(1) Performs an institutional service or
function for which the agency or
institution would otherwise use
employees;
(2) Is under the direct control of the
agency or institution with respect to the
use and maintenance of education
records; and
(3) Is subject to the requirements of
§ 99.33(a) governing the use and
redisclosure of personally identifiable
information from education records.
(ii) An educational agency or institution
must use reasonable methods to ensure
that school officials obtain access to only
those education records in which they
have legitimate educational interests.
An educational agency or institution that
does not use physical or technological
access controls must ensure that its
administrative policy for controlling
access to education records is effective
and that it remains in compliance with
the legitimate educational interest

13

requirement in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A) of
this section.

(A) Determine eligibility for the aid;
(B) Determine the amount of the aid;

(2) The disclosure is, subject to the
requirements of § 99.34, to officials of
another school, school system, or
institution of postsecondary education
where the student seeks or intends to
enroll, or where the student is already
enrolled so long as the disclosure is for
purposes related to the student’s
enrollment or transfer.
Note: Section 4155(b) of the No Child
Left Behind Act of 2001, 20 U.S.C.
7165(b), requires each State to assure the
Secretary of Education that it has a
procedure in place to facilitate the
transfer of disciplinary records with
respect to a suspension or expulsion of a
student by a local educational agency to
any private or public elementary or
secondary school in which the student is
subsequently enrolled or seeks, intends,
or is instructed to enroll.
(3) The disclosure is, subject to the
requirements of § 99.35, to authorized
representatives of(i) The Comptroller General of the
United States;
(ii) The Attorney General of the United
States;
(iii) The Secretary; or
(iv) State and local educational
authorities.
(4)(i) The disclosure is in connection
with financial aid for which the student
has applied or which the student has
received, if the information is necessary
for such purposes as to:

(C) Determine the conditions for the
aid; or
(D) Enforce the terms and conditions of
the aid.
(ii) As used in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this
section,"financial aid" means a payment
of funds provided to an individual (or a
payment in kind of tangible or intangible
property to the individual) that is
conditioned on the individual's
attendance at an educational agency or
institution.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(b)(1)(D))
(5)(i) The disclosure is to State and local
officials or authorities to whom this
information is specifically(A) Allowed to be reported or disclosed
pursuant to a State statute adopted before
November 19, 1974, if the allowed
reporting or disclosure concerns the
juvenile justice system and the system's
ability to effectively serve the student
whose records are released; or
(B) Allowed to be reported or disclosed
pursuant to a State statute adopted after
November 19, 1974, subject to the
requirements of § 99.38.
(ii) Paragraph (a)(5)(l) of this section
does not prevent a State from further
limiting the number or type of State or
local officials to whom disclosures may
be made under that paragraph.
(6)(i) The disclosure is to organizations
conducting studies for, or on behalf of,

14

educational agencies or institutions to:

(C) Improve instruction.

(4) Requires the organization to destroy
or return to the educational agency or
institution all personally identifiable
information when the information is no
longer needed for the purposes for which
the study was conducted and specifies
the time period in which the information
must be returned or destroyed.

(ii) An educational agency or institution
may disclose information under
paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section only
if--

(iii) An educational agency or institution
is not required to initiate a study or agree
with or endorse the conclusions or
results of the study.

(A) The study is conducted in a manner
that does not permit personal
identification of parents and students by
individuals other than representatives of
the organization that have legitimate
interests in the information;

(iv) If this Office determines that a third
party outside the educational agency or
institution to whom information is
disclosed under this paragraph (a)(6)
violates paragraph (a)(6)(ii)(B) of this
section, the educational agency or
institution may not allow that third party
access to personally identifiable
information from education records for
at least five years.

(A) Develop, validate, or administer
predictive tests;
(B) Administer student aid programs; or

(B) The information is destroyed when
no longer needed for the purposes for
which the study was conducted; and
(C) The educational agency or
institution enters into a written
agreement with the organization that(1) Specifies the purpose, scope, and
duration of the study or studies and the
information to be disclosed;
(2) Requires the organization to use
personally identifiable information from
education records only to meet the
purpose or purposes of the study as
stated in the written agreement;
(3) Requires the organization to conduct
the study in a manner that does not
permit personal identification of parents
and students, as defined in this part, by
anyone other than representatives of the
organization with legitimate interests;
and

(v) For the purposes of paragraph (a)(6)
of this section, the term "organization"
includes, but is not limited to, Federal,
State, and local agencies, and
independent organizations.
(7) The disclosure is to accrediting
organizations to carry out their
accrediting functions.
(8) The disclosure is to parents, as
defined in § 99.3, of a dependent
student, as defined in section
152 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986.
(9)(i) The disclosure is to comply with a
judicial order or lawfully issued
subpoena.

15

(ii) The educational agency or institution
may disclose information under
paragraph (a)(9)(i) of this section only if
the agency or institution makes
a reasonable effort to notify the parent or
eligible student of the order or subpoena
in advance of compliance, so that the
parent or eligible student may seek
protective action, unless the disclosure is
in compliance with(A) A Federal grand jury subpoena and
the court has ordered that the existence
or the contents of the subpoena
or the information furnished in response
to the subpoena not be disclosed;
(B) Any other subpoena issued for a law
enforcement purpose and the court or
other issuing agency has ordered that the
existence or the contents of the subpoena
or the information furnished in response
to the subpoena not be disclosed; or
(C) An ex parte court order obtained by
the United States Attorney General (or
designee not lower than an Assistant
Attorney General) concerning
investigations or prosecutions of an
offense listed in 18 U.S.C.
2332b(g)(5)(B) or an act of domestic or
international terrorism as defined in 18
U.S.C. 2331.
(iii) (A) If an educational agency or
institution initiates legal action against a
parent or student, the educational agency
or institution may disclose to the court,
without a court order or subpoena, the
education records of the student that are
relevant for the educational agency or
institution to proceed with the legal
action as plaintiff.

educational agency or institution,
the educational agency or institution
may disclose to the court, without a
court order or subpoena, the student's
education records that are relevant for
the educational agency or institution
to defend itself.
(10) The disclosure is in connection with
a health or safety emergency, under the
conditions described in § 99.36.
(11) The disclosure is information the
educational agency or institution has
designated as "directory information,"
under the conditions described in
§ 99.37.
(12) The disclosure is to the parent of a
student who is not an eligible student or
to the student.
(13) The disclosure, subject to the
requirements in § 99.39, is to a victim of
an alleged perpetrator of a crime of
violence or a non-forcible sex offense.
The disclosure may only include the
final results of the disciplinary
proceeding conducted by the institution
of postsecondary education with respect
to that alleged crime or offense. The
institution may disclose the final results
of the disciplinary proceeding,
regardless of whether the institution
concluded a violation was committed.
(14)(i) The disclosure, subject to the
requirements in § 99.39, is in connection
with a disciplinary proceeding at an
institution of postsecondary education.
The institution must not disclose the
final results of the disciplinary
proceeding unless it determines that

(B) If a parent or eligible student
initiates legal action against an

16

(A) The student is an alleged perpetrator
of a crime of violence or non-forcible
sex offense; and
(B) With respect to the allegation made
against him or her, the student has
committed a violation of the institution's
rules or policies.
(ii) The institution may not disclose the
name of any other student, including a
victim or witness, without the prior
written consent of the other student.
(iii) This section applies only to
disciplinary proceedings in which the
final results were reached on or after
October 7, 1998.
(15)(i) The disclosure is to a parent of a
student at an institution of postsecondary
education regarding the student's
violation of any Federal, State, or local
law, or of any rule or policy of the
institution, governing the use or
possession of alcohol or a controlled
substance if(A) The institution determines that the
student has committed a disciplinary
violation with respect to that use or
possession; and
(B) The student is under the age of 21 at
the time of the disclosure to the parent.
(ii) Paragraph (a)(15) of this section does
not supersede any provision of State law
that prohibits an institution of
postsecondary education from disclosing
information.
(16) The disclosure concerns sex
offenders and other individuals required
to register under section 170101 of the
Violent Crime Control and Law

Enforcement Act of 1994, 42 U.S.C.
14071, and the information was provided
to the educational agency or institution
under 42 U.S.C. 14071 and applicable
Federal guidelines.
(b)(1) De-identified records and
information. An educational agency or
institution, or a party that has received
education records or information from
education records under this part, may
release the records or information
without the consent required by § 99.30
after the removal of all personally
identifiable information provided that
the educational agency or institution or
other party has made a reasonable
determination that a student’s identity is
not personally identifiable, whether
through single or multiple releases, and
taking into account other reasonably
available information.
(2) An educational agency or institution,
or a party that has received education
records or information from education
records under this part, may release deidentified student level data from
education records for the purpose of
education research by attaching a code to
each record that may allow the recipient
to match information received from the
same source, provided that-(i) An educational agency or institution
or other party that releases de-identified
data under paragraph (b)(2) of this
section does not disclose any
information about how it generates and
assigns a record code, or that would
allow a recipient to identify a student
based on a record code;
(ii) The record code is used for no
purpose other than identifying a deidentified record for purposes of

17

education research and cannot be used to
ascertain personally identifiable
information about a student; and
(iii) The record code is not based on a
student’s social security number or other
personal information.
(c) An educational agency or institution
must use reasonable methods to identify
and authenticate the identity of parents,
students, school officials, and any other
parties to whom the agency or institution
discloses personally identifiable
information from education records.
(d) Paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section
do not require an educational agency or
institution or any other party to disclose
education records or information from
education records to any party except for
parties under paragraph (a)(12) of this
section.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(a)(5)(A),
(b), (h), (i), and (j))
§ 99.32 What recordkeeping
requirements exist concerning requests
and disclosures?
(a)(l) An educational agency or
institution must maintain a record of
each request for access to and each
disclosure of personally identifiable
information from the education records
of each student, as well as the names of
State and local educational authorities
and Federal officials and agencies listed
in § 99.31(a)(3) that may make further
disclosures of personally identifiable
information from the student’s education
records without consent under
§ 99.33(b).

(2) The agency or institution shall
maintain the record with the education
records of the student as long as the
records are maintained.
(3) For each request or disclosure the
record must include:
(i) The parties who have requested or
received personally identifiable
information from the education records;
and
(ii) The legitimate interests the parties
had in requesting or obtaining the
information.
(4) An educational agency or institution
must obtain a copy of the record of
further disclosures maintained under
paragraph (b)(2) of this section and
make it available in response to a
parent’s or eligible student’s request to
review the record required under
paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(5) An educational agency or institution
must record the following information
when it discloses personally identifiable
information from education records
under the health or safety emergency
exception in § 99.31(a)(10) and § 99.36:
(i) The articulable and significant threat
to the health or safety of a student or
other individuals that formed the basis
for the disclosure; and
(ii) The parties to whom the agency or
institution disclosed the information.
(b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph
(b)(2) of this section, if an educational
agency or institution discloses personally
identifiable information from education
records with the understanding

18

authorized under § 99.33(b), the record
of the disclosure required under this
section must include:
(i) The names of the additional parties to
which the receiving party may disclose
the information on behalf of the
educational agency or institution; and

educational authority or Federal official
or agency listed in § 99.31(a)(3) that
maintains a record of further disclosures
under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section
must provide a copy of the record of
further disclosures to the educational
agency or institution within a reasonable
period of time not to exceed 30 days.

(ii) The legitimate interests under
§ 99.31 which each of the additional
parties has in requesting or obtaining the
information.

(c) The following parties may inspect the
record relating to each student:

(2)(i) A State or local educational
authority or Federal official or agency
listed in § 99.31(a)(3) that makes further
disclosures of information from
education records under § 99.33(b) must
record the names of the additional
parties to which it discloses information
on behalf of an educational agency or
institution and their legitimate interests
in the information under § 99.31 if the
information was received from:

(2) The school official or his or her
assistants who are responsible for the
custody of the records.

(A) An educational agency or institution
that has not recorded the further
disclosures under paragraph (b)(1) of
this section; or
(B) Another State or local educational
authority or Federal official or agency
listed in § 99.31(a)(3).
(ii) A State or local educational
authority or Federal official or agency
that records further disclosures of
information under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of
this section may maintain the record by
the student’s class, school, district, or
other appropriate grouping rather than
by the name of the student.
(iii) Upon request of an educational
agency or institution, a State or local

(1) The parent or eligible student.

(3) Those parties authorized in
§ 99.3l(a)(l) and (3) for the purposes of
auditing the recordkeeping procedures of
the educational agency or institution.
(d) Paragraph (a) of this section does not
apply if the request was from, or the
disclosure was to:
(1) The parent or eligible student;
(2) A school official under § 99.31
(a)(1);
(3) A party with written consent from
the parent or eligible student;
(4) A party seeking directory
information; or
(5) A party seeking or receiving records
in accordance with § 99.31(a)(9)(ii)(A)
through (C).
(Approved by the Office of Management
and Budget under control number 18750246)

19

(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(b)(1) and
(b)(4)(A)
§ 99.33 What limitations apply to the
redisclosure of information?
(a)(l) An educational agency or
institution may disclose personally
identifiable information from an
education record only on the condition
that the party to whom the information is
disclosed will not disclose the
information to any other party without
the prior consent of the parent or eligible
student.
(2) The officers, employees, and agents
of a party that receives information
under paragraph (a)(l) of this section
may use the information, but only for the
purposes for which the disclosure was
made.
(b)(1) Paragraph (a) of this section does
not prevent an educational agency or
institution from disclosing personally
identifiable information with the
understanding that the party receiving
the information may make further
disclosures of the information on behalf
of the educational agency or institution
if-(i) The disclosures meet the
requirements of § 99.31; and
(ii) (A) The educational agency or
institution has complied with the
requirements of § 99.32(b); or
(B) A State or local educational
authority or Federal official or agency
listed in § 99.31(a)(3) has complied with
the requirements of § 99.32(b)(2).

(2) A party that receives a court order or
lawfully issued subpoena and rediscloses
personally identifiable information from
education records on behalf of an
educational agency or institution in
response to that order or subpoena under
§ 99.31(a)(9) must provide the
notification required under
§ 99.31(a)(9)(ii).
(c) Paragraph (a) of this section does not
apply to disclosures under
§§ 99.31(a)(8), (9), (11), (12), (14), (15),
and (16), and to information that
postsecondary institutions are required to
disclose under the Jeanne Clery
Disclosure of Campus Security Policy
and Campus Crime Statistics Act, 20
U.S.C. 1092(f) (Clery Act), to the
accuser and accused regarding the
outcome of any campus disciplinary
proceeding brought alleging a sexual
offense.
(d) An educational agency or institution
must inform a party to whom disclosure
is made of the requirements of paragraph
(a) of this section except for disclosures
made under §§ 99.31(a)(8), (9), (11),
(12), (14), (15), and (16), and to
information that postsecondary
institutions are required to disclose
under the Clery Act to the accuser and
accused regarding the outcome of any
campus disciplinary proceeding brought
alleging a sexual offense.
(e) If this Office determines that a third
party outside the educational agency or
institution improperly rediscloses
personally identifiable information from
education records in violation of this
section, or fails to provide the
notification required under paragraph
(b)(2) of this section, the educational
agency or institution may not allow that

20

third party access to personally
identifiable information from education
records for at least five years.

(1) The student is enrolled in or receives
services from the other agency or
institution; and

(Authority: 20 U.S.C.1232g(b)(4)(B))

(2) The disclosure meets the
requirements of paragraph (a) of this
section.

§ 99.34 What conditions apply to
disclosure of information to other
educational agencies or institutions?

(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(b)(1)(B))

(a) An educational agency or institution
that discloses an education record under
§ 99.31(a) (2) shall:

§ 99.35 What conditions apply to
disclosure of information for Federal
or State program purposes?

(1) Make a reasonable attempt to notify
the parent or eligible student at the last
known address of the parent or eligible
student, unless:

(a)(1) Authorized representatives of the
officials or agencies headed by officials
listed in § 99.31(a)(3) may have access
to education records in connection with
an audit or evaluation of Federal or State
supported education programs, or for the
enforcement of or compliance with
Federal legal requirements that relate to
those programs.

(i) The disclosure is initiated by the
parent or eligible student; or
(ii) The annual notification of the agency
or institution under § 99.7 includes a
notice that the agency or institution
forwards education records to other
agencies or institutions that have
requested the records and in which the
student seeks or intends to enroll or is
already enrolled so long as the disclosure
is for purposes related to the student’s
enrollment or transfer;
(2) Give the parent or eligible student,
upon request, a copy of the record that
was disclosed; and
(3) Give the parent or eligible student,
upon request, an opportunity for a
hearing under Subpart C.
(b) An educational agency or institution
may disclose an education record of a
student in attendance to another
educational agency or institution
if:

(2) Authority for an agency or official
listed in § 99.31(a)(3) to conduct an
audit, evaluation, or compliance or
enforcement activity is not conferred by
the Act or this part and must be
established under other Federal, State, or
local authority.
(b) Information that is collected under
paragraph (a) of this section must:
(1) Be protected in a manner that does
not permit personal identification of
individuals by anyone other than the
officials or agencies headed by officials
referred to in paragraph (a) of this
section, except that those officials and
agencies may make further disclosures
of personally identifiable information
from education records on behalf of the
educational agency or institution in
accordance with the requirements of

21

§ 99.33(b); and
(2) Be destroyed when no longer needed
for the purposes listed in paragraph (a)
of this section.
(c) Paragraph (b) of this section does not
apply if:
(1) The parent or eligible student has
given written consent for the disclosure
under § 99.30; or
(2) The collection of personally
identifiable information is specifically
authorized by Federal law.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C.1232g(b)(3))
§ 99.36 What conditions apply to
disclosure of information in health and
safety emergencies?
(a) An educational agency or institution
may disclose personally identifiable
information from an education record to
appropriate parties, including parents of
an eligible student, in connection with an
emergency if knowledge of the
information is necessary to protect the
health or safety of the student or other
individuals.
(b) Nothing in the Act or this part shall
prevent an educational agency or
institution from(1) Including in the education records of
a student appropriate information
concerning disciplinary action taken
against the student for conduct that
posed a significant risk to the safety
or well-being of that student, other
students, or other members of the school
community;

(2) Disclosing appropriate information
maintained under paragraph (b)(1) of
this section to teachers and school
officials within the agency or institution
who the agency or institution has
determined have legitimate educational
interests in the behavior of the student;
or
(3) Disclosing appropriate information
maintained under paragraph (b)(1) of
this section to teachers and school
officials in other schools who have been
determined to have legitimate
educational interests in the behavior of
the student.
(c) In making a determination under
paragraph (a) of this section, an
educational agency or institution may
take into account the totality of the
circumstances pertaining to a threat to
the health or safety of a student or other
individuals. If the educational agency or
institution determines that there is an
articulable and significant threat to the
health or safety of a student or other
individuals, it may disclose information
from education records to any person
whose knowledge of the information is
necessary to protect the health or safety
of the student or other individuals. If,
based on the information available at the
time of the determination, there is a
rational basis for the determination, the
Department will not substitute its
judgment for that of the educational
agency or institution in evaluating the
circumstances and making its
determination.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g (b)(1)(I)
and (h))
§ 99.37 What conditions apply to
disclosing directory information?

22

(a) An educational agency or institution
may disclose directory information if it
has given public notice to parents of
students in attendance and eligible
students in attendance at the agency
or institution of:
(1) The types of personally identifiable
information that the agency or institution
has designated as directory information;
(2) A parent's or eligible student's right
to refuse to let the agency or institution
designate any or all of those types of
information about the student designated
as directory information; and
(3) The period of time within which a
parent or eligible student has to notify
the agency or institution in writing that
he or she does not want any or all of
those types of information about the
student designated as directory
information.
(b) An educational agency or institution
may disclose directory information about
former students without complying with
the notice and opt out conditions in
paragraph (a) of this section. However,
the agency or institution must continue
to honor any valid request to opt out of
the disclosure of directory information
made while a student was in attendance
unless the student rescinds the opt out
request.
(c) A parent or eligible student may not
use the right under paragraph (a)(2) of
this section to opt out of directory
information disclosures to prevent an
educational agency or institution from
disclosing or requiring a student to
disclose the student’s name, identifier, or
institutional e-mail address in a class in
which the student is enrolled.

(d) An educational agency or institution
may not disclose or confirm directory
information without meeting the written
consent requirements in § 99.30 if a
student’s social security number or other
non-directory information is used alone
or combined with other data elements to
identify or help identify the student or
the student’s records.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g (a)(5) (A)
and (B))
§ 99.38 What conditions apply to
disclosure of information as permitted
by State statute adopted after
November 19, 1974, concerning the
juvenile justice system?
(a) If reporting or disclosure allowed by
State statute concerns the juvenile justice
system and the system's ability to
effectively serve, prior to adjudication,
the student whose records are released,
an educational agency or institution may
disclose education records under
§ 99.31(a)(5)(i)(B).
(b) The officials and authorities to whom
the records are disclosed shall certify in
writing to the educational agency or
institution that the information will not
be disclosed to any other party, except as
provided under State law, without the
prior written consent of the parent of
the student.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g((b)(1)(J))
§ 99.39 What definitions apply to the
nonconsensual disclosure of records by
postsecondary educational institutions
in connection with disciplinary
proceedings concerning crimes of
violence or nonforcible sex offenses?

23

As used in this part:
"Alleged perpetrator of a crime of
violence" is a student who is alleged to
have committed acts that would, if
proven, constitute any of the
following offenses or attempts to
commit the following offenses that are
defined in appendix A to this part:
Arson
Assault offenses
Burglary
Criminal homicide-manslaughter
by negligence
Criminal homicide-murder and
nonnegligent manslaughter
Destruction/damage/vandalism of
property
Kidnapping/abduction
Robbery
Forcible sex offenses
"Alleged perpetrator of a nonforcible sex
offense" means a student who is alleged
to have committed acts that, if proven,
would constitute statutory rape or incest.
These offenses are defined in appendix
A to this part.
"Final results" means a decision or
determination, made by an honor court
or council, committee, commission, or
other entity authorized to resolve
disciplinary matters within the
institution. The disclosure of final results
must include only the name of the
student, the violation committed, and
any sanction imposed by the institution
against the student.
"Sanction imposed" means a description
of the disciplinary action taken by the
institution, the date of its imposition, and
its duration.

"Violation committed" means the
institutional rules or code sections that
were violated and any essential findings
supporting the institution's conclusion
that the violation was committed.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C.1232g (b)(6))

Subpart E-What are the
Enforcement Procedures?
§ 99.60 What functions has the
Secretary delegated to the Office and to
the Office of Administrative Law
Judges?
(a) For the purposes of this subpart,
"Office" means the Family Policy
Compliance Office, U.S.
Department of Education.
(b) The Secretary designates the Office
to:
(1) Investigate, process, and review
complaints and violations under the Act
and this part; and
(2) Provide technical assistance to
ensure compliance with the Act and this
part.
(c) The Secretary designates the Office
of Administrative Law Judges to act as
the Review Board required under the Act
to enforce the Act with respect to all
applicable programs. The term
"applicable program" is defined in
section 400 of the General Education
Provisions Act.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g (f) and (g),
1234))
§ 99.61 What responsibility does an
educational agency or institution have
concerning conflict with State or local

24

laws?
If an educational agency or institution
determines that it cannot comply with
the Act or this part due to a conflict with
State or local law, it shall notify the
Office within 45 days, giving the text
and citation of the conflicting law.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g (f))
§ 99.62 What information must an
educational agency or institution
submit to the Office?
The Office may require an educational
agency or institution to submit reports,
information on policies and procedures,
annual notifications, training materials,
and other information necessary to carry
out its enforcement responsibilities
under the Act or this part.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(f) and (g))
§ 99.63 Where are complaints filed?

violation is based on a policy or practice
of the educational agency or institution.
(b) The Office investigates a timely
complaint filed by a parent or eligible
student, or conducts its own
investigation when no complaint has
been filed or a complaint has been
withdrawn, to determine whether an
educational agency or institution has
failed to comply with a provision of the
Act or this part. If the Office determines
that an educational agency or institution
has failed to comply with a provision of
the Act or this part, it may also
determine whether the failure to comply
is based on a policy or practice of the
agency or institution.
(c) A timely complaint is defined as an
allegation of a violation of the Act that is
submitted to the Office within 180 days
of the date of the alleged violation
or of the date that the complainant knew
or reasonably should have known of the
alleged violation.

A parent or eligible student may file a
written complaint with the Office
regarding an alleged violation under the
Act and this part. The Office's address
is: Family Policy Compliance
Office, U.S. Department of Education,
400 Maryland Avenue, S.W.,
Washington, DC 20202.

(d) The Office may extend the time limit
in this section for good cause shown.

(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(g))

(a) The Office notifies the complainant,
if any, and the educational agency or
institution in writing if it initiates an
investigation under § 99.64(b). The
notice to the educational agency or
institution--

§ 99.64 What is the investigation
procedure?
(a) A complaint must contain specific
allegations of fact giving reasonable
cause to believe that a violation of the
Act or this part has occurred. A
complaint does not have to allege that a

(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(f))
§ 99.65 What is the content of the
notice of investigation issued by the
Office?

(1) Includes the substance of the
allegations against the educational
agency or institution; and

25

(2) Directs the agency or institution to
submit a written response and other
relevant information, as set forth in
§ 99.62, within a specified period of
time, including information about its
policies and practices regarding
education records.

(2) Provides a reasonable period of time,
given all of the circumstances of the
case, during which the educational
agency or institution may comply
voluntarily.

(b) The Office notifies the complainant
if it does not initiate an investigation
because the complaint fails to meet the
requirements of § 99.64.

§ 99.67 How does the Secretary enforce
decisions?

(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(g))
§ 99.66 What are the responsibilities of
the Office in the enforcement process?
(a) The Office reviews a complaint, if
any, information submitted by the
educational agency or institution, and
any other relevant information. The
Office may permit the parties to submit
further written or oral arguments or
information.
(b) Following its investigation, the
Office provides to the complainant, if
any, and the educational agency or
institution a written notice of its findings
and the basis for its findings.
(c) If the Office finds that an educational
agency or institution has not complied
with a provision of the Act or this part, it
may also find that the failure to comply
was based on a policy or practice of the
agency or institution. A notice of
findings issued under paragraph (b) of
this section to an educational agency or
institution that has not complied with a
provision of the Act or this part-(1) Includes a statement of the specific
steps that the agency or institution must
take to comply; and

(Authority:20 U.S.C. 1232g(f))

(a) If an educational agency or
institution does not comply during the
period of time set under § 99.66(c), the
Secretary may take any legally available
enforcement action in accordance with
the Act, including, but not limited to, the
following enforcement actions available
in accordance with part E of the General
Education Provisions Act-(1) Withhold further payments under any
applicable program;
(2) Issue a complaint to compel
compliance through a cease-and-desist
order; or
(3) Terminate eligibility to receive
funding under any applicable program.
(b) If, after an investigation under
§ 99.66, the Secretary finds that an
educational agency or institution has
complied voluntarily with the Act
or this part, the Secretary provides the
complainant and the agency or
institution written notice of the decision
and the basis for the decision.
(NOTE: 34 CFR part 78 contains the
regulations of the Education Appeal
Board.)
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(f); 20
U.S.C. 1234)

26

Appendix A to Part 99 - Crimes
of Violence Definitions
Arson
Any willful or malicious burning or
attempt to burn, with or without intent to
defraud, a dwelling house, public
building, motor vehicle or aircraft,
personal property of another, etc.
Assault Offenses
An unlawful attack by one person upon
another.
(NOTE: By definition there can be no
"attempted" assaults, only "completed"
assaults.)
(ii) Aggravated Assault
An unlawful attack by one person upon
another for the purpose of inflicting
severe or aggravated bodily injury. This
type of assault usually is accompanied
by the use of a weapon or by means
likely to produce death or great bodily
harm. (It is not necessary that injury
result from an aggravated assault when a
gun, knife, or other weapon is used
which could and probably would result
in serious injury if the crime were
successfully completed.)
(b) Simple Assault
An unlawful physical attack by one
person upon another where neither the
offender displays a weapon, nor the
victim suffers obvious severe or
aggravated bodily injury involving
apparent broken bones, loss of teeth,
possible internal injury, severe
laceration, or loss of consciousness.
(c) Intimidation
To unlawfully place another person in
reasonable fear of bodily harm through
the use of threatening words or other

conduct, or both, but without displaying
a weapon or subjecting the victim to
actual physical attack.
(NOTE: This offense includes stalking.)
Burglary
The unlawful entry into a building or
other structure with the intent to commit
a felony or a theft.
Criminal Homicide-Manslaughter by
Negligence
The killing of another person through
gross negligence.
Criminal Homicide-Murder and
Nonnegligent Manslaughter
The willful (nonnegligent) killing of one
human being by another.
Destruction/Damage/Vandalism of
Property
To willfully or maliciously destroy,
damage, deface, or otherwise injure real
or personal property without the consent
of the owner or the person having
custody or control of it.
Kidnapping/Abduction
The unlawful seizure, transportation, or
detention of a person, or any
combination of these actions, against his
or her will, or of a minor without the
consent of his or her custodial parent(s)
or legal guardian.
(NOTE: Kidnapping/Abduction includes
hostage taking.)
Robbery
The taking of, or attempting to take,
anything of value under confrontational
circumstances from the control, custody,
or care of a person or persons by force or

27

threat of force or violence or by putting
the victim in fear.
(NOTE: Carjackings are robbery
offenses where a motor vehicle is taken
through force or threat of force.)
Sex Offences, Forcible
Any sexual act directed against another
person, forcibly or against that person's
will, or both; or not forcibly or against
the person's will where the victim is
incapable of giving consent.
(a)Forcible Rape (Except "Statutory
Rape")
The carnal knowledge of a person,
forcibly or against that person's will, or
both; or not forcibly or against the
person's will where the victim is
incapable of giving consent because of
his or her temporary or permanent
mental or physical incapacity (or
because of his or her youth).
(b) Forcible Sodomy
Oral or anal sexual intercourse with
another person, forcibly or against that
person's will, or both; or not forcibly or
against the person's will where the
victim is incapable of giving consent
because of his or her youth or because of
his or her temporary or permanent
mental or physical incapacity.
(b) Sexual Assault With An Object
To use an object or instrument to
unlawfully penetrate, however slightly,
the genital or anal opening of the body
of another person, forcibly or against
that person's will, or both; or not forcibly
or against the person’s will where the
victim is incapable of giving consent
because of his or her youth or because of
his or her temporary or permanent
mental or physical incapacity.

(NOTE: An "object" or "instrument" is
anything used by the offender other than
the offender's genitalia. Examples are a
finger, bottle, handgun, stick, etc..)
(d) Forcible Fondling.
The touching of the private body parts of
another person for the purpose of sexual
gratification, forcibly or against that
person's will, or both; or not forcibly or
against the person's will where the
victim is incapable of giving consent
because of his or her youth or because of
his or her temporary or permanent
mental or physical incapacity.
(NOTE: Forcible Fondling includes
"Indecent Liberties" and "Child
Molesting.")
Nonforcible Sex Offenses
(Except "Prostitution Offenses'')
Unlawful, nonforcible sexual
intercourse.
(a) Incest
Nonforcible sexual intercourse between
persons who are related to each other
within the degrees wherein marriage is
prohibited by law.
(b)Statutory Rape
Nonforcible sexual intercourse with a
person who is under the statutory age of
consent.
(Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1232g(b)(6) and
18 U.S.C. 16)
[This is not an official version of the
regulations. These regulations are
codified in 34 CFR Part
99.]
[Updated January 2009.]

28

