Right to Financial Privacy Act

Background

Requirements

The Right to Financial Privacy Act of 1978 was
enacted to provide the financial records of financial
institution customers a reasonable amount of
privacy from federal government scrutiny. The
act, which became effective in March 1979,
establishes specific procedures that government
authorities must follow when requesting a cus­
tomer’s financial records from a bank or other
financial institution. It also imposes duties and
limitations on financial institutions prior to the
release of information sought by government
agencies. In addition, the act generally requires
that customers receive

To obtain access to, copies of, or information
contained in a customer’s financial records, a
government authority, generally, must first obtain
one of the following:

• A written notice of the federal authority’s intent to
obtain financial records
• An explanation of the purpose for which the
records are sought
• A statement describing procedures to follow if
the customer does not wish such records or
information to be made available
Certain exceptions allow for delayed notice or no
customer notice at all.
Prior to passage of the act, bank customers were
not informed that their personal financial records
were being turned over to a government authority
and could not challenge government access to the
records. In United States v. Miller (425 U.S. 435
(1976)), the Supreme Court held that because
financial records are maintained by a financial
institution, the records belong to the institution
rather than the customer; therefore, the customer
has no protectable legal interest in the bank’s
records and cannot limit government access to
those records. It was principally in response to this
decision that the Right to Financial Privacy Act was
enacted.

• An authorization, signed and dated by the
customer, that identifies the records, the reasons
the records are being requested, and the
customer’s rights under the act
• An administrative subpoena or summons
• A search warrant
• A judicial subpoena
• A formal written request by a government agency
(to be used only if no administrative summons or
subpoena authority is available)
A financial institution may not release a custom­
er’s financial records until the government authority
seeking the records certifies in writing that it has
complied with the applicable provision of the act. In
addition, the institution must maintain a record of all
instances in which a customer’s records are
disclosed to a government authority pursuant to
customer authorization. The records should include
the date, the name of the government authority,
and an identification of the records disclosed.
Generally, the customer has a right to inspect the
records.
Although there are no specific record-retention
requirements in the act, financial institutions should
retain copies of all administrative and judicial
subpoenas, search warrants, and formal written
requests given to them by federal government
agencies or departments along with the written
certification required.
A financial institution must begin assembling the
required information upon receipt of the agency’s
summons or subpoena or a judicial subpoena and
must be prepared to deliver the records upon
receipt of the written certificate of compliance.

Coverage

Cost Reimbursement

Coverage under the act specifically extends to
customers of financial institutions. A customer
is defined as any person or authorized repre­
sentative of that person who uses or has used
any service of a financial institution. The defini­
tion also includes any person for whom the finan­
cial institution acts as a fiduciary. Corporations
and partnerships of six or more individuals are
not considered customers for purposes of the
act.

With certain exceptions, government entities must
reimburse financial institutions for the cost of
providing the information. This reimbursement may
include costs for assembling or providing records,
reproduction and transportation costs, or any other
costs reasonably necessary or incurred in gather­
ing and delivering the requested information. The
Board’s Regulation S establishes rates and the
conditions under which these payments may be
made.

Consumer Compliance Handbook

RFPA • 1 (1/06)

Right to Financial Privacy Act

Exceptions to
Notice and Certification Requirements
In general, exceptions to the notice and certifica­
tion requirements cover situations pertinent to
routine banking business, information requested by
supervisory agencies, and requests subject to
other statutory requirements. Specific exceptions
include records
• Submitted by financial institutions to any court or
agency when perfecting a security interest,
proving a claim in bankruptcy, or collecting a
debt for itself or a fiduciary
• Requested by a supervisory agency in connec­
tion with its supervisory, regulatory, or monetary
functions (including regular examinations and
any investigations relating to consumer
complaints)
• Sought in accordance with procedures autho­
rized by the Internal Revenue Code (records that
are intended to be accessed by procedures
authorized by the Tax Reform Act of 1976)
• Required to be reported in accordance with any
federal statute (or rule promulgated thereunder,
such as the Bank Secrecy Act)
• Requested by the Government Accountability
Office for an authorized proceeding, investiga­
tion, examination, or audit directed at a federal
agency
• Subject to a subpoena issued in conjunction with
proceedings before a grand jury (with the
exception of cost reimbursement and the
restricted use of grand jury information)
• Requested by a government authority subject to
a lawsuit involving the bank customer (The
records may be obtained under the Federal
Rules of Civil and Criminal Procedure.)
The act also allows financial institutions to
• Release records that are not individually identifi­
able with a particular customer
• Notify law enforcement officials if it has informa­
tion relevant to a violation of the law

Exceptions to Notice Requirements
But Not to Certification Requirements
In certain cases, the act does not require the
customer to be notified of the request but still
requires the federal agency requesting the informa­
tion to certify in writing that it has complied with all
applicable provisions of the act. Exceptions to the
notice provisions include
• Instances in which a financial institution, rather
than a customer, is being investigated

2 (1/06) • RFPA

• Requests for records incidental to the process­
ing of a government loan, loan guaranty, loan
insurance agreement, or default on a governmentguaranteed or government-insured loan (In this
case, the federal agency must give the loan
applicant a notice of the government’s rights to
access financial records when the customer
initially applies for the loan. The financial institu­
tion is then required to keep a record of all
disclosures made to government authorities, and
the customer is entitled to inspect this record.)
• Instances in which the government is engaging
in authorized foreign intelligence activities or the
Secret Service is carrying out its protective
functions
Although the Securities and Exchange Commis­
sion is covered by the act, it can obtain customer
records from an institution without prior notice to the
customer by obtaining an order from a U.S. district
court. The agency must, however, provide the
certificate of compliance to the institution along
with the court order prohibiting disclosure of the
fact that the documents have been obtained. The
court order will set a delay-of-notification date, after
which the customer will be notified by the institution
that the SEC has obtained his or her records.

Delayed-Notice Requirements
Under certain circumstances, a government entity
may request a court order delaying the customer
notice for up to ninety days. This delay may be
granted if the court finds that earlier notice would
result in endangering the life or physical safety of
any person, flight from prosecution, destruction of
or tampering with evidence, or intimidation of
potential witnesses or would otherwise seriously
jeopardize or unduly delay an investigation, trial, or
official proceeding. Delayed notice of up to ninety
days is also allowed for search warrants.

Civil Liability
A customer may collect civil penalties from any
government agency or department that obtains, or
any financial institution or employee of the institu­
tion who discloses, information in violation of the
act. These penalties include (1) actual damages,
(2) $100, regardless of the volume of records
involved, (3) court costs and reasonable attorney’s
fees, and (4) such punitive damages as the court
may allow for willful or intentional violations. An
action may be brought up to three years after the
date of the violation or the date the violation was
discovered. A financial institution that relies in good
faith on a federal agency’s certification may not be
held liable to a customer for the disclosure of
financial records.

Consumer Compliance Handbook

Right to Financial Privacy Act

Examination Procedures

1. Determine if the financial institution has received
any requests for customer financial records
covered by the act since the most recent
compliance examination. If no requests have
been received, determine if the institution is
aware of its responsibilities under the act. If
requests have been received, complete the
remaining procedures.
2. Determine if the financial institution has estab­
lished procedures and internal controls for
fulfilling requests by government authorities for
consumer financial records that are adequate to
ensure that all requests are handled in compli­
ance with the act.
3. Determine if the financial institution provides
customers’ financial records to government
authorities only after receiving the written certi­
fication required by the act.
4. Determine if the financial institution’s internal
procedures require that the institution refrain

Consumer Compliance Handbook

from requiring a customer’s authorization for
disclosure of financial records as a condition of
doing business.
5. Determine if the financial institution keeps
appropriate records of those instances in which
a customer’s financial records are disclosed to
a government authority upon authorization by
the customer, including a copy of the request
and the identity of the government authority.
Determine if the institution provides customers a
copy of the records upon request (unless a
court order blocking access has been
obtained).
6. Determine if the financial institution maintains
appropriate records of all disclosures of a
customer’s records made to a government
authority in connection with a government loan,
guaranty, or insurance program. Determine if
the institution allows customers to examine
these records upon request.

RFPA • 3 (1/06)

Right to Financial Privacy Act

Examination Checklist

1. Has the financial institution received any requests for customer financial
records covered by the Right to Financial Privacy Act since the last
examination?

Yes

No

2. Has the financial institution, in compliance with the act, established
procedures for fulfilling requests by government authorities for customers’
financial records?

Yes

No

3. Does the financial institution have adequate internal controls in place to ensure
that all requests are handled in compliance with the act?

Yes

No

4. As required by section 1103(b) of the act, does the financial institution provide
customers’ financial records to government authorities only after receiving the
written certification required by the act?

Yes

No

5. Does the financial institution refrain from requiring a customer’s authorization
for disclosure of financial records as a condition of doing business?
(§ 1104(b))

Yes

No

6. Does the financial institution maintain records of all disclosures of customer
records made to a government authority in connection with a government loan,
guaranty, or insurance program? (§ 1113(h)(6))

Yes

No

a. Does the financial institution allow customers to examine these records
upon request?

Yes

No

7. Does the financial institution keep adequate records of those instances in
which a customer’s financial records are disclosed to a government authority
upon authorization by the customer, including a copy of the request and the
identity of the government authority? (§ 1104(c))

Yes

No

a. Does the financial institution allow customers to examine these records
upon request (unless blocked by a court order)?

Yes

No

If it has, answer questions 2–7.

Each question 2–7 answered ‘‘no’’ requires an explanation of how the financial
institution intends to comply with the requirements of the act.

Consumer Compliance Handbook

RFPA • 5 (1/06)

