 

Electronic Communications
and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 219

 

SINS

14.
Is:
16.
17.
18.
19.
20,
21.

THE ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS
AND TRANSACTIONS ACT, 2009

ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

PART [
PRELIMINARY
x
Short title and commencement
Interpretation
Application
PART II

LEGAL REQUIREMENTS FoR Data MESsaGES
Legal requirements for data messages
Writing
Use of advanced electronic signature
Determination of originality of data message
Admissibility and evidential weight of data messages
Retention of information in data message

. Production of document or information
11.
12.
13.

Notarisation, acknowledgment and certification
Other requirements
Automated transactions

PART II

COMMUNICATION OF Data MESSAGES

Variation by agreement between parties
Formation and validity of agreements
Time and place of communication, dispatch and receipts
Expression of intent or other statement
Attribution of data messages to originator
Acknowledgment of receipt of data message
Acceptance of electronic filin g and issuing of documents
Requirements may be specified

 

Copies of this Act may be obtained from the Government Printer,
P.O. Box 30136, 10101 Lusaka. Price K36,000 each.
Electronic Communications
220 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

 

22.
23.
24.

25:
26.
27.
28.
29,
30.
31.
32.
33.

34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.

41.
42.

PART IV
CRYPTOGRAPHY PROVIDERS
Registration to provide cryptograph services or products
Register of cryptography providers
Restrictions on disclosure of information in Register J

8 PART V
ACCREDITATION AND RECOGNITION OF AUTHENTICATION SERVICE PROVIDERS
Definition
Appointment of Accreditation Authority and other officers
Selling of authentication products or services
Powers and duties of Accreditation Authority
Accreditation of authentication products and services
Criteria for accreditation
Revocation or suspension of accreditation
Recognition of accredited foreign products and services
Accreditation regulations

PART VI
CONSUMER PROTECTION

Scope of application
Information to be provided by supplier
Cooling off period
Performance
Applicability of foreign law
Non exclusion
Complaints to Authority

PART VII a

PROTECTION OF PERSONAL INFORMATION .

Scope of protection of personal information ¥
Principles for electronically collecting personal information
 

Electronic Communications
and Transactions [ No. 2lof 2009 221

 

43.
44,
45,
46.
47.
48.
49.

50.
51.
52.
53.

34.
a5.
56.
ae
58.
59.
60.
6l.
62.
63.

64.
65.
66.

PART VIII
PROTECTION OF CriTICAL DaTaBASES
Scope of critical database protection
Identification of critical data and critical databases
Registration of critical databases
Management of critical databases
Restrictions on disclosure of information
Audit of critical database
Non compliance with Part

PART IX
Domain NAME REGULATION
Regulation of domain name
Licensing of registrars and registries
Regulations regarding registeries, etc.
Dispute resolution

PART X
LimitaTION OF LIABILITY OF SERVICE PROVIDERS

Definition
Recognition of representative body for service provider
Conditions for eligibility of service provider
No liability for mere conduit
Caching
Hosting
Use of information location tools by service provider
Take down notification
No general obligation on service provider to monitor unlawful activities
Savings

PART XI

INTERCEPTION OF COMMUNICATION

Prohibition of interception of communication
Central Monitoring and Coordination Centre

Power to intercept communication and admissibility of intercepted
communication

f
Electronic Communications
222 [No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

 

67.

68.

69.
70.
rae
72.
73.
74,
75.
76.
77.
78.
19.

80.
$1.
82.
$3.
84.

85.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91,

92

Interception of communication to prevent bodily harm, loss of life or damage
to property

Interception of communication for purposes of determining location in case
of emergency

Prohibition of disclosure of intercepted communication

Disclosure, etc. of intercepted communication by law enforcement officer
Privileged communication to retain privileged character

Prohibition of random monitoring

Protection of user, etc. from fraudulent or other unlawful use of service
Disclosure of communication inadvertently obtained by service provider
Interception of satellite transmission

Prohibition of use of interception device

Assistance by service providers

Duties of service provider in relation to customers

Interception capability of service provider

PART XII
ACCESS TO STORED COMMUNICATION
Prohibition of disclosure of stored communication
Disclosure of customer records
Access to communication in electronic storage
Access to communication in remote computing service

Access to record of electronic communication service or remote computing
service

PART XIII
ENCRYPTING COMMUNICATION
Use of encrypted communication
General construction
Prohibition of unauthorised decryption or release of decryption key
Prohibition of disclosure of record or other information by key holder
Obstruction of law enforcement officer
Sale and acquisition of encryption products
Prohibition of disclosure or use of stored recovery information

. Immunity of recovery agents
é
 

Electronic Communications
and Transactions [ No. 2lof 2009 223

 

PART XIV
CyBER INSPECTIONS
93. Appointment of cyber inspectors
94. Powers of cyber inspectors
95. Power to inspect, search and seize
96. Warrant to enter, etc _
97. Prohibition of disclosure of information to authorised persons

PART XV
CYBER CRIME

98. Definition
99. Unauthorised access to, interception of or interference with data
100. Computer related extortion, fraud and forgery
101. Attempt, aiding and abetting
102. Prohibition of pornography
103. Hacking, cracking and viruses
104. Denial of service attacks
105. Spamming
106. Prohibition of illegal trade and commerce
107. Application of offences under this Act
108. Offence committed by body corporate or un-incorporate body
109. Cognizable offences

PART XVI

GENERAL PROVISIONS

110. General penalty

111. Evidence obtained by unlawful interception not admissible in criminal
proceedings

112. Data protection by Investigator-General
113. Regulations
114. Repeal of Act No. 13 of 2004
 

Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 225

 

. GOVERNMENT OF ZAMBIA
No. 21 of 2009
Date of Assent: 28th August, 2009

An Act to develop a safe, secure and effective environment
for the consumer, business sector and the Government
to conduct and use electronic communications; promote
legal certainty and confidence, and encourage investment
and innovation, in the electronic communications industry;
facilitate the creation of secure communication systems
and networks; establish the Central Monitoring and
Coordination Centre and define its functions; repeal the
Computer Misuse and Crimes Act, 2004; and provide for
matters connected with or incidental to the foregoing.

[31st August, 2009

ENACTED by the Parliament of Zambia.
PART I
PRELIMINARY
1. This Act may be cited as the Electronic Communications
and Transactions Act, 2009, and shall come into operation on such
date as the Minister may, by statutory instrument, appoint.
’ 2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires—
“access ” in relation to a computer system or electronic
communication system, means the right to use or open the
whole or any part of the computer system or electronic
communication system, or to see, open, use, get or enter
information in the computer system or electronic
communication system, with authorisation from the owner
or operator thereof;

,

Enactment

Short title
and

Interpretation
= |
| os

Electronic Communications
226 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

“addressee ” in relation to a data message, means a person
who is intended by the originator of the data message to
receive it, but not a person acting as an intermediary in
respect of that data message;

! advanced electronic signature ” means an electronic
| signature that is unique to the user, capable of verification,
under the sole control of the person using it, and linked to
the data in such a manner that if the data is changed, the
signature is invalidated;

“ Anti-Corruption Commission ” means the Anti-Corruption
| Cap. 91 Commission established under the Anti-Corruption
Commission Act;

 

x

 

“aural transfer” means a transfer containing the human voice
at a point between, and including, the point of origin and
the point of reception; |

“ authentication products or services ” means products or
services designed to identify the holder of an electronic
signature to other persons;

| “authentication service provider” means a person whose
authentication products or services are accredited by the
Accreditation Authority under section twenty-nine or |
recognised by the Minister under section thirty-two;

“ Authority ” means the Communications Authority continued |
Act No. 15 under section four of the Information and Communication |
etsy Technologies Act, 2009;

“ automated transaction” means an electronic transaction |
conducted or performed, in whole or in part, by means of |
data messages in which the conduct of data messages of
one or both parties are not reviewed by a natural person in |
the ordinary course of the natural person’s business or |
employment;

person to read a hyperlinked data message;

“ cache ” means high speed memory that stores data for
relatively short periods of time, under computer control, in
order to speedup data transmission or processing;

* call-related information ” includes switching, dialing or
signaling information that identifies the origin, destination,
termination, duration and equipment identification of each
communication generated or received by a customer or
user of any equipment, facility or service provided by a
service provider and, where applicable, the location of the |
user within the telecommunications system;

“ browser ” means a computer program which allows a |
I
t
|
}
ft
|
Electronic Communications
and Transactions [No. 21 of 2009 227

 

 

“ ecTLD” means country code domain at the top level of the
internet’s main system signed according to the two-letter
codes in the International Standard ISO 3166-1, Codes for
Representation of Names of Countries and their
Subdivision;

* certification service provider ” means a person providing
an duthentication product or service in the form of a digital
certificate attached to, incorporated in or logically associated
with, a data message; ‘

“

communication ” means oral, wire or electronic
communicatien;

“ computer ” means an electronic, magnetic, optical, electro-
chemical or other high speed data processing device,
performing logical, arithmetic or storage functions, or any
data storage facility or communications facility directly
related to, or operating in conjunction with, such device,

“ computer data” means a representation of facts, information
or concepts in a form suitable for processing in a computer
system, or a program which is able to cause a computer
system to perform a function;

A ”

computer system ” means a device or a group of
interconnected or related devices, one or more of which,
pursuant to a program, performs automatic processing of
data;

“ computer virus ” means ‘a written software which is
willfully spread for purposes of causing damage to a
computer system;

“ consumer ” means any natural person who enters, or intends
to enter, into an electronic message with a supplier as the
end-user of the goods or services offered by that supplier;

“content” in relation to an electronic communication, includes
any information concerning the substance, purport or
meaning of that communication;

“ cracking ” means an illegal act of decoding a password;

“ critical data” means data that is declared by the Minister
under section forty-four to be important for purposes of
national security or the economic and social well-being of
the citizens of Zambia;
Electronic Communications
228 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

 

| “ critical database ” means a collection of critical data in
electronic form from where it may be accessed, reproduced
| or extracted;

“ critical database administrator ” means the person
responsible for the management and control of a critical
database;

“ eryptograph product ” means any product that makes use

of cryptographic techniques and is used by a sender or

| recipient of data messages for the purposes of ensuring—
<

(a) that such data can be accessed only by relevant

persons;

(b) the authenticity of the data;

(c) the integrity of the data; or

(d) that the source of the data can be correctly
ascertained;

“ eryptography provider ” means a person who provides, or
who proposes to provide, cryptograph services or products
in Zambia;

“ cryptograph service ” means any service which is provided
to a sender or a recipient of a data message, or to anyone
storing a data message, and which is designed to facilitate
the use of cryptographic techniques for the purpose of
ensuring—

(a) that such data or data message can be accessed, or
can be put, into an intelligible form only by certain
persons;

(b) that the authenticity or integrity of such data or data
message is capable of being ascertained;

(c) the integrity of the data or data message; or
(d) that the source of the data or data message can be
correctly ascertained;

“ cyber ” means the use, simulated environment or state of
connection or association with electronic communications
- or networks including the internet;

* cyber inspector ” means a person appointed as such under
section ninety-three,

“ damage ” means an impairment to the integrity or
availability of data, a program, a system orinformation;

“ data ” means electronic representations of information in
any form;
Electronic Communications
and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 229

 

 

“ data controller ” means any person, either alone or in
common with other persons, who controls and is responsible
for keeping and using of personal information on a computer,
or in structured manual files, and electronically requests,
collects, collates, processes or stores personal information
from or in respect of a data subject;

“ data interference ” means the corruption, damaging, deletion,
deterioration, alteration or suppression of computer data
without authority;

“ data message’ * means data generated, sent, received or
stored by electronic means and includes—

(a) a voice, where the voice is used in an automated
transaction; and

(b) a stored record;

“ data subject ” means any natural person from, or in respect
of whom, personal information has been requested,
collected, collated, processed or stored, after the
commencement of this Act;

“ decryption” means the electronic transformation of data or
communication that has been encrypted;

* delayed access message service ” means a method by
which a communication intended for a person can be
submitted using a communications system, without the
person being in direct contact with anyone submitting the
communication and can be subsequently accessed by the
person, whether or not other persons are able to access it;

“ denial of service attacks ” means rendering a computer
system incapable of providing normal services to its
legitimate users;

* device ” means an apparatus which can be used to intercept
a wire, oral or electronic communication other than—

(a) a telephone or telegraph instrument, equipment or
facility, or any component thereof, furnished to the
subscriber or user by a provider of wire or electronic
communication service in the ordinary course of
business and—

(i) used by the subscriber or user in the ordinary
course of business or furnished by such
subscriber or user for connection to the
facilities of such service and used in the
ordinary course of business; or
 

Electronic Communications

230 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

 

Cap. 96

(ii) used by a provider of wire or electronic
communication service in the ordinary
course of business, or by a law
enforcement officer in the ordinary course
of the law enforcement officer’s duties;
or

{b) a hearing aid or similar device,

“ digital signature ” means an electronic signature consisting
of a transformation of an electronic record using an
asynimetriccrypto-system such that a person having the
initial untransformed electronic record and the signer’s
public key can accurately be determined—

(a) whether the transformation was created using the
private key that corresponds to the signer’s public
key; or

(b) whether the initial electronic record has been altered
since the transformation was made;

and includes voice recognition features, digital fingerprinting
or such other biotechnology feature or process, as may be
prescribed;

distributed denial of service ” means an attack that makes
use of the user or server technology to multiply the
effectiveness of the denial of service attack on one or more
computer systems;

“ domain name ” means an alpha-numeric designation that is
registered or assigned in respect of an electronic address
or other resource on the internet;

* domain name system ” means a system to translate domain
names into IP address or other information;

“ Drug Enforcement Commission ” means the Drug
Enforcement Commission established under the Narcotic
Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act;

“ e-government service ” means any public service provided
by electronic means by any public body;

“ electronic agent *” means a computer program or an
electronic or other automated means used independently
to initiate an action or respond to data messages or
performances in whole or in part, in an automated
transaction;

“ electronic signature ” means data attached to, incorporated
in, or logically associated with other data and which is
intended by the user to serve as a signature;
 

Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 231

 

* electronic communication ” means a transfer of signs, signals,
writing, images, sounds, data or intelligence of any nature
transmitted in whole or in part by radio, electromagnetic,
photo-electronic or photo-optical system, but does not
include—

(a) any wire or direct oral communication;

(b) any communication made through a tone-only paging
device;

(c) any communication from a tracking device; or

(d) electroni€é funds transfer information stored by a
financial institution in a communications system
used for the electronic storage and transfer of
funds;

* electronic communications system ” means a radio, electro-
magnetic, photo-optical or photo-electronic facility for the
transmission of electronic communications, and any
computer facility or related electronic equipment, for
electronic storage of such communications;

3

“ electronic communication service ” means any service
which provides the ability to send or receive electronic
communications to users;

“ electronic storage ” means—

(a) atemporary or intermediate storage of an electronic
communication incidental to the electronic
transmission thereof, and

(b) a storage of any communication by an electronic
communication service for purposes of backup for
protection of such communication;

* electronic surveillance ” means—

(a) the installation or use of an electronic, mechanical
or other surveillance device for acquiring
information, by intentionally directing surveillance
at a particular known person who is located within
Zambia under circumstances in which that person
has a reasonable expectation of privacy; or

(b) the intentional acquisition of the contents of any
communication under circumstances in which a
person has a reasonable expectation of privacy;

* electronic user ” means a known person who isexpected to
possess, control, transmit, or receive electronic information
Electronic Communications
232 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

 

while the person is within Zambia;

“ e-mail ” means electronic mail or a data message used, or
intended to be used, as a mail message between the
originator and addressee in an electronic communication;

“ encryption” means the electronic transformation of data in
order to obscure or hide its content;

“ hacking ” means to access a computer illegally from a remote
location, or without the authority of the owner;

“ homepage ” means the primary entry point web page of a
website;

“ hyperlink ” means a reference or link from some point in
one data message or other technology or functionality,
directing a browser or other technology or functionality, to
another data message or point therein or to another place
in the same data message;

“ ICANN ” means the Internet Corporation for Assigned
Names and Numbers, a California non-profit public benefit
corporation established under the laws of the State of
California in the United States of America;

“ illegal trade and commerce ” means any internet fraud-
related activity, or the use of the internet as a medium for
illegal trade or any other illegal activity;

“ information system ” means a system for generating, sending,
receiving, storing, displaying or otherwise processing data
messages, and includes the internet;

“ information system services ” includes the provision of
connections, the operation of facilities for information
systems, the provision of access to information systems,
the transmission or routing of data messages between or
among points specified by a user and the processing and
storage of data, at the request of the recipient of the service;

“ infringement ” means the illegal use of copyright and other
intellectual property rights;

“ intelligence ” means—

(a) information, whether or not concerning an electronic
user within or outside Zambia, that relates to the
ability of the Republic of Zambia to protect
against—

() an actual or potential breach, attack or any
grave or hostile act on a wire or electronic
communication system;
 

 

Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 233

 

(ii) any breach, sabotage or terrorism on a wire or
electronic communication system by a person
within or outside Zambia, a foreign power or an
agent of a foreign power; or

(iii) clandestine intelligence activities by an intelligence
service, a network of a foreign power or an
agent of a foreign power;

(b) information, whether or not concerning a citizen of Zambia
or an electronic user with respect to a foreign power or
foreign territofy, that relates to the national defence or
the security of the Republic of Zambia; or

(c) the conduct of the foreign affairs of Zambia;

“ intercept ” means to access or acquire the contents of a
communication through an electronic, mechanical or other
device;

“ interception device ” means a device or process which
records or decodes electronic or other impulses which
identify the numbers dialed or otherwise transmitted on
the telephone line to which such device is attached;

“ intermediary ” means a person who, on behalf of another
person, whether as agent or not, sends, receives or stores
a particular data message or provides other services with
respect to that data message;

“ internet ” means the interconnected system of networks
that connects computers around the world using the TCP/
IP or other protocols, and includes future versions thereof;

“IP address” means the dynamic or static number identifying
the point of connection of a computer or other device to
the internet;

“ judge ” means a judge of the High Court;

“ law enforcement officer ” means—
(a) a police officer above the rank of sub-inspector;
(b) an officer of the Anti-Corruption Commission;
(c) an officer of the Drug Enforcement Commission;

(d) an officer of the Zambia Security Intelligence Service;
and

(e) any other person appointed as such by the Minister
for purposes of this Act;
 

Electronic Communications

234 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

“ misuse of device ” means the production, sale, procurement
for use, distribution, possession or otherwise making
available, of acomputer password, access code or data by
which the whole or any part of a computer system is
capable of being accessed, or a device or computer program
designed or adapted primarily for the purpose of committing
an offence;

“ Moniforing Centre ” means the Central Monitoring and
Coordination Center established pursuant to section sixty-
five;

“ natural person” means an individual;

* oral communication ” means a verbal communication or
any communication through sign language, but does not
include any electronic communication;

“ originator” means a person by whom, or on whose behalf,
a data message purports to have been sent or generated
prior to storage, if any, but does not include a person acting
as an intermediary with respect to that data message;

“ person ” includes a public body;

chy

* personal information ” means information about an
identifiable individual, including, but not limited to—

(a) information relating to the race, gender, pregnancy,
marital status, nationality, ethnic or social origin,
colour, age, physical or mental health, well-being,
disability, religion, belief, culture, language and birth
of the individual;

(b) information relating to the education or the medical,
criminal or employment history of the individual,
or information relating to financial transactions in
which the individual has been involved;

(c) any identifying number, symbol, or other particular
assigned to the individual;

(d) the address, fingerprints or blood type of the
individual;

(e) the personal opinions, views or preferences of the
individual, except where they are about another
individual or about a proposal for a grant, an award
or a prize to be made to another individual;

(f) correspondence sent by the individual that is implicitly
or explicitly of a private or confidential nature, or
further correspondence that would reveal the
contents of the original correspondence;

eer
Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 235

 

 

(g) the views or opinions of another individual about the
individual;

(h) the views or opinions of another individual about a proposal
for a grant, an award or a prize to be made to the
individual, but excluding the name of the other individual
where it appears with the views or opinions of the other
individual; and

(i) the name of the individual where it appears with other
personal information relating to the individual or where
the disclosufe of the name itself would reveal information

_about the individual, but excludes information about an
individual who has been dead for more than twenty
years;

“ private body ” means—

(a) a natural person who carries, or has carried on, any
trade, business or profession, but only in such
capacity;

(b) a partnership which carries, or has carried on, any
trade, business or profession; or

(c) any former or existing juristic person, other than a public
body;

“ plain text ” means decrypted or unencrypted data,

“ pornography ” means material that visually depicts images
of a person engaged in explicit sexual conduct,

* public body ” means—

(a) any department of the Government or any local
authority; or

(b) any other functionary or institution exercising—

(i) a power, or performing a duty, under the
Constitution; or

(ii) a power, or performing a function, under any
other law:

“ recovery agent ” means a person or entity who provides
recovery information for storage services;

“ recovery device ” means hardware or software, that allows
plaintext to be obtained, even if attempts are made to
protect it through encryption or other security techniques
or devices, by enabling a modification of any part of a
computer or other system;

Cap. 1
Electronic Communications
236 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

“recovery information ” means a parameter that can be used
with an algorithm, other data or object, which can be used
to decrypt data or communications;

“ registrant ” means an applicant for, or holder of, a domain
name;

“registrar ” means an entity which is licensed by the Authority
to update a repository;

“ Register ” means the Register of cryptography providers
established under section wenty-two;

“ registry ” means an entity licensed by the Authority to
manage and administer a specific sub-domain;

“remote computing service ” means the provision of computer
storage or processing services to the public by means of
an electronic communications system;

“second level domain ” means the sub-domain immediately
following the ccTLD;

“service provider ” means a public or private entity authorised
to—

(a) provide or offer electronic communications by means
of acomputer system;

(6) process or store computer data on behalf of a
communication service or users of such service; or

(c) own an electronic communications system to provide
or offer an electronic communication service;

sign language ” means a language that uses manual
communication, body language, facial expressions, lip
patterns, hand shapes, orientation and movement of the
hands, arms or other parts of the body, other than sound, to
communicate or express a person’s thoughts;

“ spamming ” means an illegal attempt or act to deliver a
message, over the internet, to someone who has not solicited
it,

“ stored communication ” means communication that has been
submitted using a delayed access message service, is
stored on equipment, and can be accessed;

“ stored recovery information ” means information that can
be used to decrypt data or electronic communications:
“sub-domain ” means any subdivision of the zm domain name

space which begins at the second level domain;
Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 0f 2009 237

 

 

4

“system interference ” means the illegal interception, hindering
or data interference of an electronic communications
system or computer system, or the inputting, transmission,
damage, deletion, deterioration, alteration or suppression
of computer data, an electronic communication or its
contents through, or by means of, an illegal access;

“ TCP/IP ” means the Transmission Control Protocol

Internet Protocol used by an information system to connect
to the internet;

“third party ” 4n relation to a service provider, means a
subscriber to the service provider’s services, any other
user of the service provider’s services or a user of
information systems;

“TLD” means atop level domain of the domain name system;

“ traffic data ” means any computer data indicating the
electronic communication’s origin, destination, route, time,
date, size, duration or type of underlying service and any
content thereof;

“transaction” means a transaction of either a commercial
or non-commercial nature or the provision of information
or e-government services, but does not include any banking
transaction or electronic funds transferred by a financial
institution;

ce 2

trespasser ” in relation to a computer or electronic
communication system, means a person who accesses a
computer or electronic communication system without
authorisation, but does not include a person authorised by
the owner or operator of the computer or electronic
communication system to access all or part of the
computer or electronic communication system;

“ universal access ” means access by all citizens of Zambia
to internet connectivity and electronic transactions;

“ user ” means a person or entity who is authorised by a
service provider to use its services;

“ WAP ” means the Wireless Application Protocol; an open
international standard developed by the Wireless
Application Protocol Forum Limited, a company
incorporated under the laws of the United Kingdom, for
applications that use wireless communication, and includes
internet access from a mobile phone;
Electronic Communications
238 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

 

“ wire communication ” means an aural transfer made in
whole or in part for the transmission and storage of
communications by the aid of wire, cable or other like
connection;

“web page ” means a data message on the World Wide
Web;

“ website” means any location on the internet containing
a home page or web page;

“ World Wide Web ” means an information browsing
framework that allows a user to locate and access
information stored on a remote computer and to follow
references from one computer to related information on
another computer;

“ Zambia Development Agency ” means the Zambia
Development Agency established under section four of

Act No. I] the Zambia Development Agency Act, 2006;

of anes “ Zambia Postal Services Corporation ” means the Zambia

Cap. 470 Postal Services Corporation established under the Postal
Services Act; and

“zm domain name space ” means the .zm ccTLD assigned
to the Republic of Zambia according to the two-letter codes
in the International Standard ISO.

Application 3. (1) Subject to the other provisions of this section, this Act
applies in respect of any electronic transaction or data message.

(2) This Act shall not be construed as—

(a) requiring any person to generate, communicate, produce,
process, send, receive, record, retain, store or display
any information, document or signature by, or in,
electronic form; or

(b) prohibiting a person from establishing requirements in
respect of the manner in which that person will accept
data messages.

Cap. 184 (3) Sections five and six of this Act do not apply to the Lands
Act,
Cap. 60 (4) Part II of this Act does not apply to the Wills and

Administration of Testate Estates Act.

{5) This Act shall not be construed as giving validity to any of
the foilowing transactions:
 

Electronic Communications

and Transactions —« [[ No. 21 of 2009 239

 

(a) an agreement for the alienation of immovable property
under the Lands Act;

(b) the execution, retention and presentation of a will or codicil
under the Wills and Administration of Testate Estates
Act;

(c) the execution of a bill of exchange; or
(d) any guarantee.

(6) This Act does not limit the operation of any law that
expressly authorises, prohibits or regulates the use of data messages,
including any requirement‘y, or under, any law for information to
be posted or displayed in a specified manner, or for any information
or document to be transmitted by a specified method.

PART II
LeGaL REQUIREMENTS FoR Data MESSAGES

4. (1) Information shall not be without legal force and effect
merely on the grounds that it is wholly or partly in the form of a
data message.

(2) Information shall not be without legal force and effect
merely on the grounds that it is not contained in the data message
purporting to give rise to such legal force and effect, but is merely
referred to in the data message.

(3) Information incorporated into an agreement and that is not
in the public domain shall be treated as having been incorporated
into a data message if such information is -

(a) referred to in a way in which a reasonable person would
have noticed the reference thereto and incorporation
thereof; and

(b) accessible in a form in which it may be read, stored and
retrieved by the other party, whether electronically or
as a computer printout as long as such information is
reasonably capable of being reduced to electronic form
by the party incorporating it.

5. (1) A requirement in law that a document or information
shall be in writing shall be met if the document or information is—

(a) in the form of a data message; and
(b) accessible in a manner usable for subsequent reference.

Cap. 184

Cap. 60

Legal
requirements
for data

messages

Writing
 

Electronic Communications

240 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

 

Use of

advanced
electronic
signature

Determination
of originality
of data
message

6. (1) Where the signature of a person is required by law and
such law does not specify the type of signature, that requirement in
relation to a data message shall be met only if an advanced electronic
signature is used.

(2) Subject to subsection (1), an electronic signature shall not
be without legal force and effect merely on the grounds that it is in
electronic form.

(3) Where an electronic signature is required by the parties to
an electronic transaction and the parties have not agreed on the
type of electronic signature to be used, that requirement shall be
met in relation to a data message if—

(a) a method is used to identify the person and to indicate the
person’s approval of the information communicated: and

(b) having regard to all the relevant circumstances at the
time the method was used, the method was as reliable
aS was appropriate for the purposes for which the
information was communicated.

(4) Where an advanced electronic signature has been used,
such signature shall be treated as a valid electronic signature and
to have been applied properly, unless the contrary is proved.

(5) Where an electronic signature is not required by the parties
to an electronic transaction, an expression of intent or other
statement shall not be without legal force and effect merely on the
grounds that—

(a) it is in the form of a data message; or

(b) it is not evidenced by an electronic signature but is
evidenced by other means from which such person’s
intent or other statement can be inferred.

7. (1) Where a law requires information to be presented or
retained in its original form, that requirement shall be met by a data
message if—

(a) the integrity of the information from the time when it was
first generated in its final form as a data message, or
otherwise, has passed the assessment specified under
subsection (2); and

(b) that information is capable of being displayed or produced
to the person to whom it is to be presented.

(2) For the purposes of paragraph (a) of subsection (1), the
integrity of any information shall be assessed—
 

Electronic Communications

and Transactions [No.21 0f 2009 241

 

(a) by considering whether the information has remained
complete and unaltered, except for the addition of any
endorsement and any change which arises in the normal
course of communication, storage and display;

(b) in the light of the purpose for which the information was
generated; and

(c) having regard to all other relevant circumstances.

8. (1) In any legal proceedings, the rules of evidence shall
not be applied so as to den the admissibility of a data message in
evidence—

(a) on the mere grounds that it is constituted by a data message;
or

(b) if it is the best evidence that the person adducing it could
reasonably be expected to obtain, on the grounds that it
is not in its original form.

(2) Information in the form of a data message shall be given
due evidential weight.

(3) Inassessing the evidential weight of a data message, regard
shall be had to—

(a) the reliability of the manner in which the data message
was generated, stored or communicated;

(b) the reliability of the manner in which the integrity of the
data message was maintained;

(c) the manner in which its originator was identified; and
(d@) any other relevant factor.

(4) A data message made by a person in the ordinary course
of business, or a copy or printout of, or an extract from, the data
message certified to be correct by an officer in the service of such
person, shall on its mere production in any civil, criminal,
administrative or disciplinary proceedings under any law, the rules
of a self-regulatory organisation or any other law, be admissible in
evidence against any person and rebuttable proof of the facts
contained in such record, copy, printout or extract.

9. (1) Where a law requires information to be retained, that
requirement shall be met by retaining the information in the form of
a data message if—

Admissibility
and

evidential
weight of
data

messages

Retention of
information
in data

message
 

Electronic Communications

242 [No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

 

Production
of

document or
information

Notarisation,
acknowled-
gment

and
certification

(a) the information contained in the data message is accessible
so as to be usable for subsequent reference:

(b) the data message is in the format in which it was generated,
sent or received, or in a format which can be
demonstrated to represent accurately the information
generated, sent or received; and

(c) the origin and destination of that data message, and the
date and time it was sent or received, can be determined.

_ (2) The obligation to retain information referred to in subsection
(1) does not extend to any information the sole purpose of which is
to enable the message to be sent or received.

10. (1) Subject to section twenty-one, where a law requires
a person to produce a document or information, that requirement
shall be met if the person produces, by means of a data message,
an electronic form of that document or information and if—

(a) considering all the relevant circumstances at the time that
the data message was sent, the method of generating
the electronic form of that document provided a reliable
means of assuring the maintenance of the integrity of
the information contained in that document; and

(b) at the time the data message was sent, it was reasonable
to expect that the information contained therein would
be readily accessible so as to be usable for subsequent
reference.

(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the integrity of the
information contained in a document shall be maintained if the
information has remained complete and unaltered, except for—

(a) the addition of any endorsement; or

(6) any immaterial change, which arises in the normal course
of communication, storage or display.

11. (1) Where a law requires a signature, statement or
document to be notarised, acknowledged, verified or made under
oath, that requirement shall be met if the advanced electronic
signature of the person authorised to perform those acts is attached
to, incorporated in or logically associated with the data message
containing such notarisation, acknowledgment or verification.

(2) Where a law requires or permits a person to provide a
certified copy of a document and the document exists in electronic
form, that requirement shall be met if the person provides a print-

out certified to be a true reproduction of the document or information.
¢

 
 

Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 243

 

(3) Where a law requires or permits a person to provide a
certified copy of a document and the document exists in paper or
other physical form, that requirement shall be met if an electronic
copy of the document is certified to be a true copy thereof and the
certification is confirmed by the use of an advanced electronic
signature.

12. (1) A requirement in a law for multiple copies of a
document to be submitted to a single addressee at the same time
shall be satisfied by thesubmission of a single data message that is
capable of being reproduced by that addressee.

(2) An expression in a law, whether used as a noun or verb,
including the words “document”, “record”, “file”, “submit”, “lodge”,
“deliver”, “issue”, “publish”, “write in”, “print” or words or
expressions of similar effect, shall be interpreted so as to include
or permit such form, format or action in relation to a data message

unless otherwise provided for in this Act.

(3) Where aseal is required by law to be affixed to a document
and such law does not prescribe the method or form by which such
document may be sealed by electronic means, that requirement
shall be met if the document indicates that it is required to be under
seal and it includes the advanced electronic signature of the person
by whom it is required to be sealed.

(4) Where any law requires or permits a person to send a
document or information by registered or certified post or similar
service, that requirement shall be met if an electronic copy of the
document or information is sent to the post office, is registered by
the post office and sent by that post office to the electronic address
provided by the sender.

13. (1) In an automated transaction—

(a) an agreement may be formed where an electronic agent
performs an action required by law for agreement
formation;

(6) an agreement may be formed where all parties to a
transaction or either one of them uses an electronic agent;

(c) a party using an electronic agent to form an agreement
shall, subject to paragraph (d), be presumed to be
bound by the terms of that agreement irrespective of
whether that person reviewed the actions of the
electronic agent or the terms of the agreement;

Other
requirements

Automated
transactions
244 [ No. 21 of 2009

Electronic Communications
and Transactions

 

Variation by
agreement
between
parties

Formation
and validity
of
agreements

Time and
place of |

communication,
dispatch and

receipt

(d) a party interacting with an electronic agent to form an
agreement shall not be bound by the terms of the
agreement unless those terms were capable of being
reviewed by a natural person representing that party
prior to agreement formation;

(e) no agreement shall be formed where a natural person
interacted directly with the electronic agent of another
person and made a material error during the creation of
a data message and—

(i) the electronic agent did not provide that person
with an opportunity to prevent or correct the
error;

(ii) that person notified the other person of the error
as soon as practicable after that person learnt
of it;

(iii) that person takes reasonable steps, including steps
that conform to the other person’s instructions
to return any performance received, or, if
instructed to do so, to destroy that performance;
and

(iv) that person has not used or received any material
benefit or value from any performance received
from the other person.

PART III
CoMMUNICATION OF Data MESSAGES

14. This Part only applies ifthe parties involved in generating,
sending, receiving, storing or otherwise processing data messages
have not reached agreement on the issues provided for in the data
messages.

15. (1) Anagreement shall not be without legal force and effect
merely because it was concluded partly or in whole by means of
data messages.

(2) Anagreement concluded between parties by means of data
messages shall be concluded at the time when, and place where,
the acceptance of the offer was received by the offeree.

16. A data message—
 

iecineenesinhanpmeaniail

Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 245

(a) used in the conclusion or performance of an agreement
shall be treated as having been sent by the originator
when it enters an information system outside the control
of the originator or, if the originator and addressee are
in the same information system, when it is capable of
being retrieved by the addressee;

(6) shall be treated as having been received by the addressee
when the complete data message enters an information
system designated or used for that purpose by the
addressee gnd is capable of being retrieved and
processed by the addressee; and

(c) shall be treated as having been sent from the originator’s
usual place of business or residence and as having been

received at the addressee’s usual place of business or
residence.

17. As between the originator and the addressee of a data
message an expression of intent or other statement shall not be
without legal force and effect merely on the grounds that—

(a) it is in the form of a data message; or

(b) it is not evidenced by an electronic signature, but by other
means from which such person’s intent or other
statement can be inferred.

18. A data message is that of the originator if it was sent by—

(a) the originator personally;

(b) a person who had authority to act on behalf of the
originator in respect of that data message; or

(c) an information system programmed by, or on behalf of,
the originator to operate automatically unless it is proved
that the information system did not properly execute
such programming.

19. (1) An acknowledgment of receipt of a data message
shall not be necessary to give legal effect to that message.

(2) An acknowledgment of receipt may be given by—

(a) any communication by the addressee, whether automated
or otherwise; or

(b) any conduct of the addressee, sufficient to indicate to the
originator that the data message has been received.

Expression
of intent or
other
statement

Attribution
of data
messages to
originator

of receipt of
data message
Electronic Communications
246 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

 

Acceptance 20. A public body that, pursuant to any law—
of electronic
filing and
issuing of
documents
(a) accepts the filing of documents, or requires that documents

be created or retained;
(b) issues any permit, licence or approval; or

(c) provides for a manner of payment; may, notwithstanding
anything to the contrary in such law—

(i) acéept the filing of the documents, or the creation
or retention of such documents in the form of
data messages;

(ii) issue the permit, licence orapproval in the form of
a data message; or

(iii) make or receive payment in electronic form or
by electronic means.

Requirements 21. (1) Where a public body performs any of the functions
ee 4 referred to in section twenty, such body may specify, in a daily
newspaper of general circulation in Zambia—

(a) the manner and format in which data messages shall. be
filed, created, retained or issued;

(b) in cases where a data message has to be signed, the type
of electronic signature required;

(c) the manner and format in which electronic signature shall
be attached to, incorporated in or otherwise associated
with, a data message;

(d) the identity of, or criteria that shall be met by, any
authentication service provider used by the person filing
a data message or that the authentication service
provider shall be a preferred authentication service
provider;

(e) the appropriate control processes and procedures to ensure
adequate integrity, security and confidentiality of data
messages or payments; and

(f) any other requirements for data messages or payments.

(2) For the purposes of paragraph (d) of subsection (1), the
Zambia Postal Services Corporation is an authentication service
provider.
 

Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 247

 

(3) The Minister may designate any other authentication service
provider as a preferred authentication service provider based on
such authentication service provider’s obligations in respect of the
provision of universal access.

PART IV
CRYPTOGRAPHY PROVIDERS

22. (1) A person shall not provide cryptograph services
or products in Zambia Without registration under this Part.

(2) Actyptograph service or product shall be treated as being
provided in Zambia if tt is provided—

(a) from any premises in Zambia;

(b) to a person who is present in Zambia where that person
makes use of the service or product; or

(c) toa person who uses the service or product for the purposes
of a business carried on in Zambia or from premises in
Zambia.

(3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding seven
hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a period not
exceeding seven years, or to both.

(4) A person who intends to provide a cryptograph service or
product shall apply to the Authority for registration in the prescribed
manner and form upon payment of the prescribed fee.

(5) The Minister may, on the recommendation of the Authority,
by statutory instrument, make regulations to provide for -

(a) the procedure for the registration of cryptography
providers;

(b) the forms to be used for registration purposes under this
Part and the fees to be paid;

(c) the information and other details to be supplied by
applicants for registration; and

(2) any other matter necessary to give effect to the provisions
of this Part.

Registration
to provide
cryptograph
services or
products
Electronic Communications

 

248 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions
Register of 23. (1) The Authority shall establish and maintain a Register
| cryptography of cryptography providers.
| providers

Restrictions
on disclosure
of
information
in Register

 

(2) The Authority shall record the following particulars in
respect of a cryptography provider in the Register referred to under
subsection (1):

(a) the name and address of the cryptography provider;

(b) a description of the type of cryptograph service or
cryptograph product being provided; and

(c) such other particulars as may be prescribed to identify
and locate the cryptography provider or the products or
services adequately.

(3) Except as otherwise provided by law, a cryptography
provider shall not be required to disclose confidential information
or trade secrets in respect of the cryptograph products or services.

24. (1) Information contained in the Register shall not be
disclosed to any person other than to employees of the Authority
who are responsible for the keeping of the Register.

(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding two
hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a period not
exceeding two years, or to both.

(3) Subsection (1) does not apply in respect of information
which is disclosed—

(a) to any relevant authority for purposes of investigating a
criminal offence or for the purposes of any criminal
proceedings;

(b) to Government agencies responsible for safety and security
in Zambia, pursuant to an official request;

(e) to a cyber inspector; or

(d) for the purposes of any civil proceedings which relate to
the provision of cryptograph services or products and to
which a cryptography provider is a party.
 

 

 

Electronic Communications

 

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 249
PART V
ACCREDITATION AND RECOGNITION OF AUTHENTICATION SERVICE
PROVIDERS

25. In this Part, “accreditation” means recognition of an Definition
authentication product or service by the Accreditation Authority.

26. (1) For the purposes of this Part, the Authority shall act as ral

the Accreditation Authority. Accreditation
Authority
# and other

- (2) The Accreditation Authority, after consultation with the —

Minister, may appoint employees of any Government department
as Accreditation officers.

27. Subject to section twenty-two, a person may, without the Selling of

: : i theca authentication
prior authority of any other person, sell or provide authentication products on
products or services in Zambia. service

28. (1) The Accreditation Authority— Powers and

duties of

Accreditation
(a) shall monitor the conduct, systems and operations of an A*thority
authentication service provider to ensure compliance
with section thirty and the other obligations of
authentication service providers stipulated under this
Act;
(b) may suspend or revoke the accreditation of an
authentication product or service; and

(c) may appoint an independent auditing firm to conduct
periodic audits of an authentication service provider to
ensure compliance with section thirty and the other
obligations of authentication service providers provided
for under this Act.

(2) The Accreditation Authority shall maintain a publicly
accessible database in respect of—

(a) authentication products or services accredited under
section twenty-nine;

(b) authentication products and services recognised under
section éhirty-two;

(c) revoked accreditations or recognitions; and
(d) such other information as may be prescribed.
Electronic Communications

250 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

 

Accreditation
of
authentication
products
and

services

Criteria for
accreditation

29, (1) The Accreditation Authority may accredit authentication
products and services in support of advanced electronic signatures,

(2) An application for accreditation shall be made to the
Accreditation Authority in the prescribed manner and form upon
payment of the prescribed fee.

G3) A person who falsely holds out any products or services as
accredited by the Accreditation Authority under this Act, commits
an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding
one hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a period
not exceeding one year, or to both.

30. (1) The Accreditation Authority shall not accredit
authentication products or services unless the Accreditation
Authority is satisfied that an electronic signature to which the
authentication products or services relate—

(a) is uniquely linked to the user;
(b) is capable of identifying the user:

(c) is created using means that can be maintained under the
sole control of the user;

(d) will be linked to the data or data message to which it
relates in such a manner that any subsequent change of
the data or data message is detectable; and

(e) is based on the face-to-face identification of the user.

(2) For purposes of subsection (1), the Accreditation Authority
shall have regard to the following factors in respect of an
authentication service provider prior to accrediting authentication
products or services: ,

(a) the authentication service provider’s financial and human
resources, including the assets;

(6) the quality of the hardware and software systems;
(c) the procedures for the processing of products or services:

(d) the availability of information to third parties relying on
the authentication product or service;

(e) the regularity and extent of audits by an independent body;

() the factors referred to in subsection (4), where the products
and services are rendered by a certification service
provider; and

« (g) any other relevant factor as may be prescribed.
 

Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 251

 

(3) For the purposes of paragraphs (b) and (c) of subsection (2),
the hardware and software systems and procedures shall—

(a) be reasonably secure from intrusion and misuse;

(b) provide a reasonable level of availability, reliability and
correct operation;

(c) be reasonably suited to performing their intended functions;
and =

(d) adhere to generally accepted security procedures.

(4) For the purposes of subsection (1), where the products or
services are provided by a certification service provider, the
Accreditation Authority may determine, prior to accrediting
authentication products or services—

(a) the technical and other requirements to be met;
(b) the requirements for issuing certificates;
(c) the requirements for certification practice statements,

(d) the responsibilities and liability of the certification service
provider;

(e) the records to be kept and the manner in which, and length
of time for which they must be kept; and

(f) the suspension and revocation procedures.

(5) The Accreditation Authority may impose any conditions or
restrictions necessary for purposes of accrediting an authentication
product or service.

31. (1) The Accreditation Authority may suspend or revoke
an accreditation if it is satisfied that the authentication service
provider has contravened the provisions of this Act or failed or
ceased to meet any of the requirements, conditions or restrictions
subject to which the accreditation was granted or recognition given.

(2) Subject to subsection (3), the Accreditation Authority shall
not suspend or revoke the accreditation or recognition of an
authentication service provider unless it has—

(a) notified the authentication service provider, in writing, of
its intention to do so;

(b) given a description of the alleged breach of any of the
requirements, conditions or restrictions subject to which
the accreditation was granted or recognition was given;
and

Revocation or
suspension of
accreditation

 
Electronic Communications

252 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

 

Recognition
of accredited
foreign
products
and services

Accreditation
regulations

(c) afforded the authentication service provider the opportunity
to—

(i) respond to the allegations in writing; and

(ii) remedy the alleged breach within a specified
period.

(3) The Accreditation Authority may suspend the accreditation

~ or recognition of an authentication service provider with immediate

effect for a périod not exceeding ninety days, pending the
implementation of the procedures required under subsection (2), if
the continued accreditation or recognition of the authentication
service provider is likely to result in irreparable harm to consumers
or any person involved in an electronic transaction in Zambia.

(4) An authentication service provider whose products or
services have been accredited under this Part may terminate the
accreditation at any time, subject to such conditions as the Authority
may determine at the time of accreditation or thereafter.

32. (1) The Minister may, on the recommendation of the
Authority, by statutory notice, and subject to such conditions as the
Minister may determine, recognise the accreditation or recognition
granted to any authentication service provider or its authentication
products or services in any foreign jurisdiction.

(2) An authentication service provider who falsely holds out
any products or services as recognised by the Minister under
subsection (1), commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction,
to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand penalty units or to
imprisonment for a period not exceeding one year, or to both.

33. The Minister may, by statutory instrument, make
regulations to provide for—

(a) the rights and obligations of persons relating to the provision
of accredited products and services;

(b) the manner in which the Accreditation Authority shall
administer and monitor compliance with accreditation
obligations;

(c) the procedure for the granting, suspension and revocation
of accreditation;

(d) the fees to be paid for accreditation;

(e) information security requirements or guidelines; and

(f any other matter necessary for the implementation of this
Part.
 

Electronic Communications
and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 253

 

PART VI
CONSUMER PROTECTION
34. (1) This Part applies only to electronic transactions.

(2) Section rhirty-six does not apply to an electronic
transaction—

(a) for financial services, including but not limited to, investment
services, insurance and re-insurance operations, banking
services and operations relating to dealings in securities;

(b) by way of an atiction;

(c) for the supply of foodstuffs, beverages or other goods
intended for everyday consumption supplied to the home,
residence or workplace of the consumer;

(@) for services which began with the consumer’s consent
before the end of the seven-day period referred to in
subsection (1) of section thirty-six;

(e) where the price for the supply of goods or services is
dependent on fluctuations in the financial markets and
which cannot be controlled by the supplier;

() where the goods—
(i) are made to the consumer’s specifications;
(ii) are clearly personalised;
(iii) by reason of their nature cannot be returned; or
(iv) are likely to deteriorate or expire rapidly;

(g) where audio or video recordings or computer software
were unsealed by the consumer;

(h) for the sale of newspapers, periodicals, magazines and
books;

(i) for the provision of gaming and lottery services; or

(j) for the provision of accommodation, transport, catering or
leisure services and where the supplier undertakes, when

the transaction is concluded, to provide these services
on a specific date or within a specific period.

(3) This Part does not apply to a regulatory authority established
under any other law if that law prescribes consumer protection
provisions in respect of electronic transactions.
Electronic Communications

 

254 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions
Information 35. (1) Asupplier offering goods or services for sale, hire or

to be é :
rovided exchange by way of an electronic transaction shall make the

y i following information available to consumers on the website where
supper the goods or services are offered:

(a) its full name and legal status;

(b) its physical address and telephone number;

(c) its website address and e-mail address;

(d) membership of any self-regulatory or accreditation bodies

to which that supplier belongs or subscribes and the
contact details of that body;

(e) any code of conduct to which that supplier subscribes and
how that code of conduct may be accessed electronically
by the consumer;

(f) in the case of a legal person, its registration number, the
names of its office bearers and its place of registration;

(g) the physical address where that supplier will receive legal
service of documents;

(h) a description of the main characteristics of the goods or
services offered by that supplier to enable a consumer
to make an informed decision on the proposed electronic
transaction;

(i) the full price of the goods or services, including transport
costs, taxes and any other fees or costs;

(j) the manner of payment for the goods or services;

(k) any terms of agreement, including any guarantees, that
will apply to the transaction and how those terms may
be accessed, stored and reproduced electronically by
consumers;

(1) the time within which the goods will be dispatched or
delivered or within which the services will be rendered;

(m) the manner and period within which consumers can
access and maintain a full record of the transaction;

(n) the return, exchange and refund policy of that supplier;
(o) any alternative dispute resolution code to which that

supplier subscribes and how the wording of that code
may be accessed electronically by the consumer;

(p) the security procedures and privacy policy of that supplier
in respect of payment, payment information and personal
information;

arr
 

 

Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 255

 

(q) where appropriate, the minimum duration of the agreement

in the case of agreements for the supply of products or.

services to be performed on an ongoing basis or
recurrently; and

(7) the rights of consumers in terms of section thirty-six where
applicable.

(2) A supplier shall provide a consumer with an opportunity
to—

(a) review the entirg electronic transaction;
(b) correct any mistakes; and

(c) withdraw from the transaction, before finally placing any
order.
(3) Ifasupplier fails to comply with the provisions of subsection
(1) or (2), the consumer may cancel the transaction within fourteen
days of receiving the goods or services under the transaction.

(4) Ifa transaction is cancelled under subsection (3)}—

(a) the consumer shall return the goods of the supplier or,
where applicable, cease using the services performed;
and

(b) the supplier shall refund all payments made by the
consumer minus the direct cost of returning the goods.

(5) Asupplier shall utilise a payment system that is sufficiently
secure in accordance with accepted technological standards at the
time of the transaction and the type of transaction concerned,

(6) Acsupplier is liable for any damage suffered by a consumer
due to a failure by the supplier to comply with subsection (5).

36. (1) Aconsumer may cancel, without giving any reason
and without incurring any penalty, a transaction anda related credit
agreement for the supply—

(a) of goods, within seven days after the date of the receipt
of the goods; or

(b) of services, within seven days after the date of the
conclusion of the agreement.

(2) Where a consumer cancels a transaction under subsection
(1), the only charge that may be levied on the consumer is the
direct cost of returning the goods.

Cooling-off
period
Electronic Communications

256 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

 

Performance

Applicability
of foreign
law

Non-
exclusion

Complaints
to Authority

Scope of
protection of
personal
information

(3) If payment for the goods or services has been effected
prior to a consumer exercising the right referred to in subsection
(1), the supplier shall give the consumer a full refund of the payment,
which refund shall be made within thirty days of the date of
cancellation.

(4) This section shall not be construed as prejudicing the rights
of a consumer provided for in any other law.

37. (1) Asapplier shall execute an order within thirty days
from the date on which the supplier received the order, unless the
parties have agreed otherwise.

(2) Where a supplier has failed to execute an order within
thirty days or within the agreed period, the consumer may cancel
the agreement upon giving seven days’ written notice.

(3) Where a supplier is unable to perform under the agreement
on the grounds that the goods or services ordered are unavailable,
the supplier shall immediately notify the consumer of this fact and
refund any payments forthwith.

38. The protection provided to consumers in this Part applies
irrespective of the legal system applicable to the agreement in
question.

39. Any provision in an agreement which excludes any rights
provided for in this Part is null and void.

40. Aconsumer may lodge a complaint with the Authority in
respect of any non-compliance with the provisions of this Part by a
supplier.

PART VII
PROTECTION OF PERSONAL INFORMATION
41. (1) This Part only applies to personal information that
has been obtained through electronic transactions. .

(2) Adata controller shall subscribe to the principles outlined
in section forty-two by recording such fact in any agreement with
a data subject.

(3) Adata controller shall subscribe to all the principles outlined
in section forty-eight and not merely to parts thereof.

(4) The rights and obligations of the parties in respect of the
breach of the principles outlined in section forty-eight shall be
governed by the terms of any agreement between them.
 

 

Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 257

 

42. (1) A data controller shall have the express written
permission of the data subject for the collection, collation, processing
or disclosure of any personal information on that data subject unless
the data controller is permitted or required to do so by law.

(2) A data controller shall not electronically request, collect,
collate, process or store personal information on a data subject
which is not necessary for the lawful purpose for which the personal
information is required.

(3) Adata controller shall disclose, in writing, to the data subject
the specific purpose for whith any personal information is being
requested, collected, collated, processed or stored.

(4) Adata controller shall not use any personal information for
any other purpose than the disclosed purpose, without the express
written permission of the data subject, unless the data controller is
permitted or required to do so by law.

(5) A data controller shall, for as long as any personal
information is used and for a period of at least one year thereafter,
keep a record of the personal information and the specific purpose
for which the personal information was collected.

(6) Adata controller shall not disclose any personal information
held by the data controller to a third party unless required or
permitted by law or specifically authorised to do so in writing by
the data subject.

(7) A data controller shall, for as long as the personal
information is used and for a period of at least one year thereafter,
keep a record of any third party to whom the personal information
was disclosed and of the date on which, and the purpose for which,
it was disclosed.

(8) Except as otherwise provided under this Act or any other
law, a data controller shall delete or destroy all personal information
under the section.

(9) A data controller may use any personal information to
compile profiles for statistical purposes and may freely trade with
such profiles and statistical data, as long as the profiles or statistical
data cannot be linked to any specific data subject by a third party.

Principles for
electronically
collecting
personal
information
Electronic Communications

 

258 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions
PART VIO
PROTECTION OF CriTIcAL Data Bases
Scope of 43. The provisions of this Part apply to a critical database
critical administrator and critical databases or parts thereof.
database
protection
Identification 44. The Minister may, by statutory instrument—
of critical Z
data and
critical
databases

(a) declare certain classes of information which is of
importance to the protection of the national security of
the Republic, or the economic and social well-being of
its citizens, to be critical data for the purposes of this
Part; and

(b) establish procedures to be followed in the identification of
critical databases for the purposes of this Part.
Registrationof 45. (1) The Minister may, by statutory instrument, determine—

critical

(a) the requirements for the registration of critical databases
databases

with the Authority or such other body as the Minister
may specify;

(b) the procedure to be followed for the registration of critical
databases; and

(c) any other matter relating to the registration of critical
databases. .

(2) The following information shall be recorded in a register
maintained for purposes of this Part:

(a) the full name, address and contact details of the critical
database administrator;

(b) the location of the critical database, including the locations
of component parts thereof, where a critical database is
not stored at a single location; and

(c) a general description of the categories or types of
information stored in the critical database, excluding
the contents of such critical database.

(3) The information referred to in subsection (2) shall not be
recorded in a critical database if that information is likely to
prejudice—

(a) the security of the critical database; or
(b) the physical safety of a person in control of the critical
database.
 

Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 259

 

46. (1) The Minister may prescribe minimum standards in
respect of—

(a) the general management of critical databases;
(b) access to, transfer and control of critical databases;

(c) the infrastructural or procedural requirements for securing
the integrity and authenticity of critical data;

(d) the procedures and technological methods to be used in
the storage or archiving of critical databases;

(e) the disaster recovefy plans in the event of loss of critical
databases or parts thereof; and

(f any other matter necessary for the adequate protection,
management and control of critical databases.

(2) The regulations referred to in subsection (1) shall, in respect
of critical databases administered by public bodies, be made in
consultation with the Public Service Commission.

47. (1) Information contained in a register provided for in
section forty-five shall not be disclosed to any person other than to
officers of a Government department, or other body specified by
the Minister, who are responsible for the keeping of the register.

(2) Subsection (1) does not apply in respect of information which
is disclosed—

(a) to an authority which is investigating a criminal offence,
or for the purposes of any criminal proceedings;

(b) to Government agencies responsible for safety and security
in the Republic, pursuant to an official request;

(c) to a cyber inspector for purposes of section forty-eight,
or

(d) for the purposes of any civil proceedings which relate to
the critical data or parts thereof.

48. (1) The Authority may cause audits to be performed of a
critical database administrator to evaluate compliance with the
provisions of this Part.

(2) The audit referred to in subsection (1) may be performed
by cyber inspectors or an independent auditor.

49. (1) The Authority shall, where an audit reveals that a
critical database administrator has contravened any provision of
this Part, notify the critical database administrator in writing,
stating—

Management
of critical
databases

Restrictions
on
disclosure
of
information

Audit of
critical
database

Non-
compliance
with Part

 
Electronic Communications
260 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

 

(a) the finding of the audit report;
(b) the action required to remedy the non-compliance; and

(c) the period within which the critical database administrator
shall take the remedial action.

(2) A critical database administrator that fails to take any
remedial action within the period stipulated under subsection (1)
commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not
exceeding one hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment
for a term not exceeding one year, or to both.

PART IX
DomaAIN NAME REGULATION
50. (1) The Authority shall—
(a) administer and manage the .zm domain name space;

(b) comply with international best practice in the administration
of the .zm domain name space;

(c) license and regulate registries and the registers for the
registries; and
(d) publish guidelines on—

(i) the general administration and management of the
.zm domain name space;

(ii) the requirements and procedures for domain name
registration; and
(iil) the maintenance of and public access to a
repository.
(2) The Authority shall enhance public awareness on the
economic and commercial benefits of domain name registration.
(3) The Authority, in relation to domain name regulation—
(a) may conduct such investigations as it may consider
necessary;

(6) shall conduct research into, and keep abreast of,
developments in Zambia and elsewhere on the domain
name system;

(c) shall continually survey and evaluate the extent to which
the .zm domain name space meets the needs of the
citizens of Zambia; and

(d) may issue information on the registration of domain names
in Zambia.
 

 

Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 261

 

(4) The Authority may, and shall when so requested by the
Minister, make recommendations to the Minister in relation to policy
on any matter relating to the .zm domain name space.

(5) The Authority shall continually evaluate the effectiveness
of this Act and the management of the .zm domain name space.

(6) The Authority may—

(a) liaise, consult and co-operate with any person or other
authority; and

(b) appoint experts and other consultants on such conditions
as the Authority may determine.

(7) The Authority may delegate any of its functions under this
Part to such person or institution as the Authority may determine.

(8) The Authority shall, in relation to the .zm domain name
space existing prior to the commencement of this Act, uphold the
vested rights and interests of parties involved in the management
and administration of the .zm domain name space at the date of its
establishment:

Provided that—

(a) the parties shall be granted a period of six months during
which they may continue to operate in respect of their
existing delegated sub-domains; and

(b) after the expiry of the six-month period, the parties shall
apply to be licensed registrars and registries as provided
for in this Part.

51. (1) A person shall not update a repository or administer a
second level domain unless the person is licensed to do so by the
Authority.

(2) Anapplication to be licensed as a registrar or registry shall
be made in the prescribed manner upon payment of the prescribed
fee.

(3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding five
hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a period not
exceeding five years, or to both.

52. “The Minister may, in consultation with the Authority, by
statutory instrument, make regulations to provide for—

(a) the requirements which registries and registrars shall meet
in order to be licensed, including standards relating to
operational accuracy, stability, robustness and efficiency;

Licensing of
registrars
and

registries

Regulations
regarding
registries, etc.
Electronic Communications

262 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

 

Dispute
resolution
Act No. 19

of 2001

Definition

Recoanitios
QO :

representative
body for

service
provider

(b) the circumstances and manner in which registrations may
be assigned, registered, renewed, refused, or revoked by
the registries;

(c) the pricing policy;

(d) the provisions for the restoration 1 of a domain name
registration and penalties for late payments;

(e) the terms of the domain name registration agreement which
registries ‘and registrars shall adopt and use in registering
domain names, including issues in respect of privacy,
consumer protection and alternative dispute resolution;

(f) the processes and procedures to avoid unfair and anti-
competitive practices, including bias to, or preferential
treatment of actual or prospective registrants, registries or
registrars, protocols or products;

(g) the requirements to ensure that each domain name
contains an administrative and technical contact;

(h) the creation of new sub-domains;

(i) the procedures for ensuring the monitoring of compliance
with the provisions of this Act, including regular .zm domain
name space technical audits; and

(j) any other matter relating to the zm domain name space
as may be necessary to achieve the objectives of this Part.

53. Any dispute under this Part shall be determined in
accordance with the Arbitration Act.
PART X
LimiraTIon OF LIABILITY OF SERVICE PROVIDERS
54. Inthis Part, “service provider” means any person providing
information system services.

55. (1) The Minister may, on application by a ropecpeniaiive
body for service providers, by notice in the Gazette, teoggnise such
body for purposes of section fifty-six.

(2) The Minister shall recognise a representative body referred
to in subsection (1) if—
(a) its members are subject to a code of conduct;
(b) its membership is subject to adequate criteria,

(c) the code of conduct requires continued adherence to
, adequate standards of conduct; and

(d) the representative body is capable of monitoring and
enforcing its code of conduct adequately.
 

Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 263

 

56. The limitations on liability established by this Part apply to
a service provider if—

(a) the service provider is a member of the representative
body referred to in section fifty-five; and

(®) the service provider has adopted and implemented the
code of conduct of that representative body.

57. (1) Aservice provider is not liable for providing access to,
or for operating facilities for, information systems or transmitting,
routing or storage of data messages through an information system
under the service provider’s control, as long as the service
provider—

(a) does not initiate the transmission;
(b) does not select the addressee;

(c) performs the functions in an automatic, technical manner
without selection of the data; and

(d) does not modify the data contained in the transmission.

(2) The acts of transmission, routing and provision of access
referred to in subsection (1) include the automatic, intermediate
and transient storage of the information transmitted in so far as this
takes place—

(a) for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission in
the information system;

(b) ina manner that makes it ordinarily inaccessible to anyone
other than anticipated recipients: and

(c) for a period no longer than is reasonably necessary for
the transmission.

(3) Notwithstanding this section, a court may order a service
provider to terminate or prevent any unlawful activities under this
Act or any other law.

58. (1) A service provider that transmits data provided by a
recipient of the service through an information system under the
service provider’s control shall not be liable for the automatic,
intermediate and temporary storage of that data, where the purpose
of storing such data is to make the onward transmission of the data
more efficient to other recipients of the service upon their request,
as long as the service provider—

Conditions
for
eligibility of
service
provider

No liability
for mere
conduit

Caching
264 [No. 21 of 2009

Electronic Communications
and Transactions

 

Hosting

(a) does not modify the data;

(6) complies with conditions on access to the data;

(c) complies with guidelines regarding the updating of the
data, specified in a manner widely recognised and used
by the industry;

(d) does not interfere with the lawful use of technology, widely
recognised and used by the industry, to obtain information
on the use“of the data; and

fe) removes or disables access to the data stored upon
receiving a take-down notice referred to in section sixty-
one.

(2) Notwithstanding this section, a court may order a service
provider to terminate or prevent any unlawful activities under this
Act or any other law.

59. (1) Aservice provider that provides a service consisting
of the storage of data provided by a recipient of the service, shall
not be liable for damages arising from data stored at the request of
the recipient of the service, as long as the service provider—

(a) does not have actual knowledge that the data message,
or an activity relating to the data message, is infringing
the rights of a third party;

(b) is not aware of facts or circumstances from which the
infringing activity or the infringing nature of the data
message is apparent; and

(c) upon receipt of a take-down notification referred to in
section sixty-one, acts expeditiously to remove or to
disable access to the data.

(2) The limitations on liability established by this section do not
apply to a service provider unless the service provider has designated
an agent to receive notifications of infringement and has provided
through the service provider’s services, including the websites in
locations accessible to the public, the name, address, phone number
and e-mail address of the agent.

(3) Subsection (1) shall not apply where the recipient of the
service is acting under the authority or the control of the service
provider.

(4) Notwithstanding this section, a court may order a service
provider to terminate or prevent any unlawful activities under this
Act or any other law.

e
 

Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 265

 

60. (1) A service provider shall not be liable for any damage
incurred by a person ifthe service provider refers or links users to
a web page containing an infringing data message or infringing
activity, by using information location tools, including a directory,
index, reference, pointer, or hyperlink, and where the service
provider—

(a) does not have actual knowledge that the data message or
an activity relating to the data message is infringing the
rights of that person;

(b) is not aware of facts or circumstances from which the
infringing activity or the infringing nature of the data
message is apparent;

(c) does not receive a financial benefit directly attributable to
the infringing activity; and

(d) removes, or disables access to, the reference or link to
the data message or activity within a reasonable time
after being informed that the data message or the activity
relating to that data message, infringes the rights of a
person.

61. (1) A recipient of service may, through a take-down
notification, notify the service provider of—

(a) any data or activity infringing the rights of the recipient or
of a third party;

(b) any unlawful material or activity; or

(c) any other matter conducted or provided contrary to the
provisions of this Act.

(2) For the purposes of this Part, a take-down notification to a
service provider shall be in writing, addressed by the complainant
to the service provider or its designated agent, and shall include—

(a) the full names and address of the complainant;

(b) the written or electronic signature of the complainant;

(c) identification of the right that has allegedly been infringed;

(d) identification of the material or activity that is claimed to
be the subject of unlawful activity;

(e) the remedial action required to be taken by the service
provider in respect of the complaint;

(f) the telephonic and electronic contact details, ifany, of the
complainant;

Use of
information
location
tools by
service
provider

Take-down
notification
Electronic Communications

266 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

 

No general
obligation
on service
provider to
monitor
unlawful
activities

 

Savings

(g) a statement that the complainant is acting in good faith;
and

(h) astatement by the complainantthat the information in the
take-down notification is to the complainant’s knowledge
true and correct.

(3) Any person who lodges a false take-down notification with
aservice provider commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction,
to a fine not exceedifig two hundred thousand penalty units or to
imprisonment for a period not exceeding two years, or to both.

62. (1) Subject to the other provisions of this Part, a service
provider shall not be under any obligation to—

(a) monitor the data which the service provider transmits or
stores; or

(b) actively seek facts or circumstances indicating an unlawful
activity.

(2) Minister may, on the advice of the AuthorityZby statutory
instrument, prescribe procedures for service providers to—

(a) inform the competent public authorities of alleged illegal
activities undertaken, or information provided, by
recipients of their service; and

(b) communicate to the competent authorities, at their request,
information enabling the identification of recipients of
their service.

63. This Part does not affect—

(a) the obligation of a service provider acting as such under a
licensing or other regulatory system established by, or
under, any law;

5 i

(b) any obligation imposed by law or by a court, to remove,

block or deny access to any’data message; or

(c) any right to limitation of liability based on the Constitution.

 
 

Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 267

 

PART XI
INTERCEPTION OF COMMUNICATION

64. (1) Except as otherwise provided under this Act, a person
shall not—

(a) intercept, attempt to intercept or procure another person
to intercept or attempt to intercept, any communication,
or

(b) use, attempt to use or procure another person to use or
attempt to use any électronic, mechanical or other device
to intercept any communication.

(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and is liable, upon conviction, to imprisonment for a period
of twenty-five years.

65. (1) There shall be established a Centre to be known as the
Central Monitoring and Coordination Centre.

(2) The Monitoring Centre shall be the sole facility through
which authorised interceptions in terms of this Act shall be effected
and all the intercepted communication and call-related information
of any particular interception target forwarded.

(3) The Monitoring Centre shall be managed, controlled and
operated by the department responsible for Government
communications.

66. (1) Subject to subsection (2), a law enforcement officer
may, where the law enforcement officer has reasonable grounds
to believe that an offence has been committed, is likely to be
committed or is being committed and for the purpose of obtaining
evidence of the commission of an offence under this Act, apply, ex
parte, to a judge of the High Court, for an interception of
communications order.

(2) A law enforcement officer shall, before making an
application under subsection (1), obtain the prior written consent of
the Attorney-General. ,

(3) A judge to whom an application is made under subsection
(1) may make an order—

(a) requiring a service provider to intercept and retain a
specified communication or communications of a
specified description received or transmitted, or about
to be received or transmitted by that service provider;

Prohibition
of i
interception

of .
communicaion

Central
Monitoring
and
Coordination
Centre

Power to
intercept

Pn
and
admissibility
of

intercepted
Pe

 
Electronic Communications
268 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

 

(b) authorising the law enforcement officer to énter any
premises and to install on such premises, any device for
the interception and retention of a specified
communication or communications of a specified
description and to remove and retain such device;

(¢) requiring any person to furnish the law enforcement officer
with such information, facilities and assistance as the
judge-considers necessary for the purpose of the
installation of the interception device; or

(d) imposing the terms and conditions for the protection of
the interests of the persons specified in the order or any
third parties or to facilitate any investigation;

if the judge is satisfied that the written consent of the Attorney-
General has been obtained as required by subsection (2) and that
there are reasonable grounds to believe that material information
relating to—

(i) the commission of an offence under this Act or any other
law; or

(ii) the whereabouts of the person suspected by the law
enforcement officer to have committed the offence;

is contained in that communication or communications of that
description.

(4) Any information contained ina communication—

(a) intercepted and retained pursuant to an order under
subsection (3); or

(b) intercepted and retained in a foreign State in accordance
with the law of that foreign State and certified by a
judge of that foreign State to have been so intercepted
and retained;

shall be admissible in proceedings for an offence under this Act, as
evidence of the truth of its contents notwithstanding the fact that it
contains hearsay.

(5) An interception of communications order referred to in
this section shall be valid for a period of three months and may,
upon application by a law enforcement officer, be renewed for
such period as the judge may determine.

(6) Anaction shall not lie in any court against a service provider,
any officer, employee or agent of the service provider or other
specified person, for providing information, facilities or assistance
in accordance with the terms of a court order under this Act or any
other law.

 
 

Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 269

 

67. (1) A law enforcement officer may, where the law
enforcement officer has reasonable grounds to believe that—

(a) a person who is a party to any communication—

(i) has caused, or may cause, the infliction of bodily
harm to another person;

(ii) threatens, or has threatened, to cause the infliction
of bgdily harm to another person;

(iii) threatens, or has threatened, to kill oneself or
another person, or to perform an act which
would or may endanger that party’s own life or
that of another person, would or may cause the
infliction of bodily harm to that party or another
person; or

(iv) has caused or may cause damage to property;

(b) it is not reasonable or practical to make an application
under section sixty-six for an interception of
communications order because the delay to intercept a
specified communication or communications would result
in the actual infliction of bodily harm, the death of another
person or damage to property; and

(c) the sole purpose of the interception is to prevent bodily
harm to, or loss of life of, any person or damage to
property,

intercept any communication and orally request a service provider
to route duplicate signals of indirect communications specified in
that request to the Monitoring Centre.

(2) A service provider shall, upon receipt of a request made
under subsection (1) by a law enforcement officer, route the
duplicate signals of the indirect communications to the Monitoring
Centre.

(3) A law enforcement officer who makes a request to a
service provider under subsection (1) shall, immediately after
making that request, furnish the service provider with a written
confirmation of the request setting out the information given by
that law enforcement officer to that service provider in connection
with the request.

Interception
of .
communication
to ere
bodily harm,
loss of life or

damage to
property
Electronic Communications

270 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

 

Interception
of
communication
for purposes
of

determining
location in
case of
emergency

(4) A law enforcement officer who intercepts any
communication pursuant to subsection (1) or (2) shall, immediately
after the interception of the communication, submit to a judge—

(a) acopy of the written confirmation referred to in subsection
(3);
(b) an affidavit setting out the results and information obtained
' from that interception; and

(c) any recording of the communication that has been obtained
by means of that interception, a full or partial transcript
of the recording of the communication and any notes
made byhe law enforcement officer, if nothing in the
communication suggests that bodily harm, attempted
bodily harm or threatened bodily harm has been caused
or is likely to be caused.

(5) A service provider who, in accordance with subsection
(2), routes duplicate signals of indirect communications to the
Monitoring Centre shall, as soon as practicable thereafter, submit
an affidavit to a judge setting out the steps taken by that service
provider in giving effect to the request and the results obtained
from such steps.

(6) A judge shall keep all written confirmations and affidavits
and any recording, transcripts or notes submitted under subsections
(4) and (5), or cause it to be kept, for a period of at least five years.

(7) Where a judge, upon receipt of any written confirmation
and affidavits under this section, determines that the interception
was effected or used for purposes contrary to, or in contravention
of the provisions of this Act or any other law, the judge may make
such order as the judge considers appropriate in relation to the
service provider or the law enforcement officer.

68. (1) Where a person is a party to a communication and that
person, as a result of information received from another party to
the communication, in this section referred to as the “sender”, has
reasonable grounds to believe that an emergency exists by reason
of the fact that—

(a) the life of another person, whether or not the sender, is
being endangered;

(b) a person is dying, or is being or has been injured;
(c) a person’s life is likely to be endangered;
(a) a person is likely to die or to be injured; or

(e) property is likely to be damaged, is being damaged or has
been damaged; and
 

Electronic Communications
and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 271

 

the location of the sender is unknown to the person, that person
may, if that person is—

(a) a law enforcement officer, and has reasonable grounds to
believe that determining the location of the sender is
likely to be of assistance in dealing with the emergency,
orally request, or cause another law enforcement officer
to orally request, a service provider to—

(i) intercept any communication to or from the sender,
for purposes of determining the sender’s
location; or

(ii) determine the location of the sender in any other
manner which the service provider considers
appropriate; or

(b) not a law enforcement officer, inform, or cause another
person to inform, any law enforcement officer of the
matter referred to in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (d) and
(e).

(2) Alawenforcement officer who receives information under
subsection (1) may, if the law enforcement officer has reasonable
grounds to believe that determining the location of the sender is
likely to be of assistance in dealing with an emergency, orally
request, or cause another law enforcement officer to orally request,
a service provider to determine the location of the sender.

(3) Aservice provider shall, upon receipt of a request made
under subsection (1) or (2)—

(a) intercept any communication to, or from, the sender for
purposes of determining the sender’s location; or

(b) determine the location of the sender in any other manner
which the service provider considers appropriate;

and if the location of the sender has been so determined, the service
provider shall, immediately after determining that location, provide
the law enforcement officer who made the request with the location
of the sender and any other information obtained from that
interception which the service provider determines, is likely to be
of assistance in dealing with the emergency.

(4) A law enforcement officer who makes a request to a
service provider under subsection (1) or (2) shall—

(a) immediately after making that request, furnish the service
provider with a written confirmation of the request setting
out the information given by that law enforcement officer
to that service provider in connection with the request;
 

Electronic Communications
272 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

 

(b) immediately after making that request, furnish a judge
with a copy of the written confirmation; and

(c) if the location of the sender and any other information has
been provided to the law enforcement officer under
subsection (3), immediately after receipt thereof, submit
to a judge an affidavit setting out the results and
information obtained from that interception.

(5) Aservice provider who has taken any of the steps referred
to in subsection (3), shall, immediately thereafter, submit to a
judge— ;

(a) an affidavit setting out the steps taken by the service
provider in giving effect to the request of a law
enforcement officer and the results and information
obtained from such steps; and

(b) if the steps included the interception of an indirect
communication, any recording of that indirect
communication obtained by means of the interception, a
full or partial transcript of the recording and any notes
made by that service provider of the indirect
communication.

(6) A judge shall keep all written confirmation and affidavits
and any recordings, transcripts or notes submitted under subsections
(4) and (5) or cause it to be kept, for a period of at least five years.

(7) Where a judge, upon receipt of any written confirmation
and affidavits under this section, determines that the interception
was effected or used for purposes contrary to, or in contravention
of the provisions of this Act or any other law, the judge may make
such order as the judge considers appropriate in relation to the
service provider or the law enforcement officer.

Psi 69. (1) A law enforcement officer who intercepts any
alee communication pursuant to an interception of communications order
of

shall not disclose the communication or use the communication in

any manner other than in accordance with the provisions of this
Act.

(2) Except as otherwise provided in this Act, a person who—

intercepted
communication

(a) without authorisation, accesses, discloses or attempts to
disclose to another person, the contents of any
intercepted communication; or

(6) without authorisation, uses or attempts to use, the contents
of any intercepted communication;
 

Electronic Communications
and Transactions

[ No. 21 of 2009 273

 

commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to imprisonment
for a period of twenty-five years.

70. (1) A law enforcement officer who intercepts any
communication pursuant to an interception of communications order
may disclose the information to another law enforcement officer where
the disclosure is necessary for the determination of the commission
of an offence or the whereabouts of a person suspected to have
committed an offence.

(2) Where a law enforcement officer, in the performance of
any functions under this A€t, intercepts any communication relating
to the commission of an offence under any other law, the law
enforcement officer shall disclose or use the communication in
accordance with the provisions of this Act or that other law.

71. A privileged wire, oral or electronic communication
intercepted in accordance with the provisions of this Act does not
lose its privileged character.

72. (1) Aservice provider shall not utilise the service for observing
or random monitoring except for mechanical or service quality control
checks.

(2) Aservice provider who contravenes subsection (1) commits
an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding five
hundred thousand penalty units, or to imprisonment for a period not
exceeding five years, or to both.

(3)

In this section—

“ monitoring ” includes listening to or recording communication
by means of a monitoring device; and

“ monitoring device” means any electronic, mechanical or other
instrument, device, equipment or apparatus which is used or
can be used, whether by itself or in combination with any
other instrument, device, equipment or apparatus, to listen to
or record any communication.

73. (1) A service provider shall record that a wire or electronic
communication was initiated or completed in order to protect the
service provider, another service provider giving a service for the
completion of a wire or electronic communication or a user of the
service, from fraudulent, unlawful or abusive use of the service.

(2) Aservice provider who records any electronic communication
under subsection (1) shall immediately inform a law enforcement
officer.

Disclosure,
ete. of
intercepted
communication
by law
enforcement
officer

Privileged
communication
to retain
privileged
character

Prohibition
of

random
monitoring

Protection
of user,
etc. from
fraudulent
or other
unlawful
use of
service
Electronic Communications
274 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

 

Disclosure of 74. (1) Subject to subsection (2), a service provider shall not
communication disclose the contents of a communication inadvertently obtained
inadvertently through the provision of service to another person other than the
obtained by addressee, the intended recipient, or an agent of the addressee or

se i . . .
ae intended recipient.

(2) A service provider may disclose the contents of a
communicatign referred to under subsection (1}—

#
(a) with the consent of the originator, to the addressee or
intended recipient of the communication;

(b) to a person employed or authorised, or whose facilities
are used, to forward the communication to its destination;
or

(c) toa law enforcement officer, where the information relates
to the commission of an offence.

(3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding five
hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a period not
exceeding five years, or to both.

Interception 75. (1) An interception of a satellite transmission that is not

of encrypted or scrambled and that is transmitted to a broadcasting

satellite station for purposes of transmission to the public or as an audio

transmission sub-carrier intended for re-distribution to facilities open to the public
is not an offence under this section unless the interception is for
the purpose of a direct or indirect commercial advantage or private
financial gain.

(2) Subsection (1) does not apply to any data transmission or a

telephone call.
Prohibition 76. (1) Subject to subsection (3), a person shall not use an
of interception device.
use or : .
ae (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
evice :

offence and is liable, upon conviction, to imprisonment for a period
of twenty-five years.

(3) Subsection (1) does not apply to the use of an interception
device by a service provider or law enforcement officer—

(a) for the operation, maintenance and testing of a
communication service;

(b) to protect the rights or property of the service provider or
the users of the service from abuse of service or any
other unlawful use of the service;
 

Electronic Communications
and Transactions [No.21 of 2009 275

 

(c) to record that the communication was initiated or completed
in order to protect the service provider or another
service provider in the completion of the communication,
or a user of the service, from fraudulent, unlawful or
abusive use of the service; or

(d) where the consent of the user of the service has been

obtained. Z
77. (1) A service provider shall ensure that the service — Assistance
provider— by service

3 Ss gil roviders
(a) uses electronic communications systems that are e

technically capable of supporting lawful interceptions in
accordance with this Act;

(b) installs hardware and software facilities and devices to
enable the interception of communications when so
required by a law enforcement officer or under a court
order;

(c) provides services that are capable of rendering real-time
and full-time monitoring facilities for the interception of
communications;

(d) provides all call-related information in real-time or as soon
as possible upon call termination;

(e) provides one or more interfaces from which any
intercepted communication shall be transmitted to the
Monitoring Centre;

(# transmits intercepted communications to the Monitoring
Centre through fixed or switched connections, as the
case may be; and

(g) provides access to all intercepted subjects operating
temporarily or permanently within the service provider’s
communications systems, and where the interception
subject is using features to divert calls to- other service
providers or terminal equipment, access to such
otherproviders or equipment.

(2) Aservice provider who fails to comply with the requirements
of subsection (1) commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction,
to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand penalty units or to
imprisonment for a period not exceeding five years, or to both.

 
Electronic Communications

 

276 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions
Duties of 78. (1) Aservice provider shall, before entering into a contract
provile -in With any person for the provision of any service, obtain—
ee (a) the person’s full name, residential address and identity
number contained in the person’s identity document;
(b) in the case of a corporate body, its business name and
address and the manner in which it is incorporated or
registered; and
(c) any other information which the service provider considers
_ necessary for the purpose of enabling it to comply with
the requirements of this Act.
ié ,

(2) A service provider shall ensure that proper records are
kept of the information referred to in subsection (1) and any change
in that information.

Interception 79. (1) Notwithstanding any other law, a service provider
capability of — shal|-—

service Lcaccict . : gg :

provider (a) provide a service which has the capability to be intercepted;

and

(b) store call-related information in accordance with the
provisions of this Act.

(2) The Minister may, after consultation with the Authority, by
statutory instrument, make regulations to provide for—
(a) the manner in which effect is to be given to subsection
(1) by every service provider,
(b) the security, technical and functional features of the
facilities and devices to be acquired by every service
provider to enable—

(i) the interception of communication under this Act;
and

(ii) the storing of call-related information; and

(c) the period within which the requirements shall be complied
with.

(3) The regulations made under subsection (2) shall specify—

(a) the capacity. and technical features of the devices or
systems to be used for interception purposes;

(b) the connectivity of the devices or systems to be used for
interception purposes with the Monitoring Centre;

(c) the manner of routing intercepted information to the
Monitoring Centre; and
 

Electronic Communications
and Transactions [No. 21 of 2009 277

 

(d) any other matter which is necessary to give effect to the
provisions of this Part.

(4) A service provider shall, at the provider’s own expense,
acquire the facilities and devices specified in the re gulations made
under subsection (2).

(5) Subject to this Act, any cost incurred by a service provider
for the purpose of— -

(a) enabling—

(i) any electronic communication to be intercepted;
and *

(ii) call-related information to be stored; and
(b) complying with this Part;
shall be borne by the service provider.

PART XII
Access TO STORED COMMUNICATION

80. (1) Except as otherwise provided under this Act, a aaa e
service provider shall not disclose to any other person any ca
communication which is electronically stored by the service communication

provider.

(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding five
hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a period not
exceeding five years, or to both.

(3) Aprovider of remote computing services shall not disclose
to any other person the contents of any communication which is
carried or maintained on the remote computing service on behalf
of a subscriber or solely for the purpose of providing storage or
computer processing services to a subscriber, ifthe provider is not
authorised to access the contents ofthe communication for purposes
of providing any service other than storage or computer processing.

(4) A provider of a remote computing service or electronic
communication service shall not disclose to any person arecord or
other information relating toa subscriber or customer of the service.

(5) A service provider may disclose the contents of a
communication—

(a) to. an addressee or intended recipient of the communication
or an agent of the addressee or intended recipient;
 

 

Electronic Communications
278 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

(b) with the consent of the originator, to the addressee or
intended recipient of the communication or the subscriber,
in the case of a remote computing service;

(c) to an authorised person or employee whose facilities are
used to forward the communication to the addressee;
(d) where it is necessary or incidental to the provision or to
the protection of the rights or property of the service
provider; ©
(e) to a law enforcement officer where the contents—
(i) are inadvertently obtained by the service provider;
and
(ii) relate to the commission of an offence;
(f) where required by any written law; or

(h) where the provider has reasonable grounds to believe
that the non-disclosure of the communication is likely to
cause death or bodily harm to a person or damage to
property.

Disclosure 81. (1) A service provider may disclose a record or other

of customer —_ information relating to a subscriber or customer of a service—

record.
me (a) to another person—

(i) with the consent of the customer or subscriber; or
(ii) where it is necessary to service provision or for

the protection of the rights or property of .

theservice provider; or
(b) to a law enforcement officer—

(i) where the service provider has reasonable grounds
to believe that the non-disclosure of the record
or information is likely to cause death or serious
harm to a person; or

(ii) where the service provider has reasonable grounds
to believe that the record or information reveals
the commission of an offence.

Access to 82. (1) A. law enforcement officer .may, with warrant,
communication access a wire or electronic communication that is in electronic
inelectronic storage in an electronic communications system where the law
STARS enforcement officer has reasonable grounds to believe that an

offence, is being committed, has been committed or is likely to be

committed under this Act or any other law.
é

EAE ETE
 

 

Electronic Communications
and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 279

 

(2) The provisions of the Criminal procedure Code relatingto Cap. 88
warrants shall apply to this Part.

83. (1) A law enforcement officer may, with warrant, access Access fo |
a wire or electronic communication in a remote computing service in remote

without notice to the subscriber or customer of the service. computing
' : ‘ : oo. service
(2) Subsection (1) applies to a wire or electronic communication

that is held or maintained by a service provider—

(a) on behalf of a subserjber or customer of the service and
received by means of an electronic transmission from,
or created by means of a computer processing of
communication received by means of electronic
transmission from a subscriber or customer of a remote
computing service; and

(b) solely for the purpose of providing storage or computer
processing services to a subscriber or customer, where
the provider is not authorised to access the contents of
a communication for purposes of providing any service
other than storage or computer processing.

84. (1) Alaw enforcement officer may, with warrant, access — Access to
arecord or other information relating to a subscriber or customer record of

. —_ : . electronic
of an electronic communication or remote computing service. ical

. « bucnade e service Or
(2) A provider of electronic communication service orremote — remote

computing service shall provide the following information pursuant — computing
to a warrant issued under subsection (1): Service

(a) the name and address of the subscriber;

(b) the subscriber’s telephone number or other subscriber
number or identity;

(c) the subscriber’s local and long distance telephone toll billing
records;

(d) the subscriber’s local and long distance telephone
connection records, or records of session times and
durations;

(e) the length of service and types of service utilised by the
subscriber;

(f) any temporarily assigned network address of the subscriber;
and

(g) the means and source of payment for the service of a
subscriber or customer of the service.
———

Electronic Communications
280 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

 

(3) Anaction shall not lie in any court against a service provider,
the officers, employees or agents of the service provider or other
authorised persons for providing information, facilities or assistance
in compliance with a court order, warrant or subpoena under this

Act.
Zé PART XII
ENCRYPTING COMMUNICATION
Use of 85. A person shall use an encryption, regardless of encryption

encrypted algorithm selected, encryption key length chosen, or implementation
technique or medium used, in the manner provided for under this
Act.

General 86. Nothing in this Act shall be construed as requiring the use
construction by a person of any form of encryption that—

(a) limits or affects the ability of the person to use encryption
without a key escrow function; or

(b) limits or affects the ability of the person who uses
encryption with a key escrow function not to use a key
holder.

Prohibitionof 87, (1) Unless otherwise provided in this Act, a key holder
unauthorised . .
decryption or Shall not release a decryption key or decrypt any data without

release of authorisation.
decryption ke z i
Y (2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an

offence and is liable, upon conviction, to imprisonment for a period
not exceeding twenty-five years.

(3) Akey holder may release a decryption key or decrypt any
data or communication—

(a) with the approval of the person whose key is held or
managed by the key holder or the owner of the data or
communication;

(b) where the release of the decryption key or decryption of
the data or communication is necessary or incidental to
the provision of encryption services or to the holding or
management of the key by the key holder; or

(c) to assist a law enforcement officer pursuant to an
interception of communications order to access stored
wire or electronic communication or transactional
records.

parle
 

 

Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 281

 

(4) A law enforcement officer to whom a key is released under
subsection (3) shall use the key in the manner and for the purpose
and duration provided for under a court order authorising the release
and use and shall not exceed the duration of the electronic
surveillance for which the key is released.

(5) A law enforcement officer to whom an encryption key is
released shall, on or before the completion of the authorised release
period, destroy the encryption key.

88. (1) Akey holder shall not disclose a record or any other
personal information relating to an owner ofa key held or managed
by the key holder except—

fa) with the consent of the owner; or
(b) to a law enforcement officer pursuant to a court order.

(2) A recovery agent shall not disclose to any person the use
of any stored recovery information, any decrypted data or
communication or other assistance provided to a law enforcement
officer in the performance of functions under this Act.

(3) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2) commits
an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to imprisonment for a
period not exceeding twenty-five years but not less than fifteen
years.

(4) Nothing in this Act shall be construed as prohibiting a
recovery agent from—

(a) using or disclosing plaintext in the recovery agent’s
possession, custody or control;

(b) using or disclosing recovery information that is not stored
recovery information held by the recovery agent under
the circumstances described in this Act; or

(c) using stored recovery information in the recovery agent’s
possession, custody or control;

to decrypt any data or communication in the recovery agent’s
possession, custody or control, where the applicable law otherwise
requires the recovery agent to provide the data or communication
to a law enforcement officer in plaintext or other form readily
understood by the law enforcement officer.

89. A person who uses an encryption to obstruct or impede a
law enforcement officer or in any manner interferes with the
performance by the law enforcement officer of any functions under
this Act commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine
not exceeding two hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment
for a period not exceeding two years, or to both.

Prohibition
of
disclosure of
record or
other
information

by
key holder

Obstruction
of law
enforcement

officer
 

Electronic Communications

282 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

Sale and
acquisition of
encryption

products

90. (1) A person may sell or acquire—

(a) an encryption product despite the encryption algorithm
selected, encryption key length chosen or implementation
technique or medium used;

(b) any software, including software with encryption
capabilities, that is—

(i) generally available, as is, and designed for
installation by the purchaser;

(ii) inthe public domain or is publicly available or
accessible to the public in any form; or

(iii) a computing device because it incorporates or
employs in any form software exempted from
any requirement for a validated licence.

(2) Inthis section—

“ generally available” in relation to software, means software
that is widely offered for sale, license or transfer including,
but not limited to, over-the-counter retail sales, mail order
transactions, phone order transactions, electronic distribution
or sale on approval;

“as is” in relation to software, means a software program
that is not designed, developed or tailored by a software
company for specific purchasers;

“is designed for installation by the purchaser ” in relation to
software, means—

(a) that a software company intends the purchaser
who may not be the actual program user, to install
the software program on a computing device and
has supplied the necessary instructions to do so;
and

(b) that the software program is designed for installation
by the purchaser without further substantial
support from the supplier;

“ computing device ” means a device which incorporates one
or more micro-processor-based central processing units
that can accept, store, process or provide output of data;
and

“computer hardware ” in relation to information security,
includes, but is not limited to, a computer system equipment,
application-specific assemblies, modules and integrated
circuits.

Y

 

 

 
 

Electronic Communications
and Transactions

[ No. 21 of 2009 283

 

(3) A purchaser may supply an installation parameter necessary
fora software program to function properly with the purchaser’s
system and may customize the software program by choosing
among options contained in the software program.

(4) Acompany may provide telephone help-line services for
software installation, electronic transmission or basic operations.

91. (1) A recovery agent shall not—
(a) disclose stored recovery information;

(b) use stored recovery information to decrypt any data or
communication; or

(c) disclose any other information or record that identifies a
person or entity for whom the recovery agent holds or
has held stored recovery information.

(2) Apperson shall not access any stored recovery information
from a recovery agent without authorisation.

(3) Arecovery agent may disclose stored recovery information
or use stored recovery information to decrypt any data or
communication with the consent of the person who stored the
recovery information or the agent of that person or pursuant to a
court order.

(4) A recovery agent may disclose information or a record,
other than stored recovery information, that identifies a person for
whom the recovery agent holds or has held stored recovery
information pursuant to a court order.

92. No cause of action shall lie in any court against a recovery
agent for providing information, facilities or assistance to a law
enforcement officer in accordance with the terms of a court order.

PART XIV
Cyser INSPECTORS

93. (1) The Authority may appoint any person as a cyber
inspector to perform the functions provided for in this Part.

(2) The Authority shall provide any person appointed as a cyber
inspector with a certificate of appointment.

(3) The certificate of appointment referred to in subsection
(2) may be in the form of an advanced electronic signature.

Prohibition
of disclosure
or use of
stored
recovery
information

Immunity
of recovery
agents

Appointment
of cyber
inspectors

 
Electronic Communications
284 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

(4) Acyber inspector shall, in performing any function under
this Act—
(a) be in possession of a certificate of appointment referred
to in subsection (2); and
(b) show the certificate of appointment to any person who
requests to see the certificate, is subject to an
investigation, or an employee of that person.
(5) A person who—
(a) hinders or obstructs a cyber inspector in the performance
of functions under this Part; or
(6) falsely holds oneself out as a cyber inspector;
commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not
exceeding five hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment
for a period not exceeding five years, or to both.

Power to 94. (1) A cyber inspector may—

inspect, ; é . wa

ae and (a) monitor and inspect any website or activity on an
seize information system in the public domain and report any

unlawful activity to the appropriate authority;
(b) in respect of a cryptography provider—
(i) investigate the activities of the cryptography service

provider in relation to compliance or non-
compliance with the provisions of this Act; and

(ii) issue an order in writing to the cryptography
provider to comply with the provisions of this
Act;
c/ in respect of an authentication service provider—
i p f hent provid

(i) investigate the activities of an authentication service
provider in relation to compliance or non-
compliance with the provisions of this Act;

(ii) investigate the activities of an authentication
service provider who is falsely holding out the
products or services as having been accredited
by the Authority or recognised by the Minister;
and ,

(ili) issue an order, in writin g, to an authentication
service provider to comply with the provisions
of this Act; and

 
 

Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 285

 

(d) in respect of a critical database administrator, perform an
audit as provided for in section fifty-four.

(2) In performing any functions under this Act, a cyber inspector
may work with a law enforcement officer.

95.. (1) A cyber inspector may, in the performance of
functions, at any reasonable time, without prior notice, and on the
authority of a warrant, enter any premises or access an information
system and—

(a) search the ptemises or that information system;

(b) search any person on the premises if there are reasonable
grounds to believe that the person has possession of an
article, document or record that has a bearing on an
investigation:

Provided that a person shall only be searched by a
person of the same sex;

(c) take extracts from, or make copies of any book, document
or record that is on or in the premises or in the
information system and that has a bearing on an
investigation;

(d) demand the production of, and inspect, relevant licences
and registration certificates:

(e) inspect any facilities on the premises which are linked or
associated with the information system;

() access and inspect the operation of any computer or
equipment forming part of an information system and
any associated apparatus or material which the cyber
inspector has reasonable cause to believe is, or has been
used in, connection with any offence;

(g) use or cause to be used any information system or part
thereof to search any data contained in or available to
such information system;

(h) require the person by whom, or on whose behalf, the
cyber inspector has reasonable cause to suspect the
computer or information system is or has been used, or
require any person in control of, or otherwise involved
with the operation of the computer or information system;
to provide the cyber inspector with such reasonable
technical and other assistance as the cyber inspector
may require for the purposes of this Part; or

Powers of
cyber
inspectors
Electronic Communications
286 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

(i) make such inquiries as may be necessary to ascertain
whether the provisions of this Act or any other law on
which an investigation is based, have been complied with.

(2) A person who refuses to co-operate with or hinders a cyber
inspector from conducting a lawful search or seizure under this
section commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine
not exceeding one hyndred thousand penalty units or to
imprisonment for a period not exceeding one year, or to both.

(3) For purposes of this Act, any reference in the Criminal
Cap. 88 Procedure Code , to “premises” and “article” includes an information
system as well as data messages.
Warrant to 96. (1) Acourt may, on application by a cyber inspector, issue
enter, etc. a warrant.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a court may issue a
warrant where—
(a) an offence has been committed within Zambia;
(b) the subject of an investigation is—
(i) a Zambian or ordinarily resident in Zambia; or
(ii) present in Zambia at the time when the warrant is
applied for; or
(c) information pertinent to an investigation is accessible from
within the area of jurisdiction of the court.
(3) A warrant to enter, search and seize may be issued at any
time and shall—
(a) identify the premises or information system that may be
entered and searched; and
(b) specify which acts may be performed thereunder by the
cyber inspector to whom it is issued.
(4) A warrant to enter and search is valid until—
(a) the warrant has been executed;
(b) the warrant is cancelled by the person who issued it or in
that person’s absence, by a person with similar authority;
(c) the purpose for issuing it has lapsed; or
(d) the expiry of one month from the date on which it was
issued.

(5) A warrant to enter and search premises may be executed
only during the day, unless the judge who issued it authorises that it
may be executed at any other time.

ST ee RT
 

Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 287

 

97. (1) Except for the purpose of this Act or for the prosecution
of an offence or pursuant to an order of court, a person who has,
pursuant to any powers conferred under this Part, obtained access
to any information shall not disclose such information to any other
person.

(2) Any person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding one
hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a period not
exceeding one year, or to both,

PART XV
CYBER CRIME

98. In this Part, “access” includes the actions of a person who,
after taking note of any data, becomes aware of the fact that the
person is not authorised to access that data and still continues to
access that data.

99. (1) A person who intentionally accesses or intercepts any
data without authority or permission to do so or who exceeds the
authorised access, commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction
to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand penalty units or to
imprisonment for a period not exceeding five years, or to both.

(2) Aperson who intentionally and without authority to do so,
interferes with data in a way which causes such data to be modified,
destroyed or otherwise rendered ineffective, commits an offence
and is liable, upon conviction to a fine not exceeding five hundred
thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding
five years, or to both.

(3) A person who unlawfully produces, sells, offers to sell,
procures for use, designs, adapts for use, distributes or possesses
any device, including a computer program or a component, which
is designed primarily to overcome security measures for the
protection of data, or performs any of these acts with regard to a
password, access code or any other similar kind of data with the
intent to unlawfully utilise such item, commits an offence and is
liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand
penalty units or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding one
year, or to both.

Prohibition

0
disclosure
of
information
to
unauthorised
persons

Definition

Unauthorised
access to,
interception
of or
interference
with, data
Electronic Communications

288 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

(4) A person who utilises any device or computer program
referred to in subsection (3) in order to unlawfully overcome security
measures designed to protect such data or access thereto, commits
an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding
one hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a period
not exceeding one year, or to both.

(5) A persorf who commits any act described in this section

with the intent to interfere with access to an information system so’

as to constitute a denial, including a partial denial, of service to
legitimate users commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction,
to a fine not exceeding one hundred thousand penalty units or to
imprisonment for a period not exceeding one year, or to both.

(6) A person who—

(a) communicates, discloses or transmits any data,
information, program, access code or command to any
person not entitled or authorised to access the data,
information, program, code or command:

(b) introduces or spreads a software code that damages a
computer, computer system or network;

(c) accesses or destroys any files, information, computer
system or device without authorisation, or for purposes
of concealing information necessary for an investigation
into the commission, or otherwise, of an offence; or

(d) damages, deletes, alters or suppresses any communication
or data without authorisation;

commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not
exceeding two hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment
for a period not exceeding two years, or to both.

(7) Apperson who knowingly receives data and is not authorised
to receive that data, commits an offence and is liable, upon
conviction, to a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand penalty

units or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or to
both.

(8) Where an offence under this section is committed in relation
to data that is in a critical database or that is concerned with national
security or the provision of an essential service, the person shall
be liable, upon conviction, to imprisonment for a term of not less
than fifteen years but not exceeding twenty-five years.

a
 

Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 289

100. (1) A person who performs or threatens to perform
any of the acts described in section eighty-seven, for the purpose
of obtaining any unlawful proprietary advantage by undertaking to
cease or desist from such action, or by undertaking to restore any
damage caused as a result of those actions, commits an offence
and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceed ing one hundred
thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding
one year, or to both. ;

(2) Aperson who performs any of the acts described in section
eighty-seven for the purpose o obtaining any unlawful advantage
by causing false data to be produced with the intent that it be
considered or acted upon as if it were authentic, commits an offence
and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceedin g one hundred
thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding
one year, or to both.

101. (1) A person who attempts to commit an offence under
any provisions of this Act commits an offence and is liable, upon
conviction, to the penalties set out in those provisions.

(2) A person who aids or abets someone to commit any of the
offences under this Act, commits an offence and is liable, upon
conviction, to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand penalty

units or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding five years, or to
both.

102. A person who—

(a) produces pornography for the purpose of its distribution
through a computer system;

(b) offers or makes available any pornography through a
computer system;

(c) distributes or transmits any pornography through a
computer systemy

(d) procures any pornography through a computer system
for oneself or for another person; or

(e) possesses any pornography ina computer system or ona
computer data storage medium;

commits an offence and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not
exceeding nine hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment
for a period not exceeding ten years, or to both.

Computer-
related
extortion,
fraud and
forgery

Attempt,
aiding and
abetting

Prohibition of
pornography
Electronic Communications

 

290 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions
Hacking, 103. A person who hacks into any computer system, or
“crackingand introduces or spreads a virus or malicious software into a computer
ea system or network, commits an offence and is liable, upon
etc. into «Conviction, toa fine not exceeding five hundred thousand penalty
computer units or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding five years, or to
system both.

Denial of 104. A person who renders a computer system incapable of

service providing normal services to its legitimate users commits an offence

attacks and is liable, upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding nine hundred
thousand penalty units or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding
ten years, or to both.

Spamming 105. A person who transmits any unsolicited electronic
information to another person for purposes of illegal trade or
commerce or other illegal activity, commits an offence and is liable,
upon conviction, to a fine not exceeding two hundred thousand
penalty units or to imprisonment for a period not exceeding two

v years, or to both.

Prohibition 106. (1) A person shall not use the internet as a medium for

of illegal any illegal activity or trade, fraudulent transaction or to procure

tinea any internet-related fraud.

(2) A person who contravenes subsection (1) commits an
offence and is liable, upon conviction, to imprisonment for a period
not exceeding ten years.

Application 107. (1) Subject to subsection (2), this Act shall have effect in
Te relation to any person, whatever the person’s nationality or
Act ’ citizenship, outside as well as within Zambia, and where an offence

under this Act is committed by a person in any place outside Zambia,
the person shall be dealt with as if the offence had been committed
within Zambia.
(2) For the purposes of subsection (1), this Act shall apply if,
for the offence in question—
(a) the accused was in Zambia at the material time;
(6) the computer, program or data was in Zambia at the
material time; or
(c) the damage occurred within Zambia whether or not
paragraph (a) or (b) applies.

 

 
 

a

 

Electronic Communications

and Transactions [ No. 21 of 2009 291

 

 

108. Ifa body corporate or un-incorporate body is convicted of
an offence under this Act, every person who—

(a) is a director of, or is otherwise concerned with the
management of, the body corporate or un-incorporate
body; and

(b) knowingly authorised or permitted the act or omission
constituting the offence;

shall be deemed to have committed the same offence and may be
proceeded against and punished accordingly.
109. An offence under this Act shall be deemed to be a

cognizable offence for the purposes of the Criminal Procedure
Code.

PART XV
GENERAL PROVISIONS
110. A person who commits an offence under this Act for which
no penalty is provided is liable, upon conviction—

(a) in the case of an individual, to a penalty not exceeding
five hundred thousand penalty units or to imprisonment
for a period not. exceeding five years, or to both; or

(b) in the case of a body corporate or un incorporate body to
a penalty not exceeding one million penalty units.

111. Notwithstanding any other law, evidence which is
obtained by means of any interception effected in contravention of
this Act, shall not be admissible in any criminal proceedings except
with the leave of the court, and in granting or refusing such leave,

the court shall have regard, amon g other things, to the circumstances _

in which it was obtained, the potential effect of its admission or
exclusion on issues of national security and the unfairness to the
accused person that may be occasioned by its admission or
exclusion.

112. (1) The Investigator-General appointed under the
Constitution, shall supervise the compliance with the provisions of
this Act concerning personal data.

(2) When performing the duties under subsection (1), the
Investigator-General shall have the right to obtain information and
to perform inspections under this Act.

Offence
committed
by body
corporate or
un-
incorporate

Cognizable
offences

Cap.88

General
penalty

Evidence
obtained by
unlawful
interception
not
admissible
in criminal
proceedings

Data
protection
by
Investigator-
General
Cap. 1
Electronic Communications

292 [ No. 21 of 2009 and Transactions

 

Cap. 39

Regulations

Repeal of Act
No. 13 of
2004

(3) The provisions regarding the lodging and processing of
complaints to and by the Investigator-General shall be governed by
the Commission for Investigations Act.

113. The Minister may, by statutory instrument, make
regulations regarding any matter that may be prescribed in terms
of this Act or any matter which it is necessary or expedient to
prescribe for the proper implementation or administration of this
Act...

114. (1) Thé Computer Misuse and Crimes Act, 2004, is hereby
repealed.

(2) Notwithstanding subsection (1), any legal proceedings
commenced or pending under the repealed Act shall continue as if
instituted under this Act.
