Page 1

BOARD OF NEWS AND TRADITIONAL HOA TRAINING HQI Chu Nghia viyr NAM
D(ic lap - Ty. do - Hanh phtic
IA
80 information VA
- VIBRATION TAM THONG TIN

7/TT-BTTTT

Ha Nai, right on November 45, 2017

CURRENT VALVE DEN
THONG TU
S6: ... AYQ S.....
Right.L2, scale 42, na 7-Qu dong dong sat a town he kept information
Can at Luat Secure information immediately on November 19, 2015;
Can ca. Nghi clinh compared 72/2013/ND-CP right on the 15th of July, 2013 clia
Control (pan, provide, secure Internet services and information on the Internet)
arcing;
Can cCO. Nghi clinh so 25/2014/ND-CP right 07 (hang 4 male 2014 cila
Regulatory regulation, change of law, and other violations of laws and regulations
high listening capacity;
Can ca. Nghi Dinh so 85/2016/ND-CP right now on 1st July 2016 czia
Control the safety of information according to the skin cap;
Can ca. Nghi Dinh so 17/2017/ND-CP right now 17 tiding 02 male 2017 ciia
Chinh Phi Quynh chat ming, chat, love, and have a big problem with BO
Information and Communication;
Can ca Quylt Dinh 05/2017/QD-TTg right on the 16th of March 2017 ciia THO
twang Chinh pith issued a regulation to return to the city. Ong caw khan cap
cover information about liking country;
36a/NQ-CP on October 14, 2015 by Oa Chinh
Government support;
s The decision was made

According to CTE Ctha Giam Center & rig caw khan cap Viet computer
Male,
BO trtWmg BO Information and Communication of the Public Announcement, regulation
The clang operation is safe and secure.
Chuong I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Rule 1. The main rule
Today's regulation N/'' is safe and secure" Monday, Thursday
(after this day, the call is locked) in the whole country, never
comfortable clothes
information from B6 Qu6c and Bo C6ng an quan 1j7.
first

Page 2

Option 2. DOI use the application
Today, this application is used as a shoulder to shoulder. official, to chic, business, singer
true tie]) join or participate in related activities for international confinement.
Family
SAT SECURITY HE THONG INFORMATION
Dieu 3. Nguyen de prison sat
1. Consistency & risk of continuous, continuous performance.
2. Chir Ong follows the path, analysis, and style.
safe and secure, safe and secure.
3. Shut up on the palace, give information to duqc supply, give
doi in the past virginity sat.
4. Co su diL ph6i, kEt hop chat cover, hiti via gira hog & dm
13'45 Information and access to information and activities of the general staff
information; Irng buOc grinds dkmg to give him a gift to keep him in dm
BO Information and Tru)4n and h" please do not go around he
teen information about the whole country.
Dieu 4. Phirang thirc imprisons sat
1. Imprisonment is true, h*1 is true
hoac
Phucmg thirc keeps the time. Visiting the office on Mondays'
believe the
c6 true continue
Declaring the service of detention.,In the application form, you can enter.
LGC cyst situation and sources of LGC thgc to spend "the hour" information system de Conference of the
dm en chIrc related dm BO Information and Communication
hop on with the source ivy thirc te.
2. The true detention is followed by the detention of the state's private information each date
Exams and tests are conducted by Wang, who analyzes data (quantity) and receives true results.
Nhat Ky information, watch how to keep it up & keep track of all current results
Tan cong, risk, safe and secure information. True detention continues to cover the
the following operations:
a) Analyze and collect information about information security:
- Phan tich, official information security with teen &rang tru)4n
Bring/remove information about not being able to connect to the Internet with all the channels you need
The analysis of tourism and communication helps to reduce risk, risk, and safety.
private demand generation equipment HIO / ngan ngira hop tan ding phil shoulder doi tucmg clugc
confinement (eg: IDS/IPS/Web Firewall etc..);
2

Page 3

- Receive a log file (log file), keep an eye on the safety of your personal information
Operational functions, information management, examination & information security.
b) All hops, orders, verifications and 15/ all security information
information that displays the curves, risks, and skis safely
loci 1)6 The information is not correct.
3. Continuity is the process of confinement to the performance of the income statement.
information about the relevant sourcesC6 information; ki6'm tra, ra soat &Si along can
The website is active, can be used and set up v6ri one
keep sat,d6 phat
yuso 6 to other 6 related to analyzing the results of risks, risks,
sir you are safe with information. Interim detention includes the following activities:
a) Collect, analyze and verify information about security, risks, sir
All relevant information is available along the way to meet all the sources of information c6
related;
b) Check out, make a luxurious payment before continuing with the original values ​& keep it at d6'
Nhat Tinh Trang, Phat hi@.1 Tan ding, Roi, Sir can secure information with C6
Kha Nang Bi opened, tAn cong, gay hai.
Die 5. If you want to stop, try to move on. You can tilt your head back and forth
believe
Share informationC6 information on the basis of the current situation.
According to the regulation hi"0 Hanh.DOi v6i he thOi information cCap dO 3 check len, operation
Please be sure to check out the information below. Please contact me for details.
day:
1. The police officer is in charge of the central government's information
img the following requirements:
a) Provide access to all the necessary files and collect all the security information.
information attempt to carry;
b) Analyze the information collected in hi41 and keep it safe
ro, sv can secure information with c6 s/he's & # 39; active
or provide other services "informative information;
c) Provide money transfer service for customers to follow, keep the relationship of the company
can be detained;
d) The file will be collected and analyzed in the following days:
NhAt 14 web server (web server) and web content img (eg: information
online translation services etc..); guard/nhAt 1c5/ of pessimistic view
sa; Check the list/report for the exam and the libraryOrng lira &rockey.
3

Page 4

bring the Internet related to the arcing d6i can be detained;
e) Luc xir 1)% of the staff to be detained at the center and to visit the office on monday
Information about the role of the leader, clang, and c6 is open to communication
Information security information carries the most important information about security.
2. Collecting information about the safety of carrier information and monitoring it
img the following requirements:
a) Thkrc collects security information and important information.
Cover of all plans/memories related to d6i that can be locked up
For the staff of the cifa center to receive information and follow up
The requirements of the agency are detailed in Thu6c,B6 Information and Communication. The buttons
Information security information I need to collect and cover g6m: Nhat Ky
web server (web server) to use web content (for example: file information
services for television broadcasting Tuy'en etc..); guard/nhAt 14 cfla of pessimism trAc compares;
Ida's application is not limited to the design of the property.
Internet related issues that interfere with satisfaction;
b) The pessimism of the situation can be compared with the current state of disintegration,
risk, skr c6 security information bearer; Can you design the application to cover the bag?
The police officer is not allowed to connect to the Internet, so he can't have access to the Internet.
detention;
c) The current pessimism can be overcome with the lack of current development, creating a sense of pessimism, creating a strong sense of self-esteem. ‫ا ا ا‬
The application is able to dissolve the data on the information such as: source IP address,
IP address, source address, translation address, known data clones
in the call through dugc. D6i check all the authorities,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, about about about you,
Declaring pessimism in comparison, using the negative effects of dissipating cid
c6 (eg: IDS, IPS, Web lira, etc.) to set up a pessimistic design
so;
d) D6i divulge all the details of the service.
thirc co ma h6a (example: https), can c6 phuang an k5", thuAt dam pessimistic
tic secure information with c6 dugc
security, risks, sir c6 information security;
e) Lips, not all pessimistic views, so yen, keep it off
B6 Information and Communication according to huang & In and love requests from agencies
follicle.
3. N6i use this device to hold satisfactorily:
a) According to the report, the arrest warrant is in line with the law, the application will be made immediately, and the damage will be done
4

Page 5

General staff members will be able to receive information from the public and collect information from the public at all times.
on-site, on-line;
b) Developing and promulgating rules for keeping information safe,
in d6 the regulations of the family will be fixed on the 6th day of the month, via xir ly, ldp Bao Cao,
c) According to the dOi, the pessimistic actions of the pessimists should always be on the side of the road.
Tuc, fix the kip thed when c6 changes 6i and realizes the dyads of the clan
dm BO Information and Communication through the prison;
d) Leap condoms are closed to the public.
Information, do not use the condom, including the following information: thai time
detention; the list of arcing sites can be used ( IP address, m6 to service)
supply, tiled diem ball; dynamism of dissolving the cid of the development of dugc and chimg
related cunt; the properties of the dings; the changes in the field are easy
jail and he's locked up; etc..;
d) Manage risks, risks, and security of information with tuS,

according to the model,
e) On the 14th of June, the password is closed through 13"7 of the dangers, risks, and information security.
carry the tar ', high bag;
g) In the central hop, please contact us for information to debug the problem
BOOK & BO Information and Communication of the student's or her 6th birthday
trach nhiern dm beverage supervised Ministry of Information and Communication, subjectivity he
th6th of information c6 thr th e supply and cap thn e n d t n th e th th th th th
information about the police officer's arrest and the police officer's statement on the 6th day of his detention.
General Information for BO Information and Communication by File
Provide information at Phu Luc 1, in the following information:
- MO to d6i tugng the confinement, including g8m of the following shift information:
Address IP, domains, services offered, name and version of the operating system, phan mem
img web content;
- General information about the giant sat dm chi' guar' he th6ng information, use luting
The transmissions are not connected to the arcing station.
information, information about thdp collection and delivery of thdp income, since shifting cultivation includes dm iDS ,
install lira (log firewall), web server (log web server), etc..
h) Information on the average size of the data is reduced to an average of 30
immediate operation in the event of a losing battle;
i) Provide information about detention according to the requirements of the university.
BO Information and Communication according to legal regulations;

5

Page 6

k) Covering the d6ng's d6ng confinement of the mandarin's office tilling information about his residence, 06
Follow the footsteps of Phu Luc 2.
Dieu 6. Hoat Ong detains the company's employees
Member enterprises, enterprises providing public services
information, businesses provide services to an town on June 6, information with c6 trach
Nhiem:
1. Ph6i hops on the role of the general manager to collect information in the detention center according to his/her love
B6 Information and Communication.
2. Provide the information about the loss, loss, and income
Display the data according to the requirements of B6 Information and Communication
for the operation of dm B6 Thu and Communication.
3. Execution of detentions according to regulations in Dieu 7 Regulations
so 05/2017/QD-TTg of Thuong Chinh
Dieu 7. Dalt always keeps sat and guarded
1. Overview of information on the 6th page of the 4c ​b6 part
make every police station, guard an town with information to help you hop on v6i don't
Information and Communication of B6 Fri. Information and Communication.
2. At the end of the day, you must be able to provide and keep up with the information
keep it up, stay connected. When you are in jail, chat with the user about how to use it
within the scope of his information.
3. Every time you have access to the network, you will be able to exchange information in a timely manner
d6th day many ways such as ding, receiving, calling, faxing, or exchanging calls
on the m6t network, the d6i exchange of information about the exchange of information about the dam contains the information ducyc
bag mat.
4. Information about the first time in the prison, including g6m: First name, first name 6 phan,
service, address, phone number (c6 home and office)
so (neu da co).
Dieu 8. Give dOi, provide support, share information
1. It is recommended that every prisoner give d6i, provide information to
Let's meet each other in the middle of the night, watch the bag, irng dru su c6
and improve the process of development of 6 v6i risks, problems, methods, methods of income.
Don't worry about the safety of information with chdc, ca Nhan.
2. Shared information, provided that the exchange includes all the information that is shared
war, risk, su c6 an town information bearing; methods of thirc, revenue, source6n
6

Page 7

go'c tan curve; all the problems & Ong, he is due to su co; Necessary factor 1)'/, 1(5',
feel free to ask for permission.
3. Nguyen tic gave d6si, provided information
a) Kip thed, correct, and use the necessary variables
de cover information exchange d6i;
b) To verify the information given by the owner to ensure the accuracy of the information
information;
c) You use a multi-image fetus to give you such information
website, service, receipt, message, phone, fax;
d) When providing, give d6i information as don vi chirc Wang dm BO Information
and Communication can be displayed according to the status quo BO Information and Communication
thong.
Dieu 9. Hoat high-class 'severance'
1. TO chirc briefing, meeting, meeting hog (icing confinement sat.
2. 13(:•.i dtrang, hug.' luyen, dien tap lava high luc luc giant sat.
3. Don d6c, check the performance of the giant sat, watch your case
134) secure transfer of information.
4. Share your knowledge, experience with giant sat, soup, img ciru sir co.
5. Grinding, grinding, and extracting all the necessary items, giving them money
information in the police station, guard, img ciru su co.
6. Comprehension of all forms, services of detention, analysis, monitoring and transfer
later for the time d61 to be big enough.
7. Thilc grinds and grinds using the right tools, including the song phuang, the skin
Oita is responsible for the safety and security of information with high-quality information
guard, guard.
8. Tang ctremg hqp tac quOc to in ding tic confinement, guard, img ciru
su CO.

Chapter III
HOAT DQNG STATES SAT BOOK INFORMATION AND TRUYEN THONG
Dieu 10. BO BO Information and Communication
1. Hoat Ong detained at the center:
a) Income statement, follow-up, development, analysis, xr 1)'7, high bag, income tax
7

Page 8

Cir and other information security, risks, and safety information on the Internet
the data/information security directory of the information and data collection, direct detention
Through the monitoring methods, there can be no delay, and the pregnancy
current status of the directory of data collection is dugc used by the clang members and the official status of the system.
the middle of the six-year bureaucracy is wrong;
b) Dtroc is implemented through safety measures.
The network and Internet are broken because of problems with Vietnam's Internet
B6's guide Information and Communication through the cup and van Hanh teen nguyen tac
Share the directory, connect to the network to understand and understand.
2. He th
a) Compilation of the requirements, the program c6 according to the number, collection, distribution
tich, provide th6th latest news, thai page, keep watch for d6ng activities
the center of the service for the phantom, the production of the 6, the main, the dangerous, the big
hong secure information bearer;
b) To provide the necessary benefits and benefits to the employees.
d6ng operation, collect dir lieu tir d6i in order to follow twang dan dm don vi
chirc cila B6 Information and Communication;
c) Due to lack of responsibility B6 Information and communication of information, not
hop on the pedestal with information about the user, laptop design, bureaucracy, and vanity
according to legal regulations;
d) Thiat bi / software implementation dtroc thi'at observation sa lap d kat not
and provide support for the operation of the Oa Central Center in terms of standards and regulations
Inrong clan specializing in dm B6 Information and Communication.
Dieu 11. The Prisoner of BO Information and Communication
1. The Information and Communication Department will be available on Mondays, services
listen to the news of the government's success story.
2. According to the specifications of the information management system, B6 Information and Communication
General information is limited to d6i as a member of the public. Firth and other important information.
In the tier's service, we protect the safety of information from the community" hop on the role of a human resource
3. Hoat Ong Detention Center dm 136 Information and Communication
including the ability to follow up, analyze the collection and treatment information
Through the investigation of the SO and the problems, he was satisfied with the giant satisfactorily.
4. Service for B6's Detention Information and Communication include g6m:
a) Selected, the IY officer, the first list of d6i in the detention center
8

Page 9

This information and all related laws and regulations;
b) According to the law, the center of the detention center, the lap and the high profile of the prison; ki6m
check, don't follow the dal, truncate sat;
c) To'ng hop, ltru trir, analysis, type of information, collected data dugc
There will be a number of officials who will be able to pay attention to each other, and they will be able to help you keep the tip off.
and other information sources;
d) Check and analyze data
show the data
understand the loss, the danger is safe, the information carries. In the middle of the city
Verify the risk, can be done, perform the necessary steps
Add additional information and data to improve the accuracy of the results
analysis and guarding information;
d) Checking and verifying the dangerous construction site, the result can be d6i
the role of the d6i is in prison. Phan Thich, Phan loci tan cong, risk, su c6 safe
information with tuS, according to th6 crystal. Soup for the boss's wife and husband
try to get information, don't forget to ask for information, just check it out
Information when creating problems, risks, and results can be found in the role of the prisoner
sat;
e) Huang is responsible for declaring the officers' detention information; CO
chirc thik lap and huang dan k6t not tir he th6ng sat dm chu guar' he th6ng
Information about prisons at the center of BO Information and
Trace&'n thong. Protect the data and information you carry during the collection process
and analysis;
g) Registrar's office, ke't ke't go through detention, fine-tune the bag, and clear the law
security risks, risks, security information brought to you, safe and secure;
h) Huang dan, h.6 check the behavior of the staff, check the information, take care of him
General information about the status of ciru, syrup, risks, risks, and safety
information carried in the center can be designed;

i) In case of a failure to obtain information, please pay attention to details
information that you like to see in general, compared to the majority of people on the 6th day of the year, when it comes to the view of the general population; . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . a. . . . . . . .
k) BO's instructions for information and communication via male laptop
tourism and the right side, part 6 of the law is not used to prevent the abuse of power.
Foreign policy and other legal people according to the regulations of the French government
The family members and clans of the government are responsible for the development of the BO in the high school
charcoal.' qu)4'n side duet.

9

Page 10

Chapter IV
TRACH CHILDREN OF CARS, TO CHIRC
Dieu 12. Cue An tan information
1. Quan 1Y and van Hanh He thong xi!. 1y tan cong bring Vietnam Internet
( June 21, the performance of the center's

detention center.

2. Connecting through data and information, comparing information security
with good health and safety, ntrafc is safe with information.
3. Don't forget to show all your love. are you back?) are you safe?
monday information and detention according to legal regulations
information by cap
4. Chu tri, ph6i hop with VNCERT Center to study the ciru millet
Chi kSi thuAt and huang clan chi tilt viec ket not gift He thsfing quan tic ca sa va
You are welcome to join the Internet Viet Nam Trinh Bo page 138 Information
and the latest news.
5. No need to learn how to keep track of all the information collected on the link vgc
Officials keep safe and secure the information they bring with them
quail he th6ng information.
Dieu 13. VNCERT . Center
1. Officers and staff members are safe and secure on the 8th day of the week.
currently operating at the center.
2. T'8ng hops through security and information, compares it with information security
Bringing the service to life, img ciru su
3. Chu tri, hop on the role of Cuc An, provide information about dkmg hu&ng clan rules
virginity; to pay attention to the activities of high-level Wang lgc detention; don
do'c, according to doi, check the operation of the police, keep an eye on the safety of the information you bring with you.
Contact page 138 page138 Information and Communication.
4. Contributing to the role of Cuc An, ensuring that information is safe to use
There is no need to pay attention to the tilt and the tilt of the head, but it's still important to have a job.
He th th 6th th o n th c8 s cet t n s s cet n t h 138 tn page 138 o f information and o n o n o u r s . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Legend of the best.
5. Security monitoring, security guarding, information security, shouldering the role of the authorities
He th8ng information, service ding listen to information, dr. Phi
The training program should be kept in check by the central government officials.
ten

Page 11

First of all, security information is available to carry with you, so you can check it out on June 6th
information.
6. At 6ng hop, the condom is checked through the police station, and the information is safe and secure
The first and second half of Mn curves, riii ro, stir c6 secure the bearing information. ‫ ا ا‬. ‫ ا‬. . . ‫ا‬
Dieu 14. Chti quail the tilting information
1. Expenditure on thtc d6i d6i th th e th e th th th th th o m n s t h e g n s .
1Y, non- hopeful role dor ► vi chile rang cila BO Information and Communication
thtrc is imprisoned according to regulations.
2. You can follow the instructions and follow the instructions, and you won't need to follow the instructions.
dm BO Information and Communication in the d6ng operation.
3. Provide information about d6 user's activities according to requirements of dm B6
Information and Communication on Friday.
4. THkrc shows how tall it is to be locked up at the palace 6 months according to the mall in Tai Phu
Luc 2 learns when c6 loves C6 dm ciia B6 Information and Communication.
5. standardized bi ports n6i ket, interfaces n6i style ear dur spots
n6i Internet according to k5 standards, collecting regulations to set up a network to limit the use of dm
B6 Communication and Communication when needed.
6. Check out the information provided by B6 Information and Communication Thurc
Current status of C6 Trach:
a) The list of candidates, the list of the 6th and 6th month, and the 6th month of the year, can be used for the purpose of detention,
and provide all the information you need to receiveAt relevant dm every 6th, d6i in the can
Thurc shows a girl BO Information and Communication;
b) The employee declares that he or she will be detained on a daily basis
in accordance with the current General Regulations and related legal regulations; non-hope
Provide all the information you need to know about the situation, the information can be found and the current situation is very high, and it can also be used for a long time to come to the end of the year. ‫ا ا‬
hi hi; You can't get it at all according to your requirements.
Communication;
c) T6 directs the next step. Checking and correcting all curves, risks, str.
c6 information safety carry a bag, love and care for everyone
B6 News and Communication on Monday;
d) Security on Monday, Ice set through xir lY tAn, riti ro, str c6 information security
Bring the phtic vu cong tac ltru till, how high.
7. Men's cave is a plan and a faction, 'lan b6 economic performance is not always there.'
11

Page 12

You can't tilt the person in front of the house and other people according to the law.
The legal and administrative regulations of the law and the dm are in high regard.
Chtrolig V
TO CliffC THlirC HIEN
Dieu 15. MO lyc executes
1. Today, it is understood that the policy will be implemented immediately on January 15, 2018.
2. In the past process, n'L CO wrong mac, born to chirc, ca
staff involved in tiled phan anh ve 136 Information and Communication through &roc
htrOng (fans or watch b6 sung and sira

Noi nIzein:
BO TRIIFIN
- Thu Wang, Ph6 Ph6 Thu Wang Chinh;
- Van Phong Chinh Phi;
- Van Phong Central Iran and Ban dm Dang;
- Valve T6ng Ball Collector;
- Qu6c hOi wind valve;
- Valves for the system of Mac;
- The BOs, the BO's and the BO's, the Chiefs of Staff;
- High quality tea and beauty;
- Vien Klein has a high profile;
Trang Minh Tun
- Dental examination;
- IIDND, the People's Committee of the provinces, the central staff of the Center;
- The Central Office of the agencies;
- The committee deals with the use of IT;
- The department spends on the safety of national news;
- Your IT and A'TTT transactions
BO, BO's agency, BO's official agency;
- News and Communication Newsletter, clear and easy to use
ThuOc Trung in;
- More C6ng services company ha tang vin thong, Internet;
- Contouring, C6ng Thong tin dien tilt Chinh Phu;
- Check the QPPL board (BO Tu pilaf));
- BONDTTTT: Central and Thin throngs, agencies,
don't accept BO, convert information to BO;
- Ltru: VT, VNCERT (250)

twelfth

Page 13

Addendum 1: ML, This document provides information about the problem of detention
DON VI CAP UP
TEN DON VIETNAM

BEAUTIFUL BEEP! Chu Nghia VIETNAM
Dec lap - Tkr do - Hynh phtic
, right now look 20

CAP/CAP SUPPLIER INFORMATION
VE HE THINKING INFORMATION CAN THIX •HIEN IN SAT SAFETY
WEEKLY NEWS
Kinh girl: B'e Thong news and Truyen thOng
I. Information is available to all customers and to provide information
- Ten officials/don't need to know the information.
- Address:
- Ten sources/dAu mOi provide information.
- Chirc Dank:
- Phone number•
- Email:
II. Information about possible arrests
A. Current information details:
u want information
CI He is pleased to quote trrc
u He thOng thuong
O He thong quan ly van ban di'Linh.
O He th6th has the following data:
O Other (write r5)•
B. Information about the authorities Information about detention
1. How much information about tilt? nhAt:
1.1. Ten he thong information:
1.2. MO to tom tit chirc Hang, size, scope of service, general information:
1.3. CAp dq cila he thOng information:
1.4. He thTong information dugc (Vat ear:
u Center for leather 110 of agencies, units and ear:
dugc quan 1j, bai (ten clan vi quan ly, van Hanh Trung tam chi lieu)13

Page 14

u Hire hosting outside, in the center of lieu of ctia (ten don't have service providers)
hosting, data center)•
tai (district center location):
1.5. Ten mien, UPL

information information:

1.6. The (daily) IP address of the Internet sir used in the information:
1.7. We are happy to bring you the information:
u Switch (chzing logi, model):
u Router (cling logi, model):
u IDS/IPS (Cluing logi, model):
u Tuerng lira, Firewall (chting logi, model):
O Other equipment (cling logi, model):
1.8. The most important members of the staff, the general staff, the general staff (PMNT), the main character
Hanh (HDH) sir used in the information
u Main instructions:
u The use of free software is:
O The sewing manuals.
u Other functions, characters, characters, and characters (write r5):
1.9. Information 1(5/receiving other than dm see information (write ro):
1.10. Steps to secure information to give him information:
u Da CO (record r5 information from date) u Chtra can
a. Detention staff from around the world for information:
you can understand.
O Receive service (write r5 clan for service cap):
- The picture is locked (true or continued):
- The MO is loud and clear, but I'm sorry:

- Calculation of the analysis of safety factors/m8i second (EPS): ....... . EPS.
GB/Day.

- Use the same amount of money to save money /day (GB/day):
- He is in charge of:, sir using the following instructions: u Co; u Khong.

- Mirc d6 confinement (ChQn of mirc by the& day):
u Close the mix of the team (lap and win): thtc present the role of the masters of the game.
such as routers, switches, firewalls, IDS/IPS.
14

Page 15

u Keep the mix in order to achieve the best results: have the best income and performance.
You can use the following functions: to collect, analyze, and close all services.
content (eg: web server; mail server etc..)
u oversight of co sa da lieu: collect, analyze, supervised least 14 servicers du ca sa
lieu.
- The main components are locked (Choose the dual clay plidn bars):
u Controlling system (needs for information acquisition sensor, IDS/IPS test and device, etc.)
bi Firewall...)
u The data collection/delivery panel collects safety information
(Connector)
u Monitor data logging (Logger)
u The analysis and analysis of the center (ESM)
- MO is so pessimistic.

b. Another phase of detention (nEu have, record the clan for hiOn, mo to tom tat tong)

ngN, kym thot gicim sat):

c. Keep information safe B6 Information and Communication for the public
believe:
- Debating B6 Information and Communication:

O Trien declared that he was not detained;
u don't think thkrc show;
u Khac
- Deterrence of suspicion of the officer's detention by informing him of the following information:
in CO (write down if you want to be in the first place/interval of WA') or second:
u don't
- Other requirements/Decisions:

2. Information on thli two: (write such information as gnin nhcit)
n. General information about thin n: (write like he information thir nhk)
15

Page 16

Nhan lure th kfc hig tic gim sit an Oki' information (detention sit)
1. The knife and the knife are locked in order to meet the dm don vi (write ro ho ten, chlk vu, diOn)
phone, email).

2. plfa'n meeting dm don vi (write re' ho ten, dirk vy, phone number,
email).

3. List of officers' 130 detentions :
TT

Diu to (bang cap .)
transfer)

H9 ten

Chting spends the 4th year, Nghiep nghi
related (if possible)

4. The woman's suspicions about her shoulders are tight:

Ngu.ai fill in the form

Manager

(4) ten, (long clau)

(Ky, write r5 name, dien thogi,
email)

16

Page 17

Phu Ity 2: Mht boo high hoot thing confinement ctia chit quan hg tilting information
DON VI CAP UP

HQI HQI CHUYA VIETNAM
Di)c 14p - Tv do - Hanh phtic

TEN DON VIETNAM

, right away

HIGH BAG
HE THONG THONG INFORMATION
(tir now)

come now

)

Kinh girl: BO Information and Communication

I. Information giant sat tong hqp
- Tiled jail time:... gig ... minute now... den ... gies ... minute now
- Tting so sit Kien an town information collection dtxgc:
- In comparison to the city, the danger of high blood pressure is high:
- Tinh Trang an town information: [Nghiam in/Nguyễn Hiem/Binh
Thtremg/An town]
- Compare the outputs:
- Torn tat safety situation information in time supervised pregnancy:

II. Shut down
1. List of customers, collectors and collectors of most commonly used valves At (only 5 years old)
melt the most )
A

STT

KS, thtfat tan cong

..

Itrqng terqngt a n
curvy
cling

first
2
3
4
5

17

Page 18

2. The list of the most tanned services At (t'Oipose 05 services are dissolved in the convulsion) ‫ا ا‬
muchAt)
SO luvng cuOc
service
STT
SO have service/IP address
A
tan cong
first
2
3
4
5
3. The list of IP addresses is widely dispersed At (Calculate 05 IP addresses )
MO 6' with the device/memory unit SO luvng cui)c
STT
IP address
A
.
tan cong
IP address is broken
first

- Services etc.
I. Ten translations etc:
+ Ma compare the supply curve, etc.:
+ Delivery of activities & Ong:
+ Phan mem, you can provide me
translation:
+ Thai time
2. Ten services.

2
3
4
[5
4. List of stupid IP addresses;;;,n are many at the top of the list.
IP address)
STT

SO luvng culic tan cong

IP address

first
2
3
4
5

18

Page 19

5. The list of IP addresses of the most people in the world and abroad (from 5 to 5 years old)
Address IP)
STT

IP address

SO luvng cut)c tan cong

first
2
3
4
5
III. The images are melted and destroyed
1. The most dangerous types of information (category 05):
1.1. K9 thudt melt curved Mir 1:
- Ten 1 (57 years old •
- To understand the country (if there is any) •
- Informational features •
Understanding- MO ta •
- Compare the finish and the grinding time•
- List of mirc dq dangerous hiern•
- Hero
- Disclosures • 11 declarations
- References •
- Other notes•
1.2. K9 thudt tan cong this 2: (Mo dozen twang tw ky thudt tan cong thin 1)
1.3. K9 thudt tan ding thte 3: (Mo twang tw kji thudt tan cong thte 1)
1.4. K9 thudt tan cong thte 4: (MO twang tw k9 thudt tan cong thte 1)
1.5. K9 thudt tan cong thte 5: (Mo to twang tw k9 thudt tan cong thi'r 1)

1.n. K9 sucks it up
2. The most popular types of information (from 5 to 5)
2.1. K9 thudt tan cong thte 1:
- Ten k'S", thuit tan cong•
19

Page 20

- To understand (net' co) •
- The d6i tugng bi fans cong•
- D'au understand the face •
- Mo Ta •
- S6 luting NIA according to grinding time, ra•
- Notable
d6 dangerous•
- Mr. hugng•
- Declared legal factors
- References •
- Enter another father2.2. K9 lost the war in thir 2: (MO to twang ty - 197 loser and thin 1)
2.3. K9 lost an war Ode 3: (MO to twang ty• k9 lost an war th& 1)
2.4. K9 loses this war: (MO to twang ty. 197 loser and thin 1)
2.5. Kj7 lost thti. 5.• (MO to twang tte kj7 lost an cong thir 1)

2.n. Ig lost all n•
3. Existing marl-dissolution loci (t6i-05)
3.1. K9 lost an th& 1:
- Ten 1 (57 defeats tan ding.
- To understand the country (if there is any) •
- The d6i d6i can be melted •
- D'au understand the face •
- MO ta •
- S6 luting and grinding time, ra•
- List of dangerous mircs•
- Mr. hugng•
- The legal variables are dugc trien of declaration•
- References •
- Other notes•
3.2. K9 lost all the way thzi. 2: (MO to twang tke k9 loser and thin 1)
3.3. K9 lost tan co/1g thir 3: (MO to twang ty- k9 lost tan cong thir 1)
3.4. K9 lost an army of thti 4: (MO to twang ty. 197 lost an army of 1)
3.5. K9 lost an army of tide 5: (MO to twang tif 197 lost an army of thin 1)

20

Page 21

3.n. K9 thu4t tan cong n:
IV. Other services in an town with information in the prison cell

V. Deployment and doubt:

Ntri,gth^n:
- Mut tren;
- VNCERT Center;
-Cyc A111;

Thti trtrang dun
pain)

- Luz, ....

21

