Page 1:

RA MINISTRY OF JUSTICE
PERSONAL INFORMATION PROTECTION
AGENCY

VIDEO:
GUIDE:

YEREVAN, 2016

Page 2:

VIDEO CONTROL GUIDE
Video surveillance: guide:
developed
is:
Armenia
Ministry of Justice Personal Data Protection
by the agency. The purpose of the guide is to introduce video surveillance
Basic rules and principles for keeping people private
data protection.
The guide was developed based on "Personal Data Protection

Republic

about >> according to the requirements of the RA law միջազգային international video surveillance regulation
by criteria.
Video surveillance Implementer:
each
person: or:
The organization should be guided by "Personal Data Protection
about >> RA law և with this guide.

1. Surveillance system տես videos containing personal data
Video surveillance system for an area, event, activity or person
video / audio control via electronic equipment. The system can:
work in video mode (when recording) և in real time
by data transfer.
Video surveillance is considered private
data if:
• It is possible to identify the face of the person being seen in the video
(direct identification)
or:
• It is impossible to identify a person's facial features, but:
filmed:
person:
physical
or:
behavioral
Comparing features with other data is possible
identify the person (indirect identification).
Thus, a person's image is personal data that allows
directly or indirectly identify the person. Therefore, the camera
video surveillance
(hereinafter referred to as video surveillance) as the processing and planning of personal data
is the processing, use and protection of personal data
Provision of requirements and principles.

2:

Page 3:

2. Principles of installation and use of the video surveillance system
Video surveillance space տարած to monitor / control behavior
is one of the means, but not the only one. Because video surveillance is an intervention
privacy, the data processor must really assess the threat և
the need to use such a system is justified. In particular,
should evaluate the following:
• The real need for data processing և purpose;
• The impact of the system on a person's right to privacy;
• Opportunities to achieve the goal by other means.
The video surveillance system must be installed, operated legally,
Adhering to the principles of proportionality, transparency and security.
2.1 Principle of legality
Video surveillance should be carried out only in accordance with the law
purposes տվյալների can not do without the consent of the data subject
used for other purposes. For example, property in an educational institution
video surveillance system installed to provide protection
It is forbidden to use it to control the educational process.
The installation of a video surveillance system may involve more than one
legitimate purpose. For example, the first legitimate goal may be:
Crime detection և prevention, and the second - traffic
Ensuring traffic safety.

2.2 The principle of proportionality
The data processor should use the video surveillance system only
in cases where it is impossible to achieve the goal pursued in other ways or
disproportionate effort is required.
There must be a balance between the goal pursued and the shot
Protection of privacy (do you need a camera?
to be placed in the waiting rooms of a medical institution). The video surveillance is obliged
to process videos to the minimum extent necessary legally
to achieve goals. The camera should be placed so that its
Only images that match the exact field of view will be entered
for the purpose of control (principle of proportionality). For example, a residential building
In case of video surveillance, it should be impossible to see who enters which apartment.
3:

Page 4:

The video supervisor is obliged to substantiate when making a video recording
the need for video recording. At the same time, video and audio control
data processor in case of using implementing systems
is obliged to substantiate sound in accordance with the principle of symmetry
the need for control.
Video surveillance:
as a result
collected
data:

(including:

videos և pictures) must be maintained for the purpose pursued
to achieve the required time. Personal recorded by the camera
The data must be deleted within a certain period of time. People և property
In many cases, the crimes committed are recorded in them
in the hours following the implementation. So in terms of the goal pursued
24 hours is enough for data storage, as long as it is not within that period
A case of causing damage to persons or property was registered. But objectively և
the period of data retention in case of possible motives
can be extended (principle of proportionality).
The longer the data is stored, the longer it is
Security requirements must be strict.

2.3 Transparency principle
The principle of transparency includes video surveillance on the one hand
Implementer:
duty:
video surveillance
persons:
on the implementation of video surveillance (principle of good faith), and the other
by video surveillance persons about their personal data
The right to receive information (principle of access to information).

to inform:

2.3.1 Principle of good faith
The subject conducting the video surveillance through a visible warning
must notify all persons entering the camera field
about video surveillance. In the case of these images by any horse
are recorded, the visible notice must also contain information,
from whom the people filmed can get information about themselves
video: For example, a residential building needs video surveillance
The warning should be clearly visible to anyone entering the building
for:
If the video surveillance area is large, the video surveillance may have several
warning signs or a single sign at the front door.

4:

Page 5:

2.3.2 Principle of access to information

The RA Law on Personal Data Protection stipulates that:
everyone has information about the processing of their personal data
right to receive. This also applies to personal video surveillance
data processing. According to Article 15 of the law, a person has a right
get information on ways to monitor him (for example, in a video or:
video recording), bases և goals, list of video monitored data
(borders) մասին about the sources of the video, such as it
the circle of people to whom his video can be transferred.
Each personal data processor is a state that conducts video surveillance
or a private body is obliged to enable video surveillance
to provide free access to the video related to the subject of video surveillance
(video recording), and if the video surveillance saves
video (ie there is a source to get the video), then
The subject of video surveillance also has the right to receive a copy of the video
(get the video).
The person conducting the video surveillance must provide the information in an accessible way.
and that information should not contain the personal information of other entities
data.
It should be noted that the information must be provided free of charge, unless otherwise provided by law
nothing is planned. The video surveillance subject can receive the video
he with the carrier he presented, again for free. If the subject of the video surveillance did not mention:
whatever media you want to get the video from, it is provided
in the most acceptable medium for the video surveillance operator.
A key principle is that personal information should not be sold
to him, and the need to pay should be connected only
Expenses of the video supervisor for providing video recording
with compensation.
The information must be provided after receiving the written request - five
during the day (Article 20 of the law, part 1).
It is possible that the person conducting the video surveillance will set up video surveillance և
internal procedures for providing information, because thus
The rules of video surveillance, the conditions that
how, through which responsible person the video surveillance can get him
the answer to the questions of interest, to whom and how to apply for his video
to get information about or a copy of the video, such as:
can get acquainted with the conditions of processing his video, who's how?
to ensure the security of the video stored with his / her supervisor
questions և etc. Having procedures is encouraged, which is a must
Comply with the RA Law on Personal Data Protection.
5:

Page 6:

The CCTV must also have internal appeal procedures
review mechanisms, deadlines for resolving the complaint, etc.

2.4 Principle of safety
1.

Video surveillance

system:

responsible:

should:

is:

Organizational և technical measures manual personal data
to protect against unauthorized processing (data security
principle):
For example, the registered data must be kept locked with a secure: key
in place: It is one of the best conditions for ensuring the security of videos
protected operational or technical, organizational և physical
systems. The systems are well protected if authorized
No one but the staff has access to the system. It is necessary
Regularly check operating systems, guarantee videos
security և privacy, prevent their loss: illegal
achievement:
Informational
systems
requirements for security, biometric

Private:

data:

to develop

to personal data carriers երից information systems
outside of that personal data protection technology
The requirements are defined by the Government of the Republic of Armenia 2015
By the decision N 1175-N of October 15, 2006.
Developers can also use "Information Security
governance >> AST ISO / IEC 27000 series international standards to the extent that
to what extent they are inherently applicable to biometric personal data
material media երից information systems outside that personal
data storage technologies.
Material carrier of any video surveillance system (eg camera)
must have a unique identifier ված be registered by the developer
(Decision of the Government of the Republic of Armenia N 1175-N).
2.
Access to registered or directly transmitted personal data
The number of people with disabilities should be as limited as possible (data:
security սկզբունք principle of proportionality).
For example, in a cafe only authorized for security
Individuals must have access to camera data. The rest of the staff
Members should be denied access.
Surveillance screens should be rotated so that only
The authorized person will be able to see the pictures. Public
screens are prohibited.
6:

Page 7:

3.
Registered data should not be published unless:
The data is transferred to other persons in cases provided by law.
For example, the mall does not have the right to transfer to third parties or
sell recorded images as well as post them on the internet.

3. Objectives of video surveillance
3.1 Video surveillance in public places
Public:
playgrounds,

places:
parks,

(streets,
parks,

sidewalks,
public

bus stops և other public places) should have video surveillance
a clearly defined legitimate aim or purposes և be conditioned
strict
as needed.
Such
legally
may be needed:

squares,
transport:

և:

Purpose:

strict

▪ National security
▪ Public safety
▪ The economic prosperity of the country
Կանխ crime և riot prevention
Պաշտպան Protection of health or morals
Պաշտպան protection of the rights and freedoms of others
Կարգ Regulation of traffic

Video surveillance in public places can also be carried out naturally
To prevent man-made dangers, to provide quick and easy medical care to persons
to demonstrate.
Street video surveillance is also carried out on the road
to ensure safety, in particular on the road
on the move
rules:
violations
to record:
videos or videos are put to drivers administratively
in the basis of administrative proceedings (see:
"Video recorder or

Photographer:

within:

with devices

discovered

on cases of traffic violations
on the peculiarities of the ongoing administrative proceedings >> RA law).
Video surveillance in public places can only be carried out in public
by the authorities (day: municipality, police).

7:

Page 8:

Surveillance devices installed in public places should not be used
shoot the entrance to residential buildings և inside, including the windows և
balconies.

3.2. Video surveillance in the buildings of state-private institutions
Public or private institutions (public authorities
buildings provided for the implementation of the activities of the bodies,
Museums, restaurants, cafes, shops, gyms, residential
buildings) video surveillance is carried out in buildings:
To ensure the security of ▪ persons ▪ property
Ելու Protecting confidential information
: Protect minors from harmful influences
In such institutions, cameras are installed in general
Usage:
places:
(building:
stairs, parking, adjacent area).

login

corridors,

In the offices of public and private institutions,
in dressing rooms, bathrooms, rest rooms, bathrooms
video surveillance is prohibited.

3.2.1. Video surveillance in the workplace
The video surveillance system is installed in the workplace in exceptional cases,
if it is necessary to protect the safety of persons վնաս to protect property վնաս from damage և
like:
action:
to the authors:
to discover
how
he!
secret
to protect information if otherwise not available
to achieve those goals.
Before installing a video surveillance system in the workplace
is obliged to inform the staff in writing about the employees of the system
rights:
About:
Before:
video surveillance
system:
installation:
Employees need to be explained the need for video surveillance,
purpose և their rights.
Cameras can record the entrance and exit of the workplace,
corridors, as well as the locations of expensive goods
warehouses. Video surveillance devices can not shoot employees
offices, except in special circumstances
In this case, the employee who deals with money. But in this case it is necessary
8:

Page 9:

The cash register, not the cashier, the warehouse where they work
workers).
As in other places, the workers in the workplace
have the right to respect for their privacy. Video surveillance is prohibited
Employees' rest և break rooms, bathrooms և
in the dressing rooms.
3.2.2. Video surveillance in residential buildings, apartments, private houses
3.2.2.1. Ելի Video surveillance system is installed in residential buildings մարդկանց
to ensure the security of the property. Video surveillance system
For installation is required to acquire apartment owners
more than half written consent. All the occupants of the building need it
be informed that a video surveillance system has been installed.
In residential buildings, cameras can only capture the entrance to the building
common areas (reception, corridor, staircase,
elevator doors, parking).
It is forbidden to video surveillance the entrance doors բնակարան balconies,
unless the owner of the apartment has made such a decision or
there is a written consent of the latter.
Residential buildings need video surveillance warning
be clearly visible to anyone entering the building.
3.2.2.2. A person can install cameras in his apartment, private house
to ensure its safety 1:: The owner of the house is right
has video surveillance of his private house և adjacent garden, but can not his plot
Shoot outside the box if you do not have a suitable neighbor
agreement:
Videos, pictures taken with a camera can not
used for other purposes (sharing pictures on the Internet) than:
is the security protection of the apartment. They should not be used
damage to the rights of other persons. People warning signs
should be informed about the availability of cameras. Private:
Video surveillance is possible only in its own area.
If a person installs cameras in his house, whether his house is full or not
full-time employees must then be considered certain
rules: For example, if the employee keeps the children at home or if:
medical staff come to the apartment every day to take care of the patient,
1:

In this case, the legal regulation of cameras is beyond Personal Data

From the field of regulation of the RA Law on Protection, և the owner of the apartment can
install cameras without obtaining permission from the competent authorities;
provided that the right to privacy of neighbors, visitors and passers-by is not violated.

9:

Page 10:

then in this case, there is a legal video surveillance in the workplace
rules of regulation. These people should be informed by the cameras
installation մասին about their purposes. Full video surveillance is prohibited
working hours
employee:
employees
themselves professional
while performing the activity.
3.2.3. Video surveillance in commercial establishments
Cameras:
in supermarkets,

can:
jewelry

are:

posted:
in stores,

in department stores,
in hairdressing salons,

in pharmacies և etc. Cameras are installed in such places անձ
to secure property (for example, to prevent theft)
or robbery և / or the perpetrators). That:
Cameras can be installed in commercial establishments
in traffic lanes և locations of goods.
It is forbidden to install cameras in cloakrooms and bathrooms.
The video surveillance system can not be used as a tool to secure
Proper performance of work by staff. However, it is
can be used to detect a cashier stealing
to the employee. When an employee's job depends on the use of money, then
The camera should take more pictures of the cash register than the cashier.
3.2.4. Video surveillance in educational institutions
Cameras can be installed inside educational institutions
for the protection of persons, as well as for the protection of property
Adverse effects on minors (to prevent pupils և and:
violence against them, thefts, damage to walls and doors,
the property of the institution և etc.). Cameras can also capture educational video
the exterior of institution buildings to enhance its security
in the vicinity (to prevent violence, the entry of outsiders).
Cameras can be filmed in educational institutions
Entrance / exit of the institution, stairs, corridors. It is forbidden to film
The inner yard of the institution, classrooms, canteen, dormitories և
gyms և etc.
Personal Property security must be provided to individuals
privacy in less invasive ways. Cameras:
use should be limited անա is an additional means
among other security measures.
Only exceptional circumstances substantiate learners և
video surveillance of teachers (when educational institutions become

10:

Page 11:

Target of frequent repeated illegal actions, day. often occur
commits thefts) 2::

4. Video surveillance criteria
Video surveillance systems must be consistent with the target
to the goal, based on the principle of proportionality. In this regard, a video surveillance is needed
take into account the following:
Number of cameras, their location և resolution
must correspond to the purpose of the video surveillance of the organization
Peculiarities of activity, the total area,
the structure of the room, etc. The video surveillance system should be installed in such a way that
to control as little space as possible to reach the pursuer
purpose: If the goal can be achieved with lower accuracy
With the help of cameras, you should use them to avoid unnecessary
from processing personal data.
The time, date, and location of the video surveillance must be clear from the videos.
Live, real-time data transfer
Video surveillance can be performed only with special permission
persons (for example, security guards). Working in this mode
The screens of the video surveillance system should be turned so that only
The authorized person will be able to see the videos. Public
screens are prohibited.
5. Responsibility
Violation of the RA Law on Personal Data Protection
including the processing of personal data (including through video surveillance)
violating the established procedure or at the request of the developer at the request of the video surveillance subject
does not provide information or violates the procedure for providing
Administrative liability is established for Because video surveillance
also handles personal data, administrative liability
will also achieve video surveillance without legal grounds, without legal
in case of violation of the purpose or in accordance with the law.
There is a fine for violating the law, the amount of which is different
In case of violations it ranges from 50,000 AMD to 500,000 AMD
(See Code of Administrative Offenses, Article 189.17).

2 In

international practice, the community decides whether kindergartens are elementary

Do you need to install cameras in schools or not?

11:

Page 12:

The person is released from administrative liability if the authorized body
within the period defined by the decision or before administrative liability
Making a decision on obedience, the person eliminated the violation
և The authorized body provided evidence to that effect. This proves that
that he has a defined responsibility not only to punish, but also!
to prevent violations of the right to protection of personal data
purpose.

12:

