Page 1

Consolidated federal law

Entire legal regulation for e-government law, version from 01.06.2021

Note for the following provision
The entries in the table of contents for §§ 8, 14 and 15 to 18 will only be found from this point in time
Application that the Federal Minister of the Interior in accordance with Paragraph 6, last sentence in the Federal Law Gazette
announce (cf. § 24 paragraphs 8 and 9).

Long title
Federal law on regulations to facilitate electronic communication with public bodies
(E-Government Act - E-GovG)
StF: Federal Law Gazette I No. 10/2004 (NR: GP XXII RV 252 AB 382 p. 46.BR: 6959 AB 6961 p. 705.)

modification
BGBl. I No. 7/2008 as amended by BGBl. I No. 59/2008 (VFB) (NR: GP XXIII RV 290 AB 362 p. 41.BR: AB 7832
P. 751.)
BGBl. I No. 125/2009 (NR: GP XXIV RV 320 AB 419 p. 46.BR: 8199 AB 8216 p. 779.)
[CELEX no .: 32002L0091]
Federal Law Gazette I No. 111/2010 (NR: GP XXIV RV 981 AB 1026 P. 90.BR: 8437 AB 8439 P. 792.)
[CELEX no .: 32010L0012]
BGBl. I No. 83/2013 (NR: GP XXIV RV 2168 AB 2268 p. 200. BR: AB 8968 p. 820.)
[CELEX no .: 31995L0046]
BGBl. I No. 50/2016 as amended by BGBl. I No. 27/2019 (VFB) (NR: GP XXV RV 1145 AB 1184 p. 134. BR: 9594
AB 9607 p. 855.)
BGBl. I No. 40/2017 (NR: GP XXV RV 1457 AB 1569 p. 171. BR: 9747 AB 9752 p. 866.)
[CELEX no .: 32009L0031]
BGBl. I No. 121/2017 (NR: GP XXV IA 2227 / A AB 1765 p. 190. BR: AB 9860 p. 871.)
BGBl. I No. 32/2018 (NR: GP XXVI RV 65 AB 97 S. 21. BR: 9947 AB 9956 S. 879.)
[CELEX No .: 32016L0680]
BGBl. I No. 104/2018 (NR: GP XXVI RV 381 AB 396 p. 55.BR: AB 10112 p. 887.)
Federal Law Gazette I No. 169/2020 (NR: GP XXVII RV 469 AB 495 p. 69.BR: AB 10480 p. 916.)

Preamble / promulgation clause
Table of Contents
1st section
Object and objectives of the law
§ 1.
§ 1a. Right to electronic traffic
§ 1b. Participation in corporate electronic delivery
2nd section
Unique identification and the E-ID function
§ 2. Definitions
§ 2a.
§ 3. Identity and authenticity
§ 4. The E-ID function
§ 4a. Registration and revocation of the E-ID
§ 4b. Registration data
§ 5. E-ID and representation
§ 6. Root number
§ 7. Authority for the register of original numbers

www.ris.bka.gv.at

Page 1 of 19

Page 2
Consolidated federal law

§ 8. Unique identification in data processing
§ 9. Area-specific personal identifier (bPK)
§ 10. Generation and request of bPK and master numbers of non-natural persons
§ 11. Disclosure of bPK in communications
§ 12. Protection of the original number of natural persons
§ 13. Further guarantees for the protection of bPK
3rd section
Use of the E-ID function in the private sector or for applications abroad
§ 14. Generation of bPK for the use of the E-ID in the private sector
§ 14a. E-ID-compatible applications abroad
§ 15. Guarantees for the protection of the original number and the bPK when processing in private
Area
4th section
Electronic record of data
§ 16. for personal data about independent economic activities
§ 17. for personal data from registers
§ 18. on personal data from electronic registers of a person responsible for
public or private area (note 1)
5th section
Special features of electronic filing
§ 19. Official signature
§ 20. Evidence of printouts
§ 21. Submission of electronic files
5a. section
Liability provisions
§ 21a. liability
6th section
Criminal provisions
§ 22. Inadmissible processing of master numbers or bPK or inadmissible use of
Official signatures
7th section
Transitional and final provisions
§ 23. Equal linguistic treatment
§ 24. Entry into force
§ 25. Transitional provision
§ 26. Issue and entry into force of ordinances
§ 27. References
§ 28. Execution
___________________
(Note 1: Art. 57 item 6 of the amendment in Federal Law Gazette I No. 32/2018 reads: “In the table of contents, the entry to
§ 18 after the word "for" the word "personal" added and the word "client"
replaced by the word "responsible person". ". Correct would be: "... after the word" about "the word
"Personal" inserted ... ".)

text
1st section
Object and objectives of the law
§ 1. (1) This federal law serves to promote legally relevant electronic communication.
The electronic communication with public bodies should take into account fundamental
Freedom of choice between types of communication for attachment to these locations are facilitated.

www.ris.bka.gv.at

Page 2 of 19

Page 3
Consolidated federal law

(2) Against dangers associated with increased use of automation-assisted
Data processing connected to the achievement of the goals mentioned in paragraph 1 are intended to improve
of legal protection, special technical means are created that are to be used where not
adequate protection is already provided by other precautions.
(Note: Paragraph 3 repealed by Art. 1 Z 1, Federal Law Gazette I No. 104/2018)
Right to electronic traffic
§ 1a. (1) Everyone has the right in matters that are a federal matter in legislation
to electronic communication with the courts and administrative authorities. With exception of
Matters that are not suitable to be dealt with electronically. Persons in court,
Financial criminal authority or according to § 53d of the Administrative Penal Act 1991, Federal Law Gazette No. 52/1991,
Deprivation of liberty ordered by the administrative authority can only exercise this right in accordance with the
the technical and organizational information available in the prison facilities in this regard
Exercise circumstances, insofar as this is permitted by law and does not endanger the
Security and order is to be expected.
(2) Any technical requirements or organizational restrictions of the electronic
Traffic as well as the time of the start of electronic traffic are on the Internet
to make known.
Participation in corporate electronic delivery
§ 1b. (1) Companies within the meaning of Section 3 subparagraph 20 of the Federal Act on Federal Statistics
(Federal Statistics Law 2000), Federal Law Gazette I No. 163/1999, have an interest in electronic delivery
to participate.
(2) Participation in electronic delivery is unreasonable if the company
does not have the necessary technical requirements or does not have an Internet connection
disposes.
(3) Participation is unreasonable until December 31, 2019 at the latest if the company
is not yet a participant of the company service portal and in the absence of electronic addresses for
Communication within the meaning of the delivery law.
(4) Companies can object to participation in electronic delivery. This
Objection loses its effectiveness on January 1, 2020, except for companies that are due to
If you fall below the turnover limit, you are not obliged to submit advance sales tax returns.

Note for the following provision
To the heading of the 2nd section and § 2 Z 10: If the technical and organizational
Requirements for real operation of the E-ID according to the announcement according to § 24 Paragraph 6 are not yet
is available for Citizen Cards issued up to the point in time when real operation begins
Legal situation before the entry into force of this federal law, Federal Law Gazette I No. 121/2017, to be applied. This point in time
must be announced by the Federal Minister of the Interior in the Federal Law Gazette (see Section 24, Paragraph 6).
Z 10a only applies from the point in time that the Federal Minister of the Interior pursuant to Section 24 (6)
publishes the last sentence in the Federal Law Gazette (see Section 24, Paragraph 9).

2nd section
Unique identification and the E-ID function
Definitions
§ 2. In the sense of this federal law means
1. "Identity": the designation of the identity of the person concerned (Z 7) through features that
are suitable to enable them to be distinguished from others; such characteristics are
in particular the name and date of birth, but also the company or
(alpha) numeric designations;
2. "Unique identity": the designation of the identity of a person concerned (Z 7) by an or
several characteristics, which causes the unmistakable differentiation from all others
becomes;
(Note: Z 3 repealed by Federal Law Gazette I No. 7/2008)
4. "Unique identification": electronic identification according to Art. 3 no. 1 eIDAS-VO (no. 11);
www.ris.bka.gv.at

Page 3 of 19

Page 4
Consolidated federal law

5. “Authenticity”: the authenticity of a declaration of will or action in the sense that the
the alleged author is also their actual author;
(Note: Z 6 repealed by Federal Law Gazette I No. 50/2016)
7. "Affected party": any natural person, legal person or other majority of persons or
Institution that has its own identity when participating in legal or commercial transactions
comes to;
8. "Stammnummer": a number assigned to a person concerned for their unambiguous identification, the
also for the derivation of area-specific personal identifiers (bPK) according to §§ 9 and 14
is determined.
9. "Master number register": a register that is used for the unambiguous identification of those affected
contains the master numbers used or the technical components for deriving
Owns master numbers if necessary;
10. "Electronic proof of identity (E-ID)": a logical unit that is independent of your
technical implementation with a qualified electronic signature (Art. 3 Z 12 eIDAS-VO)
a personal link (Section 4 (2)) and the associated security data and functions
connects;
10a. "Use of the E-ID": triggering the creation of a personal identity link using
qualified electronic signature of the E-ID holder or by means of a security-related
equivalent process that is linked to an earlier qualified electronic signature of the E-ID
Holder is bound, with the associated qualified certificate, which for the previous
qualified electronic signature was used at the time of the respective use
must still be valid;
11. "eIDAS-VO": Regulation (EU) No. 910/2014 on electronic identification and
Trust services for electronic transactions in the internal market and for the abolition of
Directive 1999/93 / EC, OJ No. L 257 of August 28, 2014 p. 73, as amended
OJ No. L 155 of 14.06.2016 p. 44.
§ 2a. The definitions of terms of Art. 3 eIDAS-VO also apply to this federal law.
Identity and authenticity
§ 3. (1) In electronic communication with those responsible in the public sector within the meaning of
Art. 4 no. 7 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 on the protection of natural persons during processing
personal data, the free movement of data and the repeal of Directive 95/46 / EC
(General Data Protection Regulation), OJ No. L 119 of 4.5.2016 p. 1 (hereinafter: GDPR) in
In connection with Section 26 (1) of the Data Protection Act - DSG, Federal Law Gazette I No. 165/1999
Access rights to personal data (Art. 4 No. 1 GDPR) are only granted if the
clear identity of the person who wants to access and the authenticity of his request proven
are. This proof must be provided in an electronically verifiable form.
(2) In addition, data subjects may be identified in electronic communication with
Responsible persons in the public sector are only required to the extent that this comes from a
overriding legitimate interest of the person responsible is required, in particular because this is a
is an essential prerequisite for performing a task assigned to him by law.

Note for the following provision
Paragraphs 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 and 8 only apply from the date on which the Federal Minister of the Interior
publishes in the Federal Law Gazette in accordance with Section 24 (6) last sentence (see Section 24 (7) and (8)).
Paragraphs 4 to 6 only apply from the point in time that the Federal Minister of the Interior pursuant to Section 24
Paragraph 6, last sentence, publishes in the Federal Law Gazette (cf. § 24 Paragraph 9).
The E-ID
§ 4. (1) The E-ID serves as proof of the unique identity, other features and the
Existence of sole power of representation of an intervener and the authenticity of the electronic
provided in proceedings for which a person responsible in the public sector is responsible for the
Has set up a technical environment suitable for use with the E-ID.
(2) The unique identification of a natural person, the legal owner of an E-ID (im
Following: E-ID holder) is caused by the identity link: Von der
Master number register authority (§ 7) is electronically signed or sealed confirms that the E-ID
Owner is or are assigned one or more bPK for unique identification. Unless the

www.ris.bka.gv.at

Page 4 of 19

Page 5
Consolidated federal law

Identity link contains the first name, family name or date of birth of the E-ID holder,
confirms the master number register authority with their electronic signature or their electronic
Seal the correctness of the assignment of this personal data to the E-ID holder. Unless with
With the consent of the person concerned, further characteristics are added to the identity link
electronic signature or the electronic seal of the master number register authority confirming the
intact insertion of these characteristics from those used by the master number register authority
Registers of those responsible for the public sector. Regarding proof of identity in the case
the representation applies § 5.
(3) In order to be able to use the E-ID function, the prior registration of the E-ID
Advertiser (§ 4a).
(4) Based on the identity data of the E-ID advertiser (§ 4b Z 1 to 4 and 6), the
Master number register authority to determine the master number of the E-ID advertiser and this in encrypted
Form to the qualified trust service provider (VDA) according to Art. 3 Z 20 eIDAS-VO, who the
issues a qualified certificate for an electronic signature with the personal identity link to the E-ID
of the E-ID advertiser is to be transmitted. In addition, the master number register authority has
this VDA the personal data according to § 4b Z 1 to 4, 7, 10 and 11 of the E-ID advertiser as well
to transmit any restriction on the period of validity of the certificate in accordance with Section 4a (2). The
The master number register authority also has all changes to the transmitted personal data
To disclose data that it becomes aware of. The VDA is the authority for the register of reference numbers
immediately receive the identity code of the issued certificates in accordance with Annex I lit.f eIDAS-VO
to transfer. For the purposes of a process that is equivalent in terms of safety within the meaning of Section 2
Z 10a, second case, triggered creation of a personal link, is the encrypted master number for
To save the E-ID of this E-ID holder.
(5) If the E-ID holder uses the E-ID in electronic communication in accordance with Section 10 (1), is through
the authority of the master data register or the authority acting on its behalf, a personal link
(Para. 2), the one or more bPK, first name, family name and date of birth for the E-ID holder
contains, to create and to transmit to the relevant data processing company. Will the creation of the
Personal link triggered by a qualified electronic signature of the E-ID holder (§ 2 Z 10a
first case), the qualified VDA has the encrypted master number and the associated security data
to be made available to the authority of the master data register. According to the technical possibilities
With the consent of the E-ID holder, additional characteristics can be added to the identity link for
the registers of persons responsible for the public or
private area.
(6) Depending on the technical possibilities, the E-ID holder can have first name, surname,
Date of birth and the existence of further characteristics according to paragraph 5 last sentence to a third party in
in a simplified form. For this purpose, first name, family name, date of birth and
the other characteristics are stored for a limited period of time for his E-ID. First name,
Family name and date of birth may be saved for a maximum of three months. Whether and for which one
Period this is permissible for a certain additional characteristic, the person responsible for the
public area that keeps the register, from which the master number registry authority this
Has related feature.
(7) The authenticity of an attachment made with the aid of the E-ID is confirmed by the in the E-ID
included electronic signature proven.
(8) The more detailed regulations on Paragraphs 1 to 7 are, as far as necessary, by ordinance of
Federal Minister for Digitization and Business Location in agreement with the Federal Minister
for interior affairs as well as any other competent federal ministers. Before issuing the
Ordinance are the states and the municipalities, the latter represented by the Austrian
Association of municipalities and the Austrian Association of Cities.

Note for the following provision
Paragraphs 5 and 6 only apply from the point in time that the Federal Minister of the Interior pursuant to Section 24
Paragraph 6, last sentence, publishes in the Federal Law Gazette (see Section 24 Paragraphs 7 and 8).
Paragraphs 3 and 4 only apply from the point in time that the Federal Minister of the Interior pursuant to Section 24
Paragraph 6, last sentence, publishes in the Federal Law Gazette (see Section 24 Paragraphs 7 to 9).

www.ris.bka.gv.at

Page 5 of 19

Page 6
Consolidated federal law

Registration and revocation of the E-ID
§ 4a. (1) The registration of the E-ID function is for citizens from the completed
14 years of age when applying for a travel document in accordance with the Passport Act 1992, BGBl.
No. 839/1992, with the exception of a passport pursuant to Section 4a of the Passport Act 1992, ex officio
by the passport authority or by a municipality authorized in accordance with Section 16 (3) of the Passport Act 1992
unless the person concerned expressly objects to this. In addition, they can
registering an E-ID with the passport authority, one in accordance with Section 16 (3) of the Passport Act 1992
authorized municipality or the state police headquarters. If the registration is not in
When applying for a travel document takes place, the local authority is responsible for the
A request for registration of the E-ID is made. In agreement with the Federal Minister for
Inside, other suitable authorities can also register the E-ID. The
The Federal Minister of the Interior has to publish these authorities on the Internet.
(2) The factual responsibility for registering the E-ID for strangers comes from
State Police Directorate too. The regional police department is responsible for the local area at which the request is made
Registration of the E-ID is provided. For strangers, registration is only required if
they have a sufficient connection to Germany and have reached the age of 14.
In particular, proof of residence, employment or business activity in the
Domestic required. For foreigners who have applied for international protection in Germany, the
Registration only after the status of asylum seeker or subsidiary has been granted
Persons entitled to protection or the granting of another right of residence. For strangers without
Main residence in the federal territory may use the qualified certificate for electronic signatures in accordance with
Art. 3 No. 15 eIDAS-VO may be valid for a maximum of three years from the date of registration. Paragraph 1
The penultimate and last sentence apply mutatis mutandis to strangers.
(3) If the holder of a domestic travel document in accordance with the Passport Act 1992, its
Validity period has not expired for more than six years, notify the authorities by way of the VDA (§ 4 para. 4
first sentence), who is responsible for data processing on behalf of the processor in accordance with Section 22b of
Passport Act 1992 is active, already in advance the name, date of birth, passport or
They are allowed to provide an identity card number and, if available, an e-mail address
Save this for further processing for the purpose of registering an E-ID for 30 days. He follows
If the E ID is not registered within this period, these personal data are too
Clear.
(4) The registration of the E-ID is only permitted if the identity of the person concerned is clear
was established. In the cases of Paragraph 1, second sentence and Paragraph 2, the registration of an E-ID
to provide a photo that meets the requirements of § 4 of the Passport Act Implementation Ordinance
(PassG-DV), BGBl. II No. 223/2006, in the version of the regulation BGBl. II No. 209/2018,
unless the registration authority already has one. To verify identity and the
submitted documents, the authority is empowered to provide information on personal data and
Documents of the e-ID advertiser from data processing of security, civil status and
Citizenship authorities as well as from data processing according to §§ 26 and 27 of the BFA
Procedural Act (BFA-VG), Federal Law Gazette I No. 87/2012, to query in remote data traffic and as far as it is
concerns data in accordance with Section 4b (1) 1 to 5 or 7, in data processing in accordance with Section 22b of the
Process 1992 Passport Act. Can the identity of the e-ID advertiser be submitted to the authorities pursuant to para. 1
and 2 are not clearly determined, the further procedure for the unambiguous determination is incumbent on the
Identity of the state police headquarters.
(5) The suspension or the revocation of the E-ID takes place through the suspension or the revocation of the
with the E-ID associated qualified certificate at the VDA according to § 6 of the signature and
Trust Services Act - SVG, Federal Law Gazette I No. 50/2016, or Art. 24 Para. 3 eIDAS-VO. This one has the
Information about the suspension or the revocation of the respective competent authority according to paragraphs 1 and 2
by way of the operator of the data processing in accordance with § 22b of the Passport Act 1992 for further
Submit processing. The authorities according to Paragraphs 1 and 2 have the suspension or the revocation
of the E-ID if it becomes known that the owner of the E-ID has died, the danger
There is a risk of improper use if the E-ID holder requests this or if the authority has facts
become known that raise legitimate doubts about the identity of the person concerned.
(6) The Federal Minister of the Interior, in agreement with the Federal Minister for
Digitization and business location, more detailed provisions on the procedure according to Paragraph 1 bis
5 as well as for the extension of the validity of an E-ID by regulation.

www.ris.bka.gv.at

Page 6 of 19

Page 7
Consolidated federal law

Note for the following provision
Only applies from the point in time that the Federal Minister of the Interior in accordance with Section 24 (6) last
Publication of the sentence in the Federal Law Gazette (see Section 24 Paragraphs 8 and 9).
Registration data
§ 4b. (1) The authorities entrusted with the registration of the E-ID are authorized as responsible persons
1. the names,
2. the date of birth,
3. the place of birth,
4. the gender,
5. the nationality,
6. the bPK,
7. the announced delivery address,
8. the current photo, with the exception of the photo of a passport according to § 4a of
Passport Act 1992
9. the registration date,
10. If available, the announced telephone number of a mobile phone,
11. the email address provided, if available,
12. the registration authority and
13. the identity code of the certificates issued in accordance with Section 4, Paragraph 4
in data processing in accordance with Section 22b of the Passport Act 1992. There is a storage
only to be carried out if the personal data is not already in this data processing, in
Central population register or the supplementary register are available. The Federal Minister for
Internal affairs as well as the master number register authority are authorized to transfer this personal data
To process the administration of the E-ID. The processing of this personal data too
purposes other than the administration of the E-ID is only possible on the basis of a special legal order
permissible.
(2) With regard to the processing of personal data in accordance with Paragraphs 1 and 3, there is no
Right of objection according to Art. 21 GDPR and no right to restriction of processing according to
Art. 18 GDPR. Those affected are to be informed in a suitable manner.
(3) The authorities entrusted with the registration of the E-ID are authorized, issuing authorities,
Issuing country, date of issue, period of validity, if applicable, document type and number of the
presented documents and evidence to unambiguously determine the identity together with the
to process related personal data according to Paragraph 1 with automated support.
(4) Log data on processing operations actually carried out, such as in particular
Changes, queries and transmissions must be kept for three years.
(5) The announced delivery address according to Paragraph 1 Z 7 must be deleted as soon as the registration
of the E-ID has been completed. Identity codes of the issued
Certificates must be deleted in the event of a revocation or expiry of the respective certificate. Others
Personal data processed in accordance with Paragraphs 1 and 3 as well as in accordance with Section 4a Paragraph 4 must be deleted,
as soon as they are no longer needed, but no later than three years after revocation or expiry of the E-ID.

Note for the following provision
Paragraphs 1 to 3 only apply from the point in time that the Federal Minister of the Interior pursuant to Section 24
Paragraph 6, last sentence, publishes in the Federal Law Gazette (see Section 24 Paragraphs 7 and 8).
E-ID and deputy
§ 5. (1) For the purposes of acting as a representative, the representative's identity link
the authority of the master number register that it has sole power of representation for the representation
of non-natural persons or a power of representation for the representation of natural persons
People can be inserted. For this purpose, the authority of the master data register may, in accordance with the
technical possibilities information on power of attorney in the data processing of others
Use those responsible for the public domain, if this is permitted by law or a
Consent of the person concerned exists. The master number register authority can also at the request of the
Representative the existence of a representation relationship with any content and time

www.ris.bka.gv.at

Page 7 of 19

Page 8
Consolidated federal law

Save restrictions. The prerequisites and further requirements of the application and the to
The evidence to be provided can be found in the ordinance of the Federal Minister to be issued in accordance with Section 4 (8)
for digitization and business location. The authorization to receive
Documents in accordance with Section 35 (3) second sentence of the Delivery Act - Status Act, Federal Law Gazette No. 200/1982
be inserted separately.
(2) In cases of professional representation of parties, a special proof of power of attorney is not required
required if the general authority to represent is based on the professional regulations
following note of professional authorization in the signature certificate of his E-ID or on the basis of
Data processing that is to be carried out in accordance with professional regulations is evident. In these
In cases, the existence of professional party representation is determined by the authority of the master data register
Inserted into the identity link in accordance with Paragraph 1. The general authority does not include the authorization
in accordance with Section 35 (3) second sentence of the Approval Act.
(3) Insofar as this service is set up by authorities, regardless of their
subject-specific and local responsibility for this purpose, specially authorized administrators for those affected on their
Requests to set procedural actions in procedures suitable for E-ID. The order of the person concerned is
to be documented at the authority in a suitable form. The procedural act is carried out with the help of the E-ID
of the governor set. The general authority of the administrator to carry out the
Procedural action for those affected must be taken from the signature certificate of his or her E-ID or from one of the
data processing carried out by the competent authority. In these cases, the existence of the
Authorization of the organ administrator from the master number register authority according to Paragraph 1 in the identity link
inserted. The general authorization does not include the authorization in accordance with Section 35 (3), second sentence, of the State Act
and the power of attorney for service in accordance with Section 9, Paragraph 1 of the Delivery Act.
(4) If the existence of an individual power of representation is linked to the identity link (§ 4 Paragraph 2)
inserted, the electronic signature or the electronic seal of the master number register authority is used
the confirmation of the intact insertion of the sole power of representation from the
Sources used in the reference number register authority. Section 4 (5), Section 14 (3) and Section 14a (2) apply
for acting as a representative in relation to natural persons represented. For represented
Non-natural persons must provide the master number register authority with the master number.

Note for the following provision
Paragraphs 1 and 4 to 4c and paragraph 5 only apply from the date on which the Federal Minister for
Advertise the interior in accordance with Section 24 (6) last sentence in the Federal Law Gazette (see Section 24 (7) to (9)).
Stem number
§ 6. (1) In the E-ID, the unambiguous identification of those affected takes place on the basis of their original number.
(2) For natural persons who are entered in the Central Residential Register, the original number is
through a derivation from your ZMR number secured with strong encryption (§ 16 para. 1 of the
Registration Act 1991 - MeldeG, Federal Law Gazette No. 9/1992). For all other natural persons is
to use their serial number in the supplementary register (Paragraph 4) to derive the master number.
The use of the ZMR number to form the core number does not constitute processing of personal data
Data of the central register of residents in accordance with § 16a MeldeG.
(3) For those affected who are registered in the commercial register, in the register of associations or in the supplementary register (para. 4)
are registered, the reference number is the commercial register number (§ 3 Z 1 of the Commercial Register Act, BGBl.
No. 10/1991) or the number of association registers (Section 18 (3) of the Association Act 2002, Federal Law Gazette I No. 66) or
to use the serial number assigned in the supplementary register.
(4) Affected persons who are not entered in the register of residents, in the commercial register or in the
Association registers must be registered are available upon their application or in the cases of Section 10, Paragraph 2
The request of the person responsible for data processing should be entered in the supplementary register. The
Supplementary register is kept separately according to natural persons and other data subjects.
In the case of natural persons, the prerequisite for registration is proof of personal data
Data contained in the ordinance to be issued by the Federal Minister for Digitization in accordance with Section 4 (8)
and business location are determined, for other affected parties proof of their legal status
Inventory including its legally valid designation. To the other affected persons can
Powers of attorney are entered. At which bodies the proof of personal
Data for entry in the supplementary register can be provided in accordance with Section 4 (8)
to regulate the decree issued by the Federal Minister for Digitization and Business Location. In

www.ris.bka.gv.at

Page 8 of 19

Page 9
Consolidated federal law

This ordinance can also regulate the extent to which costs are reimbursed for the entry
is.
(4a) Those responsible for the public sector whose data processing in accordance with Section 10 (2) is included
bPK, the changes to the registration data of the
Supplementary register, as far as natural persons are concerned, as well as the date of death of those affected
Persons, the person responsible by way of the processor, whose
Master number register authority in accordance with § 7 Paragraph 2, in accordance with the existing technical
Ways to report. The processor has the change on behalf of the person responsible
to undertake.
(4b) For the purpose of updating, the master number register authority is at the request of
Authorized those responsible for the public sector to keep them continuously in a suitable electronic form
the changed entry data of the supplementary register, insofar as natural persons are concerned, in
Reference to persons for whom an area-specific personal identifier from the area is saved
is to be transmitted, in which the respective responsible person is called for the execution.
(4c) The processor within the meaning of paragraph 4a has on behalf of the person responsible by means of a
Comparison between the ZMR and the supplementary register, as far as natural persons are concerned,
data quality assurance measures, especially with regard to a possible identity of similar
Data records in this supplementary register, on existing entries in the ZMR or on the
Spellings of names and addresses.
(5) Electronic identification means of another member state of the European Union, the
the requirements of Art. 6 Para. 1 eIDAS-VO can be met by those responsible for the public
Area like a citizen card for purposes of clear identification within the meaning of this federal law
be used. In accordance with the technical requirements, this has to be recognized at the latest
six months after the publication of the respective electronic identification system in the
List according to Art. 9 eIDAS-VO. When using such an electronic
The means of identification is for those affected who are neither in the population register nor in the supplementary register
are entered to create an entry in the supplementary register. That's what they are for
Personal identification data of the electronic identification means used in the
To be entered in the supplementary register. Is there an entry for the person concerned in the population register or in the
Supplementary register, are the personal identification data of the electronic
To enter the identification means in the appropriate register. The master number register authority has
at the request of the person concerned, his / her core number directly to the citizen card-compatible application in which the
Procedural act is undertaken. The root number may only be used by this
Calculation of bPK can be used.
(6) Mathematical procedures for the formation of the parent number are included in the parent number register
to use natural persons who have the ZMR number or the serial number of the
Strongly encrypt the supplementary register. These procedures are carried out by the master number registry authority
and - with the exception of the cryptographic key used - on the Internet
publish.

Note for the following provision
Paragraph 2 only applies from the point in time that the Federal Minister of the Interior pursuant to Section 24 Paragraph 6
announce the last sentence in the Federal Law Gazette (cf. § 24 paras. 7 and 8).
Master number register authority
§ 7. (1) The authority for the master number register is the Federal Minister for Digitization and
Business location.
(2) The master number register authority can be involved in the maintenance of the supplementary register as well as in
the calculation of master numbers and the implementation of the in §§ 4, 4b, 5, 9, 10, 14, 14a and 15
regulated procedures of the Federal Ministry of the Interior as a processor, insofar as natural
Persons are affected, and the Federal Ministry of Finance or the Federal Statistical Office
Serve Austria with regard to all other affected parties. The more detailed regulations on the resulting
resulting distribution of tasks between the authority of the master data register and the federal ministry
for the Interior, the Federal Ministry of Finance or the Federal Statistics Austria as
Processors are regulated by the Federal Minister for Digitization and
Business location in agreement with the Federal Minister of the Interior, the Federal Minister for
Finances or the Federal Chancellor. Deviating from this, the
www.ris.bka.gv.at

Page 9 of 19

Page 10
Consolidated federal law

Use the master number register authority for these purposes also by other or further processors.
The master number register authority has the proper fulfillment of the tasks of the
To check processors.

Note for the following provision
Only applies from the point in time that the Federal Minister of the Interior in accordance with Paragraph 6, last sentence
announce in the Federal Law Gazette (see. § 24 para. 8).
Unique identification in data processing
§ 8. In the data processing of those responsible in the public sector, an im
As part of the E-ID concept, the unambiguous identification of those affected with regard to
natural persons can only be represented in the form of the bPK (§ 9). For those affected who are not natural
Are persons, the master number may be saved for clear identification.
Area-specific personal identifier (bPK)
§ 9. (1) The bPK is derived from the original number of the natural person concerned
educated. The identification function of this derivation is based on that state area of ​activity
limited to which the data processing in which the BPK is to be processed is attributable. The
Allocation of data processing to a specific state area of ​activity results from
their registration with the authority of the master data register.
(2) The demarcation of the state areas of activity is for the purposes of the formation of bPK
ensure that related life issues in one and the same area
are combined and incompatible data processing within the same
Area are not provided. The designation and delimitation of these areas is through
Ordinance of the Federal Minister for Digitization and Business Location stipulated; before issuance
or amendment of this ordinance are the states and the municipalities, the latter represented by the
Austrian Association of Municipalities and the Austrian Association of Cities.
(3) The mathematical processes used to form the BPK (hash process via the
Source number and the area identifier) ​are determined by the source number register authority and - with
Except for the cryptographic keys used - published on the Internet.

Note for the following provision
Paragraphs 1 and 2 only apply from the point in time that the Federal Minister of the Interior pursuant to Section 24
Paragraph 6, last sentence, publishes in the Federal Law Gazette (see Section 24 Paragraphs 7 and 8).
Generation and request of BPK and master numbers of non-natural persons
§ 10. (1) If the E-ID is used, a data subject becomes bPK in electronic proceedings
for which the person responsible for the public area creates an environment suitable for E-ID
has set up. For this, data processing with its assignment to a state area must be carried out
be registered with the master number register authority. In areas in which the person responsible for the
public area is not called for enforcement, bPK may only be encrypted (§ 13 para. 2)
get saved.
(2) The generation of bPK without the use of the E-ID is only permitted to the master number register authority
and only permitted if unambiguous identification with the help of the bPK within the framework of
Data processing by those responsible in the public sector is necessary because
processed personal data in a manner corresponding to the GDPR and the DSG
should be. Such cases are in particular administrative assistance, data collection on behalf of the person concerned
or the intervention of a representative according to § 5. For the same reasons, non-natural
To provide people with the original number. When requesting bPK from an area in
for which the person responsible for the public sector is not called to carry out, or by bPK for
processing in the private sector may only be made available to bPK in encrypted form (Section 13 (2))
become.
(3) The ordinance to be issued in accordance with Section 4 (8) also includes the reimbursement of costs for those in accordance with Section 2
to regulate the provision of bPK in connection with professional party representation.

www.ris.bka.gv.at

Page 10 of 19

Page 11
Consolidated federal law

Disclosure of BPK in communications
§ 11. In notifications to the person concerned or to third parties, bPK are not to be mentioned. The
Facilitating the assignment of such notifications to records by the person responsible for
the same item is in some other way, such as by quoting a business number
accomplish.

Note for the following provision
Only applies from the point in time that the Federal Minister of the Interior in accordance with Paragraph 6, last sentence
announce in the Federal Law Gazette (see. § 24 para. 8).
Protection of the original number of natural persons
§ 12. (1) The confidentiality of original numbers of natural persons is subject to special protection
through the following precautions in the E-ID concept:
1. Permanent storage of the original number of natural persons is only allowed in encrypted
Form.
2. The processing of the original number of natural persons in the calculation process for the bPK is allowed
lead to no storage of the master number outside of the calculation process. The process
The calculation may only be carried out by or on behalf of the master data register authority
active authority to be specified in more detail in the ordinance to be issued in accordance with Section 4 (8)
are to be carried out.
(2) The processing of the master number to determine a BPK may only take place:
1. with the participation of the E-ID holder in accordance with the provisions of §§ 4 Paragraph 5, 14 Paragraph 3 and 14a
Paragraph 2, or
2. without the involvement of the person concerned by the master number register authority according to the details
Provisions of Sections 10, 13 Paragraphs 2 and 15.
Further guarantees to protect bPK
§ 13. (1) bPK are to be formed by non-reversible derivations from the original number. This is true in
Interest in the traceability of government action not for bPK, which exclusively in
In connection with the activity of a person as an administrator.
(2) Is it permissible for the purpose of unambiguously identifying a data subject in accordance with Section 10 (2),
requesting a BPK from the master number register authority, if it is a BPK
is an area in which the requesting party is not called to enforcement or is a
bPK for use in the private sector is only used by the authority of the master data registry
to be made available in encrypted form. The encryption is to be designed in such a way that
1. only someone can decrypt in whose data processing the BPK is in decrypted form
may be processed permissibly (Paragraph 3), and
2. by including additional variable information not known to the requesting party in
the encryption basis, the BPK, even in encrypted form, does not have any personal information
Note supplies.
(3) bPK may only be stored unencrypted in data processing if for
Formation of the bPK the identifier of the area was used, which the data processing in
Compliance with the ordinance issued in accordance with Section 9 (2) is attributable.

Note for the following provision
Only applies from the date on which the Federal Minister of the Interior pursuant to Section 24 (6) last
Publication in the Federal Law Gazette (see Section 24, Paragraphs 7 to 9).

3rd section
Use of the E-ID function in the private sector or for applications abroad
Generation of bPK for the use of the E-ID in the private sector
§ 14. (1) For the unique identification of natural persons in electronic communication with
A person responsible in the private sector (Section 26 (4) DSG) can use the E-ID to obtain a bPK
are formed, with the master number or the BPK of the person responsible instead of the area identifier
www.ris.bka.gv.at

Page 11 of 19

Page 12
Consolidated federal law

of the private area occurs. The prerequisite for this is that the person responsible for the private sector has a
has set up a suitable technical environment for the use of the E-ID in which its master number or
his bPK is made available as an area identifier in the calculation process for the bPK.
(2) Those responsible for the private sector are only allowed to save and use bPK that are with
Using their own master number or their own bPK as an area identifier.
(3) If the E-ID holder uses the E-ID in electronic communication in accordance with Paragraph 1 is through the
Master number register authority or the authority acting on its behalf a personal link (§ 4
Paragraph 2), which contains a BPK for the E-ID holder, and to the relevant data processing
to transfer. If the creation of the identity link is made by means of a qualified electronic signature of the
E-ID holder triggered (§ 2 Z 10a first case), the qualified VDA has the encrypted master number
and to make the associated security data available to the master number register authority. With
The consent of the E-ID holder can be entered into the personal link first name, family name or

Date of birth, as well as further characteristics to this from for, depending on the technical possibilities
the registers of persons responsible for the public or
private area. Section 4 (6) is to be applied accordingly.

Note for the following provision
1. If the technical and organizational requirements for real operation of the E-ID according to
The announcement according to § 24 Paragraph 6 is not yet available until the date of the start of the
Citizen cards issued in real operation determine the legal situation prior to the entry into force of this Federal Act, Federal Law Gazette I
No. 121/2017 apply. This time is from the Federal Minister of the Interior in the Federal Law Gazette
to be announced (cf. § 24 Paragraph 6).
2. Paragraph 2 only applies from the point in time that the Federal Minister of the Interior pursuant to Section 24 Paragraph
6 last sentence announces in the Federal Law Gazette (see. § 24 para. 9).
E-ID-compatible applications abroad
§ 14a. (1) For E-ID-compatible applications abroad, Section 14 Paragraph 1 is subject to the following
apply that instead of the area identifier, a country-specific identifier or at
Applications of international organizations to use an organization-specific identifier
is.
(2) If the E-ID holder uses the E-ID in electronic communication in accordance with Paragraph 1, the
Master number register authority or the authority acting on its behalf a personal link (§ 4
Paragraph 2), which contains a bPK, first name, family name and date of birth for the E-ID holder,
and to transmit it to the relevant data processing company. Will create the identity link
triggered by means of a qualified electronic signature of the E-ID holder (§ 2 Z 10a first case), the
qualified VDA the encrypted master number and the associated security data of the
To make available the master number register authority. According to the technical possibilities
With the consent of the E ID holder, additional characteristics can be added to the identity link for
the registers of persons responsible for the public or
private area.

Note for the following provision
The heading and paragraph 1 only apply from the point in time that the Federal Minister of the Interior
publishes in the Federal Law Gazette in accordance with Section 24 (6) last sentence (see Section 24 (7) and (8)).
Guarantees to protect the original number and the BPK when processing in the private sector
§ 15. (1) The creation of a bPK for processing in the private sector is without participation
of the person concerned and without the use of the E-ID is permitted if unambiguous identification with the help of the
bPK is necessary in the context of data processing by those responsible in the private sector,
because
1. These responsible persons based on legal regulations the identity of their customers
have to hold on or provide their customers with a corresponding to Section 14 (1), second sentence
provide technical environment and
2. Personal data in a manner that complies with the GDPR and the DSG
should be processed.

www.ris.bka.gv.at

Page 12 of 19

Page 13
Consolidated federal law

If one person responsible for the private sector transfers personal data to another
Responsible person has to transmit, this can be like a person responsible for the public sector
Request encrypted BPK (§ 13 Paragraph 2).
(2) The Federal Minister of the Interior is authorized to reimburse the costs for the generation of the
bPK and the encrypted bPK according to Paragraph 1 to determine the costs incurred by ordinance.

4th section
Electronic record of data
for personal data about independent economic activities
§ 16. (1) Electronic evidence of the type of self-employed activity and of the
The professional authorizations required for this can be obtained by using the
Documentation register according to § 114 Abs. 2 BAO.
(2) Insofar as proof of the personal data referred to in Paragraph 1 is provided in proceedings
is necessary for a person in charge of the public sector, he can do this himself by the person concerned
Submission of the information electronically signed or sealed by the documentation register provided or
at the request of the person concerned by the person responsible by means of electronic inspection of the
Register can be obtained. The official procurement of the evidence is available when the
legal requirements for this data collection.
for personal data from registers
§ 17. (1) As far as the correctness of the personal data stored in the central register of residents is concerned
Data on civil status and nationality from the registration authorities through inspection of the
relevant documents (standard documents) have been checked, they have to inform the central office
To notify the register of residents, as a result of which the examination in the central register of residents was carried out in a suitable manner
electronically readable is to be noted. This comment can also be made by the person concerned outside of a
The registration process will be required if the registration authority has confirmed the correctness of a registration date
Proof of submission of the relevant documents.
(2) If the authorities have to assess the correctness of personal data contained in a
electronic registers of a person in charge of the public sector are included, they have according to
Provision of the technical possibilities, if the consent of the person concerned to the data acquisition
or there is a legal authorization for official data collection, the data collection in
Carry out long-distance data traffic yourself, if necessary. The authority has the
To inform those affected of the possibility of consent to data collection. The data discovery
replaces the submission of proof of the personal data by the party or the involved party.
Electronic inquiries to the central register of residents are to be made in accordance with Section 16a (4) of the Registration Act
to treat.
(3) Those affected can make use of the electronic availability of verified reporting data
do by them
1. in procedures in which the submission of standard documents within the meaning of Paragraph 1 is required
is in the procurement of the required personal data from the headquarters
Consent or
2. an electronically signed or sealed registration confirmation of the with an official signature (§ 19)
Request the central register of residents in which the fact of the verified correctness of the
individual reporting data is noted.

Note for the following provision
Only applies from the date on which the Federal Minister of the Interior pursuant to Section 24 (6) last
Publication in the Federal Law Gazette (see Section 24, Paragraph 9).
about personal data from electronic registers of a person in charge of the public
or private area
Section 18. (1) Personal data that is processed in accordance with Section 4b (1) 1 to 5 and 8 or in a for the
The electronic register of a person responsible for the
Public or private areas are included when using the E-ID function
Subject to the technical possibilities
1. the E-ID holder himself,
www.ris.bka.gv.at

Page 13 of 19

Page 14
Consolidated federal law

2. Person in charge of the public sector on behalf of the E-ID holder for procedures for the
they have set up a technical environment suitable for the use of the E-ID, or
3. Third parties on behalf of the E-ID holder, provided that they have been given use of the E-ID system and
has not yet been prevented,
to submit. It must be ensured that the logging of the data transmission from the E-ID
System on behalf of the E-ID holder without prejudice to the data protection obligations of the
The controller and its processors are only accessible to the E-ID holder.
(2) The Federal Minister of the Interior is authorized to allow third parties to use the E-ID
System to open. Third parties in accordance with Paragraph 1 No. 3 have to contact the Federal Minister of the Interior for this purpose
to register. Use is not to be opened or prevented if there are indications that
that third parties do not use the personal data made available to them in accordance with the principle
processed in good faith and lawfully. Third have the federal minister
to announce every circumstance for interior that stands in the way of its use. The Federal Minister for
Interior is entitled to use the E-ID system for the purpose of opening up remote data traffic
1. Information on legally binding criminal convictions that have not been redeemed (Section 9 Paragraph 1 Item 1
of the Criminal Records Act 1968, Federal Law Gazette No. 277/1968) of those responsible according to § 9 of
Administrative Criminal Law (VStG), Federal Law Gazette No. 52/1991, in particular because of illegal
Access to a computer system (Section 118a of the Criminal Code - StGB, Federal Law Gazette No. 60/1974),
Violation of telecommunications secrecy (Section 119 StGB) or because of the
improper interception of data (§ 119a StGB), as well as
2. the exact designation of the trade (Section 365a, Paragraph 1, Item 5 of the Trade Regulations 1994
(GewO 1994), Federal Law Gazette No. 194/1994, from the Austrian Business Information System (GISA) according to
§ 365 GewO 1994 using the GISA number
query. In a specific case, the personal data transmitted in accordance with Paragraph 1 may only be used for
the own purposes that have been made credible are processed; the mere passing on by way of
Use of the personal data obtained by E-ID to third parties is not a separate purpose in the sense of this
Determination.
(3) The Federal Minister of the Interior is in agreement with the Federal Minister for Digitization
and business location are authorized to set out more detailed provisions on the procedure pursuant to Paragraphs 1 and 2
to be determined by ordinance, in particular to what extent other than entrepreneurs and associations
Participants in the company service portal in accordance with Section 5 of the Company Service Portal Act (USPG),
BGBl. I No. 52/2009, or other third parties can be registered and to what extent third parties according to Paragraph 1 No. 3
to reimburse both the costs for opening use and for using the E-ID system
to have.
(4) The legality of the accessibility of electronic registers of a person responsible for
public area for the master number register authority within the meaning of paragraph 1 is due to a
Legal basis to be judged in a material law. The one for the respective data processing
The competent federal minister can, within the framework of a legal authorization to process data, which
for a transfer in accordance with paragraph 1 relevant identity data, information about
Authorizations as well as circumstances that the person concerned would like to prove, with regulation in more detail
concretize.
(5) Insofar as third parties in accordance with Paragraph 1 No. 3 are entrepreneurs within the meaning of Section 1 of
Corporate Code (UGB), dRGBl. S 2019/1897, or to clubs within the meaning of § 1 of
Association Act 2002 (VerG), Federal Law Gazette I No. 66/2002, have to do so in the course of the application
in any case
1. the name and legal form within the meaning of Section 25, Paragraph 1, Item 1 of the Federal Statistics Act 2000,
Federal Law Gazette I No. 163/1999,
2. the persons responsible according to § 9 VStG,
3. the data in accordance with Section 25 (1) 2 and 3 of the Federal Statistics Act 2000,
4. if applicable, the GISA number, the commercial register number, the ZVR number and the logo,
5. the object of the company or the purpose of the association,
6. the telephone number and an email address of the company or association as well
7. the purposes that have been made credible for the use of the E-ID system
if this data has not already been entered in the company register in accordance with Section 25 of the
Federal Statistics Act 2000 can be determined. In addition, the entrepreneur or the
Association's academic degree, first and last name, telephone number and email address
specify one or more contact persons.
www.ris.bka.gv.at

Page 14 of 19

Page 15
Consolidated federal law

(6) The third party pursuant to Paragraph 1 No. 3 has a change to the information specified in the course of registration
To inform the Federal Minister of the Interior immediately. Participant of the
Company service portals according to § 5 USPG have made these changes by way of
Announce corporate service portals. Will the E-ID system over a period of five
Years not used, all data of the third party must be deleted.
(7) If third parties have been given access to the E-ID system in accordance with Paragraph 1 No. 3, they have
to notify the Federal Minister of the Interior immediately if:
1. a credible purpose according to paragraph 2 or the person responsible according to § 9 VStG
changes or
2. Third parties no longer want or are no longer allowed to pursue the purposes made credible in accordance with Paragraph 2.

5th section
Special features of electronic filing
Official signature
§ 19. (1) The official signature is an advanced electronic signature or an advanced one
electronic seal, whose specialty is indicated by a corresponding attribute in the signature certificate or
Certificate for electronic seal is shown.
(2) The official signature is used to make it easier to identify the origin of a document
Public sector manager. It may therefore only be used by this person in charge
of the public area under the detailed conditions of para. 3 for the electronic
Signing and used in the preparation of the documents generated by him.
(3) The official signature is in the document by a figurative mark, which the person responsible for
public area on the Internet as his secured, as well as by a notice in
Document that this has been officially signed. The information about checking the
electronic signature or electronic seal are from the person in charge of the public
Area.

Note for the following provision
If the technical and organizational requirements for real operation of the E-ID according to the
The announcement according to § 24 Paragraph 6 is not yet available until the date of the start of the
Citizen cards issued in real operation determine the legal situation prior to the entry into force of this Federal Act, Federal Law Gazette I
No. 121/2017 apply. This time is from the Federal Minister of the Interior in the Federal Law Gazette
to be announced (cf. § 24 Paragraph 6).
Evidence of printouts
§ 20. An electronic document of an authority printed out on paper has the evidential value of a
public document (Section 292 of the Code of Civil Procedure - ZPO, RGBl. No. 113/1895), if that
electronic document has been provided with an official signature. The official signature must go through
Return of the document from the printed to the electronic form verifiable or the
Document must be verifiable by other means of the authority. The document has one
Reference to the reference on the Internet where the procedure for returning the expression to the
electronic document and the applicable checking mechanisms are included, or a reference to
to contain the process of verification.

Note for the following provision
If the technical and organizational requirements for real operation of the E-ID according to the
The announcement according to § 24 Paragraph 6 is not yet available until the date of the start of the
Citizen cards issued in real operation determine the legal situation prior to the entry into force of this Federal Act, Federal Law Gazette I
No. 121/2017 apply. This time is from the Federal Minister of the Interior in the Federal Law Gazette
to be announced (cf. § 24 Paragraph 6).
Submission of electronic files
§ 21. (1) Insofar as files have to be submitted by one authority to another authority, and
If these files were generated electronically and approved electronically, the submission obligation relates to
this electronic original. This is especially true for files from a continuously electronic
www.ris.bka.gv.at

Page 15 of 19

Page 16
Consolidated federal law

guided file processing and management system. The template must be in a standard format
respectively.
(2) Standard formats are those electronic formats that make a document easier to read
also for third parties during the expected retention period according to the state of the art
ensure as best as possible.
(3) If the authority to which the electronic file is to be submitted has an electronic delivery service with it
entrusted with the receipt of consignments for the authority, the file template, in particular if
it should be verifiable, also take place via this delivery service. The provisions of Section 3
of the Service Act apply accordingly with the proviso that the submission with the
Electronic dispatch of the notification of the provision is effected the following day.

5a. section
Liability provisions
liability
§ 21a. (1) Scope and extent of the damage to be compensated according to Art. 11 of the eIDAS-VO, as well as
Any rights of recourse against other persons are based on what is otherwise in the case of damage
applicable provisions.
(2) Claims for compensation against other persons or for another legal reason remain
untouched.

6th section
Criminal provisions
Inadmissible processing of master numbers or bPK or inadmissible use of
Official signatures
Section 22. (1) Unless the act is subject to other administrative penal provisions with more severe penalties
is threatened, commits an administrative offense, which is fined by the district administrative authority
Up to 20,000 euros can be penalized for whoever
1. the original number of a natural person or their BPK contrary to the provisions of the 2.
or Section 3 procures them for the unlawful identification of personal data
of the person concerned, or
2. a BPK of another person in charge of the private sector saves or uses without authorization
or
3. Other responsible persons in the private sector the CPC formed with their own core number
makes available in an improper manner or
4. As the person responsible for the private sector, a BPK used to provide third parties with personal
To provide data on a registered place of residence of the person concerned or
5. uses an official signature contrary to Section 19 (2) or pretends to be using it.
(2) The penalty for forfeiture of objects (Sections 10, 17 and 18 VStG) that are associated with a
Administrative offenses related to paragraph 1 can be pronounced.
(3) The authority in whose district the
Act has been committed.

7th section
Transitional and final provisions
Linguistic equality
§ 23. As far as in this article referring to natural persons terms only in masculine
Form, they refer to all genders in the same way.
Come into effect
§ 24. (1) With the exception of its 4th section, this federal law shall come into force on March 1, 2004.
The 4th section comes into force on January 1, 2005.

www.ris.bka.gv.at

Page 16 of 19

Page 17
Consolidated federal law

(2) The table of contents, Section 1 (3), Section 2 (8) and (10), Section 3 (1), Section 5, Section 6 (2 to 6), Section 7 (2),
§ 8, the paragraph heading before § 9, § 9 paragraphs 1 and 2, the paragraph heading before § 10, § 10 paragraph 1
up to 3, the paragraph heading before § 11, § 11, § 12 para. 1 no. 4 and para. 2, the paragraph heading before
Article 13, Article 13 Paragraphs 1 to 3, the paragraph heading before Article 14, Article 14 Paragraphs 1 and 2, the paragraph heading
before Section 15, Section 15 (1) and (2), Section 19 (1) to (3), Section 20, the paragraph heading before Section 22, Section 22 (1) (1)
to 4 and Section 25 Paragraphs 1 to 3 in the version of the Federal Law Gazette I No. 7/2008 come into force on January 1st
In force in 2008; at the same time, § 2 no.3 ceases to apply.
(3) The table of contents, the heading to Section 17 and Section 17 Paragraph 2 in the version of
Budget Accompanying Act 2011, Federal Law Gazette I No. 111/2010, comes into force on January 1, 2011. Section 17 (2) in the
Version of the said federal law is by authorities when the technical and
organizational requirements at the authority and the person responsible for the relevant
Register, but no later than December 31, 2012.
(4) The table of contents, the heading of the 2nd section, § 2 Nos. 1, 4, 10 and 11, § 2a,
Section 4 (2), Section 6 (4) and (6), Section 7 (1), Section 8, the paragraph heading before Section 9, Section 10 (2), the
Section heading of the 3rd section, Article 14, Paragraph 1, Article 14a, Article 16, Paragraph 2, Article 17, Paragraph 2 and Paragraph 3, item 2, Article 19
Paragraphs 1 and 3, § 22 Paragraphs 1 and 2, the paragraph heading before § 24 and the paragraph heading
Section 26 as amended by Federal Law Gazette I No. 50/2016 comes into force on July 1, 2016. Simultaneously
§ 2 No. 6 and § 25 including the heading shall cease to apply.
(5) The table of contents, the heading of Section 2, Section 2, Item 11, Section 4, Paragraph 5, Section 6, Paragraph 2, Section 10
Paragraph 2 last sentence and paragraph 3, § 13 paragraph 2 first sentence, § 15 paragraph 1, 1a and 2 last sentence, the heading
on Section 17, Section 17 (2) last sentence, Section 21 (3) and Section 25 including the heading in the version of the
Deregulation Act 2017, Federal Law Gazette I No. 40/2017, come into effect at the end of the day on which the
mentioned federal law in force. Section 1a including the heading in the version of the aforementioned federal law
comes into force on January 1, 2020. Section 1b including the heading in the version of the aforementioned federal law comes into effect
with the beginning of the seventh on the day of the announcement of the availability of the display module
Section 37b (8) of the Delivery Act comes into force the following month (note: 1) .
(6) The table of contents, the heading of the 2nd section, § 2 Z 10, §§ 4, 4a, 4b and 5 together
Headings, Section 6 Paragraphs 1, 4 and 5, Section 7 Paragraph 2, Section 8 first sentence, Section 10 including the heading, Section 12, the heading
of the 3rd section, § 14 paras. 1 and 3, § 14a including the heading, § 15, § 18 including the heading, the
Section 5, Section 25 (2) and (3) and Section 28 (1) and (4) come into effect at the end of the day on which this is announced
Federal Act and, with the exception of Section 25 Paragraphs 2 and 3, only apply if the
the technical and organizational requirements for real operation of the E-ID are in place. This
The time must be announced by the Federal Minister of the Interior in the Federal Law Gazette.
(7) The entries in the table of contents for Sections 8, 14, 15 to 18 and 22, Section 3, Section 4 Paragraphs 1, 2, 4, 5 and
6, Section 4a Paragraphs 3 to 5, Section 4b, Section 5 Paragraphs 1 to 3, Section 6 Paragraphs 2 and 4, Section 7 Paragraph 2, Section 8 including the heading, Section 9 Paragraph 1
and 2, Section 10 (1) and (2), Section 11, Section 12, Section 13, Section 14 including the heading, Section 14a (2), the heading for Section 15,
Section 15 (1), the heading to Section 16, Section 16 (2), Section 17 including the heading, the heading to Section 18, Section 18
Paragraphs 1 and 2, Section 19 Paragraphs 2 and 3, the heading to Section 22, Section 22 Paragraph 1, Section 24 Paragraph 3 and Section 25 Paragraph 2 in
of the 2018 version of the Data Protection Adjustment Act, Federal Law Gazette I No. 32/2018
May 25, 2018 come into effect and, with the exception of the entry in the table of contents for Section 22 and Section 3,
Section 6 (2), Section 9 (1) and (2), Section 11, Section 13, the heading to Section 16, Section 16 (2), Section 17 including the heading, Section 19
Paragraphs 2 and 3, the heading to Section 22, Section 22, Section 1, Section 24, Section 3 and Section 25, Section 2 only from the point in time
Application that the Federal Minister of the Interior in accordance with Paragraph 6, last sentence in the Federal Law Gazette
announces. Section 6 (5) in the version of the Data Protection Adaptation Act 2018, Federal Law Gazette I
No. 32/2018, enters into force by the Federal Minister of the Interior in accordance with Paragraph 6 in the Federal Law Gazette
announced date in force.
(8) Article 4 (8), Article 4a (6), Article 5 (1), Article 6 (4), Article 7, Article 9 (1) and (2), Article 10 (2), the heading
to Section 14, the heading to Section 15 and Section 15 (1) no.2, Article 18 (3), Article 19 (2), Article 25 (3) and Article 28 (1)
to 3 and 4a in the version of the Federal Law, Federal Law Gazette I No. 104/2018 come into effect at the end of the day of
Publication in force and, with the exception of Section 7 (1), Section 9 (1) and (2), Section 19 (2) and Section 25
Paragraph 3 and Section 28 Nos. 2, 3 and 4a only apply from the date on which the Federal Minister of the Interior
publishes in the Federal Law Gazette in accordance with Paragraph 6 last sentence Section 6 (5) as amended by
Federal Law Gazette I No. 104/2018 comes into force on September 29, 2018 and with the dated
Federal Minister of the Interior according to Paragraph 6 in the Federal Law Gazette again except
Force. Section 1 (3) expires on September 22nd, 2020.
(9) The entry in the table of contents for Section 18, Section 1b (1), Section 2 (10a), Section 4 (4 to 6), and Section 4a (3)
and 4, Section 4b, Paragraph 1, Items 1 and 8, Paragraphs 2 to 5, Section 6, Paragraph 1 and Paragraphs 4 to 4c, Section 14, Section 14a, Paragraph 2, Section 18 including
Heading, Section 23, Section 25 (2) and Section 28 (4) in the version of the Federal Law, Federal Law Gazette I No. 169/2020
www.ris.bka.gv.at

Page 17 of 19

Page 18
Consolidated federal law

come into force at the end of the day of the announcement and, with the exception of § 1b Paragraph 1 and
Section 25 (2) only applies from the date on which the Federal Minister of the Interior pursuant to (6) last
Sentence in the Federal Law Gazette.
________________________
(Note 1: The announcement was made on May 30, 2018 with Federal Law Gazette I No. 33/2018.)
Transitional provision
§ 25. (1) The courts and administrative authorities, their establishment in legislation is a federal matter
are obliged to complete the technical and organizational details by January 1, 2020 at the latest
To create the prerequisites for electronic communication with those involved in accordance with Section 1a.
(2) From the announcement of the federal law, Federal Law Gazette I No. 121/2017, the guarantee
secure operation for the full use of the E-ID using the
necessary provisions of this federal law in terms of time, location or specific
Pilot operations limited to groups of people carried out with processing of personal data
provided that the data subjects participate voluntarily. The processed as part of the pilot operation
Registration data may be used from the point in time specified in Section 24 (6) for the purpose of
Administration and use of the E-ID in accordance with Section 4b, Paragraph 1 and Section 18, Paragraph 1. The
Processing of this data for other purposes is only permitted on the basis of a statutory order.
Affected persons who have already been carried out before the point in time determined in accordance with Section 24 (6) as part of a pilot operation
have been officially registered using Section 4a, their E-ID may be used until the expiry of the
Continue to use the period of validity.
(3) If the technical and organizational requirements for real operation of the E-ID according to
of the announcement according to § 24 Paragraph 6 is not yet available until the date of the admission of the
Citizen cards issued in real operation determine the legal situation prior to the entry into force of this Federal Act, Federal Law Gazette I
No. 121/2017 apply. The Federal Minister of the Interior is in agreement with the
Federal Minister for Digitization and Business Location authorized by ordinance for
Citizen card holders a simplified process for switching from the citizen card to an E-ID
to be provided.
Issuing and entry into force of ordinances
§ 26. Ordinances based on this Federal Act in its current version are already permitted
be issued from the day of the announcement of the legal provisions to be implemented
follows; however, they may not come into force before the statutory provisions to be implemented.
References
Section 27.If this federal act refers to provisions of other federal statutes,
these are to be applied in their currently valid version.

Note for the following provision
1. Re. 1 and 4: If the technical and organizational requirements for real operation of the EID according to the announcement according to § 24 Paragraph 6 is not yet available, is for until the time of
Citizen cards issued when real operations commence the legal situation before this came into force
Federal Law, Federal Law Gazette I No. 121/2017, apply. This point in time is determined by the Federal Minister for
To announce the interior in the Federal Law Gazette (cf. §§ 24 Paragraph 6 and 25 Paragraph 3).
2. Items 1 and 4 only apply from the point in time that the Federal Minister of the Interior pursuant to Section 24
Paragraph 6, last sentence, publishes in the Federal Law Gazette (see Section 24 Paragraphs 8 and 9).
Completion
§ 28. The following are entrusted with the implementation of this federal law:
1. With regard to Section 4 (8), the Federal Minister for Digitization and Business Location im
Agreement with the Federal Minister of the Interior and any other competent person
Federal Ministers,
2. With regard to Section 7 (2), the Federal Minister for Digitization and Business Location im
Agreement with the Federal Minister of the Interior, the Federal Minister of Finance or the
Federal Chancellor, depending on whether it is about services relating to basic numbers more natural
Persons or services relating to master numbers of non-natural persons
and which processor is the Federal Minister for Digitization and
Business location served

www.ris.bka.gv.at

Page 18 of 19

Page 19
Consolidated federal law

3. with regard to Section 9 (2), the Federal Minister for Digitization and Business Location,
4. with regard to Section 4a Paragraphs 1 to 5, Section 4b, Section 17 Paragraphs 1 and 3 and Section 18 Paragraphs 2 to 7 of
Federal Minister of the Interior,
4a. the Federal Minister of the Interior with regard to Section 4a (6), Section 18 (3) and Section 25 (3)
in agreement with the Federal Minister for Digitization and Business Location,
5. with regard to Section 16, the Federal Minister of Finance,
6. Otherwise, if it is not the responsibility of the federal government or the state governments, everyone
Federal Minister within the scope of his sphere of activity.

Article 2
Notification notice in accordance with Article 12 of Directive 98/34 / EC
(Note: from Federal Law Gazette I No. 7/2008, on §§ 1 - 3, 5 - 15, 19, 20, 22 and 25, Federal Law Gazette I No. 10/2004)
This law was made in compliance with the provisions of Directive 98/34 / EC on a
Information procedures in the field of standards and technical regulations and regulations for
Information Society Services, OJ No. L 204 of 21.7.1998, p. 37 as amended by
Directive 98/48 / EC, OJ No. L 217 of 5.8.1998, p. 18, under the notification number 2007/450 / A
notified.
Article 2
Notification notice in accordance with Article 9 of Directive (EU) 2015/1535
(Note: from Federal Law Gazette I No. 121/2017, on §§ 2, 4 - 10, 12, 14 - 15, 18, 21a, 25 and 28, Federal Law Gazette I
No. 10/2004)
This law was made in compliance with the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/1535 on a
Information procedures in the field of technical regulations and regulations for services
of the information society (codified text), OJ No. L 241 of 17.09.2015 p. 1, under the
Notification number 2017/166 / A notified.

Article 25
Notification Notice
(Note: from Federal Law Gazette I No. 50/2016, on §§ 2, 2a, 4, 6 to 10, 14, 14a, 16, 17, 19, 22, 25 and 26, Federal Law Gazette I
No. 10/2004)
This law was made in compliance with the provisions of Directive (EU) 2015/1535 on a
Information procedures in the field of technical regulations and regulations for services
of the information society (codified text), OJ No. L 241 of 17.09.2015 p. 1
(Notification number: 2016/142 / A).

www.ris.bka.gv.at

Page 19 of 19

