Page 1

OCUMENTS
Decree No. 2012/1637 / PM of June 14, 2012 setting out the modalities of
subscribers and terminals
identificati
The Prime Minister, head of government, decrees:

Chapter I - General provisions
Section I: Of the object
Article 1.- (1) This decree establishes the modalities
identification of subscribers and terminals.
(2) It is made pursuant to the provisions of Article 55 of
Law no.2010A) 13 of 21 December 2010 governing
electronic communications in Cameroon.
Article 2.- Operators are required to identify their subscribers,
as well as terminals, at the time of subscription to any
electronic communications service.

Section II: Definitions
Article 3.- (1) For the application of this decree, the
following definitions are accepted:
- Subcriber Identity Mobile (SIM) card: smart card that
fits into the phone and through which the network identifies
the subscriber number;
- Operator / operator: any natural or legal person
holder of a concession or license and operating a
network or providing a communications service
electronic open to the public;
- Prepaid service: service offered to a natural person
or legal and who uses it in mobile telephony as part of
a contract by virtue of which it is duly identified, issues or
receives, at least once during a period
determined in said contract, a call, a short message
(SMS), a multimedia short text message (MMS) or
credit recharge;
- Postpaid service: service offered to a person
physical or legal and who uses it in mobile telephony
under a contract under which al is duly
identified, transmits or receives, at least once during
of a period determined in the said contract, a call, a
short message (SMS), a multimedia short text message
(MMS) and the service on presentation of an invoice
after consumption.

Chapter II - Identification of
subscribers and terminals and
Sim card activation
Article 4.- (1) Operators are required to require, when submitting
subscription to a subscription:
- To natural persons:
• the original and photocopy of an original identity document in
validity, or an identity document accepted in Cameroon
under international conventions;

Page 2

Philemon YANG

• the valid residence permit for foreigners or
any document in lieu thereof;
• the exact address of the applicant;
• the identity of the terminal, if applicable.
To legal persons:
• the original and photocopy of an act attesting to the existence
legal entity;
• the original and photocopy of one of the identity documents of
its legal representative:
• the exact address of the registered office of the legal entity;
• the identity of the terminal, if applicable.
(2) Operators are required to require, in the event of a subscription
a subscription by a minor who does not have a Card
National identity, identification of the parent or
guardian provided with the documents required in paragraph 1 above.
(3) Operators are required to keep for ten (10)
information relating to the identification of their
subscribers.
Article 5.- (1) The operators are required to each constitute
a database of identification of their subscribers. (2) The
database referred to in paragraph I above contains
including the following information:
- the name of the subscriber;
- the address and / or location map, if applicable;
- the numbers of an identity document referred to in Article 4 paragraph 1
above;
- the date of subscription of the subscription.
Article 6.- The activation of the SIM card by the operators
can only be made for subscriptions whose holders
have been formally identified in accordance with the provisions
of article 4 paragraph 1 above.

Chapter 111 - Confidentiality
identification data
Article 7.- Operators take appropriate measures
to ensure the protection, integrity and confidentiality of
identification data that they hold or process,
as well as the information they hold about the whereabouts
customers subscribed to their respective networks. Article 8- The
operators take technical measures to protect
identification data against accidental destruction or
unlawful, accidental loss, alteration. dissemination or access
unauthorized interception, especially when the processing
includes data transmissions in their networks,
as well as against any other form of illicit treatment.
Article 9.- The operators ensure that the data
identification of the subscriber are not used for the purposes of
commercial prosjxx'tion, either by post or by
electronic communications, with the exception of

operations concerning the authorized activity and falling under
solely from the contractual relationship between
operator and subscriber.
Article 10.- (I) Operators are required to bring to
the knowledge of their agents, the obligations to which they
are subject and the penalties they incur in the event of failure to
respect for the secrecy of identification data concerning their
subscribers ..
(2) When an operator uses the services of
marketing of services, it must ensure, in the relations
contractual with the aforementioned companies, to the respect of its
obligations relating to the conditions of confidentiality and
neutrality with regard to transmitted messages and information
communications.
Article 11.- The subscriber must be able to obtain free of charge from
of the operator or the operator, as long as he justifies his
quality of the subscription holder, the communication of
identifying information about him and requiring that these
data are rectified, completed, clarified or updated
day.

Chapter IV - Theft and loss
cell phones
Article 12.- The operator makes available to users all
information relating to the measures to be taken in the event of theft
from their cell phones.
Article 13.- (1) The operator sets up a system of
blocking of mobile devices declared stolen to return them
unusable on all communications networks
electronic.
(2) The operator is required to immediately block the line and
the mobile phone so that no one can
use upon receipt of this information.
(3) The operator can be held liable for
any wrongdoing on a telephone line
stolen or lost mobile that the subscriber has regularly
reported.
Article 14.- The subscriber is required to immediately declare
from the operator or operator, by any means allowing
written record, loss or theft of his cell phone as well
than his SIM card. in order to allow the operator to deactivate
the relevant SIM card.
Article 15.- If the subscriber has not declared the theft or loss of his
cell phone or SIM card, his responsibility is
committed for any fraudulent, malicious or
public order violation of their stolen or lost SIM card.
Article 16.- The reactivation of the stolen or lost STM card
due can only intervene if the subscriber victim of the theft or

the loss of his phone or SIM card has a part
identity certifying that he is the holder of the said telephone or
said card.

Chapter V - Transitional provisions,
various and final
Article 17. " Operators are required to update
available to the Agency, the information from their
updated data.
Article 18.- Operators are required to comply with
written judicial requisitions addressed to them by the
competent authorities, under the conditions set by the laws and
regulations in force.
Article 19.- (1) Operators are required to proceed, as soon as
the entry into force of this decree, the adaptation of the contract
and the general conditions of service offerings, to notify
changes to their approved partners and inform the
subscribers.
(2) The copy of the contract referred to in paragraph 1 above must be
sent to the Agency at least thirty (30) days before the start of
force of said contract. The Agency may require the operator to
modification of certain provisions provided for in the contract,
before any notification to partners and possibly to
subscribers.
Artide 20.- (1) Communication network operators
electronic have a period of six (6) months from
the date of signature of this decree to ensure
the identification of all their subscribers.
(2) Subscribers who have not been identified at the end
of the period provided for in paragraph 1 above will see their
subscription terminated.
(3) At the end of the period referred to in paragraph 1 above, the
operators who do not comply with the
provisions of this decree will be liable to
administrative and pecuniary sanctions provided for by the
laws and regulations in force.
Article 21.- Specific texts of the Minister in charge of
telecommunications specify, where necessary, the
terms of application of this decree.
Article 22.- This decree, which repeals all provisions
previous contrary will be recorded, published according to the
emergency procedure, then inserted in the Official Journal in French
and in English.
Yaoundé, June 1, 4, 2012
The Prime Minister, Chief
government

