Page 1

LAW N ° 90-36 OF AUGUST 10, 1990 RELATING TO THE EXERCISE AND
THE ORGANIZATION OF THE PROFESSION OF PHYSICIAN

Article 1
.- This law and the texts adopted for its application regulate the exercise and
organization of the medical profession.

TITLE I: PRACTICE OF THE PROFESSION

CHAPTER ONE: CONDITIONS FOR THE EXERCISE OF THE
PHYSICIAN PROFESSION
Article 2.
(1) No one can practice the profession of doctor in Cameroon if he is not registered on the roll
of the order.
(2) However, may exercise the profession of doctor in Cameroon, the practitioner of
foreign nationality fulfilling the following additional conditions:
- be a national of a country that has signed a reciprocity agreement with Cameroon;
- not have been removed from the Order in his country of origin or in any other country where he would have
previously exercised;
- be recruited on contract or under a cooperation agreement on behalf of
administration, a denominational order or an NGO (non-organization
government) not-for-profit;
- serve on behalf of an approved private company.
Article 3.
Carrying out professional acts of an administrative and judicial nature, drafting
and the issue, the relevant documents are ensured by the doctor, either in the exercise
normal performance of his duties, or in execution of a special mission for which he is responsible.
In this regard, he is required to comply with any requisition that may be issued.
Article 4.The doctor in service in the administration or in the private sector is subject to:
- professional secrecy;
- the code of ethics of the profession adopted by the National Order of Physicians then
approved by the supervisory authority;
- the statutory provisions of the Order.

Page 2

CHAPTER II: PRACTICE OF THE CUSTOMER PROFESSION
PRIVATE
SECTION I: CONDITIONS OF EXERCISE
Article 5.(1) The practice of the profession with private clients is subject to an authorization issued
by the Council of the Order under the conditions and modalities established by this law.
(2) The Bar Council also decides on replacement requests
temporary, change of professional residence or geographical area
activity, starting activity after interruption following a disciplinary sanction,
under conditions set by regulation.
(3) The authorizations granted by the Council of the Order must comply with the card
health established by regulation. Any authorization granted in violation of the
health card is null and of no effect.
Article 6.
No one can practice the profession of doctor in private clientele if he does not meet the conditions
following:
- be of Cameroonian nationality and enjoy their civic rights;
- be registered on the roll of the Order;
- justify five (5) years of effective practice with a public administration or
a private organization within the national territory or abroad;
- produce a letter of agreement in principle of release when he occupies a salaried job or
is an assistant to a colleague working for private clients;
- be of good character;
- produce an insurance policy covering professional risks;
- have paid all their contributions to the Order.
Article 7.
Unless there is a reciprocity agreement, a doctor of foreign nationality may not practice as
private in Cameroon.
Article 8.
(1) Requests for accreditation are submitted in duplicate to the Bar Council
against receipt.
(2) The Bar Council is required to rule on the file referred to it in a
thirty (30) days from the date of filing thereof.
(3) The Order's decision is subject to the prior approval of the supervisory authority
from the first working day following this decision. The supervisory authority has a
thirty (30) days to make a decision. After this period, the decision of the Board of
The Order becomes enforceable and must be notified to the applicant.
(4) In all cases, after a period of ninety (90) days from the filing of the
file, the silence kept by the Bar Council implies acceptance of the
applicant who can settle.
(5) Any rejection decision must be motivated.

Page 3

Article 9.
(1) Decisions of the Bar Council on applications may within thirty
(30) days of their request for approval may, within thirty (30) days of their
notification, be appealed to the Appeals Chamber of the Bar Council by
the applicant if it is a decision of rejection or by any member of the Order having
interest to act if it is a decision of acceptance.
(2) the appeal has no suspensive effect except in the case of a decision of acceptance.
(3) The Appeals Chamber must rule within two (2) months of the
referral. Its decisions shall be notified in the forms provided for by this law and shall not
are subject to appeal only to the Supreme Court, in the forms of law
common.
(4) After the period of two (2) months, the silence kept by the Appeals Chamber constitutes a decision
favorable to the request of the applicant.

Article 10.
(1) A practice or a clinic may only remain open in the absence of its holder if this
the latter was regularly replaced.
(2) In the event of prevention, the doctor may contact his clientele either by a
colleague working for private clients, or by an assistant doctor. The Council of
the Order is immediately informed.
(3) The normal duration of a replacement cannot exceed one (1) year; except Case of force
major where it is extended for two (2) years renewable once.
Article 11.
(1) The doctor may be assisted by one or more colleagues.
(2) The remuneration of the assistant doctor is fixed by agreement between the parties. The Council of the Order
is informed.
Article 12
In the event of the death of a practitioner installed as a private clientele, the period during which his successors
law can keep the firm in business by having it managed by a replacement cannot
exceed five (5) years, renewable once. If during the aforementioned period, one of the
children of the deceased is engaged in medical studies, this practice can be
Reserve.
The replacement procedures are the same as those provided for the approval to
the exercise of the profession in private clients.

SECTION II: COMPATIBILITIES
Article 13.
Subject to specific texts, the exercise of the profession of doctor in private clients
is incompatible with the quality of civil servant, of contractual agent of the administration in
activity or employee in general

Page 4

SECTION III: CIVIL SOCIETY PROFESSIONALS OF PHYSICIANS
Article 14.
Doctors installed in private clients in the same locality can join forces between
them, and exercise their profession in the form of a professional civil society whose organization
and operation are fixed by specific texts.

SECTION IV: OBLIGATION OF INSURANCE
Article 15
(1) The practitioner or the professional civil society of physicians is required to subscribe
with an approved insurance company a policy intended to cover its risks
professionals. Receipt is sent to the Council of the Order at the start of each
calendar year.
(2) Failure to have an insurance policy entails, at the behest of the Bar Council or
the supervisory authority seized for this purpose, the temporary closure of the establishment. The onethis can only be reopened once the receipt justifying payment of the policy
insurance is presented.

CHAPTER III: ILLEGAL PRACTICE OF THE PROFESSION OF
DOCTOR
Article 16.
Is convicted of the illegal practice of medicine:
1 - Any practitioner who practices his art under a pseudonym or who gives consultations
in commercial premises where devices prescribed or used are sold;
2 - Any unauthorized person who, even in the presence of a practitioner, takes part
usually or by direction followed, during diagnosis or treatment
affections by personal acts, consultations or any other process.
3 - Any practitioner who practices his art in violation of the provisions of article 2 above or
which provides assistance to unauthorized persons;
4 - Any practitioner who practices his art despite a temporary ban or
definitive of which it is the object.
Article 17
(1) Without prejudice to more severe administrative, disciplinary or criminal sanctions,
any person found guilty of illegally practicing the medical profession is
punishable by imprisonment from six (6) days to six (6) months and a fine of 200
000 of F or one of these two penalties only.
(2) The court may, if necessary, order the confiscation of the material used for the
commission of the offense and closure of the establishment.
(3) Anyone found guilty of a breach of the law shall immediately cease
his activity. In addition, the closure of his practice or clinic may be ordered
by the Bar Council regardless of any judicial decision.

Page 5

Article 18.
The Bar Council may refer the matter to the investigating court or the trial court or
if applicable, become a civil party in any lawsuit brought by the Public Prosecutor
against any person charged or accused of illegal practice of the profession of doctor.

TITLE II: OF THE NATIONAL ORDER OF PHYSICIANS

Article 19.
The National Order of Physicians hereinafter also referred to as the Order, instituted by article 1
Law No. 80-07 of July 14, 1980 necessarily includes all physicians practicing
Cameroon.

e

of

Article 20
(1) The Order ensures that the essential principles of morality and dedication are maintained
to the practice of the profession of doctor, as well as to the respect of the rules decreed by the
Code of ethics.
(2) The Order also exercises any powers that may be entrusted to it by this law.
or by specific texts.
(3) The Order has legal personality. Its headquarters are located in Yaoundé. He is placed
under the supervision of the authority responsible for public health services.

CHAPTER I: THE ORGANIZATION OF THE NATIONAL ORDER OF
DOCTORS
Article 21
The Order fulfills its mission and exercises its powers through the two bodies
following :
- The general Assembly ;
- The board.

SECTION I: GENERAL ASSEMBLY
Article 22
(1) The General Assembly is made up of all the doctors registered on the
the Order.
(2) It meets every year in ordinary session when convened by its chairman, and on
if necessary, in extraordinary session at the request of an absolute majority of its
members, either of the Council of the Order or of the supervisory authority for:
- elect the members of the Council of the Order;
- elect six members for the Appeals Chamber;
- rule on the activity report of the President of the Council of the Order;
- set the guidelines likely to ensure the smooth running of the profession;
- adopt the Code of ethics of the profession and the internal regulations of the Order.

Page 6

(3) The General Assembly elects the President of the Order and an auditor to
a term of three (3) years. They are eligible for re-election.
Article 23
(1) The Agenda for the sessions of the General Assembly relates exclusively to the
questions relating to the practice of the profession. It is established by the President of
Council of the Order which can be referred to one month before the session, questions arising from
either members of the Order or the supervisory authority.
(2) The Agenda of any session of the General Assembly is communicated fifteen (15)
at least days before the date of the session to the supervisory authority who is represented
to the work of the General Assembly.
(3) The supervisory authority may prohibit the holding of an ordinary or extraordinary session of
the General Assembly if the agenda did not comply with the provisions of
the preceding paragraph.
Article 24.
The organization and functioning of the General Assembly are defined by the regulations
interior.

SECTION II: THE COUNCIL OF THE ORDER
Article 25.
(1) The Council of the Order is the executive body of the latter. It has 12 elected members
for 30 years in the following proportions:
- Four members of Division A elected and one deputy (officials).
- Four members of Division B elected and a substitute (officials).
- Four members of division C elected and a substitute (private lay people).
(2) All the doctors registered on the roll of the Order are electors and eligible. The
members of the Council of the Order are eligible for re-election.
(3) The practical modalities of the organization of the elections of the members of the Council, and the
rules relating to their replacement in the event of failure are set by the Code of
deontology.
Article 26.
In addition to the President elected at the General Assembly, the Council of the Order elects from among its members for a
three (3) year term of office including:
- a vice - president;
- a general secretary;
- a treasurer.
Article 27.
(1) After election, the minutes are notified on the first working day following the election.
to the supervisory authority.
(2) Disputes concerning the elections may be referred to the House
administrative authority of the Supreme Court, by any doctor having the right to vote, within a
fifteen (15) days following the poll. The supervisory authority must be informed.
Article 28.
The membership of the Council of the Order ceases:

Page 7

1-At the end of the mandate;
2-In the event of unjustified absence from three (3) consecutive meetings of the Council of the Order;
3-In the event of permanent invalidity or death;
4-In the event of duly noted resignation;
5-In case of deletion from the roll of the Order.
Article 29.
The Council of the Order can validly deliberate only in the presence of 3/5 of its members.
Its sessions are chaired by its president or, in the event of impediment and in the Order hereafterwards, by the Vice-president or the dean of the members of the Council of the Order.
Article 30 .
(1) The Council of the Order meets two (2) times a year in ordinary session upon convocation
of its president. It can, if necessary, meet in extraordinary, either on its own
initiative, either at the request of at least half of its members or that of the
guardianship.
(2) The President determines the dates, place and time of the meetings.
(3) Each member of the Council of the Order has the right to vote. The decisions of the Council of
The Order are taken by a simple majority of the members present.
(4) The deliberations of the Bar Council are not public.
However, the President may invite any person of his choice because of his skills,
to take part in the deliberations of the Council of the Order in an advisory capacity.
Article 31 .
(1) Within the framework of the provisions of Articles 20, paragraphs 1, 2 and 21 above, the Council of
the Order:
- rule on applications for registration or re-registration on the roll and on the election of its
members ;
- approves requests to exercise the profession for private clients as well as requests
establishment, temporary replacement, change of professional residence or
geographical area, and resumption of activity after interruption following a sanction
disciplinary;
- exercises any jurisdiction assigned to it by this law or by specific texts;
- studies all questions submitted to it by the supervisory authority;
- imposes disciplinary sanctions on members of the Order under the conditions provided for by the
this law.
(2) In any case, the Council of the Order does not have to take into account the acts, attitudes, opinions
political or religious members of the Order.
Article 32.
The Council of the Order fixes the amount of the contributions of the members of the Order. These are
mandatory under penalty of disciplinary action.
Article 33.
The President of the Council of the Order represents the Order in all acts of civil life and in
justice. He manages the goods of the Order by delegation of the Council of the Order.

Page 8

CHAPTER II: REGISTRATION ON THE ROLL OF THE ORDER
Article 34.
No one can practice the profession of doctor in Cameroon if he is not previously registered with the
table of the Order. This table is kept up to date by the Council of the Order and is regularly
communicated to the supervisory authority, prefectures, town halls and court offices.
Article 35.
The conditions for registration on the roll of the Order are as follows:
a) be of Cameroonian nationality and enjoy their civic rights;
b) have the civil majority;
c) hold a State or University degree in Doctor of Medicine or any
other diploma recognized as equivalent by the competent authority when the application is submitted;
d) not to have suffered any conviction for an act contrary to probity (theft, misappropriation of
public funds, fraud, breach of trust, forgery and use of forgery) or morality;
e) not to have been declared bankrupt, nor placed in a state of judicial liquidation.
Article 36.
(1) The registration file for the roll of the Order is deposited in duplicate at the
Council of the Order, against receipt.
(2) The Council of the Order is required to decide on the registration file for the roll.
of the Order, which is referred to it within thirty (30) days from the date of its
deposit.
(3) Any decision of the Council of the Order on a request for registration on the roll of
the Order must be subject to the prior approval of the supervisory authority from the
first working day following this decision. The supervisory authority has a period of
thirty (30) days to decide. After this deadline, the decision of the Bar Council
becomes enforceable and must be notified to the applicant.
(4) In all cases, after a period of ninety (90) days from the filing of the
file, the lack of response by the Council of the Order implies acceptance of the request
of the postulant and his registration ex officio on the roll of the Order.
(5) Any rejection decision must be motivated.
Article 37.
(1) The decisions of the Council of the Order rendered on applications for registration or
re-registration on the roll of the Order may within fifteen (15) days of their
notification, be appealed to the appeal chamber of the Bar Council by
the applicant if it is a refusal of registration, or by any member of the Order having
interest to act, whether it is a registration or a re-registration.
(2) In either case, if the appeals chamber does not take a decision within
two (2) months following his referral, the candidate is entered on the roll of the Order.
(3) The appeal has no suspensive effect, except in the case of a decision of acceptance.
Article 38
Without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 18 and 36 above, the decisions, deliberations,
resolutions or any other act of the General Assembly or the Council of the Order are,
of absolute nullity, subject to the prior approval of the supervisory authority from the first day
open following their intervention. The supervisory authority has a period of thirty (30) days
to decide. After this period, these acts become legally enforceable.

Page 9

Article 39.
In the event of cessation of activity, a declaration is made by the interested party within fifteen (15) days
to the Council of the Order, which cancels its registration.
Article 40 .
(1) The Secretary General of the Council of the Order is responsible for keeping the table of the Order.
(2) The table of the Order only mentions the diplomas and qualifications
professional recognized by the competent authority of the country where they were obtained.
However, the ranks and distinctions awarded to the doctor by
the state.

CHAPTER III: DISCIPLINE
Article 41.
(1) The Bar Council exercises, within the profession of Physician, the competence
disciplinary in first instance.
(2) As such, he designates a disciplinary chamber, chaired by the
Chairman of the Board and composed of four (4) elected members. The President can be substituted
in case of challenge or impediment.
Article 42.
(1) The Disciplinary Chamber may be referred to by the supervisory authority, the Public Ministry
or by any physician entered on the roll of the Order and having an interest in acting.
(2) The Doctor in the service of the State cannot be brought before the disciplinary chamber in
the occasion of the acts of its functions, that by the authority responsible for health
public or by the Council of the Order after consulting the supervisory authority. The authority of
guardianship must decide within thirty (30) days of its referral. After this deadline, the
silence kept by it is worth acceptance.
(3) The disciplinary chamber can only validly rule in the presence of 3/5 of its
members at least.
Article 43.
In particular, the following can justify referral to the disciplinary chamber:
- any conviction for any offense committed inside or outside the
national territory and likely to damage the credit or reputation of the profession.
- any conviction for misconduct relating to conduct or behavior vis-à-vis the
profession.
Article 44.
The disciplinary chamber may, at the request of the parties or on its own initiative, order
an investigation of the facts, the finding of which seems useful to the investigation of the case. The
decision ordering the investigation indicates the facts to which it must relate and specifies according to
the case, if it will take place before the disciplinary chamber, or if it will be carried out by one of its
members who transport themselves to the scene.
Article 45.
(1) Any implicated doctor may be assisted by a lawyer of his choice.
(2) He may exercise the right of challenge in the forms of common law.

Page 10

Article 46.
(1) The Disciplinary Chamber keeps a register of deliberations.
(2) Minutes are drawn up after each meeting and signed by all members.
(3) The minutes of questioning or hearing must also be drawn up and signed.
interested parties.
Article 47.
(1) No disciplinary sanction may be pronounced without the Doctor in question having been
heard or called to appear within thirty (30) days of receipt of his
summons against receipt.
(2) The disciplinary chamber may rule when the respondent has not referred to a
duly notified convocation.
Article 48.
(1) The disciplinary chamber may impose one of the following sanctions:
- the warning;
- the blame ;
- suspension of activity ranging from three (3) months to one year, depending on the seriousness of the fault committed;
- removal from the roll of the Order.
(2) The first two of these sanctions result in ineligibility for the Council of the Order
for two (2) years from the notification of the sanction. The third sanction
entails ineligibility for three (3) years from the notification.
Article 49.
(1) The decisions of the disciplinary chamber must be reasoned.
(2) They are communicated from the first working day following their intervention to
the supervisory authority, the public prosecutor and the accused doctor against receipt.
Article 50.
(1) When the decision was rendered by default, the respondent may file an opposition in
a period of ten (10) days from the notification made to his person against
receipt.
(2) When the notification has not been made to his person, the opposition period is
thirty (30) days from the date of notification to his professional residence.
(3) The opposition is received by simple declaration to the secretariat of the Council of the Order which
gives a receipt.
Article 51.
(1) In the event of adversarial proceedings, the implicated doctor may lodge an appeal
before the Appeals Chamber referred to in Article 52 below, within sixty
(60) days from the date of notification of the declaration by the chamber of
disciplined.
(2) After this period, the decision is deemed final and becomes enforceable.
Article 52.
The Appeals Chamber is constituted as follows:
- a magistrate of the Supreme Court appointed by the President of the said Court, President;
- a doctor appointed by the supervisory authority;
- three members of the Order, elected at the General Assembly and who have not had any
the case at first instance.

Page 11

Article 53.
(1) Without prejudice to the provisions of articles 9 and 37 above, the appeals chamber is
seizure of appeals against decisions of the Bar Council in disciplinary matters.
(2) Its decisions are taken by a simple majority of the members present.
Article 54.
(1) The appeal is made in the form of an explanatory motion filed with the secretariat of the
Council of the Order against receipt.
(2) The appeal may be lodged by the doctor concerned, the supervisory authority, the ministry
public or any member of the Order having an interest in acting, within thirty (30) days
following the notification of the disciplinary chamber.
(3) It has no suspensive effect.
Article 55.
(1) The Appeals Chamber must rule within two (2) months of its
referral. Its decisions are taken and notified in the forms provided for in article 53 below.
above and are only subject to appeal before the Supreme Court, in the
common law.
(2) After the period of two (2) months, the decision taken at first instance is suspended for
full right.
Article 56 .
(1) In the event of removal from the roll of the Order, the doctor concerned may, after a period of
five years, submit a request for resumption of activity to the Council of the Order.
(2) In the event of a favorable outcome, the person concerned is re-registered on the Order's roll.
(3) In the event of rejection of his request, he may submit it only after a further period of
two (2) years.
Article 57.
The exercise of disciplinary action in the forms written above does not prevent:
- nor to prosecutions that the public prosecutor, individuals of the order may bring before
the courts in the forms of common law;
- nor to the disciplinary action that the supervisory authority may bring against a doctor in
his service.

TITLE III: TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS
Article 58.
The following are authorized to continue to practice the profession of doctor:
(1) Doctors approved within the framework of the provisions of the legislation and
previous regulations.
(2) Doctors recruited for the exclusive service of the administration;
(3) Doctors of foreign nationality practicing their profession in Cameroon or
committed under contract before the date of publication of this law.
Article 59 .
Are automatically entered on the roll of the Order in accordance with the provisions of this law,
all doctors legally practicing on behalf of the administration, companies
private or private clients on the date of promulgation of this law.

Page 12

Article 60.
The files under investigation on the date of promulgation of this law, must
meet the conditions and procedures provided for by this law.
Article 61.
The modalities of application of this law will be, as necessary, fixed by way of
regulatory.
Article 62.
All previous contrary provisions are repealed, in particular those of laws n ° 80-07.
of July 14, 1980 creating the National Order of Physicians and 80-06 of July 14

1980 regulating the exercise of the profession of doctor.
Article 63.
This law will be registered, published following the emergency procedure, then inserted in the
Official Journal in French and English./-

