Page 1

REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON

PEACE WORK HOME

-----------

----------

LAW N ° 2010/013 OF 21 DECEMBER 2010
GOVERNING COMMUNICATIONS
ELECTRONICS
IN CAMEROON

Page 2
2

TITLE I
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Article 1.- This law governs electronic communications. As such,
it :
- aims to promote the harmonious and balanced development of
electronic communications networks and services, in view of
to ensure the contribution of this sector to the development of
the national economy, and to meet the multiple needs of
users and the population;
- sets the methods for establishing and operating networks as well
than the provision of electronic communications services in
compliance with the requirements of national defense and
public security;
- encourages and promotes the participation of the private sector in
development of electronic communications in a
competitive environment.
Article 2 .- (1) This law applies to the various services in
electronic communications on national territory, carried out
by any electronic communications company regardless of its
legal status, the location of its registered office or its main establishment,
the nationality of the owners, its capital or its managers.
(2) The following are excluded from the scope of this law:
- broadcasting and cable companies for everything
concerning their production and programming activities
shows ;
- State facilities established for defense needs
national or public security.
Article 3 .- (1) The establishment and operation of networks as well as the
provision of electronic communications services are subject to the
compliance with essential requirements.
(2) The essential requirements referred to in paragraph 1 above are
requirements necessary to guarantee in the general interest:
- the safety of users and personnel operating networks of
electronic communications;
- protection of networks and in particular of exchanges
associated control and management information;
- where appropriate, the proper use of the radio spectrum;
- the interoperability of networks and that of terminal equipment,

Page 3
3

as well as the protection of personal data;
- compliance with radiation exposure limits
electromagnetic and electromagnetic compatibility.
Article 4 .- Everyone has the right to benefit from the services of
electronic communications, regardless of location
geographical on the national territory.
Article 5 .- For the application of this law and the texts
resulting regulations, the following definitions are accepted:
1. Subscriber : natural or legal person, party to a contract with
an operator for the use of communications services
electronic;
2. Access : provision of network elements to an operator,
or electronic communications services for the
provision by said operator of communications services
electronic;
3. Administration in charge of Telecommunications : Ministry
or Minister as the case may be, invested, on behalf of the Government,
general competence in the Telecommunications sector
and Information and Communication Technologies;
4. Agency : autonomous public body, in charge of the missions of
regulation, control and monitoring of Telecommunications activities
and Information and Communication Technologies;
5. Approval : recognition title issued to a person
physical or moral of the right to exercise the activity of installer or
communications test laboratory
electronic, accreditation by the Agency to a person
physical or moral, the right to exercise an activity in the sector
of Telecommunications and Information Technologies and
Communication ;
6. Universal directory : book, list or file containing
mainly or exclusively data relating to
subscribers to an electronic communication service and made
available to the public, with a view to exclusively or
mainly the identification of the user's call number
final;
7. Assignment of a radio frequency or channel :
authorization given for use by a station
radio frequency, radio frequency or channel
determined under specified conditions;

Page 4
4

8. Allocation of a frequency band : entry in the table
allocation of frequency bands, a frequency band
determined, for the purposes of its use by one or more services
terrestrial or space radiocommunications, or by the
radiocommunications under specific conditions;
9. Authorization : right conferred by the State on a natural person or
legal to carry out a given activity in the
Telecommunications and Information and Communication Technologies
Communication, carrying a number of obligations.
10. Local loop : physical circuit that connects the termination point at
the subscriber to the main distributor or to any other facility
equivalent of an open fixed electronic communications network
to the public ;
11. Submarine cable : physical medium for signals from
electronic communications that uses the marine environment as a channel
cable passage. It is said "international" when it connects two or
several states;
12. Interconnection catalog : technical and tariff offer
interconnection published by network operators
electronic communications open to the public.
13. Co-location : provision of space and resources
techniques necessary for hosting and connecting in
reasonable conditions of relevant equipment of an operator
as part of a reference offer;
14. Interministerial committee : interministerial structure responsible for
the allocation of radiocommunication frequency bands;
15. Electronic communications : emission, transmission or
reception of signs, signals, writings, images or sounds, by
electromagnetic path;
16. Emergency electronic communications : emergency calls
or electronic communications in the event of a disaster,
distress and emergency;
17. Consumer : any natural person who uses or requests
an electronic communication service accessible to the public at
purposes other than professional;
18. Cryptography : all the services implementing the
principles, means and methods of data transformation in
the goal of hiding their semantic content, of establishing their
authenticity, to prevent their modification from going unnoticed, to
prevent their repudiation and prevent their unauthorized use
authorized;

Page 5
5

19. Local loop unbundling : service that includes
associated services, in particular that of co-location offered by
an operator of an electronic communications network open to
public, to allow a third-party network operator to
electronic communications to access all or part of the elements
from the local loop of the first operator to directly serve
its subscribers;
20. Terminal equipment : device, any installation or any assembly
installations intended to be connected to an endpoint of a
network and which emits, receives or processes communications signals
electronic. Equipment allowing
to access audiovisual communication services broadcast by
over the air or distributed by cable, except where these
equipment also provides access to other
electronic communications;
21. Alternative infrastructure operator: legal entity of
public law or public service concessionary company, with
infrastructure or law that can support or contribute to
support electronic communications networks, without
not itself operator of communications networks
electronic products open to the public;
22. Provision of an electronic communications network :
establishment, operation, monitoring or provision of a
electronic communications network;
23. Radio frequency spectrum management :
set of administrative and technical actions aimed at ensuring
rational use of the frequency spectrum
radio by users;
24. Approval : expertise and verification operation carried out
by an approved body to certify that the prototype of
electronic communications equipment and systems
meets the regulations and technical specifications in
vigor;
25. Alternative infrastructures : Installation or assembly
of facilities operated by public service concessionaires
and capable of ensuring or helping to ensure either the transmission or
transmission and routing of communications signals;
26. Interconnection : a particular form of access consisting of the
physical and logical link of public communications networks
electronics used by the same operator or operator
different, in order to allow users to communicate between
them or to access the services provided by another operator;

Page 6
6

27. Interoperability of terminal equipment : suitability of
terminal equipment to operate with the network and, with
other terminal equipment allowing access to the same
service;
28. Radio installation, station or equipment :
electronic communications facility, station or equipment
which uses radio frequencies for the propagation of
waves in free space. Among the radio installations,
in particular, networks using satellite capacities;
29. Roaming : service which allows the transfer of
communications from one allocation network to another, while
keeping the same phone number or allowing subscribers
to have access to one or more satellite systems;
30. License : title representing an administrative operation
allowing, for a fixed period, to practice according to a notebook
charges, certain activities in the
telecommunications and information and communication technologies
communication;
31. Operator : natural or legal person operating a network of
electronic communications open to the public or providing the
public electronic communications service;
32. Dominant operator : operator of a communications network
electronic products open to the public whose market share (percentage
of revenues or traffic of this operator in relation to revenues or
traffic from all operators) in the market segment considered
is equal to or greater than a percentage to be determined by the Agency;
33. Electronic communications network operator :
person holding a concession or license;
34. Endpoint : Physical point through which users
access an electronic communications network open to
public. These connection points are part of the network;
35. Number portability : possibility for a subscriber to use the
same subscription number, regardless of operator or
of the network operator to which it is subscribed, and even in the case of
where he changes operator or operator;
36. Cryptography service : operation aimed at implementing
work, for the account of others, of means of cryptography;
37. Radiocommunication : transmission by means of waves
radio, information of any kind, in particular
sounds, texts, images, conventional signs, digital expressions
or analog, remote control signals, signals intended for
when locating or determining the position of the movement

Page 7
7

objects;
38. Broadcasting : radiocommunication the broadcasts of which are
intended for direct reception by the public;
39. Collection network : set of installations allowing
to route electronic communications and provide
electronic communications services between the network of
distribution and backbone;
40. Distribution network : set of installations allowing
to route electronic communications and provide
electronic communications services from a device
intelligent local to the subscriber;
41. Electronic communications network open to the public :
set of established electronic communications networks or
used for public needs;
42. Electronic communications network : communication systems
transmission, assets or liabilities and, where applicable, the equipment
switching and routing and other resources that
allow the routing of signals by cable, by way
wireless, by optical means or by other means
electromagnetic systems, including satellite networks,
fixed terrestrial networks (with switching of circuits or
packets, including the Internet) and mobile, systems using the
electrical network, insofar as they are used for the transmission of
signals, networks used for sound broadcasting and
television and cable television networks, regardless of the type
information transmitted;
43. Private network: electronic communications network reserved for
private or shared use by a closed group of users;
44. Independent private network: network established between several
domains, sites or private property and which, therefore, borrows the
public domain, including wireless and / or sites or properties
private third parties;
45. Internal private network: electronic communications network
entirely established on the same domain, the same site or a
same private property, without borrowing neither the public domain y
including microwave space, nor third party property;
46. Virtual private network: electronic communications network
that can use the infrastructure of a public network to
transmit data that is protected through the use of
encryption or encapsulation techniques;
47. Rural network: electronic communications network
fully established for rural populations;

Page 8
8

48. Resale of traffic : act which consists in the purchase of minutes in
wholesale from a concessionary operator, with a view to reselling them
retail to its own customers;
49. Selection of transporter : mechanism which allows a
user to choose between one or a set of operators of
authorized public electronic communications networks or
authorized telecommunications service providers, for
route some or all of their calls;
50. Value-added service: service offered to the public through
public electronic communications networks by means of
computer systems allowing access to data relating to
specific areas for consultation or exchange;
51. Data transmission service: simple service
data transport, without adding any processing;
52. Electronic communications service : service
consisting entirely or mainly of the provision of
electronic communications;
53. Support service: simple information transport service including
the object is either to transmit or to transmit and route
signals between termination points of a network of
electronic communications, without subjecting these signals to
treatments other than those necessary for their transmission,
routing and control of these functions;
54. Telephone service open to the public : operation
commercial for the public of the direct transfer of the voice in time
real between fixed or mobile users;
55. Telex service : commercial operation of direct transfer, by
exchange of telegraphic signals, messages
typed, between users at endpoints
an electronic communications network;
56. Universal Service : minimum set of defined services of
good quality that is accessible to the entire population in
affordable pricing conditions regardless of the
geographical location ;
57. Easement : right to set up infrastructure
and any equipment on, above or below the properties
private;
58. Radio easement: easement which consists of a
limitation of the height of obstacles in the areas defined around
transmission or reception centers, in order to prevent any
disturbance of radio waves emitted or received by these
centers;

Page 9
9

59. Global satellite telecommunications systems
(GMPCS) : fixed or mobile satellite system, broadband or
narrow band, global or regional, geostationary or not
geostationary, existing or planned, providing
electronic communications directly or indirectly to
end users from a constellation of satellites;
60. Community telecentre : common infrastructure that offers
electronic communications services from a terminal
or terminals made available to a community in order to
make it possible to communicate at an affordable price;
61. Telecommunications : any transmission, transmission or reception
signs and signals, writings, images, sounds or
information of all kinds, by wire, optical, radio
or other electromagnetic system;
62. Cable television : transmission or retransmission of broadcast signals
broadcasts received by satellite or an appropriate ground system
or produced locally to subscribers through a cable network or
wireless;
63. User : natural or legal person using a
electronic communications for private or professional purposes
without necessarily having subscribed to this service.
TITLE II
THE LEGAL REGIME OF NETWORKS AND SERVICES
OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS

Article 6 .- (1) Are of the exclusive domain of the State and cannot be
the subject of the concession:
- communications legislation and regulations
electronic;
- management of the frequency spectrum and orbital positions
national.
(2) Are the exclusive domain of the State and may be subject to
concession to one or more legal persons governed by public or private law,
under the conditions defined in article 9 below:
- construction and operation throughout the territory
national, submarine cable landing points;
- construction and operation of teleports to one or more
satellite networks.

Page 10
10

Article 7 .- The establishment and / or operation of networks as well as the
provision of electronic communications services, are subject to
one of the following plans:
- authorization;
- the statement.
CHAPTER I
OF THE AUTHORIZATION REGIME

Article 8 .- There are three types of authorization:
- Concession ;
- License ;
- Approval.
SECTION I
OF THE CONCESSION

Article 9 .- (1) May be the subject of a concession, in whole or in part, to
one or more legal persons of public or private law by
agreements laying down in particular the rights and obligations of the beneficiary of
this concession, the following State domains:
- establishment and operation of communications networks
electronic systems with national coverage open to the public, excluding
transport networks;
- the establishment and operation of transport networks
electronic communications, including station operation
submarine cable landing gear and teleports to one or
several satellite networks.
(2) The concession is granted to any legal person
successful bidder of a call for competition and who undertakes to respect the
provisions of this law, as well as the clauses of the
charges regulating the general conditions of establishment and
operation of electronic communications networks.
(3) The concession referred to in paragraph 1 of this article is
subject to compliance with the requirements contained in a specification
charges annexed to the agreement and relating to:
- the nature, characteristics and coverage area of ​the service;
- the conditions of permanence, quality and availability of the
service;
- the conditions of confidentiality and neutrality of the service,
look at the messages transmitted;

Page 11
11

- network and service norms and standards;
- the use of the allocated frequencies;
- the prescriptions required for national defense, security
public, the protection of health and the environment and
town planning objectives;
- the operator's contribution to research, training and
standardization of electronic communications;
- the interconnection conditions and, where applicable, the principle of
payment of charges for access to communications networks
electronic products open to the public;
- the conditions for sharing infrastructure;
- the modalities of contribution to the general missions of the State and, in
particular, to the missions and charges of the universal service and
territory planning ;
- the free routing of emergency electronic communications;
- the commercial operating conditions necessary to ensure
fair, objective, transparent competition, no
discriminatory, at affordable prices, without distorting or hindering
the exercise of free competition, ensuring equal treatment
of all users;
- the duration, conditions of termination and renewal;
- the methods for calculating and reviewing the contribution payable to the
title of participation in communications development
electronic systems throughout the country.
(4) The concession agreement and the specifications
negotiated and established in accordance with laws and regulations
in force are approved by decree of the President of the Republic.
(5) The holder of a concession agreement is subject to the
payment of financial compensation, royalties and contributions
the terms and conditions of which will be specified in the said agreement.
SECTION II
OF THE LICENSE

Article 10 .- (1) The license is issued to any natural person or
moral to establish and operate in particular:
- any support service;
- radio networks in one or more localities,
with the exception of those referred to in article 9 above;
- independent private networks to the exclusion of those referred to in Article
16 below;
- temporary networks;

Page 12
12

- experimental networks;
- collection and / or distribution networks, with a view to providing
to the public of electronic communications services;
- electronic communications networks open to the public in
rural areas;
- virtual networks open to the public;
- portability of telephone numbers.
(2) The procedures for establishing and / or operating
electronic communications networks and services referred to in paragraph 1 below

above are defined by regulation.
(3) The license issued is subject to compliance with a notebook
of charges relating to:
- the nature, characteristics and coverage area of ​the service;
- the conditions of permanence, quality and availability of
network and service;
- the conditions of confidentiality and neutrality with regard to
messages transmitted and information related to
electronic communications;
- the prescriptions required for the protection of health and
the environment and by the objective of land use planning and
town planning, including, where applicable, occupancy conditions
of the public domain and the modalities of infrastructure sharing;
- the prescriptions required by national defense and security
public;
- compliance with the technical requirements concerning access to
service, its interconnection with other support services and the
compatibility of its operation with them;
- the free routing of electronic communications
emergency;
- the conditions necessary to ensure the interoperability of services;
- the obligations imposed on the operator to enable his
control by the Agency;
- information on the contractual conditions of supply of the
service and consumer protection;
- the duration, conditions of termination and renewal of the
Licence;
- the methods for calculating and reviewing the contributions payable;
- the modalities of contribution to the general missions of the State and, in
particular, to the missions and charges of the universal service and
territory planning.

Page 13
13

(4) The licensee may provide the services to the public
value-added linked to its license, according to the terms defined by
regulatory.
Article 11 .- The license holder is subject to the payment of
royalties and contributions, the terms of which are specified by the
regulations in force as well as in the specifications.
Article 12 .- Due to technical constraints inherent in availability
frequencies, the Administration in charge of Telecommunications can
submit the issuance of a license for the establishment and / or
the operation of an electronic communications radio network
open to the public to a competitive bidding process.
Article 13 .- Electronic communications activities
carried out on national territory by foreign institutions and
bodies enjoying the personality of international law, exercise
in accordance with the agreements signed and ratified by the Republic of
Cameroon. These activities are subject to obtaining a license,
in accordance with this law, unless otherwise stipulated in said agreements.
SECTION III
OF APPROVAL

Article 14 .- (1) The following are subject to obtaining an authorization:
- the activity of installer of equipment and infrastructure of
electronic communications;
- laboratories for testing and measuring the equipment of
electronic communications;
- the approval of terminal equipment which is intended to be
connected to a public electronic communications network;
- radio installations.
(2) The procedures for obtaining approval are set by
regulatory route.
CHAPTER II
OF THE DECLARATION REGIME

Article 15 .(1) Are subject to a prior declaration against
receipt, the following activities:
- provision of value-added services to the public;
- the provision of Internet service to the public;
- resale of telephone traffic;
- any electronic communications service from terminals
Global Satellite Communications Systems (GMPCS);

Page 14
14

- the use of a leased line with a capacity greater than 10 megabits
per second.
(2) The declaration is subject to the conditions
operating on:
- the nature, technical characteristics of the equipment, the area
coverage and the provisional implementation schedule;
- the conditions of permanence, availability, quality and
neutrality of service;
- compliance with the technical requirements concerning access to
service, its interconnection with other support services and the
compatibility of its operation with them;
- the prescriptions required for national defense and security
public;
- the methods for calculating the contributions payable under the
participation in the development of electronic communications
across the country.
Article 16 .- Can be established on simple declaration against receipt:
- internal private networks;
- independent private networks other than radio, whose
termination points are less than 300 meters apart and whose
the links have a capacity of less than 10 megabits per second;
- radio installations exclusively made up of devices
low power and short range, the categories of which are
determined by the Administration in charge of Telecommunications.
Article 17 .- The procedures for obtaining a declaration as well as the
operating conditions of the networks and installations referred to in Article 16
above are determined by a particular text.
Article 18 .- The provision of electronic communications services
other than those referred to in Articles 9, 10, 14, 15 and 16 above is
free, subject to compliance with the essential requirements referred to in Article
3 of this law.
Article 19 .- No one may, in territorial waters, on board a ship
or a boat, in the airspace, on board an aircraft or any other
other medium subject to Cameroonian law, hold a transmitting device
and / or radio receiver, nor establish and operate
a non-public radiocommunication station or network, without having
declared and licensed.

Page 15
15

CHAPTER III
PROVISIONS COMMON TO AUTHORIZATION SCHEMES
AND DECLARATION

Article 20 .- (1) The issuance and renewal of an agreement
concession or license are subject to payment of a consideration
called respectively "entry fee" and "right of
renewal ”for which the amounts and terms of payment are set
by decree of the President of the Republic, on a joint proposal from the
Minister in charge of Telecommunications and the Minister in charge of Finance.
(2) Concession agreements, licenses,
approvals and declaration receipts issued, in application of
provisions of the previous chapters are personal and non-transferable. They
are published in a journal of legal notices as well as, where applicable,
the specifications attached to them.
(3) A performance bonus deducted from resources
collected under the entry fee and renewal fee is
granted to staff responsible for regulation and regulation
of the telecommunications and information technologies sector
and Communication.
(4) The modalities of application of paragraph 3 above are
specified by regulation.
Article 21 .- (1) The Administration in charge of Telecommunications may
cancel the license, approval or declaration receipt and pronounce
the forfeiture of its holder in the event of an early dissolution decision,
judicial liquidation with or without authorization to continue
of the business, or bankruptcy.
(2) Any holder of a concession, license or receipt
declaration is required to inform the Agency referred to in Article 36 below,
any change in the distribution of share capital or
in the management of the company.
(3) When the modification provided for in paragraph 2 above is
deemed to be contrary to the public interest, the Agency refers the matter to the Administration
of Telecommunications, for the purpose of canceling the concession,
license, approval or declaration receipt.
Article 22 .- In accordance with the regulations in force , it is
by this law:
- the opening to nationals, under public or private law, of the capital of
holders of a concession agreement when it is held
by foreigners from the start of commercial exploitation;

Page 16
16

- the integration of nationals, under public or private law, in the
governing bodies of majority-owned companies
foreigners.
Article 23 .- (1) The operators and operators of the
electronic communications must keep cost accounting
to determine the costs, products and results of each
network operated and each service offered.
(2) The accounts and summary statements, cleared at most
no later than six months following the closing date of the financial year,
may be subject to audits, at the expense of the operators, by a
body approved and designated by the Agency.
(3) The purpose of the audit is to ensure that the
summary regularly and fairly reflect the costs, revenues and
results of each network operated or each service offered.
Article 24 .- Persons authorized to establish a network of
electronic communications open to the public and providers of
electronic communications services, as well as their staff, are
kept to the secrecy of the content of users' communications.
Article 25 .- Actions and practices which have as their object or which may
have the effect of preventing, restricting or distorting competition
in the electronic communications market are prohibited.
Article 26 .- (1) The operators and operators of
electronic communications are required to provide any request for
the Agency or Administration in charge of Telecommunications,
information, documents and data required, on time.
(2) The information held by the Agency is transmitted to
the Administration in charge of Telecommunications, at its request.
TITLE III
UNIVERSAL SERVICE, DEVELOPMENT OF COMMUNICATIONS
ELECTRONICS
CHAPTER I
UNIVERSAL SERVICE

Article 27 .- The right referred to in article 4 of this law is constituted by:
- the possibility offered to any person to be able to be connected to
public networks and to have access to basic
electronic communications;

Page 17
17

- the benefit of other electronic communications services
according to the coverage area of ​each service;
- freedom of choice of communications service provider
electronic;
- equal access to electronic communications services;
- access to basic information relating to the conditions of
provision of electronic communications services and their
pricing.
Article 28 .- (1) The universal service obligation of communications
electronic covers the provision to all, of communications services
good quality electronics at affordable price terms, and
uninterrupted.
(2) Are considered as part of the obligation to
universal electronic communications service:
- the possibility of connection to the public telephone network;
- the provision of public access points to the services of
electronic communications throughout the country;
- access to emergency services;
- the possibility for certain social groups to benefit from measures
particular;
- the routing of electronic communications from
and to the subscription points;
- the free routing of electronic communications
emergency;
- the provision of a printed universal directory of subscribers and
electronic and free information service;
- any other activity in the Telecommunications and
Information and Communication Technologies, stopped by
Public powers.
(3) Universal service is a dynamic concept whose
content is subject to periodic review by the Administration responsible
of Telecommunications.
Article 29 .- The specifications of the operators determine the
obligations and conditions for providing the universal service of
electronic communications.

Page 18
18

Article 30 .- Financing of costs attributable to the service obligation
universal service is provided by all network operators
electronic communications open to the public and by all
providers of electronic communications services to the public, in
the conditions set by agreements or specifications
respective.
Article 31 .- A specific text sets out the terms and conditions for sharing
income from the production and publication of the universal directory
of subscribers.
CHAPTER II
DEVELOPMENT OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS

Article 32 .- The development of electronic communications
consists in particular of:
- service to rural areas not covered by the cahiers de
operator charges;
- reduction of the coverage deficit of the national territory by
means of electronic communications that may benefit from
subsidy;
- reorganization of the frequency spectrum;
- support for research, training and standardization in
the field of electronic communications;
- support for the development of disadvantaged sectors of the economy
national through the use of electronic communications;
- payment of state financial contributions to organizations
international telecommunications and
Information and Communication Technologies;
- any other activity which contributes to the development of the
Telecommunications and Information and Communication Technologies
Communication.
Article 33 .- The methods of implementing the universal service and
development of electronic communications are fixed by
regulatory.
CHAPTER III
FINANCING OF THE UNIVERSAL SERVICE AND DEVELOPMENT
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS

Article 34 .- (1) A Special Fund for
Telecommunications.

Page 19
19

(2) Resources of the Special Telecommunications Fund
referred to in paragraph 1 above come in particular:
- annual contributions from operators and operators of
electronic communications services, up to 3% of
their turnover excluding taxes;
- state subsidies;
- income from the production and publication of the directory
universal subscribers;
- the budgetary surpluses of the Agency referred to in Article 36 above
below;
- the portion of the entry and renewal rights resulting from the
sale and renewal of authorizations;
- donations and bequests.
(3) Resources of the Special Telecommunications Fund
are public funds intended, according to the priorities set by the
public authorities, funding:
- the universal electronic communications service;
- the development of electronic communications on
the whole territory;
- the development of Information Technologies and
Communication;
- activities related to the security of communications networks
electronic and information systems.
(4) Resources of the Special Telecommunications Fund
are collected by the Agency referred to in Article 36 below and deposited
in an account opened at the Central Bank.
(5) Network operators and service providers
are subject to the payment of an annual fee of 1.5% of their
turnover excluding tax, for the operation of the Agency, according to
the terms set by a regulatory text.
(6) A committee responsible for validating projects is created
universal service and telecommunications development priorities
and Information and Communication Technologies.
The operating procedures of this Committee will be set by a
regulatory text.
(7) The Minister in charge of Telecommunications is the authorizing officer
expenses incurred from the Fund.
(8) A decree of the President of the Republic fixes the modalities of
management of the Special Telecommunications Fund.

Page 20
20

TITLE IV
REGULATION, REGULATION AND CONTROL
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS
CHAPTER I
OF THE DEVELOPMENT POLICY OF THE SECTOR
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
AND INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGIES

Article 35 .- (1) The Administration responsible for Telecommunications
to the development and implementation of the sectoral policy of
Telecommunications and Information and Communication Technologies
Communication taking into account technological developments in this
sector, development needs and government priorities
in this domain. It ensures the application of this policy as well as
compliance with the relevant legislation and regulations .
(2) The Administration in charge of Telecommunications ensures
in addition, among others:
- supervision of the Telecommunications and
Information and Communication Technologies, the supervision
public telecommunications companies and
Information and Communication Technologies;
- State representation at organizations and events
international telecommunications and
Information and Communication Technologies;
- determination of the number of operators in each segment
market taking into account scarce resources;
- the guarantee of the optimal use of scarce resources
available taking into account the economic constraints of
markets;
- launching of calls for tenders for concessions and
licenses;
- signing of concession agreements;
- formal issuance to operators and operators, after
Agency notice, licensing;
- the definition of a pricing policy;
- conducting sectoral strategic studies.

Page 21
21

CHAPTER II
REGULATION AND MONITORING OF OPERATORS 'ACTIVITIES
AND COMMUNICATIONS SERVICE PROVIDERS
ELECTRONICS

Article 36 .- (1) It is established by this law, an Agency of
Regulation
of
Telecommunications,
below
"The Agency," endowed with legal personality, financial autonomy
and decision-making.

designated

(2) The Agency provided for in paragraph 1 above ensures for the
account of the State, the regulation, control and monitoring of the activities of
operators and operators of the Telecommunications and
Information and Communication Technologies. She is watching
also to respect the principle of equal treatment of users
in all electronic communications companies.
As such, it has among other missions:
- to ensure the application of legislative and regulatory texts
in Telecommunications and Technologies
Information and Communication;
- to ensure that access to networks open to the public is carried out
under objective, transparent conditions and not
discriminatory;
- to guarantee healthy and fair competition in the
Telecommunications and Information Technologies and
Communication ;
- to sanction the breaches of the operators in their
obligations as well as anti-competitive practices;
- define the principles to govern the pricing of services
provided;
- to examine license applications and prepare decisions therein
related;
- formally issue the declaration receipts;
- define the conditions and obligations for interconnection and
sharing of infrastructure;
- to issue an opinion on all draft texts of a nature
legislative and regulatory communications
electronic;
- ensure the assignment and control of the frequency spectrum;
- prepare the tender documents for the concessions and
licenses;
- establish and manage the numbering plan;

Page 22
22

- to submit to the Government any proposal and
recommendation to develop and modernize the
Telecommunications and Technologies sector
Information and Communication;
- assign addressing resources;
- to examine the equipment approval files
terminals and prepare related decisions;
- to issue approvals;
- to carry out any other mission of general interest that it could
entrust the Government in the telecommunications sector
and Information and Communication Technologies;
- guarantee the protection of consumers.
(3) The Agency referred to in paragraph 1 above is placed under the
technical supervision of the Ministry in charge of Telecommunications and under the
financial supervision of the Ministry in charge of Finance.
(4) A decree of the President of the Republic fixes
the organization and functioning of the Agency.
CHAPTER III
OF FREQUENCY SPECTRUM MANAGEMENT

Article 37 .- (1) The radio frequency spectrum is part of the
state public domain.
(2) The Administration in charge of Telecommunications ensures
on behalf of the State, the management of the frequency spectrum provided for
paragraph 1 above. As such, its general mission is to
coordinate, plan, control and optimize the use of said
frequency spectrum according to national needs and in accordance
the provisions of the convention, constitution and regulations
radiocommunications of the International Telecommunications Union,
as well as other relevant international treaties.
(3) Allocation of radio frequency bands
is entrusted to an Interministerial Committee for the Allocation of
Frequencies, placed under the authority of the Administration in charge of
Telecommunications.
(4) The organization and functioning of the Committee referred to in
paragraph 3 above, are the subject of a specific text.
Article 38 .- In the event of interference caused by radio stations
of transmission or reception, the Committee referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 37 below
above, may prescribe any technical provision to remedy it.

Page 23
23

Article 39 .- (1) The use of frequencies is subject to payment
a fee determined by regulation.
(2) The terms of payment and distribution of this
fee, between the Public Treasury, the Committee referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 37
and the Agency, are fixed by a specific text of the Minister in charge of
Telecommunications.
Article 40 .- (1) The Administration in charge of Telecommunications may,
after consulting the Agency, limit the number of assignment agreements
frequencies.
(2) When the number of assignment agreements
frequencies is limited, the Agency can only issue such agreements
end of a call for competition.
Article 41 .- The methods of operation and control of the use of
frequencies are set by regulation.
CHAPTER IV
INTERCONNECTION AND ACCESS TO THE NETWORK

Article 42 .- (1) Communications network operators
electronic systems open to the public, are required to comply with
objective, transparent and non-discriminatory conditions,
requests for interconnection and access to the network from any operator of
electronic communications services open to the public, holder of a
concession, license or declaration receipt.
(2) Interconnection and access to the network are subject to
agreement between the parties which determine in particular, the
technical and financial conditions, in accordance with the provisions of
this law and those of its implementing texts.

(3) The agreement provided for in paragraph 2 above is subject to the
visa of the Agency which can request the modification at any time
when it considers that the conditions of competition and interoperability
electronic communications networks and services are not
guarantees.
(4) The interconnection request is made in writing and sent
directly to the recipient operator, by any means leaving a written record.
The recipient operator is required to respond to them within a maximum of
sixty (60) days from the date of receipt thereof. Past this
deadline, the applicant may apply to the Agency, in accordance with the
Articles 66, 67, 68 and 69 of this law.

Page 24
24

(5) Any operator operating a fixed telephone network
open to the public publishes each year a reference offer for access
unbundled to its local loop and related resources, in accordance with
its specifications.
(6) Related resources cover, in particular,
resources associated with providing unbundled access to the local loop,
such as co-location of connection cables and systems
relevant IT systems to which access is necessary to enable
a recipient to provide competitive core services.
(7) The operators holding the concession publish, according to the
conditions provided for in their specifications, catalogs
interconnection network previously approved by the Agency.
Article 43 .- (1) The request for interconnection and access to the network shall not
may be refused if it is justified having regard, on the one hand, to the needs of the
requester, and on the other hand, the operator's ability to satisfy it.
Any refusal of interconnection must be justified.
(2) The cost of the interconnection is borne by the
applicant.
(3) In the event of disagreement between the parties, the dispute shall be
submitted to the Agency.
Article 44 .- The procedures for unbundling the local loop and
provision of telephone service to the public are fixed by a text
particular.
CHAPTER V
SHARING INFRASTRUCTURE

Article 45 .- Communication network infrastructures
electronic documents open to the public established in the public domain, may
be used by other operators for the provision to the public of any
electronic communications service.
Article 46 .- (1) The sharing of infrastructures is the subject of an agreement
between the two interested parties who determine in particular, the
technical and financial conditions, in compliance with the provisions of the
this law and its implementing texts. This agreement is subject
the visa of the Agency, which can request a modification at any time,
when it considers that the conditions for network interoperability are not
not guaranteed. Said agreement is, where applicable, published in the newspaper
legal announcements at the initiative of the Agency.

Page 25
25

(2) The request for infrastructure sharing must be made by
written. The operator managing the infrastructures concerned is required to
respond within a maximum period of sixty (60) days from the
date of receipt of the request.
(3) The request for infrastructure sharing cannot be
refused, if it does not create any disturbance or other technical difficulty,
with regard to the proper establishment of the network and the proper operation of the
service. Any refusal to share infrastructure must be justified.
(4) In the event of disagreement between the two parties, the dispute
is brought to the attention of the Agency in order to find a solution.
Article 47 .- The operators of alternative infrastructures are required to
cede, under the supervision of the Administration in charge of
Telecommunications, to the network operator, excess capacity
that they could have after having deployed the infrastructures
intended for their own needs, and / or rights of way on the
public domain, easements, rights-of-way, civil engineering works,
the arteries and pipes as well as the high points at their disposal.
Article 48 .- The conditions for interconnection, access to the network and
infrastructure sharing are set by regulation.
CHAPTER VI
NUMBERING AND ADDRESSING

Article 49 .- (1) The Agency establishes and manages the national numbering plan
and addressing. This plan determines all the addresses and numbers
used to identify endpoints for networks and
electronic communications services, call routing and
access internal network resources, in accordance with
recommendations of the International Telecommunications Union. It
guarantees equal and easy access for users to different networks and
services as well as the equivalence of numbering formats.
(2) The addressing resources mentioned in paragraph 1 below
above include, in particular, the signaling point codes, the
codes of electronic communications networks.
Article 50 .- (1) The Agency allocates under objective conditions,
transparent and non-discriminatory, to operators who request it,
addresses, prefixes and numbers or blocks of numbers,
for a fee set by regulation.
(2) The conditions of use of these addresses, prefixes,
numbers or blocks of numbers relate to:

Page 26
26

- the type of service to which the use of resources is
reserved;
- efficient and relevant use of assigned numbers;
- compliance with the portability requirements of
number;
- payment of user fees.
(3) Subscribers to a communications network
electronic services open to the public, are entitled to the portability service of
numbers according to the conditions set by regulation.
(4) The conditions of rental, use of addresses,
prefixes, numbers or blocks of numbers provided for in paragraph 1 of this
article are specified in the management rules issued by the Agency, the
where applicable, in the specifications of the operators.
CHAPTER VII
CONSUMER PROTECTION

Article 51 .- Consumers, in their relations with
operators, are entitled to a subscription contract, the model of which is
previously validated by the Agency.
Article 52 .- The consumer of communications services
electronics is entitled in particular:
- access to electronic communications services, with
quality and regularity standards inherent in its
nature, everywhere on the national territory;
- the freedom of choice of its service provider;
- non-discrimination in terms of access and conditions
use of the service;
- adequate information concerning the conditions of
provision of services, tariffs and other related costs;
- to the inviolability and secrecy of its communications, except
under the legal and regulatory conditions
applicable;
- at his request, the non-disclosure of his identifier
access;
- the non-suspension of the service provided, except for no
compliance with the terms of his contract;
- prior information on the suspension clauses of the
contract;

Page 27
27

- referral to the Agency and organizations for the protection of
consumers, complaints against the supplier of
services ;
- to responses from the service provider regarding its
complaints;
- compensation for damage resulting from the
violation of his rights.
Article 53 .The consumer of communications services
electronic has the obligation:
- adequately use the services, equipment and networks
electronic communications made available to it;
- respect public property;
- to communicate to the competent authorities, the irregularities
and illegal acts committed by service providers
electronic communications.
Article 54 .- Operators take all measures relating to
in particular, the protection of privacy, security, information
on the quality of service, tariffs and communication costs
electronic.
CHAPTER VIII
IDENTIFICATION OF SUBSCRIBERS AND TERMINALS

Article 55 .- (1) The operators and operators of the
electronic communications open to the public, as well as
service providers, are required at the time of any subscription,
identify subscribers and terminals. They want to
up-to-date subscriber lists.
(2) The procedures for identifying subscribers and
terminals referred to in paragraph 1 above are fixed by regulation.
CHAPTER IX
TERMINAL EQUIPMENT

Article 56.- (1) Marketing on national territory
terminal equipment is free. However, when these are
intended to be connected to a network open to the public, they must
the subject of approval under the conditions provided for by this law.
In all cases, approval is required for installations
radio, whether or not they are intended to be connected to a
network open to the public.

Page 28
28

(2) The purpose of the approval referred to in paragraph 1 above is,
ensure compliance with essential requirements and verify compliance
terminal equipment and radio installations compliant with standards and
standards in force in Cameroon, as well as their interoperability.
(3) A regulatory text defines the procedures
approval for radio installations intended to be
connected to electronic communications networks.
Article 57 .(1) A regulatory text defines the maximum thresholds
exposure to electromagnetic radiation emitted by equipment
used in electronic communications networks or any other
equipment emitting electromagnetic radiation, when the
public is exposed to it.
(2) Compliance with these thresholds can be verified on site by
organizations meeting the quality requirements set by a text
regulatory.
CHAPTER X
CRYPTOGRAPHY SERVICES

Article 58 .- (1) The supply, export, import or use
cryptography means or services associated with the transmission
information is submitted:
- upon prior declaration, when this means or service
has the sole purpose of authenticating a communication or
ensure the integrity of the message transmitted;
- prior authorization in other cases.
(2) However, the conditions listed in paragraph 1 above
are not applicable to the cryptographic functions integrated in
industry application software used by users.
(3) A specific text sets the conditions under which
is signed the declaration and granted the authorization, mentioned in
this article.
TITLE V
SERVITUDES OF ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS

Article 59 .- In order to avoid disturbances in the propagation of
radio waves emitted or received by centers of any kind
operated or controlled for general interest purposes, the authority
competent administrative body must institute easements.

Page 29
29

Article 60 .- (1) The concessionaires of State rights as provided for in
Article 9 paragraph 1 and the operators of networks open to the public, duly
authorized, benefit from a right of way on the public road domain and
easements on parts of apartment buildings and subdivisions
assigned to common use, as well as on the ground and basement of
undeveloped properties, in accordance with laws and regulations
applicable in the matter.
(2) The operators referred to in paragraph 1 above benefit from
the same rights and easements on the non-road public domain, under
reservation of signature with the concessionaire or manager authority of the
public domain considered, of conventions conferring such rights and
easements. These rights and easements may give rise to the payment of
fees, while respecting the principle of equality between operators.
(3) Operators of networks open to the public, authorized
in accordance with article 9 paragraph 1 of this law, may occupy the
public road domain, by installing structures there insofar as
this occupation is not incompatible with his assignment.
Article 61 .- In order to ensure the conservation and normal functioning
electronic communications networks, it is possible to set up
easements for the protection of cables and network lines.
Article 62 .- The existence of an easement may not stand in the way of the law
owners or co-owners to demolish, repair, modify or close
their property. However, the owners or co-owners must, three
(3) at least months before undertaking work of a nature to affect
the works, notify the beneficiary of the easement.
Article 63 .- The installation of infrastructure and equipment must be
made with respect for the environment and the aesthetic quality of
places and under the least damaging conditions for properties
private and public domain.
Article 64 .- When the easements lead to the removal or
modification of a building, in the absence of an amicable agreement,
the expropriation of this building for public utility,
in accordance with the laws and regulations in force.

Page 30
30

TITLE VI
ADMINISTRATIVE AND PENAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER I
SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES BETWEEN OPERATORS

Article 65 .- (1) The Agency is competent to know, before the referral
of any jurisdiction, disputes between network operators
electronic communications relating in particular to the interconnection or
access to an electronic communications network, unbundling of
the local loop, dialing, frequency interference,
physical co-location and shared infrastructure.
(2) The competence of the Agency as provided for in paragraph 1 below
above is only possible in the event that the facts, subject of the dispute, do not
not constitute a criminal offense.
(3) To better supervise the sector and because of its
technicality, the Agency has within it a body responsible for
dispute resolution in accordance with the laws and regulations in
force.
(4) The Agency may, on its own initiative or at the request of one of the parties,
make an attempt at conciliation in order to find an amicable solution
to litigation. It may take measures that it deems useful for this purpose,
in particular to be assisted, if necessary, by internal experts or
external. The conciliation decision must be made within a maximum period
thirty (30) days, from the referral to the Agency.
(5) If the dispute is settled amicably in whole or in part,
the Agency draws up a conciliation report signed by all
parties and the Agency. In view of the report which constitutes an agreement between the
parties, the Agency takes a conciliation decision establishing the solution
amicable dispute. This conciliation decision is notified to the parties
who must comply with it within thirty (30) days.
(6) In the event of failure of the conciliation procedure initiated by
Agency, a non-conciliation report is drawn up. The Agency seizes
the body referred to in paragraph 3, which initiates inquiries and investigations
necessary in order to rule on the dispute.
(7) The body referred to in paragraph 3 above decides on the request
within forty-five (45) days from the date of filing
the request. The decision is notified to the parties by means of a bailiff
justice.
(8) The decisions of the body are subject to appeal,
either before the arbitrator or before the ordinary courts.
(9) The reasoned decisions rendered by the arbitrators, specify

Page 31
31

the technical and financial conditions which justify them. They
are binding on the parties who must comply with them within thirty
(30) days, and are communicated to the Agency which can publish them.
(10) When the dispute between the operators is such as to
paralyze the normal functioning of networks or services
electronic communications, the Agency takes, before any regulation
of the said dispute, any protective measure allowing the continuity
service or network operation.
(11) Recourse to one of the procedures provided for in paragraph 8 below
above does not suspend the execution of the decision when the dispute concerns
one of the areas referred to in paragraph 1 above. However, the stay of
execution may be ordered by the appeal court or by the
Agency representative heard.
(12) The stay of execution of the decision is ordered,
share, if the decision is likely to have consequences
manifestly excessive or if it occurred, subsequent to its
notification, of new facts of exceptional gravity, and, of other
hand, that it is mentioned a means specific to create, in the state of
the instruction, a serious doubt as to its legality.
(13) When the operators and operators of the transmission networks
electronic communications have recourse to the courts of law
common, the applicable procedure is that of urgency. In this case
civil court seized is required to empty its referral within a
maximum of sixty days from the commencement of proceedings.
CHAPTER II
ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS

Article 66 .- The Agency may, either ex officio or at the request of
the Administration in charge of Telecommunications, an organization
professional, an approved association of users or a person
physical or legal entity concerned, sanction, after finding or
verification, failures by network operators or
providers of electronic communications services, in accordance with
the legislative and regulatory provisions relating to their activities
or the decisions taken to ensure its implementation.
Article 67.- When the holder of a concession agreement, of a
license, approval or declaration receipt, issued in
application of this law does not comply with its obligations
imposed by laws and regulations, it can be implemented
remains to comply.

Page 32
32

Article 68 .- (1) In the event of a breach duly noted, in accordance with
in Articles 66 and 67 above, the Agency gives formal notice to the operator
offender to comply with the legislative provisions and
regulations or the requirements of the title under which he exercises his
activity, within a maximum period of fifteen (15) days. She can make
public notice.
(2) Where a network operator or service provider
electronic communications service does not comply with the
remains provided for in paragraph 1 above, the Agency may pronounce at its
against, one of the following sanctions:
- suspension of his operating permit for a period of
maximum of one (01) month;
- reduction of one (01) year over the duration of his operating permit;
- withdrawal of the operating permit.
Article 69 .- Without prejudice to the penalties provided for in Article 68 above,
(1) Are liable to a penalty in the amount of
100,000,000 (one hundred million) francs to 300,000,000 (three hundred million)
of francs, operators and operators of communications networks
electronic mail which, without legitimate reasons, refuse requests
interconnection, access to a network or to the communications service
electronic to other operators in the sector.
(2) Are liable to a penalty of 100,000,000 (one hundred
million) to 500,000,000 (five hundred and fifty million) francs, the
operators and operators of electronic communications networks which
establish, operate, a communications network or service
electronic without operating permit.
(3) Are liable to a penalty of 50,000,000 (fifty
million) to 150,000,000 (one hundred and fifty million) francs, the operators
electronic communications networks which, realizing a
fraudulent connection to their network, maintain such a network.
(4) Are liable to the penalties provided for in paragraph 2 above,
operators and operators of electronic communications networks
who have a network set up or operated, or even have a network supplied,
electronic communications network or service to persons not
not having an operating permit.
(5) Are liable to a penalty of 200,000,000 (two hundred
million) to 400,000,000 (four hundred million) francs, the operators of
electronic communications network and service operators
electronic communications that violate a suspension decision or
withdrawal of their operating permit.

Page 33
33

(6) Are liable to a penalty of 200,000,000 (two hundred
million) to 500,000,000 (five hundred million) francs, the operators of
electronic communications network and service operators
electronic communications that violate the provisions of Article 55
above relating to the identification of subscribers and terminals.
(7) Are liable to a penalty of 100,000,000 (one hundred
million) to 200,000,000 (two hundred million) francs, operators and
operators of electronic communications networks that do not
do not comply with one of the clauses of their specifications.
(8) Are liable to a penalty of 50,000,000 (fifty
million) to 150,000,000 (one hundred and fifty million) francs, the operators
and operators of electronic communications networks that do not
do not respect:
- supply obligations to the Agency and the Administration
in charge of Telecommunications, required information
by the regulations in force with regard to
the use of radio frequencies and
electronic communications equipment;
- the deadlines for providing the information required by the
current regulations ;
- the obligations relating to the identification of subscribers and
terminals of electronic communications networks.
(9) The penalties provided for in paragraph 3 above are punishable by
operators of electronic communications networks that do not
do not respect:
- supply obligations to the Agency and the Administration
in charge of Telecommunications, required information
by the regulations in force or by the latter in
which concerns the interconnection of public
electronic communications;
- obligations relating to the provision to the Agency and
the Administration in charge of Telecommunications,
information on cost accounting and auditing
accounts, required by the regulations in force or
demanded by the latter;
- obligations relating to the publication of tariff offers;
- supply obligations to the Agency and the Administration
in charge of Telecommunications, required information
by the regulations in force or required by these
latest in universal service;

Page 34
34

- obligations relating to the provision to the Agency and
the Administration in charge of Telecommunications,
information on research and training as well as
the universal directory of subscribers.
(10) Are liable to a penalty of 25,000,000 (twenty five
million) to 75,000,000 (seventy-five million) francs, the operators and
operators of electronic communications networks and
providers of electronic communications services that do not
do not comply with the obligations relating to the provision to the Agency and
the Administration in charge of Telecommunications, information
required other than those referred to in paragraphs 7 and 8 above.
(11) All penalties are pronounced by the Agency according to
a procedure set by regulation.
(12) The penalties provided for above are recovered by
the agency.
(13) A performance bonus deducted from resources
recovered in respect of penalties is granted to staff responsible for
regulation and regulation of the telecommunications sector
and Information and Communication Technologies.
(14) The terms of application of paragraphs 12 and 13 below
above are specified by regulation.
Article 70.- Any person who, without intention of interrupting
electronic communications, commands an action that had the effect of
to interrupt electronic communications, is required to make reparation
in accordance with the legal provisions in force.
Article 71 .- Any natural or legal person who, without authorization
prior, carries out one of the activities subject to one of the regimes provided for
by this law, is put in default. After the formal notice, he
it follows the dismantling at its expense of its facilities.
Article 72 .- (1) In the event of a serious event affecting safety
State, the President of the Republic can prescribe to operators and
service providers, any measure ranging from restricting access to
certain services until the temporary suspension of communications
electronic, on all or part of the national territory.
(2) In the event of a serious and immediate violation of the laws and
regulations governing electronic communications, the Agency may,
after hearing the parties involved, order measures
conservatories in order to ensure the continuity of the functioning of
networks.

Page 35
35

Article 73 .- The Agency may not be informed of facts dating back more than
five (05) years if no action tending to their research, their observation
or their sanction has not been implemented before this period.
CHAPTER III
PENAL PROVISIONS

Article 74 .- (1) Without prejudice to the prerogatives recognized by the Ministry
Public and Judicial Police Officers with general competence, the
sworn officers specially appointed by the Agency, are responsible for
research, the establishment and prosecution of repression,
electronic communications offenses. They
take an oath before the competent court, at the request of the Agency,
in accordance with procedures set by regulation.
(2) In the performance of their missions, the agents
sworn members of the Agency may:
- carry out unannounced checks and take note of the report
communications offenses
electronic;
- proceed, under the control of the Public Prosecutor, to
searches as well as the seizure of materials used
the commission of criminal acts and the closing of
premises, in accordance with the texts in force.
(3) The agents referred to in paragraph 2 above shall benefit, at their
request assistance from the police in the exercise of their
mission and in particular, for the identification and arrest of suspects.
Article 75 .- (1) The finding of an infringement must give rise to
the establishment of a report in which the official issuing the ticket,
legally authorized, accurately relates the facts of which he has observed
the existence and statements he collected.
(2) The report shall be signed by the issuing official and
by the offender.
(3) In case of refusal of signature by the offender, the trial
verbal is authentic, until proof to the contrary and is not subject to
confirmation.
(4) The report is sent to the Public Prosecutor
Republic or any other territorially competent authority in a
period not exceeding eight (08) days.
Article 76 .- (1) Any person on board a vehicle or any other vehicle,
who breaks willfully, or by negligence, or by failure to observe
regulations, an electronic communications cable or causes it
deterioration that may interrupt or hinder all or part of the

Page 36
36

electronic communications, is required, upon arrival, to give notice,
to the nearest local authorities, of the breakage or deterioration
of the cable he would be guilty of.
(2) The offenses provided for in paragraph 1 above may be
noted by reports drawn up by police officers
Judicial and Public Force Agents.
(3) Is punished by imprisonment of three (03) months to a
(01) year and a fine of 1,000,000 (one million) francs to 5,000,000
(five million) francs, or one of the two penalties only, any
person convicted of the offenses referred to in paragraph 1 above.
Article 77 .The criminal penalties applicable to
unfair competition provided for by the specific texts on the matter,
are doubled when the competition is relative to the field of
electronic communications.
Article 78.- (1) Notwithstanding the liability of managers and agents of
operators and operators of communications networks and services
electronic which are legal persons, pecuniary liability
of these may be initiated if it is established that the offense committed by
the natural person resulted in the enrichment of
the company or if it was committed in the exercise of or on the occasion of
the exercise of his functions within the company.
(2) In the cases provided for in paragraph 1 above, the penalty
fine pronounced is the maximum provided for by the text
repression of the offense.
Article 79.- Within the framework of the repression of the offenses provided for by the
this law, the stay cannot be granted.
Article 80.- Is punished by imprisonment of six (06) months to two (02)
years and a fine of 1,000,000 (one million) to 5,000,000 (five
millions) of francs or only one of these two penalties
person who, admitted to participate in the performance of a
electronic communications, violates the confidentiality of correspondence or
who, without the authorization of the sender or recipient, discloses, publishes
or uses the content of such correspondence.
Article 81.- (1) The penalties provided for in Article 77 above are punishable by
which, by means of an electromagnetic, acoustic, mechanical device
or other, intentionally or unintentionally intercepts a
private communication and who discloses it.

Page 37
37

(2) The provisions of Articles 80 and 81 paragraph 1, do not
not apply:
a) to persons having obtained the express consent of either
the author of the private communication, or the recipient of said
communication;
b) to persons who intercept a private communication to the
request from a judicial authority in accordance with the laws
applicable in the matter;
c) to persons who provide the public with a service of
electronic communications and which intercept
private communication in any of the following cases:
- during the surveillance of the service or an unannounced check
necessary for technical or operational reasons of
provision of the service and verification of the quality thereof;
- when this interception is necessary for the provision of this
service;
- when this interception is necessary to protect the rights
or goods directly related to the provision of a service of
electronic communications.
d) members of the Interministerial Committee responsible for the management and
control of the radio frequency spectrum and the Agency,
for a private communication intercepted in order to identify,
isolate or prevent unauthorized use of a frequency or
of a transmission.
Article 82.- (1) Is punished by imprisonment from one (01) year to five (05)
years and a fine of 5,000,000 (five million) to 200,000,000 (two
hundred million) of francs or one of these two penalties only, that
who fraudulently uses for personal purposes a network of
electronic communications open to the public or connects
fraudulently by any means on a private line.
(2) The penalties provided for in paragraph 1 above are doubled
in the event of use open to the public by the perpetrator of the fraud.
Article 83.- (1) Is punished by imprisonment of six (06) months to two (02)
years and a fine of 1,000,000 (one million) to 5,000,000 (five million)
of francs or of one of these two penalties only the one who uses
knowingly the services obtained by means of the offense referred to in article 78 paragraph 1
above.
(2) The penalties provided for in paragraph 1 above are doubled in
use case open to the public.

Page 38
38

Article 84.- (1) Is punished by imprisonment from one (01) month to one (01)
year and a fine of 1,000,000 (one million ) to 5,000,000 (five million)
of francs, one who transmits, without authorization, signals or
connections from one place to another, either by means of
electronic communications, or by any other means defined in article
78 of this law.
(2) The court seised may also order the confiscation
installations, devices or means of transmission, or their
destruction at the expense of the offender.
Article 85.- Is punished by imprisonment of six (06) months to one (01) year
and a fine of 1,000,000 (one million) to 10,000,000 (ten million)
franks one who knowingly transmits or puts into circulation on the track
false or misleading distress signals or calls.
Article 86.- Is punished by imprisonment from one (01) month to one (01) year
and a fine of 1,000,000 (one million) to 5,000,000 (five million)
of francs, the one who disturbs, using a frequency or a
radio installation, without having the necessary authorization provided
by the present law, the hertzian emissions of an authorized service.
Article 87.- Is punished by imprisonment of three (03) months to one (01)
year and a fine of 1,000,000 (one million) to 5,000,000 (five million)
of francs, one who carries out radio transmissions using
knowingly a call sign from the international series, assigned to a
state station or a licensed private station.
Article 88.- Is punished by imprisonment of two (02) years to five (05)
years and a fine of 5,000,000 (five million) to 50,000,000
(fifty million) francs whoever, by any means, causes
intentionally interrupting electronic communications.
Article 89.- Is punished by imprisonment from one (01) year to five (05) years
and a fine of 5,000,000 (five million) to 25,000,000 (twenty five
million) of francs whoever fraudulently subtracts one or more
drivers on the occasion of their direct or indirect participation in a
electronic communications service.
Article 90.- Is punished by imprisonment of two (02) to five (05) years
and a fine of 1,000,000 (one million) to 20,000,000 (twenty million)
francs or only one of these two penalties, whichever is important,
manufactures or holds for the purpose of marketing, distributes
free or expensive, connects to a network open to the public or makes
advertising of terminal equipment and
electronic communications that have not been approved in the
conditions provided for by this law.

Page 39
39

Article 91.- Offenses against easements as provided for
by this law are punished by imprisonment of six (06) months to
two (02) years and a fine of 1,000,000 (one million) to 20,000,000
(twenty million) francs or only one of these two penalties .
Article 92.- Is punished by imprisonment of two (02) to five (05) years
and a fine of 500,000,000 (five hundred million) to 800,000,000 (eight
one hundred million) of francs whoever, in territorial waters or on the
continental shelf contiguous to the territory of Cameroon, breaks
willfully an underwater cable or cause him or attempt to cause him
deterioration such as to interrupt all or part of the
electronic communications.
Article 93.- Is punished by imprisonment of three (03) months to (01) year
and a fine of 50,000,000 (fifty million) to 250,000,000 (two
one hundred and fifty million) francs, or one of the two penalties, whoever,
in maritime areas, breaks through clumsiness, recklessness, negligence
or non-compliance with the regulations, an undersea cable, or causes it
damage likely to interrupt all or part of communications
electronic, fails to report it within twelve hours to the
local authorities of the nearest Cameroonian port.
Article 94.- When the offenses referred to in Articles 90 and 91 above
are committed in territorial waters or on the continental shelf
contiguous to the territory of Cameroon by a member of the crew of a
Cameroonian or foreign vessel, they come under the jurisdiction of
Courts of Yaoundé or those:
- the home port of the ship on which the author is embarked;
- from the first Cameroonian port where this ship will land, whose
territorial jurisdiction extends over the maritime extension of
place of the offense.
Article 95.- (1) Without prejudice to the application of the provisions of the Code
Customs, is punished by imprisonment from one (01) month to three (03)
months and a fine of 1,000,000 (one million) to 20,000,000 (twenty
millions) of francs, or one of these two penalties, the one who exports,
imports a means of cryptography, without authorization.
(2) In the event of a conviction, the Tribunal may also
order the confiscation of cryptographic means and in addition,
prohibit the interested party from requesting this authorization for a period of
maximum of two (02) years.

Page 40
40

TITLE VII
MISCELLANEOUS, TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS
Article 96.- (1) It is created by this law, a body called
"National Agency for Information Technologies and
Communication "ANTIC", in charge of promoting and monitoring the action
of public authorities in the field of information technologies and
Communication.
As such, ANTIC's missions include:
- develop and monitor the implementation of the national strategy
development of information and communication technologies
communication;
- identify the common needs of public services in terms of
computer equipment and software;
- ensure the harmonization of technical standards and
propose technical standards, in order to promote
interoperability between information systems;
- to provide its expertise to administrations for the design
and the development of their technical objects;
- coordinate the realization and ensure the monitoring of the sites
Internet, Intranet and Extranet of the State and organizations
public;
- to contribute to the technical training of trainers of
universities, high schools, colleges, teacher training colleges and schools
primary;
- to participate in training actions for State personnel
in the field of information technology and
communication, by issuing recommendations on
content of technical training and training programs
professional exams and competitions;
- maintain technical cooperation relations with
international public or private organizations acting in this
domain, in accordance with the procedures provided for by the legislation in
force. In this perspective, it is responsible for
the registration of ".cm" domain names;
- to put in place mechanisms to settle disputes of a
share, between operators of information technology and
communication and on the other hand, between operators and users,
for problems specifically related to content and
quality of service (spamming, phishing, hacking);

Page 41
41

- to ensure, in the use of information and communication technologies
communication, respect for ethics, as well as the protection
intellectual property, consumers, good
manners and privacy;
- develop the policy and procedures for registering
domain names ".cm", hosting, administration
root servers, the licensing of Registrar, the
".Cm";
- plan, assign and control Internet (IP) addresses
in Cameroon ;
- to put in place mechanisms to ensure the safety of
the Internet at the national level;
- to regulate information and communication technologies
and the Internet.
(2) the organization and functioning of ANTIC are
fixed by a decree of the President of the Republic.
Article 97.- (1) Public telecommunications and
Information and Communication Technologies existing at the date
promulgation of this law benefit as of right from the
concession for the exercise of activities related to their corporate purpose.
(2) Any development of these companies must be
approved by the President of the Republic.
Article 98 .- (1) The other holders of concession and authorization in
validity periods have a period of one (01) year from the date
promulgation of this law, to comply with the provisions of
this one.
(2) To this end, the bringing into conformity of the
concession and authorizations valid on the date of the
promulgation of this law, will be decided by agreement between the parties.
Article 99.- (1) The staff and assets of the Regulatory Agency
of Telecommunications instituted by law n ° 98/014 of July 14, 1998
governing telecommunications in Cameroon and the National Agency
of Information and Communication Technologies created by
decree n ° 2002/092 of April 08, 2002, devolved respectively to
the Telecommunications Regulatory Agency and ANTIC, established
by this law.

Page 42
42

(2) The statutory situation conferred by the two bodies
aforementioned, to staff transferred to the Regulatory Agency for
Telecommunications and ANTIC, under paragraph 1 above do not
can in no case be less favorable than that held by the
interested at the date of their repayment.
Article 100 .- (1) The costs for the management of frequencies,
entry fees and license renewal fees are collected by
the agency.
(2) A specific text determines the distribution key
costs referred to in paragraph 1 above.
Article 101 .- A joint order of the Minister in charge of
Telecommunications and the Minister in charge of Finance sets the tariffs of
services provided by the Agency and, where applicable, by the Committee
interdepartmental provided for in article 37 of this law, as well as the costs of
procedure before the Agency and the methods of collection thereof.
Article 102 .- The holders of authorizations referred to in articles 9, 10, 14, 15
and 16 of this law, are required to be registered by the Agency or, the
where applicable, by the Administration in charge of Telecommunications in a
period of six (06) months from the date of promulgation of this
law. Otherwise, they are deemed to have waived the benefit of their
permissions.
Article 103 .- Specific texts set, as necessary, the
modalities of application of this law.
Article 104 .- This law, which repeals all the provisions
previous contrary, will be recorded, published according to the procedure
emergency, then inserted in the Official Journal in French and English.

YAOUNDE, THE

THE PRESIDENT OF THE
REPUBLIC,

PAUL BIYA

