Page 1

Decision of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress on Strengthening the Protection of Network Information
(Adopted at the 30th meeting of the Standing Committee of the Eleventh National People's Congress on December 28, 2012)
China National People's Congress website www.npc.gov.cn browse font size : small , medium and large print this page close window

In order to protect the security of network information, protect the legitimate rights and interests of citizens, legal persons and other organizations,
make decision:
and safeguard national security and social public interests, special works such as
1. The state protects electronic information that can identify citizens' personal identities and involve citizens' personal privacy.
No organization or individual shall steal or obtain citizens’ personal electronic information in other illegal ways, and shall not sell or illegally provide citizens’ personal electronic information to others.
interest.
2. Network service providers and other enterprises and institutions shall follow legal, legitimate and necessary principles in collecting and using citizens’ personal electronic information in their business activities.
Then, the purpose, method and scope of the collection and use of information shall be clearly stated, and with the consent of the person being collected,
Useit letter
shall not violate the provisions of laws and regulations and the agreement between the parties to collect,
interest.
When network service providers and other enterprises and institutions collect and use citizens' personal electronic information, they shall disclose their collection and use rules.
3. Network service providers and other enterprises and institutions and their staff must strictly keep confidential the personal electronic information of citizens collected in their business activities, and shall not
Leakage, tampering, damage, and shall not be sold or illegally provided to others.
4. Network service providers and other enterprises and institutions shall adopt technical measures and other necessary measures to ensure information security and prevent information collected during business activities.
Citizens’ personal electronic information is leaked, damaged, or lost. When information leakage, damage, or loss occurs or may occur, remedial measures
Shi. should be taken immediately
5. Network service providers should strengthen the management of the information released by their users, and should stop immediately if they discover information that is prohibited by laws or regulations from being released or transmitted
Transmit the information, take disposal measures such as elimination, save relevant records, and report to the relevant competent authority.
6. The network service provider handles website access services for users, handles network access procedures such as fixed telephones and mobile phones, or provides users with information publishing services,
The user shall be required to provide true identity information when signing an agreement with the user or confirming the provision of services.
7. Any organization or individual without the consent or request of the recipient of the electronic information, or the recipient of the electronic information expressly rejecting it, shall not send a fixed-line or
Send commercial electronic messages via mobile phone or personal e-mail.
8. Citizens have the right to request if they discover network information that infringes on their legitimate rights and interests such as disclosing their personal identity, spreading personal privacy, or being infringed by commercial electronic information
The network service provider deletes relevant information or takes other necessary measures to stop it.
IX. Any organization or individual has committed illegal and criminal acts of stealing or otherwise illegally acquiring, selling, or illegally providing citizens’ personal electronic information to others.
And other network information illegal and criminal acts, have the right to report and accuse the relevant competent authorities; the department that receives
Right person
the report
canor accusation shall deal with it in a timely manner in accordance with the law. Invaded
To file a lawsuit in accordance with the law

Page 2

10. The relevant competent departments shall perform their duties in accordance with the law within the scope of their respective powers, and adopt technical measures and other necessary measures to prevent, stop, and investigate and deal with theft or
Other illegal and criminal acts of obtaining, selling or illegally providing citizens’ personal electronic information to others and other illegal and criminal acts of network information. related
When the competent authority performs its duties in accordance with the law, the network service provider shall cooperate and provide technical support.
State agencies and their staff shall keep confidential the personal electronic information of citizens that they learn in the performance of their
Not for
duties,
saleand
or shall not disclose, tamper with, or damage them.
Illegal offer to others.
11. Anyone who violates this decision shall be given warnings, fines, confiscation of illegal gains, revocation of licenses, cancellation of
Responsibilities
filing, and closure
are prohibited
of the Internet.
Penalties such as those engaged in network service business shall be recorded in the social credit file and published; if the violation constitutes a violation
Penalty.
of public
Structure
security management, it shall be given to the Public Security Management Office in accordance with the law
If a crime is committed, criminal responsibility shall be investigated in accordance with the law. Those who infringe upon the civil rights and interests of others shall bear civil liability in accordance with the law.

12. This decision shall come into effect on the date of promulgation.

