Page 1

Page 1

Search this site

Simplified Chinese | Traditional Chinese | English | Email |

search for

delete

Homepage | China Today | China Overview | Laws and Regulations | Public Bulletin | Government Interaction | Government Construction | Work News | Appointment and Removal of Work | Press Release
Current Location: ⾸Page >> Laws and Regulations >> Political Regulations

Regulations of the People's Republic of China on the Security Protection of Computer Information Systems
Chinese government portal www.gov.cn 2005 08⽉06⽇
【Font: Large Middle Small】Print this page

close the window

(Promulgated by Order No. 147 of the State Council of the People’s Republic of China on February 18, 1994)
⬬ Record
Chapter 1 General Provisions
Chapter 2 Security Protection System
Chapter III Safety Supervision
Chapter IV Legal Liability
Chapter 5 Supplementary Provisions
Chapter 1 General Provisions
Article 1 In order to protect the security of computer information systems, promote the application and development of computers, and protect the social
This regulation is formulated to support the smooth progress of the modernization of justice.
Article 2 The computer information system mentioned in these Regulations refers to computers and their related and supporting equipment,
Facilities (including networks), and collect, add, store, and transmit information in accordance with certain application targets and rules.
A personal computer system for processing input, retrieval, etc.
Article 3 " The security protection of the computer information system shall guarantee the computer and its related and supporting equipment,
The security of facilities (including networks), the security of the operating environment, the security of information, and the normal distribution of computer functions.
To maintain the safe operation of the computer information system.
Article 4 The security protection of computer information systems, focusing on safeguarding national affairs, economic construction, national defense construction
The security of computer information systems in important fields such as design, cutting-edge science and technology.
Article 5: These Regulations apply to the security protection of computer information systems in the People's Republic of China.
The safety protection measures for unlinked microcomputers will be formulated separately.
Article 6: The Ministry of Public Security is in charge of the national computer information system security protection work.

The Ministry of National Security, the National Bureau of Secrets and other relevant departments of the State Council shall do a good job within the scope of responsibilities stipulated by the State Council
Work related to the security protection of computer information systems.
Article 7 No organization or individual shall use the computer information system to
Activities that benefit the legitimate interests of citizens must not endanger the security of computer information systems.
Chapter 2 Security Protection System
Article 1 The construction and application of computer information systems shall comply with laws, political regulations and other relevant national regulations.
Regulations.
Article 9 The computer information system shall be protected by a security level. Classification standard of security level and security level protection
The specific measures for this situation shall be formulated by the Ministry of Public Security in conjunction with relevant departments.
Article 10 The computer room shall comply with national standards and relevant national regulations.
When applied near the computer room, it shall not endanger the safety of the computer information system.
Article 1 The computer information system of the International Union shall be reported to the provincial level by the user of the computer information system
The public security organ of the above-mentioned people's government is filed for the record.
Article 2 The transportation, carrying or mailing of computer information media entering or leaving the country shall truthfully declare to the customs.
Article 3 The user unit of the computer information system shall establish and improve the safety management system, and be responsible for the unit’s accounting
The security protection work of computer information system.
Article 4 For cases sent in the computer information system, the relevant user unit shall report to the authorities within 24 hours.
Reports from public security organs of people's governments at or above the prefecture and county level.
Article 5 Research on the prevention and control of computer viruses and other harmful data that endanger social public safety, by
The Ministry of Public Security is under management.
Article 6: The state implements a licensing system for the sale of products dedicated to the security of computer information systems. Specific method
It is formulated by the Ministry of Public Security in conjunction with relevant departments.
Chapter III Safety Supervision
Article Seven: Public security organs shall exercise the following supervisory powers for the protection of computer information system security:
(1) Supervise, inspect and guide the security protection of computer information systems;
(⼆) Investigate and deal with criminal cases that endanger the security of computer information systems;
(3) Perform other supervisory duties for the security protection of computer information systems.
Article 9 When public security organs discover hidden dangers affecting the security of computer information systems, they shall promptly notify the use order
Take safety protection measures.
Article 9 In an emergency , the Ministry of Public Security may issue specific matters related to the security of computer information systems
Special general order.
Chapter IV Legal Liability
Article 2 Violation of the provisions of this Regulation, and one of the following actions shall be given a warning or shut down by the public security organ
Reorganize:
(1) Violating the computer information system security level protection system, endangering the security of the computer information system;
(1) Violating the International Union of Computer Information System Filing System;
(3) Failing to report a case in the computer information system within the prescribed time;
(4) Refusing to make improvements within the time limit after receiving a notice from the public security organ requesting to improve the safety situation;
(5) Other actions that endanger the security of computer information systems.
Article 2 The computer room does not meet the national standards and other relevant national regulations, or the computer room
Any implementation near the house that endangers the security of the computer information system shall be dealt with by the public security organs in conjunction with relevant units.
Article 2 Transportation, carrying, and mailing of computer information media entering or leaving the country without truthful declaration to the customs shall be subject to
The customs shall deal with it in accordance with the "Customs Law of the People's Republic of China", these regulations and other relevant laws and regulations.
Article 2 Three deliberately inputting computer viruses and other harmful data to endanger the security of computer information systems,
Or, if you sell computer information system security products without permission, the public security organs will issue a warning or give a warning to the individual.
A fine of less than 5,000 yuan and a fine of less than 1,500 yuan shall be imposed on the unit; those with illegal gains shall be exempted
In addition to confiscation, a fine of 1 to 3 times the illegal income may be imposed.
Article 2-Article 4 Violation of the provisions of this Regulation constitutes a violation of public security management, in accordance with the "Chinese People's Republic
Penalties are stipulated in the State Security Administration Punishment Law; if a crime is constituted, criminal responsibility shall be investigated in accordance with the law.
Article 2-Article 5 Any organization or individual who violates the provisions of this Regulation and creates damages to the state, collective or other property
In case of losses, civil liabilities shall be borne in accordance with the law.
Article 2-6: If the party concerned is dissatisfied with the specific policies made by the public security organs in accordance with these regulations, they may follow
The law applies for political reconsideration or initiates political litigation.
Article VIII Seven National civil servants who enforce this Regulation use their powers to solicit or accept bribes or commit other violations.
If the law or negligence of duty constitutes a crime, criminal responsibility shall be investigated in accordance with the law; if it does not constitute a crime, political sanctions shall be given.
Chapter 5 Supplementary Provisions
Article 2 The meaning of the following terms in these regulations:
Computer virus refers to a computer program that is compiled or inserted into a computer program to destroy computer functions or destroy data.
A group of computer instructions or program codes that affect computer use and can be copied by myself.
Computer information system security special products refer to special hardware and software used to protect the security of computer information systems.
Pieces of products.
Article Nine: The security protection of the military’s computer information system shall be implemented in accordance with the relevant military regulations.
Article 3 The Ministry of Public Security may formulate implementation measures in accordance with these regulations.
The third article will take effect from the date of self-promulgation of this Regulation.

[E-mail recommendation

send

】

【Error correction】Print this page
close the window

Copyright©2013 www.gov.cn
All Rights Reserved
Version of the right of all: China Guo government ⽹

