Page 1

Promulgation of the Act on private registers, etc.
(Register law)
Act no. 293 of 8 June 1978 on private registers, etc., is hereby promulgated with the amendments that
follows from Act No. 383 of 10 June 1987. The promulgated text of the Act does not apply in full until 1 April
1988.

Chapter 1
Scope of the Act
§ 1. Registration that includes personal information and where use is made electronically
data processing, and systematic registration, which includes information on persons, institutions,
associations 'or companies' private or financial matters or other information about
personal circumstances which may be richly demanded to be withheld from the public may only take place
according to the rules in Chapters 2, 2a, 2b, 2c and 3.
PCS. 2. Personal data means information that can be attributed to specific persons, although
it requires knowledge of social security number, registration number or similar special
identifications.
§ 2. The Act does not cover registration made for a public authority, or as otherwise
is covered by the Public Authorities Registers Act, cf., however, Chapter 5.
PCS. 2. The Act does not cover registration that takes place solely for the purpose of personnel history
studies or publication of ordinary reference works.
PCS. 3. The Act does not cover registration that takes place solely for scientific or statistical purposes
purpose. Registration for these purposes of information as mentioned in § 3, para. 2, however, may only be done after
prior notification to the Register Authority. The Danish Register Authority may lay down more detailed conditions for
the register for the protection of the data subjects' privacy, including the consent of the data subject,
deletion and updating of information as well as on security measures against that register
abused or comes to the knowledge of unauthorized persons.
PCS. 4. The Act also does not cover computer registers that only contain legal source material
(legal information systems), which are part of the state legal information system and which are public
available.

Page 2

PCS. 5. The Danish Register Authority may allow other legal information systems to be completely or partially exempted from
the provisions of the law when this is deemed unthinkable. The Danish Register Authority may lay down conditions for
the permit to protect the privacy of data subjects.

Chapter 2
Business enterprises, etc.
§ 3. Business enterprises, traders, institutions, associations and the like may only carry out
registration as mentioned in § 1 to the extent that the registration is a natural part of the normal operation of
companies etc. of the type in question.
PCS. 2. Information about individuals' purely private affairs, including information about race, religion
and skin color, on political, sexual and criminal matters as well as information on health matters,
significant social problems and misuse of stimulants and the like, may not be recorded unless
this follows from other legislation. Registration may, however, take place if the information is provided by it
the person himself or obtained with his consent and there are circumstances where he may
know that the information will be recorded. It is also a condition that it is necessary for
the company, etc. to be in possession of the information in question to enable a legitimate
safeguarding the interests of the company or others.
PCS. (3) The Register Authority may allow information to be registered, notwithstanding that the conditions in subsection 2 is not
fulfilled when it is necessary for the company, etc., to be in possession of the person in question
information to enable the legitimate pursuit of public or private interests, including
consideration for the person concerned, which clearly exceeds consideration for the interests that speak against it
registration.
PCS. 4. Registers where electronic data processing is used and which contain information
as mentioned in para. 2, may only be established after prior notification to the Register Inspectorate. This applies
however, not in the case of registers kept by associations and the like, to the extent that registers alone
includes information about the members of the association.
PCS. 5. The Minister of Justice may, after obtaining an opinion from the Register Inspectorate, exempt certain types
registers as mentioned in para. 4 from the notification obligation.
PCS. 6. Creating records in order to warn others against business relationships meed or
employment relationship with a data subject may only take place with the prior permission of the Register Inspectorate.
PCS. 7. Permission pursuant to para. 6 can be conditioned i.a. that certain types of information are not recorded, and
that the register is subject in whole or in part to the rules of Chapter 3.

Page 3

PCS. 8. The Minister of Justice may, after obtaining an opinion from the Register Inspectorate, stipulate that specified
registers are wholly or partly subject to the rules of Chapter 3 and that certain types of information may not
included in the relevant registers.
§ 4. Registered information about individuals' purely private matters, including information about race,
religion and skin color, on political, sexual and criminal matters as well as information on
health conditions, significant social problems and abuse of stimulants and the like, must not
passed on without the consent of the data subject or the person acting on his behalf, unless
this follows from other legislation. The Register Authority may, however, allow information as mentioned in the first sentence.
disclosed when disclosure is made in the interest of public or private interests, including
consideration for the person concerned, which clearly exceeds consideration for the interests which justify
secrecy.
PCS. 2. Other registered information may only be disclosed without the consent of the data subject
scope, disclosure without such consent is a natural part of the normal operation of businesses
etc. of the kind in question. However, information on conditions dating back more than 5 years is not allowed
passed on without consent, unless it is obvious that it is essential for
the assessment of the matter which is sought to be elucidated, that the information is passed on, or the access to
disclosure follows from other legislation.
PCS. 3. The provision in para. 2 does not apply to transfer that only takes place for use in
for scientific or statistical purposes. For the same purpose, notwithstanding the provision in para. I ske
disclosure of health information.
PCS. 4. Interconnection of registers of different companies, where use is made electronically
data processing may not take place. However, the same does not apply to interconnections made with
for the purpose of updating information on names, addresses and the like.
PCS. (5) The Register Authority may grant permission for interconnection as mentioned in subsection (1). 4, 1st sentence, when the conditions in
§ 4 pieces. 1-3, for the disclosure of the information is met and the interests of the
the interconnection must take care of, clearly exceeds the consideration of the registered persons and given these
notification that interconnection can take place. The Danish Register Authority may lay down more detailed conditions for
the permit, including conditions for the use of the information resulting from the interconnection.
§ 4 a. Information on personal identity numbers may only be registered when the conditions in § 3, para. 2, are met.
PCS. (2) Registered information on personal identity numbers may only be disclosed when the conditions in section 4, subsection
2 is fulfilled and when disclosure is of crucial importance to ensure a unique identification of
the data subject or disclosure is required by a public authority.
§ 4 b. Companies may not pass on registered information about consumers to others
companies for marketing purposes.

Page 4

PCS. 2. Disclosure as mentioned in para. 1 may, however, take place when the conditions in § 4 are met and the
company that wishes to disclose the information, at the beginning of the customer relationship or at a
later time has given the data subject clear written notice that disclosure may be found
place and the data subject has given his express consent to the transfer.
PCS. 3. Notice as mentioned in para. 2 must contain information on the type of company
the information is intended to be provided.
§ 5. The company etc. refuses at the request of a registered person to delete or correct information,
declared to be incorrect or misleading, or to delete unauthorized information, or
If the company has not responded to an inquiry about this from the data subject within 4 weeks, it can
registered bring the question to the Registry, which decides whether to
deletion or correction is made.
PCS. 2. The Danish Register Authority may order the company to give written notification of the correction to
all who have received the information within the last 6 months before the data subject submitted his
request to the company. The company must also give the registered notice
about who has received notification pursuant to the first sentence.
§ 6. In registers where use is made of electronic data processing (computer registers), information
deleted when, due to age or for other reasons, it has lost its relevance to the management of
tasks of the register.
PCS. 2. Computer registers used on an ongoing basis shall be arranged in such a way that the necessary arrangements can be made
updating the information.
PCS. 3. Companies, etc. must carry out the necessary checks to ensure that no imports are made
incorrect or misleading information in a computer register. Information that turns out to be incorrect or
misleading, must be deleted or corrected as soon as possible.
PCS. 4. The necessary security measures shall be taken against the entry of information in a computerized register
abused or comes to the knowledge of unauthorized persons.
§ 7. The provisions of § 6, apply regardless of whether the register is subjected to electronic data processing in
abroad.
Chapter 2 a
Registered persons' access to information about themselves
§ 7 a. Where electronic data processing is used in the maintenance of the register, the company must
etc. at the request of a person give this notice of what is registered about it
concerned.

Page 5

PCS. 2. The provision in para. 1 does not apply if the data subject's interest in becoming aware of
the information is found to give way to overriding reasons relating to the public or private interests,
including consideration for the person himself. Such considerations apply only to a part of
the information, the data subject must be made aware of the other information.
PCS. 3. A person who has been notified in accordance with para. 1, is not entitled to a new notification before 12 months
after the last notification, unless the person concerned can demonstrate a special interest in it.
§ 7 b. Companies etc. must, upon request, give notice as mentioned in § 7 a, subsection. 1, in writing.
PCS. 2. In the case of registers containing information on health conditions, notification may be given in the form of
an oral notification when significant considerations of the data subject speak for it.
PCS. 3. The Minister of Justice lays down rules on payment for written notices.
§ 7 c. Companies etc. must respond to requests as mentioned in § 7 a, subsection 1. Is the request
not answered within 4 weeks of receipt, the company must notify the person in writing
about the reason for this.
PCS. (2) If the company, etc., rejects the data subject's request pursuant to section 7 a, subsection 1, cf. 2, shall
the company at the same time inform the data subject about the right to bring the matter to
the Register Authority.
§ 7 d. Decisions on the right to receive information in accordance with the provisions of §§ 7 a, 7 b and 7 c may
brought before the Register Inspectorate.
§ 7 e. The provisions of §§ 7 ad apply, regardless of whether the register is subjected to electronic data processing
abroad.
Chapter 2 b
Registration of telephone numbers
§ 7 f. In companies etc., no automatic registration may be made of which telephone numbers there are
calls have been made from the company's telephones. However, registration must be done in advance
permission from the Register Inspectorate in cases where crucial considerations of private or public interests
speaks for this. The Danish Register Authority may lay down more detailed conditions for a permit.
PCS. 2. The provisions of para. Paragraph 1 shall not apply unless otherwise provided by law or in so far as they are concerned
registration of licensed telephone companies to which telephone numbers calls have been made,
either for own use for the purpose of collecting payment or for use in technical control.

Page 6

Chapter 2 c
Press information registers
§ 7 g. The Act does not include registers where electronic data processing is used, and which alone
contains information published in a periodical.
PCS. 2. Registers as mentioned in para. 1 may only be created after prior notification to the Register Inspectorate.
PCS. 3. The Register Inspectorate may lay down more detailed conditions for the register for the protection of the data subjects
privacy, including the consent of the data subject, the deletion and updating of information, and
on precautionary measures against misuse of the register or access to unauthorized persons
knowledge.
§ 7 h. Registered information as mentioned in § 7 g, para. 1, may not be passed on without the consent of it
registered person or the person acting on his behalf, unless otherwise provided by law or
disclosure takes place in such a way that the information is published in a periodical.
§ 7 i. Companies etc. must, at the request of a person, give this notice of what is
registered about the person in question.
PCS. 2. The provisions of section 7 a, subsection 3, and §§ 7 b-7 e apply correspondingly to applications as mentioned in
PCS. 1.

Chapter 3
Credit bureaus
§ 8. Anyone who wishes to conduct business with registration of information for assessment
financial solvency and creditworthiness for disclosure (credit bureau),
before starting the business, make a notification to the Register Inspectorate.
§ 9. Credit information agencies may only register and disclose information which by its nature is of
importance for assessing financial soundness and creditworthiness.
PCS. 2. Information as mentioned in section 3, subsection 2, may not be registered or passed on.
PCS. 3. Information on matters that contradict creditworthiness and that are more than 5 years old must
not be registered or passed on unless in the individual case it is obvious that the relationship is off
crucial for the assessment of the person's financial soundness and creditworthiness.

Page 7

§ 10. Credit information agencies must, within 4 weeks after registration, notify the person who
is first entered in the register with information on other than name, address, position, occupation or
information that appears in Statstidende or can be obtained from the business register. The message must
contain information about the data subject's access to obtain information from the register after
the provisions of § 11.
PCS. 2. The Minister of Justice may, after obtaining an opinion from the Register Inspectorate, stipulate that other types of
information may be registered without notice under paragraph 1.
§ 11. The credit information bureau must at all times at the request of the data subject within 4 weeks
communicate to it the contents of the information and assessments provided by the Agency about it
within the last 6 months, as well as the other information provided by the Agency
the time of submission of the application has on file card, punch card, magnetic tape or on other
way in processed form, including of present assessments of the person concerned.
PCS. 2. If the agency is in possession of additional material about the data subject, this must be done at the same time
the person in question is informed with information about the nature of the material and that the data subject can obtain
access to review it by contacting the agency in person.
PCS. 3. The data subject may not request to be made aware of the source of the information,
cf., however, § 14.
PCS. 4. The data subject may request the agency's communication referred to in paragraph. 1 in writing.
The Minister of Justice lays down rules on payment for written notices.
§ 12. Information on financial solvency and creditworthiness may only be communicated in writing, cf.
11, para. 1 and 2. However, the Bureau may provide subscribers with summary information orally or on
similarly, provided that the name and address of the questioner are recorded and kept for at least 6 months.
PCS. 2. Publications by credit bureaus may only contain summary information and
only sent to individuals or companies who subscribe to messages from the agency.
The publications must not contain information about the data subjects' social security numbers.
PCS. 3. Summary information on guilt may only be disclosed if the information originates from
Government Gazette, or if the information relates to debts to the same creditor of more than DKK 1,000.
and the creditor has acquired the data subject's written acknowledgment of an overdue debt, or if any
taken legal action against the person concerned. Information on finally approved debt restructuring must
however, is not passed on.
PCS. 4. Disclosure of summary information about individuals' guilt may only take place on one
in such a way that the information cannot form the basis for the assessment of financial soundness and
creditworthiness of persons other than the individuals concerned.

Page 8

§ 13. Information or assessments that prove to be incorrect or misleading must be made as soon as possible
deleted from the register or corrected.
§ 14. Has an information or assessment that proves to be incorrect or misleading before
transmitted, the Agency shall immediately notify the data subject in writing of the correction to and to the data subject
anyone who has received the information or assessment within the last 6 months before the agency is
become acquainted with the relationship. The data subject must also be notified of who has
received notification pursuant to the first sentence, and from which the information or assessment originates.
§ 15. Inquiries from a data subject about deletion or correction of information or assessments,
stated to be incorrect or misleading, or for the deletion of information that may not
registered or passed on must be answered in writing as soon as possible and within 4 weeks of receipt
bureauet.
PCS. 2. If the Agency refuses to make the requested deletion or correction, the data subject may
within 4 weeks of receipt of the Agency's reply or of the expiry of the 1 mentioned response deadline
bring the matter before the Registry, which decides whether to take action
deletion or correction. The provision in section 14 applies correspondingly.
PCS. 3. The Agency's replies shall, in the cases referred to in paragraph 2, include information on access to:
bring the matter before the Registry and on the deadline for this.
§ 16. Transfer or transfer of registers in other respects may only take place until notified
credit information agency and must be notified to the Register Authority without undue delay.

Chapter 4
Addressing and enveloping agencies
§ 17. Companies that sell addresses of groups of persons, institutions, associations or
undertakings, or which, for third parties, envelops or sends messages to
such groups may only register:
● 1) name, address, position, occupation and
● 2) information that can be freely obtained from the business register.
PCS. 2. Information about individuals' purely private affairs, including information about race, religion
and skin color, on political, sexual and criminal matters as well as information on health matters,
significant social problems and misuse of stimulants and the like, may not be registered.
The Minister of Justice may impose further restrictions on the right to register certain types of
information.

Page 9

§ 18. The bureau shall delete in its registers anyone who submits a written request to this effect.
PCS. 2. If the request is made to the person who appears as the sender, he must forward it
the request to the agency.
§ 19. Leaves associations and similar membership lists to an agency for distribution
of notifications for the association, etc., the agency may not pass on without the association's consent
the list of members to third parties or use it to send messages to third parties.

Chapter 5
Computer service agencies
§ 20. Companies that perform electronically for third parties, including for a public authority
data processing of information as mentioned in § 1, must first make a notification to the Register Inspectorate.
PCS. 2. The company may not use the receipts without the consent of the owner of the register
information for purposes other than the performance of the task to which the agreement relates or leave
store or process the information with others or abroad.
PCS. 3. The company must take the necessary security measures against that information
abused or comes to the knowledge of unauthorized persons.

Chapter 6
Registration and electronic data processing abroad
§ 21. Information that according to § 3, para. 2, may not be registered in this country, may not be collected with
for the purpose of registration abroad. Systematic collection of information otherwise for
registration abroad may only take place with the permission of the Register Inspectorate, insofar as the registration here in
the country would require notification to the Registry or permission under this Act.
PCS. 2. Registers containing information as mentioned in section 3, subsection 2, may only be left to electronic
data processing abroad after prior permission from the Register Inspectorate. The same applies
systematic collection of information as mentioned in § 3, para. 2, for the purpose of electronic
data processing abroad. The provision in the 1st sentence. does not apply, however, if the register is located alone
in this country to be subjected to electronic data processing.
PCS. 3. Permission pursuant to subsection 1 and 2 can only be notified when the Register Inspectorate finds that the transfer has not
will lead to a significant deterioration of the protection of the data subject, which the law intends to ensure.

Page 10

PCS. 4. The Minister of Justice may, for the fulfillment of international agreements or otherwise for the promotion of
international co - operation in regulating the type of business covered by the law, provide that:
the provisions of paragraph 1, 2nd sentence, and para. 2 shall not apply in relation to certain other countries
or certain types of registers. It can only be determined after obtaining the opinion of the Registry, and
provided that it will not lead to a significant impairment of the protection of the data subject, the law
intends to ensure.

Chapter 7
Supervision and punishment, etc.
§ 22. The Register Inspectorate supervises that there is no violation of the law or provisions that
is provided for by law. The Authority ensures, on its own initiative or after a complaint from a registered person, that
the register is established and used in accordance with the law and provisions laid down in
pursuant to the law.
PCS. 2. The Authority may require any information relevant to its activities, including:
determining whether a matter falls within the provisions of the Act.
PCS. 3. In the case of activities that are subject to notification or are covered by the provisions of §
3 pieces. 6, § 21 or provisions laid down pursuant to § 3, para. 8, has supervisory members and staff
at any time against proper identification without a court order access to all premises from which the register
administered or can be used, as well as to premises where the register or the technical aids
stored or used.
§ 23. The Danish Register Authority may issue orders that registration or disclosure may not be found
place under this Act shall cease and that existing registers kept in violation of the Act or a in
in accordance with the order issued, shall be deleted.
PCS. 2. The Authority may order a company, etc. to make deletion or correction of one
information which may not be recorded or which the Authority finds incorrect or misleading.
PCS. 3. The Authority may order a person or a company, etc. to delete or correct information,
which is registered before the entry into force of the Act, and which may not be registered under the Act, or as the supervision
find incorrect or misleading.
PCS. 4. In special cases, the Authority may order a company, etc., to delete information that is due
of age or for other reasons have lost their significance for the performance of the tasks of the register.
PCS. 5. The Authority may prohibit the use of a specified procedure in connection with
collection or disclosure of information if the Authority finds that the person concerned
procedure entails a significant risk of incorrect registration or disclosure or disclosure
misleading information or information that may not be recorded or disclosed.

Page 11

PCS. 6. The Authority may order the company, etc. to take specified control measures
to ensure that no information is or will be registered or passed on that may not
registered or disclosed, or which are incorrect or misleading, as well as security measures
or prevention of the misuse or access to the data of unauthorized persons
knowledge.
§ 24. The Minister of Justice may, for the fulfillment of international agreements or otherwise for the promotion of
international cooperation on the control of the type of activity covered by the law
rules i.a. on the Register Authority's relationship with foreign supervisory authorities, on the obligation to notify, on
deletion of registers and that the provision in § 22, para. 3, also applies to other
business than mentioned in the provision.
§ 25. The Registry Inspectorate's decisions pursuant to this Act may not be appealed to another administrative body
authority.
§ 26. The Danish Register Authority may lay down rules on the form and content of notifications and applications pursuant to
the law.
PCS. (2) The Minister of Justice may lay down rules on the payment of fees for notifications and permits pursuant to
the law.
§ 27. Unless a higher penalty is due in accordance with other legislation, a fine or fine shall be imposed
that one:
● 1) violates § 2, para. 3, § 3, para. 2, 4 and 6, § 4, para. 1, 1st sentence, para. 2 and 4, § 4 a, § 4 b, § 5,
PCS. 2, 2nd sentence, § 6, § 7 a, § 7 b, para. 1-2, § 7 c, § 7f, § 7 g, para. 1 and 2, § 7 h, § 7 i, §§ 8 and 9, §
10 pcs. 1, § 11, para. 1, 2 and 4, §§ 12-14, § 15, para. 1 piece. 2, 2nd sentence, and para. 3, §§ 16-20 and §
21, para. 1 and 2.
● 2) fails to comply with the Register Inspectorate's decision pursuant to section 5, subsection 1, § 7 d or § 15, para. 2,
1st point,
● 3) fails to meet the requirements of the Register Inspectorate pursuant to section 22, subsection 2,
● 4) overrides conditions as mentioned in § 2, para. 3, 3rd sentence, or § 7 g, para. 3, or a condition
or a condition of a permit under the law or under regulations issued pursuant to
of the law or
● 5) fails to comply with prohibitions or injunctions issued in accordance with the law or in
under regulations issued pursuant to the Act.
PCS. 2. Regulations issued pursuant to the Act may provide for the penalty of either a fine or a fine
for violation of provisions of the regulations.
PCS. 3. If an infringement is committed by a public limited company, cooperative or the like, a fine may be imposed
imposed on the company as such.

Page 12

§ 26. Anyone who conducts or is engaged in business as mentioned in § 3, para. 6, § 8 and § 20, may
in the case of a conviction for a criminal offense, the right to do so is denied if the expelled offense justifies one
imminent danger of abuse. In addition, section 79, subsection 1, 3rd sentence, and para. 2 and 3,
application.

Chapter 8
Entry into force and transitional provisions
§ 29. The Act enters into force on 1 January 1979.
PCS. 2. The provisions of § 1, para. 1, no. 3, of Act no. 63 of 3 March 1948 on the provision of legal assistance
as well as whether debt collection and detective activities, etc. are abolished.
§ 30. For computer registers that have been taken into use before the Act enters into force, the provision in § 6 first
effect 1 year after the entry into force of the Act.
PCS. 2. Credit information agencies that existed at the time the law came into force, and companies that know
the entry into force of the Act performs electronic data processing for third parties as mentioned in section 20, must submit
notification no later than 3 months after the entry into force of the Act.
PCS. 3. In relation to persons and companies, etc., which at the entry into force of the Act are registered in a
credit information agency, the rule in section 10, subsection 1, the first time there after the entry into force of the law
information is to be notified.
PCS. 4. A company which, upon the entry into force of the Act, makes a registration as mentioned in section 3, subsection 3, and
the person who carries on business as mentioned in section 21, subsection 1 and 2, must submit an application for permission to do so
no later than 3 months after the entry into force of the Act.
§ 31. The Act does not apply to the Faroe Islands.
Sections 3 and 4 of Act no. 383 of 10 June 1987 contain the following provisions:
»§ 3
The law enters into force on April 1, 1988.
PCS. 2. Review of registers referred to in § 1, no. 3 and no. 5 (§ 2. 3, and § 3, paragraph. 4) and in § 7g, paragraph.
1, as inserted by § 1, no. 10, which has been taken into use before the Act enters into force, must take place no later than 6 months
after the entry into force of the Act.

Page 13

PCS. 3
§4
PCS. 1. § 1 does not apply to the Faroe Islands and Greenland.
PCS. 2
Ministry of Justice, 2 October 1987

