Page 1

Newspaper of the Republic
Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Series I , No. 25

OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR - EAST

$2.00

Bearing in mind that paragraph a) of paragraph 1 of article 29 of Law no.
3/2006, of April 12, amended by Law no. the 9/2009 of 29
July and by Law No. 2/2011, of March 23, creates the Order
PRESIDENT :
Honorific of the Guerrilla , being the Order of the Guerrilla to be awarded
Decree of the President of the Republic No. 53/2015
to the National Liberation Veteran Combatants and
of July 8th
National Liberation Combatants aged eight or over
Decoration in the Order of the Guerrilla, to be awarded on the 20th
of participation that have acted as military and to the
of August 2015................................................. .................8043
National Liberation Combatants under the age of eight
Decree of the President of the Republic No. 54/2015
of participation who have performed functions such as
of July 8 .................................................. .....................................8043 military cadres from the Support Base;

SUMMARY

NATIONAL PARLIAMENT:
Thus, under the proposal of the Commission on Homage, Supervision
Law No. 1/2015 of 8 July
of the Registry and Resources and after hearing the Government, the President of the
Legal Regime of the General Population Census and
Republic, in the use of its own foreseen powers
of the Housing...................................................... ......................................8045
in subparagraph j) of article 85 of the Constitution and in paragraph 3 of article
28 of Law no. 3/2006, of 12 April, amended by Law no. the 9/
GOVERNMENT :
2009, of 29 July and by Law No. 2/2011, of 23 March,
Decree-Law No. 20/2015 of 8 July
decrees the following:
Organization of the Ministry of Defense
Decree-Law No. 21/2015 of 8 July
Organization of the Ministry of Health
Decree-Law no. the 22/2015 of July 8th
About Planning, Budgeting, Monitoring and
Assessment ................................................. .................................8068

And awarded the honorary title of the Order of the Guerrilla ,
Kay Rala Xanana Gusmão, former Commander-in-Chief of
FALINTIL, for its unsurpassed leadership in the Liberation Struggle
National.
Publish yourself.

Decree of the President of the Republic No. 53/2015
of July 8th

Taur Matan Ruak
The President of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste

Decoration in the Order of the Guerrilla, to be awarded on the 20th
Signed at Nicolau Lobato Presidential Palace, Dili on the day
August 2015
July 7, 2015
Whereas the Constitution of the Democratic Republic
of Timor-Leste enshrines, in its article 11, the recognition
and the appreciation of the secular resistance of the Maubere people against
foreign domination and the contribution of all who
fought for national independence;

Decree of the President of the Republic No. 54/2015
of July 8th

Reaffirming the willingness to honor all Combatants
The “Sérgio Vieira de Mello ” Human Rights Award ,
of the National Liberation, under the terms of Law n. the 3/2006, of the 12th
of
established
by Decree 15/2009 of March 18, 2009, is
April, amended by Law n. the 9/2009, of July 29 and the Lein.º
assigned by the President of the Republic, and its purpose
2/2011, March 23, for the dedicated and honorable participation
highlight the activity of Timorese and foreign citizens,
in the struggle for National Independence;
governmental and non-governmental organizations in
promotion, defense and dissemination of Human Rights in
Emphasizing the dimensions of appreciation and recognition
East Timor.
Timorese Resistance and memory preservation
collective, carried out by the award of commendations in
In view of the need to define the procedure for
solemn public ceremonies;
the attribution of this Award on December 10, 2015, the
Series I, No. 25

page 8043

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 2
Newspaper of the Republic
President of the Republic, pursuant to Article 85(j) of the
Publish yourself.
Constitution of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste,
in conjunction with paragraph 2 of article 7, of Decree-Law No. 15/2009
of March 18, decrees:
Taur Matan Ruak
The Regulations of the Rights Prize are approved in the annex.
President of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste
Humans “Sérgio Vieira de Mello” , 8th Edition, December 10th
of 2015.
Signed at the Presidential Palace Nicolau Lobato, on the 7th of
July 2015
Publish yourself.

Taur Matan Ruak
President of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste

Attachment

Signed at the Presidential Palace Nicolau Lobato, on the 7th of
July 2015.

Regulation of the Human Rights Award “Sérgio Vieira
de Mello”, 8th Edition, December 10, 2015
Article 1
Assignment Categories

2. Nominations for application must be sent to the
Presidency of the Republic until the date determined in the announcement
of application.
1. The “Sérgio Vieira de Mello” Human Rights Award, 8th
Edition, December 10, 2015 (hereinafter referred to as
3. Nominations for applications received after
Prize) is awarded in the following categories:
the deadline.
a) Civil and Political Rights and
Article 7
Selection Criteria
b) Social, Economic and Cultural Rights.
The decision of the Board of Award and Honorary Orders
must take into account:

Article 2
Award attribution and Delivery

a) The diversity of themes and target audience;

1. The Prize is awarded to the winners by the President of the
Republic, in a public ceremony on December 10,
2015, International Human Rights Day.

b) Regional diversity;
c) The successes, results and impacts of the actions of the
indicated persons or institutions;

2. The Prize is awarded by Decree of the President of the Republic,
upon proposal of the Board of Accreditations and
Honorary Orders.

d) Personal and organizational effort, namely time
devoted to this activity;

Article 3
Award Award Criteria

e) Leadership ability demonstrated namely in the
inspiring and motivating others and cooperating with others;
f) The social relevance in the promotion and defense of Rights
Humans.
Article 8
Certificate

1. Citizens, nationals may be awarded the Prize.
or foreigners, governmental organizations or not
government, resident/accredited in Timor-Leste
that act in the promotion, defense and dissemination of Rights
Humans in Timor-Leste.
2. The Human Rights Prize is awarded in accordance with the
following criteria:

1. The granting of the prizes, contained in this Regulation,
corresponds to the passing of a nominal certificate and
not transferable.

a) Civil and Political Rights , granted to individuals or
organizations acting as advocates
of human rights, as defined by the
Declaration on the Right and Responsibility of
Individuals, Groups or Bodies of the Society of
Promote and Protect Human Rights and
Fundamental Freedoms Universally
Recognized;

2. The certificate is signed by the President of the Republic.
Article 9
Doubts and omissions
Doubts raised in the application and interpretation of this
Regulations are clarified by order of the President of the
Republic.
Series I, No. 25

b) Social, Economic and Cultural Rights , granted
to individuals or organizations engaged in
page 8044

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 3
Newspaper of the Republic
promotion of human rights activities in
areas of Social, Economic and Cultural Rights,
namely in the Fight against Poverty, in Education,
in Health, Environmental Protection and
Social solidarity.

Law No. 1/2015
of July 8th
Legal Regime of the General Population Census and
of housing

3. People and institutions that already
have received the Prize in any of its editions and
in any of its categories.

Carrying out population and housing censuses is a
essential operation for the knowledge of reality
social and economic aspects of the country.

Article 4
Prize Value

The General Population Census and the General Census
of Housing, already carried out in 2004 and 2010, respectively, has,
as main objectives, the counting and characterization of the
resident population in Timor-Leste, as well as the survey.
of the existing accommodation and its conditions of
habitability, through the exhaustive collection of elements and
data, carried out through survey operations and
statistical treatment.
It is therefore important to normatively frame the performance of the
census activity from 2015, determining the entities
responsible for its execution, the procedures for its
financing, as well as the mechanisms that guarantee the
safeguarding the confidentiality of the information collected.

1. Prize winners are awarded a
certificate and an individual cash amount in the amount
of US$ 10,000.00 (Ten thousand US dollars) .
2. Three (3) prizes will be distributed in the amount of US$
10,000.00 (Ten thousand US dollars) for the
covered in the Civil and Political Rights Category and 3
(three) prizes worth US$ 10,000.00 (Ten Mildollars
Americans) for those contemplated in the Rights Category
Social, Economic and Cultural.
Article 5
Nomination of Candidates

The National Parliament decrees, under the terms of paragraph 1 of article
95 of the Constitution of the Republic, to be valid as law, the
Following:

1. Candidates for the Prize must be nominated
by third parties, nationals or foreigners, residents or
accredited in Timor-Leste;

CHAPTER I
General provisions

2. Self-application or self-application to the
Award.

Article 1
Object

Article 6
Candidacy Nomination Requirements

This law establishes the rules to which the
General Population Census and General Census
of Housing, hereinafter referred to in abbreviated form as Census.

1. Nomination proposals for the Prize
can be done by people or organizations, through the
filling out a form that must contain at least
the following data:

Article 2
Scope

a) Identification of the category to which you want to indicate the
candidate;

The Censuses cover the entire national territory of Timor-Leste,
including its population and accommodation.
Article 3
Frequency

b) Identification of the institution or person indicated;

1. The Censuses take place in 2015 and 2020 and, subsequently, the
every ten years.

c) Full address, telephone and email address of
institution or appointed person;

2. Data collection takes place during the month of July of each
Census target year.

d) Brief history of the Institution or biography of the person
indicated and its action in the area of ​rights
humans;

Article 4
Execution

e) Justification for the indication, including a summary of the
relevant actions developed, including practices
innovators of the Institution or person indicated with
in relation to the theme of the category you are competing for;

Censuses are carried out through questionnaires of
mandatory and free answer, including the moment
census taker.
Article 5
Goals

f) Person's full address, telephone and email
responsible for indicating the application.

The Censuses are aimed at collecting, calculating, analyzing
Series I, No. 25

page 8045

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 4
Newspaper of the Republic
and dissemination of official statistical information relating to
demographic and socioeconomic characteristics of the population
covered and the characteristics of the dwellings.
CHAPTER II
intervening entities
Article 6
intervening entities
The following entities participate in the Census:
a) The General Directorate of Statistics of the Ministry of
Finance, or other entity with attributions
similar as defined by the respective diploma.
organic;
b) Political and technical coordination bodies
determined for each Census;

2. All individual statistical data collected
by one of the intervening entities defined by the
this law are confidential in nature, therefore,
can be broken down into any
publications or provided to any persons or
entities, neither of them can be certified.
3. They are not covered by the prohibition referred to in paragraph
previous to the Directorate-General for Taxes, as well as people and
duly authorized entities, for study reasons
and scientific research, under the terms to be regulated in a diploma
of the Government, to be published within one hundred and eighty
days after the entry into force of this law.
4. Statistical data constitute professional secrecy for
all employees, agents and contractors that theirs
become aware, as well as for people and
entities referred to in the previous number.
5. Individual statistical data cannot be disclosed
without the express written consent of the people
to which they relate.

c) The services of the Ministries and Secretaries of State
with attributions in matters of census, of
according to the current organic statute.
Article 7
Special censuses
The competent services organize and carry out the census
staff assigned to the external services of embassies and
East Timor consulates, according to the instructions issued.
by the General Directorate of Statistics of the Ministry of Finance.
CHAPTER III
Financing and Expenses

6. Without prejudice to the provisions of the previous number, the data
statistics of natural persons concerning the
your professional or business activity is not
covered by statistical secrecy, namely when
are publicized due to legal provision, by
appear in public records.
Article 11
personal data
1. Statistical data on natural persons targeted by
statistical secret are considered personal data, of
in accordance with Article 38 of the Constitution.

Article 8
Compensation Supplement
Employees and agents of the Public Administration that
specifically exercise coordination and control functions.
the work of collecting and processing Census data,
as well as those specifically contracted for the same purpose,
are entitled to a salary supplement under the terms to be established.
by order of the member of the Government responsible for the area
of Finance.

2. Questionnaires containing personal data are
kept only for the period necessary for the
production of statistical information.
eliminated up to five years after the census time.
3. The personal data collected in the questionnaire are
anonymized when transposed to support
computer.

Article 9
Financing

Article 12
Access to statistical data

Censuses are financed by funds entered in the Budget
General of the State and, eventually, by donations from partners
of development.
CHAPTER IV
Protection of personal data

Access to statistical data, including those obtained from the
under this law, it is regulated in a specific diploma of the
Government to be published as provided for in paragraph 3 of article 10 of the
present law.
C CHAPTER V
Duties to be observed during data collection and processing

Article 10
statistical secret

Article 13
Duties of intervening entities

1. Statistical secrecy aims to safeguard the privacy of
citizens, preserve competition between agents.
and ensure the confidence of informants in the
statistical system.
Series I, No. 25

They fall on employees, agents and contractors with
coordination, control or collection and processing functions.
page 8046

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 5
Newspaper of the Republic
Census statistical data the following duties:

Article 17
Primary variables

a) The duty of secrecy on the statistical data to which
have access and are subject to statistical secrecy,
which remains even after termination of the relationship
with the entity intervening in the Census and that
implies the signing of a commitment of honor, in the
terms prescribed by article 5 of Decree-Law No. 17/
2003, October 1st;

The primary variables to be observed are defined by decree.
law.
Article 18
Regulation

b) The duty of attendance during the execution of the
questionnaires and the processing of the data contained therein;

It is up to the Government to approve the diplomas necessary for the
implementation of this law.
Article 19
Revoking rule

c) The duty of care, which implies the faithful fulfillment of the
questionnaire and the faithful reproduction of the answers
obtained.

Law no. 5/2010 of 21 April is revoked.

CHAPTER VI
Infractions and sanctions
Article 14
Administrative offenses

Article 20
Implementation
This law enters into force on the day following its
Publication.

1. Is punished with a fine of $500 (five hundred US dollarsAmericans) who, being obliged to provide information
under the terms of this law:

Approved on June 3, 2015.

a) Failure to provide information in due time;
The President of the National Parliament,
b) Provide incorrect, insufficient or
likely to be misleading.
Vicente da Silva Guterres
2. It is also punished with a fine of $1,000 (one thousand US dollarsAmericans) who actively oppose the proceedings of
collection of statistical data from third parties.

Enacted on June 30, 2015.

3. Is also punished with a fine of $2,000 (two thousand dollars
North Americans) who use the statistical data
individual in contravention of articles 10 and 11 of the
present regime, without prejudice to liability
disciplinary and/or criminal law arising from the same facts.

Publish yourself.
The President of the Republic,

Taur Matan Ruak
Article 15
criminal offense
1. Violation of statistical confidentiality is considered a violation of
secrecy under the terms provided for in article 184 of the Code
Criminal.
2. Anyone who disobeys the request for data collection
statistics, including obstruction to third parties, incurs
in the crime of disobedience, pursuant to the provisions of article
244 of the Criminal Code.

DECREE-LAW No. 20/2015
of July 8th

CHAPTER VII
Final dispositions

ORGANIC OF THE MINISTRY OF DEFENSE
Article 16
disclosure

Since the restoration of independence, Timor-Leste has taken steps
decisive in the national defense sector, namely in its
strictly military aspect (defence). Since the beginning of
building modern and professional armed forces,
embodied with the passage of FALINTIL, forces of

State-controlled media bodies must
collaborate in the dissemination of Censuses.
Series I, No. 25

page 8047

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 6
Newspaper of the Republic
guerrillas, to the F-FDTL (FALINTIL-Timor Defense Forces
2. The powers of direction, superintendence and supervision over the
East) in 2001, the defense sector went through several phases.
organic structure of the MD are exercised by the Minister of
overcoming challenges. In strategic terms, the defense adjusts
Defense.
depending on the types of threats it has to deal with.
Thus, joining the Ministry of Defense and Security
Article 3
during the IV and V Constitutional Governments, it justified itself before
assignments
of the need to bring the two sectors together in a
to strengthen national security, threatened during crises.
In pursuit of its mission, the MD is responsible for:
from 2006-2008.
a) Participate in the elaboration of the national defense policy;
With the end of the V Constitutional Government, the organic structure
of the Ministry of Defense and Security ceased to exist.
b) Propose and execute the policy related to the component
need for new organic. In fact, Timor-Leste has today
military of national defense (defence);
before him another panorama. In the current VI Government
Constitutional, overcoming the reason that led to the organic junction
c) Prepare and guide draft regulations
of the defense and security sector, it was decided to return to the
necessary for the area of ​defense;
original structure in order to strengthen the attributions
specific to each sector. The organic separation of defense and
d) Negotiate, under the leadership of the President of the Republic
of internal security does not mean, however, a line
and in coordination with the Ministry of Business
border demarcated between them. The new strategic scenario
Foreigners and Cooperation, international agreements in
international, permeated by new types of risks and threats,
defense area;
now fuzzy, multidimensional, and sharply character
internal, and which blur the line between defense and security,
e) Promote strategic-military diplomacy, coordinating
entails a necessary articulation between defense policies
and guiding the activities arising from
national and internal security.
military commitments undertaken within the scope of
instruments of international law and agreements
Thus, the organic structure of the
bilateral and multilateral, as well as relations with the
Ministry of Defense under the VI Constitutional Government
States and international organizations of a military nature,
in order to strengthen the national defense, especially in its
without prejudice to the attributions of the Ministry of
military aspect (defence), reflecting a simple structure, but
Foreign Affairs and Cooperation;
solid and stable, with qualified human resources respecting the principle of equality, namely the
f) Ensure the maintenance of relationships in the domain of
gender equality -, directed to real needs
defense policy with other countries and organizations
the implementation of the defense strategy, without neglecting the
international, without prejudice to their own attributions
necessary inter-ministerial coordination with the sector.
of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation,
safety, guided by the principles of subsidiarity and
under the objectives set for foreign policy.
complementarity between the F-FDTL and the forces and services of
Timorese;
safety.
g) Coordinate and monitor, in coordination with the
Thus, the Government decrees, pursuant to paragraph 3 of article 115.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation,
of the Constitution of the Republic, to be valid as law, the following:
cooperation actions carried out by organizations
international, States or other defense forces
CHAPTER I
countries in support of the development of their areas
GENERAL PROVISIONS
of tutelage, within the scope of the international agreements referred to
in the previous paragraph;
Article 1
Object
h) Administer and supervise the FALINTIL-Defense Forces
The present legal diploma establishes and regulates the structure
East Timor (F-FDTL);
organic-functional of the Ministry of Defence, for short
called MD.
i) Promote the adequacy of military means and monitor
and inspect their use;
Article 2
Nature, mission and direction
j) Exercise guardianship, administer and supervise the Authority
Maritime;
1. The Ministry of Defense is the central body of the Government
responsible for the design, execution, coordination and
k) Oversee maritime and air navigation for
evaluation of the policy defined and approved by the Board of
military;
Defense ministers, under the terms of the Constitution
and of the applicable legislation in force, as well as to ensure
l) Promote the study, research and teaching of
and oversee the administration of the F-FDTL and other bodies and
matters of defense and national security, exercising the
services included in it.
tutelage and oversight of the Defense Institute
National.
Series I, No. 25

page 8048

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 7
Newspaper of the Republic
m) Establish collaboration and
coordination with other government bodies responsible for
about connected areas.

Article 7
Advisory Bodies
The Ministry's advisory bodies are:

CHAPTER II
ORGANIC STRUCTURE OF THE MINISTRY

a) The Superior Council for Military Defense;

Article 4
general structure

b) The Defense Advisory Council.
Article 8
maritime authority

The MD pursues its attributions through services
integrated in the direct administration of the State, of bodies
integrated in the indirect administration of the State, organs
consultative bodies, territorial delegations and other structures in it.
integrated.

1. Under the MD, the Maritime Authority also operates,
entity that exercises public power in maritime spaces
under national sovereignty and jurisdiction and the structure function
superior of administration and coordination of the bodies and
Article 5
services that have skills or develop
direct state administration
actions under the Maritime Authority System of
East Timor.
1. They are part of the direct administration of the State, within the scope of
MD, the following central bodies and services:
2. The structure, organization, functioning and competences
of the Maritime Authority under the System of
a) FALINTIL-FDTL;
Maritime Authority of Timor-Leste, and of the bodies and
services integrated in it, are approved by diploma
b) Directorate General of the Ministry of Defense:
Government's legislative framework.
i. National Directorate of Administration and Finance;

CHAPTER III
F-FDTL, AGENCIES AND SERVICES, AGENCIES
TERRITORIAL ADVISORY AND DELEGATIONS

ii. National Directorate of Human Resources;
iii. National Directorate of Heritage Management;

SECTION I
FALINTIL-East Timor Defense Forces

iv. National Procurement Directorate;
Article 9
F-FDTL

v. National Directorate of Strategic Planning and Policy
Defense International.

The development of the organic structure of the F-FDTL as well
as the rules of its functioning, are the object of legislation
own.

c) Services directly under the Ministry of
Defense:
i. Inspection and Audit Office;

SECTION II
Organs and Services of the State's Direct Administration

ii. 2020 Force Office;
SUBSECTION I
Directorate General and National Directorates

iii. Defense Armaments Office;
iv. General Defense Archives Office

Article 10
Directorate General of the Ministry of Defense

v. Legal Office;
1. The Directorate-General of the Ministry, designated for abbreviation
by DG, its mission is to provide guidance and
general coordination of the Ministry's services,
namely in its administrative, patrimonial and
financial.

saw. Public Relations and Communication Office.
2. The organic structure of the Office of the Minister of Defense is
governed under the terms of the law on the regime of offices
ministerials.

2. The Directorate General of the Ministry continues, namely,
the following assignments:

Article 6
indirect administration of the state

a) Guide and ensure the preparation of the annual program of
Ministry activities, updating work
of the National Development Plan and plans
sectorial;

The National Defense Institute pursues the attributions of the
Ministry of Defense integrating the indirect administration of the
State under the supervision and supervision of the Minister of Defense.
Series I, No. 25

page 8049

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 8
Newspaper of the Republic
b) Ensure the internal general administration of the Ministry
and services according to the annual programs and
multiannual, monitoring their implementation;

budget allocated to the Ministry;
d) Ensure compliance with laws, regulations and others
legal provisions of an administrative naturefinancial;

c) Guide and ensure the preparation of the annual budget
and amending in accordance with fiscal rules and
applicable public accounting standards;

e) Develop improvement programs
organizational and modernization and rationalization
administrative;

d) To monitor the implementation of projects for
international cooperation carrying out its assessment
internal, without prejudice to other evaluation mechanisms.
themselves;

f) Ensure the processing of salaries and
allowances for Ministry and FFDTL, as well as the file related to the
social benefits to which they are entitled, in coordination
with the National Directorate of Human Resources and
respective F-FDTL service;

e) Coordinate with the Legal Office the preparation of
draft defense laws and regulations;
f) Participate in policy development and
regulations related to your area of
intervention;

g) Support the other bodies and services of the Ministry,
without prejudice to its administrative autonomy, in the
scope of financial, technical and
IT;

g) Check the legality of the expenses and order your
payment, after authorization from the Minister;

h) Provide, in coordination with other services
competent, the satisfaction of all needs
in terms of IT resources, information and
Ministry technology;

h) Coordinate, within its area of ​intervention, the system
and the political orientation of the civil-military relationship, in
articulation with other services with competences.
in this area;
i) Ensure efficiency, articulation and cooperation between the
Ministry bodies and services with other
supervised entities.
j) Promote collaboration and coordination mechanisms
with other Government bodies on related areas;

i) Develop personnel and media security plans
Ministry materials.
3. DNAF is headed by a National Director, appointed
as determined in the regime of careers and
management and leadership positions in public administration.
Article 12
National Directorate of Human Resources

3. The DG is headed by a Director General, appointed in accordance with
determined in the regime of careers and positions of
Directorate and Head of Public Administration.
1. The National Directorate of Human Resources,
abbreviated as DNRH, is the service
Article 11.º
responsible for studying, formulating proposals and executing the
National Directorate of Administration and Finance
political guidelines on resource management
human resources, training and capacity building, including the system of
1. The National Directorate of Administration and Finance,
recruiting, reforming and supporting F-veterans
abbreviated as DNAF, is the service
FDTL.
responsible for studying, formulating and promoting management
rational and efficient use of public resources within the scope of
2. DNRH proceeds, namely, the following
defense, as well as the improvement of administrative organization.
assignments:
2. DNAF pursues, inter alia, the following
assignments:

a) Plan, organize and implement the development of the
organizational management of the Ministry in matters of
human Resources;

a) Prepare the Ministry's annual budget project,
supplementary or amending, in accordance with the
competences and attributions of its bodies and services
and activity plans, according to the rules.
applicable public budgets and accounting;

b) Formulate and plan strategies for development
the capabilities of agents and employees through
of formation, instruction and training, ensuring the regime
of development and training of the civil service, in
coordination with the Civil Service Commission;

b) Elaborate the national action plan of the Ministry, thus
as the respective reports, in coordination with
the remaining services;

c) Coordinate with the F-FDTL services the plans for
the training of the military;

c) Ensure the execution, control and management of appropriations

d) Promote, under the guidance of the Directorate General of

Series I, No. 25

page 8050

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 9
Newspaper of the Republic
Ministry, the hiring of employees of the
Ministry according to needs
specified and on merit, in coordination
with the Civil Service Commission, valuing the
quality of the Ministry's human resources;

Ministry services, coordinating with the other
internal and state services with related attributions;
d) Develop and implement the action plan for the
improvement of technological infrastructure and
communication from Ministry services;

e) Recruiting, convening and mobilizing the
military of the F-FDTL, with the support of the services
relevant F-FDTL;

e) Ensure technical assistance in the field of systems
of information and communication to all services of the
Ministry;

f) Examine and propose the general bases of the
recruiting, convening and mobilizing the military,
namely making proposals on frames,
careers and remuneration of staff in coordination
with the services of the F-FDTL;

f) Participate in the preparation of global logistics plans
and infrastructure of the F-FDTL and their programs
arising;

g) Guarantee, together with the F-FDTL, the inventory, the
g) Define and propose the basic lines of political guidance
administration, maintenance and preservation of the
concerning the conscription and reservation of the military, as well as
State assets allocated to the F-FDTL;
its implementation mechanisms;
h) Issue opinions on the need for constitution,
h) Supervise and manage the administrative process of
modification and extinction of military easements, as well as
medical assistance for military personnel and veterans;
on the licensing of works in their areas
conditioned;
i) Process the remuneration lists of the staff of the
Ministry and F-FDTL, in coordination with DNAF;
i) Ensure coordination of all aspects
normative and functional within the scope of activities
j) Ensure compliance with the rules of the Statute of
relating to knowledge of the sea, services of
Public Service and other applicable legislation, evaluating
cartography and geographic information systems,
and supervising the activities of employees
coordinating with other competent services;
public and agents of the Administration in accordance with the
current legislation.
j) Monitor the preparation of acquisition plans for
armament, equipment and defense services,
k) The DNRH is headed by a National Director, appointed
promoting, coordinating and executing together
as determined in the regime of careers and
with the competent services of the F-FDTL the
management and leadership positions in public administration.
activities necessary for good lifecycle management
logistics of armaments, goods and equipment
Article 13
defense;
National Directorate of Heritage Management
k) Cooperate with the Defense Armaments Office in the
1. The National Directorate of Heritage Management,
matters relating to armaments, ammunition and
abbreviated as DNGP, is the service
associated military technology where necessary.
responsible for designing, coordinating and providing support
technical in the field of heritage management, infrastructure.
l) DNGP is managed by a National Director, appointed
defense structures and armaments and equipment,
as determined in the regime of careers and
ensuring its maintenance and preservation.
management and leadership positions in public administration.
2. DNGP proceeds, namely, the following
assignments:

Article 14
National Procurement Directorate

a) Study, propose and carry out the necessary measures to
development of the Ministry's policy on the matter.
of logistics and management of military infrastructure and
civilians necessary for defense;

1. The National Procurement Directorate, in brief
called DNA, is the service responsible for studying,
formulate and implement policy guidelines relating to the
acquisition of goods and services from the Ministry, with respect
by the procurement laws in force.

b) Ensure inventory, distribution, maintenance and
preservation of the State's assets allocated to the
Ministry, including buildings, motor vehicles and
office supplies, in collaboration with others
services;

2. DNA pursues, inter alia, the following
assignments:
a) Participate in the management of the Ministry's assets, study
the needs for the acquisition of goods and services and
provide your satisfaction in accordance with the
budget and annual program of activities;

c) Create and maintain a computer base
and internal communication for the functioning of the
Series I, No. 25

page 8051

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 10
Newspaper of the Republic
b) Manage and ensure the development of procedures
administrative procurement of goods and services from the
Ministry and F-FDTL, ensuring the respective
compliance with procurement standards in
force;

a) Without prejudice to the Ministry's own attributions
of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, and
observing the principle of unity of external action
of the State, promote and coordinate the development
of defense external relations, namely in the
framework of the United Nations (UN), of the
Community of Portuguese Language Countries (CPLP)
and other multilateral and bilateral forums that TimorEast belong or participate;

c) Assess the need to purchase goods and
Ministry services, especially procurement
complex and high risk, preparing in detail
cost estimates;

b) Plan, develop, coordinate and support the formulation
of the bilateral and multilateral cooperation policy of the
defense, proposing, preparing and negotiating, without
prejudice to the attributions of the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs, and observing the principle of
unity of the State's external action, the celebration of
instruments of international law in the field of defence,
namely of technical-military cooperation.
given the gradual development of the defense;

d) Monitor the execution and fulfillment of contracts
procurement of goods and services of the Ministry
and of the F-FDTL, proposing the updating of the respective
terms or its possible renewal;
e) Cooperate in the standardization of equipment, materials and
Ministry services;
f) Participate in the creation of a Procurement Committee
and Contracting, ensuring compliance with the rules
general and special provisioning;

c) Monitor the implementation of agreements in the area of
defense, issuing opinions on its evolution of
in order to contribute to the superior evaluation of the
program;

g) Monitor the payment of contracts with the Treasury,
Central Bank and National Bank of Commerce of TimorEast;

d) Carry out multidisciplinary studies and prepare opinions
about the national defense situation and present
proposals that contribute to the definition and
reasoning of superior decisions;

h) Study, propose and carry out the necessary measures to
development of the Ministry's policy on the matter.
of buildings and military and civil infrastructure
necessary for the defense, coordinating with other agencies
and Government agencies, where necessary;

e) Monitor and analyze the evolution of the geointernational and regional strategy, and its
implications for national defence, namely in
analysis of internal and external threats, preparing
studies and proposing measures to minimize the
vulnerabilities and maximizing potentials
national;

i) Monitor and supervise related activities
with building construction projects and other
defense and F-FDTL infrastructures, coordinating
with the relevant services and entities, whenever
required;

f) Cooperate with the 2020 Force Office in the preparation,
design, implementation and review of the Study
Strategy of Force 2020, including planning the
short, medium and long term, whenever requested;

j) Keep an archive of all processes up to date
of the Ministry's procurement, guaranteeing the
conservation of documents for the minimum period of
five years, without prejudice to the attributions of the
General Defense Archives Office.

g) Monitor the preparation of documents
structuring strategic defense planning and
military;

k) The DNA is headed by a National Director, appointed
as determined in the regime of careers and
management and leadership positions in public administration.

h) Support policy formulation for civil relations–
military, ensuring its implementation;

Article 15
National Directorate of Strategic Planning and Policy
Defense International

i) Support the formulation of policy concerning the system
of defense cooperation with the forces and services of
security and civil protection, ensuring its
Implementation;

1. The National Directorate of Strategic Planning and Policy
Defense International, abbreviated as
DNPEPI, has the mission of executing the main lines and
political-strategic defense guidelines, as well as
prepare studies and provide technical advice within the scope of
political action of national defense, namely, in the
strategic framework of international defense relations.

j) Cooperate with the National Intelligence System,
whenever requested.
k) DNPEPI is managed by a National Director, appointed
as determined in the regime of careers and
management and leadership positions in public administration.

2. DNPEPI has the following attributions:
Series I, No. 25

page 8052

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 11
Newspaper of the Republic
SUBSECTION II
Services directly under the Minister

i) Any others assigned to it by law.

Article 16
Offices
The Offices are technical support services to the Minister of
Defense that ensure technical guidance and the
advice on the development of political action and
administrative, namely in the legal areas,
administrative, inspection, strategic, informative, of
documentation and archive and communication, being under the
its direct dependence.
Article 17
Inspection and Audit Office
1. The Inspection and Audit Office, in brief
designated by GIA, is the service responsible for
monitor and assess the regularity and quality of the
operation of the services, and ensure the inspection of the
good administration of human, material and
available to the Ministry, F-FDTL,
and the services under its supervision, verifying their legality.

3. The GIA includes, in addition to an Inspector General, who
directs and is equivalent for all legal purposes to DirectorGeneral, a Sub-Inspector, matched for all intents and purposes
the National Director, who assists him in the exercise of
their functions.
4. The appointment of the positions mentioned in the previous number
follows what is established in the regime of careers and positions
directors and heads of public administration.
Article 18
2020 Force Office
1. The 2020 Force Office, abbreviated as
GF2020, is the technical support service for the superior structure
Defense and F-FDTL, in charge of studying, preparing
and establish the procedures necessary to
implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Study
Strategy of Force 2020.
2. The GF2020 pursues, inter alia, the following
assignments:

2. The GIA pursues, inter alia, the following
assignments:

a) Study, propose and implement the necessary measures to
execution of the Force 2020 Strategic Study in each
budget year, including short-term planning,
medium and long term;

a) Inquire, in the legally provided cases, of the
compliance with the obligations imposed by law on
bodies and services referred to in the present
University Degree;

b) Coordinate and facilitate meetings and conferences in the
framework of the Strategic Study of Force 2020 with the
different state institutions, as well as with
international institutions;

b) Carry out audits of a financial, budgetary,
patrimonial, management and special, oriented to
assess adequacy, efficiency, effectiveness,
professionalism and economy of the service provided
by the administrative units of the Ministry;

c) Cooperate with National Directorates in all
measures related to studies, planning and
implementation of the Force 2020 Strategic Study;

c) Carry out inspections, ordinary and extraordinary, general,
sectoral or thematic, oriented to assess the
legality and regularity of administrative activity
Ministry bodies and services;

d) Prepare annual documents, reports and evaluations
of Force 2020, including the monitoring of its
strategic study implementation process;
e) Coordinate the preparation, elaboration,
implementation and review of the Strategic Study of
Force 2020 among all competent services of the
Ministry and F-FDTL;

d) Carry out inquiries determined by the Minister;
e) Collaborate with the competent authorities for the
establishment of disciplinary proceedings and inquiries,
whenever and wherever necessary;

f) Support the preparation of the legislative framework
necessary for the implementation of the Strategic Study of
Force 2020, ensuring its adequate articulation and
consistency with the guidelines defined therein;

f) Carry out studies and prepare opinions or reports
informative within the scope of its attributions, always
that requested;

g) Support the preparation of the structuring documents of the
strategic defense and military planning;

g) Perform, by superior determination, any other
works within its competence, directly
or through the use of specialists or other services
of the State of an inspection or investigation character;

h) Cooperate with the Defense Armaments Office,
whenever necessary.

h) Collaborate with the State General Inspectorate service
whenever necessary;
Series I, No. 25

i) The GF2020 is headed by a Chief of Staff,
equated for all legal purposes to DirectorNational, appointed and dismissed by the Minister, or by
page 8053

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 12
Newspaper of the Republic
a military man, at least a senior officer, appointed by the
two-year period, renewable, preceding audition
of the Chief of General Staff of the F-FDTL.
Article 19
Defense Armaments Office
1. The Defense Armaments Office, for short
designated by GAD, is the service responsible for defining,
plan, coordinate and monitor the execution of the
defense in the specific domain of armaments, ammunition and
associated military technology approved by the Government in
Council of Ministers.

Article 20
General Defense Archives Office
1. The General Defense Archives Office, in brief
designated by GAG, is the service responsible for
general organization, archiving, safeguarding and security of
documents of the Ministry, as well as for safeguarding the
national historical memory in the field of defence.
2. GAG pursues, inter alia, the following
assignments:
a) Coordinate with the National Archives the actions of
organization, archiving, safeguarding and security of

2. GAD pursues, inter alia, the following
assignments:

Ministry documents;
b) Organize and archive valuable documents
permanent processes processed by the bodies and services of the
Ministry, giving them the proper technical treatment,
according to the classification, treatment and
national-level archive in place;

a) Participate in the elaboration of the defense policy in the domain
specific to armaments, ammunition and military technology
associated;
b) Guide, coordinate and monitor the acquisition of
armament, ammunition and associated military technology,
ensuring the good adequacy of the means in
compliance with national and international legislation in
force, and in observance of the necessary capacities
to the fulfillment of the missions assigned to the F-FDTL, of the
principles of complementarity and subsidiarity
of these with the security forces and services, as well
as well as the rationalization and optimization of resources of the
State;

c) To guide, together with the Directorate General of the Ministry,
the organization, safeguarding and security of the archive
primary of constant defense in services and units
administrative;
d) Study, prepare and propose organizational plans,
conservation and security of the defense archive;
e) Create a file of the confidential documentation of the
defense, giving it due technical treatment,
according to the classification, treatment and
national-level archive in place;

c) Assess the good adequacy of the planning of
armaments, ammunition and defense technology
presented by the Chief of Staff of the
F-FDTL, in accordance with current legislation;

f) Create a historical archive of the defense, taking care of the
safeguarding the national historical memory, according to
the rules for classification, treatment and archiving of
national level in force;

d) Promote good management of the life cycle of armaments,
ammunition and military technology along with
relevant Ministry and F-FDTL services;

g) Keep the general file organized, ensuring the
conservation of documentation and ensuring access
to the information contained in the documents under your
guard, subject to internal regimental restrictions
and those imposed by law and state secrecy;

e) Promote the training of human resources
specialized in the field of armaments and technology
military;
f) Monitor the process of preparation and execution of the
Ministerial Directive on Planning and Military Defense,
of the Military Programming Law and other diplomas in the
scope of defense armaments;

h) Organize and archive documents of private origin
considered of public interest that are sent
to the general archive, proceeding with the proper classification;

g) Ensure, within the scope of its attributions, the
representation in national organizations and entities
and international organizations of which Timor-Leste is part or
participate in the field of armaments, ammunition and
military technology, ensuring compliance with
international legislation in force.

i) Coordinate with the F-FDTL services the organization,
file and document security by her
processed;
j) Provide, in coordination with DNAF and others
competent services, that security is guaranteed.
of the matters classified in the representations
diplomatic offices abroad;

3. GAD is headed by a Chief of Staff, military, in the
higher official minimum, appointed and dismissed by the Minister
for a period of two years, renewable, preceding hearing
of the Chief of General Staff of the F-FDTL.
Series I, No. 25

k) Create, in coordination with the competent services,
a document information system
filed proceeding to the computerization of the file
page 8054

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 13
Newspaper of the Republic
in order to guarantee quick access to information;

a) Develop and propose a plan of
annual communication from the Ministry, which promotes and
disclose the national defense, observing the
competences of other services in this matter;

l) Study and propose the application of technologies that
ensure the conservation of the document as well as the
recovery of damaged information;

b) Execute the Ministry's communication plan, of
according to the superior directions received;

m) Proceed with the recovery of deteriorated documents
or damaged;

c) Plan and ensure the coordinated execution of relationships
of the Ministry.

n) Proceed with the proper destruction of documents
intended for disposal;

3. The GRPC is equivalent, for all legal purposes, to
Department.

o) Promote the creation of a library in the sector of
defense;

SECTION III
State Indirect Administration Body

p) Carry out other related activities within the scope of its
assignments.

Article 23
National Defense Institute

3. The GAG ​is headed by an appointed National Director
as determined in the regime of careers and
management and leadership positions in public administration.

1. The National Defense Institute, referred to as abbreviation
by IDN, is the indirect administration body of the
State, under the supervision and supervision of the Minister of
Defense, endowed with administrative, financial and
heritage, whose mission is the study, investigation and
the teaching of matters of defense and national security.

Article 21
Legal Office
1. The Legal Office, referred to as GJ for short, is the
service responsible for providing advice and
legal advice to the Ministry in all matters
submitted to you by your services.

2. The attributions of the IDN are as follows:
a) Contribute to the development of thought
national strategic through the promotion of education and
study, research and debate in the areas of defense and
National security;

2. The Legal Office proceeds, namely, the
following assignments:
a) Prepare opinions, studies and information about
all matters submitted to you by the
Ministry services;

b) Contribute to the definition and updating of doctrine
in the different dimensions of national defense;

b) Elaborate, whenever requested, legislation and
regulation concerning the scope of attributions
of the Ministry;

c) Promote education in the field of defense and security
national to F-FDTL staff and forces and
security services as well as senior technicians
and directors of the services and bodies of the
Public administration and private entities, in
articulation with other competent services
in the area;

c) Intervene, when requested, in procedures
disciplinary matters, investigations, inquiries and investigations
of the Ministry's organic structure.
3. The GJ is headed by a Chief of Staff, equivalent to
all legal effects to National Director, appointed and
dismissed by the Minister.

d) Develop studies and promote research
scientific research, as well as promoting the debate of subjects
related to defense and national security;

Article 22
Public Relations and Communication Office

e) Raise awareness in society about defense issues
national, in particular with regard to the
awareness of the fundamental values ​that
are inherent to it and for the duties of the citizen in this
domination, fostering national patriotism.

1. The Public Relations and Communication Office,
abbreviated as GRPC, is the service
responsible for the planning and execution of measures of
Ministry of Defense relationship and communication
with civil society and state agencies in the
of their attributions.

3. The IDN is headed by a Director appointed and dismissed by the
Minister of Defense, being directly dependent on him,
heard the Chief of General Staff of the F-FDTL, of
between senior official national citizens of the F-FDTL,
diplomats, full professors or personalities
of high scientific and professional merit, with relevant
experience and recognized merit in study and investigation.

2. The GRPC pursues, inter alia, the following
assignments:
Series I, No. 25

page 8055

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 14
Newspaper of the Republic
of matters of national defense and relations
international.

all services and bodies of the Ministry and between
the respective managers;

4. The IDN is governed by its own statute approved under the terms
of law.

e) Legislative diplomas of interest to the Ministry or
any other documents from your
services or bodies;

SECTION IV
Advisory Bodies

f) The other activities submitted to it.

Article 24
Superior Council for Military Defense

3. The CCD has the following composition:
a) Minister of Defense, who presides;

1. The Superior Council for Military Defense, for short
designated as CSDM, it is the main military advisory body.
b) Director General of the Ministry;
of the Minister of Defense, being responsible for giving an opinion on matters
of Government competence in the field of defence, always
c) Chief of General Staff of the F-FDTL.
as requested by the Minister of Defense.
4. The Minister of Defense may convene to participate in the
2. CSDM has the following composition:
Board meetings other entities, staff or
individuals, inside or outside the Ministry, whenever
a) Minister of Defense, who presides;
understand convenient.
b) Chief of General Staff of the F-FDTL;

5. The CCD ordinarily meets once a month and
extraordinarily whenever the Minister so determines,
its functioning being defined by regulation.
approved by the Board.

c) Deputy Chief of General Staff of the F-FDTL;
d) Chief of Staff of the F-FDTL;

SECTION V
Deconcentrated Agencies and Services

e) Component Commanders (Land Force, Force
Light Naval, Air Support, Training and Training and Support
services);
f) Any entities invited to participate in the
Board meetings in which matters are discussed.
of your specialty.

Article 26
Territorial Delegations
1. The territorial delegations have the mission of carrying out
specific activities and the collection of operational data
for the design of sectoral policy measures for the
defense.

3. The CSDM meets whenever called by the Minister of
Defense, its operation being defined in a diploma
legislative itself.

2. By reasoned ministerial diploma of the Minister of Defense
territorial delegations of services of the
Ministry.

Article 25
Defense Advisory Board

CHAPTER IV
TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS

1. The Defense Advisory Council, in brief
designated by CCD, it is the collegial body of consultation of the
Minister of Defense on administrative activities,
with the mission of making the periodic balance of the activities
of the Ministry.
2. It is the responsibility of the CCD, namely, to pronounce itself
about:
a) The decisions of the Ministry with a view to its
Implementation;
b) Work plans and programs;
c) The balance of the activities of the Ministry, evaluating the
results achieved and proposing new objectives;
d) The exchange of experiences and information between
Series I, No. 25

Article 27
Provisional classification and accreditation procedure
1. Provisionally, until the creation of a national entity of
security responsible for the qualification of military material
sensitive and accreditation of personnel, services,
establishments, companies and bodies that, by their
functions, need to handle, transport or
to become aware of such matters, is competent to
classification and internal accreditation the Office of
Defense Weapons.
2. The principles and provisional rules of this system, intended
to ensure the protective safety of classified materials
ministerial level against sabotage and
espionage and also avoid susceptible human failures
to cause compromises and security breaches
page 8056

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 15
Newspaper of the Republic
national, are determined by Ministerial Diploma.
approved by the Minister.

Decree-Law No. 21/2015
of July 8th

3. Provisionally, until the entry into force of the legislation
concerning classification, accreditation, management and
protection of archival documents, is responsible for
classification, accreditation, safeguarding, access control
and security, at the internal level, the General Archives Office
of Defense.

Organic of the Ministry of Health
The Organic of the VI Constitutional Government seeks to emphasize the
firm purpose of this Government to continue the policies
of the V Constitutional Government, reflected in the program of
governance 2012 – 2017, which proposes to improve and give
compliance, especially with regard to the provision
services.

4. The principles and provisional rules of classification,
safeguarding and accessing information and documents are
determined by Ministerial Diploma approved by the
Minister.

The organic structure of the Ministry of Health approved in
2013, as verified during its implementation, still
Article 28
does not fully respond to the proposed challenges, either
Complementary Organic Diplomas
regarding the improvement of health benefits such as the
development of private health activities.
1. Without prejudice to the provisions of this law, it is incumbent upon the
Minister of Defense to approve by proper ministerial diploma
On the other hand, the streamlining of the Government structure dictated
the regulation of the internal organic-functional structure
the need to adjust the operating structure of the
Ministry bodies and services.
Ministry of Health, especially with regard to
decision-making bodies, in order to better respond to the challenges
2. The creation of the positions of department head or head of
current and better looking into the future.
section is in accordance with the law and depends on the
budget availability.
Thus,
Article 29
Implementation

The Government decrees, pursuant to paragraph 3 of article 115 of the
Constitution of the Republic and paragraph 3 of article 23 of the Decreelaw No. 6/2015, of March 11, to be valid as law, the following:

The present diploma enters into force on the day following its
Publication.

CHAPTER I
General Provisions

Approved by the Council of Ministers on April 21, 2015.

Article 1
Nature

The Prime Minister,

The Ministry of Health, referred to as MS for short, is
the central government agency responsible for the design,
policy regulation, execution, coordination and evaluation
defined and approved by the Council of Ministers, for the areas
health and pharmaceutical activities.

_______________
Rui Maria de Araújo

Article 2
assignments

The Minister of Defense,

1. The MS is responsible for ensuring access to the population
to health care, through the creation, regulation
and development of a health system based on
real needs and compatible with the resources
available, with special emphasis on the fairness of the system.
and prioritizing the most vulnerable groups.

____________
Cyril Cristóvão

Enacted on 07/01/2015

2. Within the scope of its attributions, the competence of the MS is:
Publish yourself.
a) Propose policies and prepare projects for
necessary regulations for their areas of responsibility;
the President of the Republic
b) Ensure access to health care for all
citizens;
_____________
Taur Matan Ruak

c) Coordinate activities related to control

Series I, No. 25

page 8057

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 16
Newspaper of the Republic
epidemiological;

a) General Health Inspection;

d) Carry out the sanitary control of products with influence
in human health;

b) Legal and Litigation Support Office;
c) Health Quality Assurance Office;

e) Promote and monitor education and training
professional in the health area;

d) General Directorate of Health Services;

f) Contribute to the success of humanitarian assistance,
promoting peace, security and development through
of coordination and collaboration mechanisms with
other government bodies responsible for the areas
related.

e) General Directorate of Corporate Services.
3. Constituting territorial delegations within the MS, the
Health Police Stations in each Municipality.

Article 3
Management, Guardianship and Superintendence

4. Central services and territorial delegations have a structure
own and function directly under the Minister and
the Vice Minister of Health.

1. The MS is superiorly directed by the Minister of Health.

Old 7th
Indirect Administration

2. The Minister of Health is assisted in her duties by the
Deputy Minister of Health, whose competences are the
delegated by the Minister.

They are part of the indirect administration of the State, within the scope of
Ministry of Health the following bodies:

3. They are under the tutelage and superintendence of the Minister
the following bodies:

a) National Institute of Health;
b) National Laboratory;

a) National Health Service Hospitals;
c) National Health Service Hospitals;
b) Autonomous Service for Medicines and Equipment
of health;

d) Autonomous Service for Medicines and Equipment
of health.

c) National Institute of Health;
Article 8 the
Advisory Bodies

d) National Laboratory.
CHAPTER II
ORGANIC STRUCTURE

The consultation and coordination bodies of the MS are:
a) National Health Council;

Section I
General Structure

b) MS Board of Directors;

Article 4 the
Offices of the Minister and Vice Minister of Health

c) MS Advisory Board.
Article 9 the
General Attributions of the Agencies and Services

Nature, structure, composition, competence and leadership
of the Offices of the Minister and Vice Minister of Health,
are defined in the Regime of Ministerial Offices.

The organs and services of the MS are responsible for contributing to the
formulation and execution of health policies exercising, by
on the one hand programming, planning and management functions and, by
the other, regulation, guidance, inspection and inspection.

Article 5
Bodies and Services
MS pursues its assignments through services
integrated in the direct administration, organizations integrated in the
indirect state administration and advisory bodies.

SECTION II
Direct Administration Services
Subsection I
GENERAL HEALTH INSPECTION

Article 6
Direct State Administration

Article 10
Attributions and Competences

1. They are part of the direct administration of the State, within the scope of
MS the central services and territorial delegations.
1. The General Health Inspectorate, referred to as
2. The main services of the MS are:
IGS, has the mission of ensuring compliance with laws and
Series I, No. 25

page 8058

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 17
Newspaper of the Republic
regulations on health benefits and activity
pharmaceutical, through inspection and control actions.
in view of the proper functioning of the National System of
Health, quality assurance of services, defense of
legitimate interests and the well-being of the population,
safeguarding public health and reintegrating legality
violated.

abbreviated as GAJC, its mission is to support
the central services and territorial delegations of the MS, in the
establishment of a coherent legal framework for the sector
health, as well as ensuring legal support for services.
of MS.
2. In carrying out its attributions, it is incumbent, in particular,
to GAJC:

2. Within the scope of its attributions, the IGS is responsible for:
a) Ensure legal support in the preparation of a proposal for
diplomas related to the matters supervised by the MS;

a) Oversee compliance with laws and regulations
applicable to the institutions of the National Health System;

b) Provide legal advice to MS directors in
all matters within its competence, including
preparation of orders, agreements, contracts,
conventions and standards procedures;

b) Carry out internal audits of the services of the MS and the
National Health Service in general;
c) Collect information on the operation of the
MS services and propose corrective measures
advisable;

c) Ensure legal support in decision-making and
formulation of sectoral policies, ensuring their
legality;

d) Promote pedagogical activity, in collaboration with
other central organs and services of the MS, with a view to
prevention of irregularities in the functioning of
institutions of the National Health Services;

d) Participate, when requested, in investigations
conducted by the competent authorities of the MS;
e) Create and manage the body of legislation and regulations
relating to the health sector and related areas;

e) Support the leaders of MS institutions and services,
in the exercise of disciplinary power;

f) Issue legal opinions on related matters
with the competences of the MS;

f) Oversee the legality of the functioning of the units
private health services, including pharmaceutical units
and health laboratories;

g) Exercising other competences entrusted to him by
law or by decision of the Minister.

g) Ensure the application and dissemination of health legislation
national and international, in particular in the field of
environment, food, care of
health, pharmaceuticals and equipment
doctors, in collaboration with other entities
related national and international organizations;

3. The GAJC is structurally directly dependent
of the Minister of Health and is led by a similar head
to National Director.
Subsection III
Health Quality Assurance Office

h) Oversee education and training institutions
healthcare professional in collaboration with
related entities;

Article 12
Attributions and Competence

i) Collaborate in the supervision of the exercise of professions
of health;

1. The Health Quality Assurance Office,
abbreviated as GGQS, its mission is
prepare and ensure compliance with protocols and manuals
technical-clinical, establish the deontological rules for
the health professions, assess the quality of services
provided by the institutions of the National Health Service,
as well as accrediting all institutions providing
health care.

j) Initiate infringement proceedings for violation
to sanitary and public health legislation and, to apply the
respective fines when legally foreseen;
k) Exercising other competences assigned to him
by law or by the Minister of Health.
3. The IGS works directly under the Minister of
Health and is headed by the General Inspector of Health,
equated to Director General.

2. Within the scope of its attributions, it is incumbent, in particular, on the
GGQS:
a) Coordinate the design, approval and dissemination of
protocols and technical-clinical manuals for
institutions of the National Health Service;

Subsection II
Legal and Litigation Support Office
Article 11
Attributions and Competence

b) Approve and monitor the implementation of codes
deontological for the health professions, in
consultation with the respective associations
professionals;

1. The Legal and Litigation Support Office,
Series I, No. 25

page 8059

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 18
Newspaper of the Republic
c) Develop, establish and ensure the functioning
of an accreditation system of all institutions
provision of health care;

b) Ensure the general coordination of the central services and
territorial delegations with regard to benefits
in health;

d) Encourage the establishment of ethics committees
in health care services;

c) Participate in the development and execution of the Program
of the Government and the National Strategic Plan for the sector
of health;

e) Ensure compliance with standards and guidelines
organizations on health ethics issues;

d) Coordinate and harmonize the preparation and execution of
annual activity plans based on policies and
defined strategies;

f) Give its opinion on requests for authorization for the
conducting clinical trials in the Service's institutions
National Health, in particular with regard to
ethical aspects and the safety and integrity of subjects
of the clinical trial;

e) Coordinate, guide, supervise and evaluate all
public health activities and programs;
f) Supervising the health institutions of the Service
National Health, under the terms of the law;

g) Promote the dissemination of the general principles of
bioethics;

g) Overseeing the provision of hospital care;
h) Carry out the clinical audit of institutions of
provision of health care within the Service
National Health;

h) Ensure the production of official statistical data of the
health;

i) Issue opinions and periodic reports on the
quality of services provided by the entities of the
National Health Service;

i) Licensing the private units of
health and pharmaceutical activities;
j) Ensure the supply of medicines and
health equipment to the Service's institutions
National Health;

j) Support the reestablishment of the Disciplinary Board
of Health Professions and development of
instruments for their normal functioning;

k) Identify partners and negotiate protocols for
cooperation in health;

k) Collaborate with the Professions Disciplinary Board
of Health, in the inquiries to be carried out in the
terms of law;

l) Ensure the implementation and compliance with the
conventions, agreements and health regulations
international;

l) Exercise other attributions and competences that are
committed by law or by the Minister.

m) Promote and coordinate the mobilization of all means
available, in cases of epidemics or serious threat.
to public health, overseeing its use;

3. GGQS works directly under the Minister of
Health and is led by a head, equated to Directorgeneral.

n) Lead the formulation of draft legal diplomas and
health regulations;

Subsection IV
General Directorate of Health Services

o) Exercise other attributions and competences that are
committed by law or by the Minister.

Article 13
Attributions and Competences
1. The General Directorate of Health Services, in short
designated DGPS has as mission the definition and execution
policies and coordination of health benefits,
disease prevention, pharmaceutical and laboratory activities.

3. The DGPS is led by a general director who is at the
direct dependence of the Minister of Health and integrates the
following services:
a) National Directorate of Policy and Cooperation;

2. Within the scope of its attributions, it is incumbent, in particular, on the
DGPS:

c) National Directorate of Hospital Services and
Emergency;

a) Propose policies for the areas of provision of
primary and hospital care, pharmacy,
medicines and health laboratories, according to
the Government Program and the Strategic Plan for the
health sector;
Series I, No. 25

b) National Directorate of Public Health;

d) National Directorate of Pharmacy and Medicines.

page 8060

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 19
Newspaper of the Republic
Article 14
National Directorate of Policy and Cooperation

of the conventions or agreements that Timor-Leste is
part;

1. The National Directorate of Policy and Cooperation,
abbreviated as DNPC, it is the DGPS service
responsible for the design and definition of policies for
health, coordination and technical support in the elaboration,
implementation and monitoring of strategic plans,
of development and activities, conducting the
licensing processes of private units of
health, as well as coordination and development of
cooperation and partnership activities for health.

m) Exercising the other competences assigned to it
by law or by superior decision.
Article 15
National Directorate of Public Health
1. The National Directorate of Public Health, for short
named DNSP, is the DGPS service responsible for
design, execution and coordination of technical support and
oversight of promotion policies and activities;
health education, disease prevention and support for
provision of primary health care.

2. It is especially incumbent upon the DNPC:
a) Support the definition and structuring of policies,
MS priorities and objectives;

2. It is incumbent upon the DNSP, namely:

b) Participate in the planning and execution of the Program of the
Government for the health sector;

a) Define national policies and programs and prepare
technical standards for health promotion and education,
disease prevention and healthcare provision
primary;

c) Coordinate the design, approval, execution and
monitoring of the strategic plan for the sector.
health;

b) Provide technical support to providing institutions
of primary health care within the Service
National Health;

d) Coordinate and technically support the process of
planning of activities in the various services of the
MS, ensuring connections to the state services of
planning in the process of preparing the Plan
National Development and the control of its
execution;

c) Monitor and evaluate program implementation
for public health;
d) Collaborate with other State institutions in the definition
health and hygiene-environmental policies;

e) Conduct the licensing processes of the units
private health care;

e) Support the Health Police Stations in surveillance and control
health, within the scope of the attributions and competences
of the MS, in collaboration with other bodies of the
State;

f) Harmonize the activity and action plans of the various
bodies of the National Health Service, ensuring
the follow-up of defined policies and strategies and
monitoring their execution;
g) Organize, in coordination with other services and
MS bodies and the National Statistical Service,
the production and dissemination of statistical indicators
of interest to the planning and monitoring of the sector
of health;

f) Ensure the functioning of the information system
epidemiological and appropriately use the
information collected for early detection of outbreaks
epidemics and, monitor disease trends.
of mandatory notification providing information
epidemiological studies to the countries of the region and the Organization
Health World Cup;

h) Develop cooperation and partnership instruments
in health;

g) Coordinate all national initiatives in matters of
its competence;

i) Identify partners and negotiate agreements for
cooperation and partnership in health;

h) Exercising the other competences assigned to him
by law or by superior decision.

j) Monitor compliance with conventions, agreements
and protocols established with national partners and
international;

Article 16
National Directorate of Hospital and Emergency Services
1. The National Directorate of Hospital and Emergency Services,
abbreviated as DNSHE, it is the service of the DGPS
responsible for the definition, regulation, execution and
evaluation of policies for the clinical/hospital and
medical emergency.

k) Coordinate the participation of the MS in the activities of the
international organizations of which you are a member or in
representing the Government.
l) Prepare the participation of the MS in the meetings
periodicals of the joint committees, provided for in the table
Series I, No. 25

2. It is especially incumbent upon the DNSHE:
page 8061

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 20
Newspaper of the Republic
a) Define policy, regulate and monitor prospecific grams for the hospital area and
health equipment;

health as well as medical equipment;
e) Elaborate the technical installation rules and
operation of pharmaceutical establishments,
namely, manufacturers and wholesalers, pharmacies of
workshop, pharmaceutical services of hospitals and clinics,
public and private, as well as points of sale of
medicines;

b) Support the development of technical standards for
provision of hospital and transfer services
of patients monitoring compliance;
c) Structuring and developing the Service Hospitals network
National Health;

f) Ensure inspection and inspection for the purposes of
licensing of pharmaceutical activities and
laboratory tests;

d) Define management standards for the Service's hospitals
National Health Program and establish the basic package of
hospital care;

g) Study and propose legal measures on the use of
medicinal products, as well as, keep updating the
National List of Essential Medicines and
Supplementary, and ensure compliance;

e) Monitor compliance with standards for the provision of
hospital care by NHS hospitals;
f) Standardize health equipment for the Service
National Health;

h) Plan medication needs,
consumables and medical equipment to satisfy
the needs of National Service institutions
of health;

g) Ensure the maintenance of the health equipment of the
NHS institutions;

i) Request to SAMES, the supply of
medicines, reagents, medical consumables and
health equipment for the institutions of the Service
National Health;

h) Design, establish and supervise the operation
of a National Emergency Medical Service;
i) Develop and ensure the implementation of policies for
construction and maintenance of technical facilities
hospitals, through regulation, monitoring
and coordination of interventions;

j) Establish control and guarantee mechanisms for the
quality of imported drugs or
marketed in the country;

j) Develop and ensure the functioning of the internal network
transfer of patients between the services of
provision of primary health care and the
National Health Service hospitals;

k) Ensure the procedures for issuing the
marketing authorizations for
medicines and keep their records;
l) Issue authorizations for the licensing of
industrial and commercial production establishments
and marketing of medicines, consumables and
Medical equipment;

k) Exercising the other competences assigned to it
by law or by superior decision.
Article 17
National Directorate of Pharmacy and Medicines

m) Organize and update a database of
pharmacies, medicine outlets,
pharmaceutical production and analysis laboratories
clinics, drug and product warehouses
medicinal;

1. The National Directorate of Pharmacy and Medicines,
abbreviated as DNFM, it is the service of the DGS
responsible for the definition, regulation, execution and
evaluation of the national drug policy,
pharmaceutical activity and health laboratories.

n) Ensure compliance with obligations
international activities undertaken within the scope of activities
pharmaceuticals, namely the related protocols.
to drugs and other substances potentially
toxic, narcotic and psychotropic;

2. It is especially incumbent upon DNFM:
a) Define the national pharmaceutical policy;
b) Define the national policy for the area of ​laboratories of
health;

o) Define the policy and technical standards for the provision
of clinical laboratory services, and guide your
implementation in consultation with the Laboratory
National Health;

c) Develop legislation on medicines,
pharmaceutical and laboratory activity;

p) Define the national network of analysis laboratories
clinics and ensure their establishment and
operation;

d) Participate in the definition of the policy related to production,
marketing, import, export, control and
consumption of medicines or other products of
Series I, No. 25

page 8062

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 21
Newspaper of the Republic
q) Exercising the other competences assigned to him
by law or by superior decision.

are committed by law or by the Minister.
3. The DGSC is led by the respective General Director who
finds structurally in the direct dependence of the Minister
of Health and integrates the following services:

Subsection V
General Directorate of Corporate Services
Article 18
Attributions and Competences

a) National Directorate of Planning and Financial Management;
b) National Procurement Department;

1. The Directorate General of Corporate Services, for short
designated by DGSC, whose mission is to define and
c) National Directorate of Human Resources;
implement policies, ensure technical supportadministrative services to the Minister and Deputy Minister and to the services
d) National
of Directorate of Logistics Administration and
direct administration of the State, within the scope of the MS,
Patrimony.
specifically in the fields of human resources,
financial and equity funds, in the management of
Article 19
external health assistance, provisioning,
National Directorate of Planning and Financial Management
general administration, logistics, communication, documentation
and file.
1. The National Directorate of Financial Management Planning,
abbreviated as DNPGF, it is the service of the DGSC
2. Within the scope of its attributions, it is incumbent, in particular, on the responsible for planning, drafting, managing, controlling
DGSC:
and execution of the State Budget for the MS, as well as,
the management of external health assistance funds.
a) Ensuring support for implementation and execution
integrated national policies for the areas of its
2. It is particularly incumbent upon the DNPGF:
performance, in accordance with the Government Program and the
superior guidelines of the Minister;
a) Support the definition of the main options in the matter
budget;
b) Develop resource management policies
human, financial and property at the MS level;
b) Ensure efficient budget execution;
c) Coordinate and monitor the performance of the Police Stations
of Health in municipalities regarding matters of
corporate nature;

c) Ensure the transparency of procedures for
expenses and revenue collection
public;

d) Ensure the proper functioning of the services
administrative, management of financial resources and
assets at the level of central services;

d) Coordinate activities related to the
elaboration, execution, monitoring and evaluation
of the annual and multi-annual plans, in its
financial and budgetary;

e) To carry out the good management of the human resources of the
health, in coordination with the Function Committee
Public;

e) Develop and disseminate procedures and routines for the
correct management of budgets, revenues and funds, having
taking into account the standards issued by state bodies
competent;

f) Ensure compliance with laws, regulations and
Public Administration procedures under the
MS;
g) Ensure compliance with the procedures of the
public contracting by MS agencies and services;

f) Coordinate the management of current budgets and
investment by central and base bodies and services
territorial, as well as other funds, internal or
external, made available to the MS;

h) Ensure activities related to good management
of technological resources, information and
Communication;

g) Ensure general accounting operations and
financial, as well as accountability and
periodic realization of the respective balances;

i) Ensure the surveillance, security, cleaning and
conservation of the facilities of the central services of the
MS;

h) Create and maintain an information subsystem
financial related to budget management, revenue
collected and funds made available to the MS;

j) Establish the central archive of the MS and ensure its
operation;

i) Exercising the other competences assigned to it
by law or by superior decision.

k) Exercising other attributions and competences
Series I, No. 25

page 8063

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 22
Newspaper of the Republic
Article 20
National Procurement Directorate

of evaluation;
c) Promote the recruitment and mobility of
professionals from the National Health Service;

1. The National Procurement Directorate, for short
known as DNA, is the DGSC service responsible for
public procurement of goods and services for the agencies and
MS services, ensuring compliance with
legally prescribed procedures.

d) Participate in the preparation of the staff in
collaboration with other Ministry services;
e) Ensure compliance with the legislation applicable to the
Public administration;

2. It is especially incumbent upon DNA:
a) Define and ensure the implementation of the policy of
acquisitions for the National Health Service, including
medicines and medical equipment;

f) Ensure registration, control of attendance and
punctuality of workers in central services;
g) Participate in the preparation of annual training plans
and specialization in the country and abroad and promote and
organize its implementation;

b) Develop and maintain a procurement system
effective, transparent and accountable, including the
projection of future MS needs;

h) Promote refresher and refresher courses, training
continuous and seminars for Ministry staff;

c) Develop and submit the annual plan for approval
of procurement;

i) Manage the scholarship system within the MS,
for undergraduate and professional training courses in
areas of health, at home and abroad, in
consultation with the INS;

d) Elaborate technical and regulatory standards in
procurement matters and overseeing its
proper implementation;
e) Ensure public procurement for the acquisition of goods
and services, ensuring the management of the respective
contracts;

j) Create and manage a human resources database
of health;
k) Exercising the other competences assigned to it
by law or by superior decision.

f) Support indirect administration bodies in
creation of skills to ensure the
procurement procedures;

Article 22
National Directorate of Logistics and Heritage Administration

g) Prepare and carry out public tenders for the
provisioning;

1. The National Directorate of Logistics Administration and
Heritage, hereinafter referred to as DNALP, is the service of
DNSC responsible for defining and implementing policies
administration and logistics and asset management within the
of the MS, as well as ensuring the administration and logistics of the
building of the central services.

h) Ensure strict compliance with the rules and
public procurement procedures legally
settled down;
i) Exercising the other competences assigned to it
by law or by superior decision.

2. It is particularly incumbent upon DNLGP:

Article 21
National Directorate of Human Resources

a) Define the policy for administration of services
central offices and territorial delegations of the MS;

1. The National Directorate of Human Resources,
abbreviated as DNRH, it is the service of the DGSC
responsible for planning, recruiting and managing the
human resources for the National Health Service.

b) Ensure the management of office hours and correspondence
in the MS central services building;
c) Provide technical and administrative support and ensure a
system of internal communication procedures between
MS services;

2. It is especially incumbent upon the DNRH:
a) Develop resource development policies
human health, in particular selection and
recruitment, remuneration, professional development and
careers, taking into account the priorities defined in the
National Strategic Plan for the Health Sector and
goals to be achieved;

d) Ensure, at central level, the communications service,
surveillance, cleaning and conservation of the facilities of the
MS;
e) Ensure the collection, treatment, conservation and archiving
of all correspondence and documentation and
concerning each organ and service of the MS;

b) Develop personnel management standards and instruments
Series I, No. 25

page 8064

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 23
Newspaper of the Republic
f) Establish the central archive of the MS and ensure its
operation;

d) Ensure local health surveillance and
epidemiological;

g) Define the management, maintenance and repair policy
vehicles and properties allocated to MS;

e) Coordinate all activities to provide
primary health care in the municipality;

h) Ensure the management of the MS's IT infrastructure;

f) Manage material, human and financial resources
necessary for the pursuit of its attributions;

i) Ensure the collection, archive, conservation and
electronic processing of all documentation;
j) Keeping the website up and running
electronic" of the MS guaranteeing the confidentiality of the
computer data and records, under the terms of the law;
k) Develop the logistics and management manuals of the
patrimony;
l) Ensure the inventory, maintenance and preservation of
all the State patrimony related to the MS and, to coordinate
your use by MS services;
m) Formulate proposals for construction projects,
acquisition or lease of infrastructure, equipment
and other goods, including IT, necessary
the pursuit of the MS' attributions;
n) Ensure the management of central warehouses and guarantee the
good conservation of MS assets;
o) Exercising other powers and duties that
are committed by law or by superior decision.
Subsection VI
Territorial Delegations
Article 23
Definition and competences
1. Territorial Delegations are deconcentrated services of the
MS in the Municipalities, constituted in Health Police Stations.

g) Promote community participation in
implementation of health policies and programs;
h) Perform other skills
committed by law or superior decision.
4. The Health Department is structurally located in the
direct dependence of the Minister of Health and is headed by the
Health Delegate, equivalent to District Director.
5. The MS in the framework of the development of the structure of the
Territorial Delegations will establish their own unit
coordination with the authority of the Administrative Region
Special by Oe-Cusse Ambeno.
SECTION III
BODIES IN THE INDIRECT ADMINISTRATION OF
STATE
Article 24
National Institute of Health
1. The National Institute of Health, hereinafter referred to as INS, is a
service, endowed with legal personality, within the MS
which deals with the continuous training and improvement of
Health professionals.
2. The National Institute of Health is governed by its own statute.
3. Health research and studies activities are
ensured by the INS until the creation of conditions for the
its institutionalization.

2. The Health Police Stations are responsible for the health of the
populations in the respective geographic areas, perform and/
or coordinate the implementation of health programs
public health and the provision of primary health care in the
health centers, health posts, mobile clinics, as well
how, health education activities
implemented in communities.

Article 25
National Health Laboratory
1. The National Health Laboratory is a public institute,
responsible at national level for guaranteeing the provision.
of laboratory services for clinical analysis and products
with impacts on health, ensuring the quality of
themselves, through the technical supervision of the benefits.
of the laboratories integrated in the National Health System,

3. It is especially incumbent upon the Health Police Stations:
a) Represent the MS throughout the municipality's territory;

2. The National Health Laboratory works as a center for
national benchmark for analytical laboratory tests
clinics.

b) Ensure access to primary health care and
to health promotion and education programs and
prevention of diseases to populations in the respective
geographic areas;

3. The National Health Laboratory is governed by statute
own.

c) Ensure the effective implementation of policies and
programs defined for the health sector in the
respective geographic areas;
Series I, No. 25

page 8065

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 24
Newspaper of the Republic
Article 26
Autonomous Service for Medicines and Equipment
Doctors (SAMES)

b) Deputy Minister of Health;
c) Inspector General of Health;

1. The Autonomous Service for Medicines and Equipment
Doctors, (SAMES), is a public institute, under the tutelage of the
Minister of Health and whose mission is the acquisition,
import, storage and distribution of
medicines, medical equipment and other goods of
medical consumption, especially to the institutions of the Service
National Health.

d) Director of GGQS;

2. SAMES is governed by its own statute.

h) National Directors.

Article 27
National Health Service Hospitals

e) Head of the GAJC;
f) General Director of Health Services;
g) Director General of Corporate Services;

3. May take part in the sessions of the Board of Directors
other personalities invited by the Minister, depending on the
work schedule.

1. The National Health Service Hospitals are entities
public, endowed with administrative and financial autonomy,
that work under the Ministry of Health and
ensure the provision of secondary and tertiary care.
throughout the national territory.

4. The Board of Directors approves its own charter
internal.
Article 29
consulting board

2. The NHS Hospitals are created by government diploma.
SECTION IV
CONSULTATION AND COORDINATION BODIES
Article 28
The Board of Directors

1. The Advisory Board is a collective coordinating body
and consultation at the level of the Ministry of Health on the
implementation of policies and strategies defined for the
National Health Service, competing with it, among others,
the following functions:
a) Promote the search for quality and health gains,
ensuring the best articulation and collaboration of the
various services and entities of the National Service of
Health;

1. The Board of Directors is a collective body of support and
technical consultation of the Minister of Health, in the definition and
coordination of the implementation of policies defined for
the MS, competing with it, among others, the following functions:

b) Assess the policy proposals for the Service
National Health;

a) Promote the search for quality and health gains,
ensuring the best articulation and collaboration of the
various organs and central services of the MS;

c) Assess and issue recommendations on proposals for
activity plans and annual budget package for the
health;

b) Assess the policy proposals to be adopted
for central services;

d) Propose and coordinate the development of programs
intersectoral strategies of interest to health;

c) Assess and make recommendations on the execution of
activity and OGE plans for MS;

e) Assess and decide on matters of relevant impact
for the health sector, which are submitted to it by the
Minister for this purpose.

d) Pronounce, in advance, on all processes of
accreditation and licensing of private institutions
of health care, activities
pharmaceutical and clinical laboratories;

2. The Advisory Board is composed of the following
members:

e) Assess and decide on matters of relevant impact
for the health sector, which are submitted to it by the
Minister for this purpose.

a) Minister of Health, who presides;
b) Deputy Minister of Health, who co-chairs,

f) Exercise other powers that are legally
assigned.

c) Inspector General of Health;

2. The Board of Directors is composed of the following
members:

d) Director of GGQS;
e) Head of the GAJC;

a) Minister of Health, who presides;
Series I, No. 25

page 8066

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 25
Newspaper of the Republic
f) General Director of Health Services;

management are approved within 180 days from the date
of the entry into force of this Decree-Law, by Diploma
Ministerial of the Minister of Health, upon favorable opinion
of the Civil Service Commission.

g) Director General of Corporate Services;
h) National Directors of Central Services;

Article 33
transitional period

i) Health Delegate of each Municipality;

The transition of services established by the previous Organic
of the Ministry for the services created by this diploma,
is carried out in coordination with the Civil Service Commission,

j) Executive Director of each NHS Hospital;
k) Executive Director of INS;

and may comprise transitional appointments, for positions of
direction and leadership, until the conclusion of the competent competitions.
recruitment audiences.

l) Executive Director of the National Health Laboratory;
m) Executive Director of SAMES.

Article 34
Revoking rule

3. May take part in the sessions of the Advisory Board
other personalities that the Minister may wish to invite,
depending on the work schedule.

Decree-Law No. 3/2013, of 6 March, is revoked, and all
legal and regulatory provisions that contravene the present
University Degree.

4. The Advisory Board approves its own charter
internal

Article 35
Implementation

Article 30
National Health Council

The present diploma enters into force on the day following the date of
your publication.

1. The National Health Council is a consultative body of the
Government in policy formulation and execution
national health and monitoring the provision of
health care by the National Health Service.

Approved by the Council of Ministers on April 28, 2015.

2. The National Health Council is governed by its own statute.

The Prime Minister

CHAPTER III
FINAL AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS

_______________
Rui Maria de Araújo

Article 31
Complementary legislation
1. Without prejudice to the provisions of this law, it is incumbent upon theThe Minister of Health,
Minister of Health to approve, by its own Ministerial Diploma,
the regulation of the organic-functional structure of the IGS,
GAJC, GGQS, DGPS, DGSC and Territorial Delegations.
_____________________________
Maria do Céu Sarmento Pina da Costa
2. The Minister of Health also approves, by Ministerial Order,
the regulation of the administrative functioning of the
central services and territorial delegations, and
delegations of powers, under the terms of the law.

Enacted on 6/30/2015

Publish yourself.

3. The ministerial diplomas mentioned in the numbers
Previous must be approved within a maximum period of 90
days from the date of entry into force of the
this Decree-Law.

the President of the Republic

Article 32
Staff List

______________
Taur Matan Ruak

The staff and the number of management and
Series I, No. 25

page 8067

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 26
Newspaper of the Republic
CHAPTER II
Creation of the Planning, Monitoring and Unit
Prime Minister's Office Assessment

Decree-Law no. the 22/2015
of July 8th

Article 2 the
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit

ABOUT PLANNING, BUDGETING,
MONITORING AND EVALUATION

1. The Planning, Monitoring and
Assessment, abbreviated as UPMA, in the
direct dependence of the Prime Minister.

The VI Constitutional Government is determined to ensure
that funds from the General State Budget are invested
in order to benefit the population and ensure a provision
effective, efficient and fair public services. For this purpose,
the need arises to approve a legal regime that guides
the planning, budgeting, monitoring and
evaluation, in order to ensure the results with impact.
real life in the population.
Such a goal can only be achieved through the link between the
plan and budget, the link between public spending and
corresponding public services provided, of the
monitoring and evaluation of results accompanied by the
definition of responsibilities, as well as through improvement.
medium-term budgeting, an organized structure.
priorities and ensuring fiscal sustainability.

2. UPMA's mission is to coordinate, organize and
oversee the planning process, monitoring
and evaluation of the policies and programs of the whole Government and
of the General State Budget, in articulation with all
governmental bodies, hereinafter referred to as bodies,
including the Special Administrative Region of Oe-cusse
Ambeno.
3. UPMA should develop planning tools,
monitoring and evaluation necessary to conduct your
mission, namely:
a) Annual Plan, planning instrument;
b) Performance Report, instrument of
monitoring;

In this context, the Ministry of Finance maintains its role
central in the design, execution, coordination and evaluation of the
policy defined and approved by the Council of Ministers for
the area of ​annual budget and finance monitoring,
being the Prime Minister's Office, through the structure
provided for in this diploma, responsible for planning,
monitoring and evaluation, allowing for political control of the
process of preparation, budgeting, implementation and

c) Other instruments to be used in the assessment.
4. UPMA carries out the following attributions within the scope of
preparation of the annual plans of all bodies:
a) Prepare and distribute annual plan forms
that accompany the budget submission and that they are
its justification element;

monitoring of the General State Budget.
Thus,

b) Provide training, clarify and monitor focal points
of the planning, monitoring and evaluation of the organs
The Government decrees, under the terms of subparagraph d) of paragraph 1 of article
about the annual plans, the concepts contained therein,
115. the and paragraph 3 of article 115 of the Constitution,
as well as about its filling;
to be valid as law, the following:
c) Receive the annual plans within the established deadlines
in the circulars provided for in the scope of this law,
as well as carry out their analysis, ensuring the
linking the plan to the budget and using the
analysis of budget submissions, whenever such
is necessary;

CHAPTER I
General provisions
Article 1 the
Purpose and scope

d) Produce an opinion for each annual plan in order to
appear in the green folder and be appreciated by
budget review committees;

1. The present diploma establishes the rules to be observed in the
planning, budgeting, monitoring and evaluating the
General State Budget.

e) Compile, edit and format the final annual plans, with
the objective of producing the budget support book
respective;

2. Legal persons, administrative bodies and services
of support to the holders of sovereign organs are
if subject to the provisions of this diploma with the necessary
adaptations, namely, with regard to subjection
the Government program and the Strategic Plan of
Development to which they are subject only to the extent
strictly necessary.

Series I, No. 25

f) Any others assigned to it by law or
determined by the Prime Minister.
5. UPMA carries out the following attributions within the scope of
preparation of performance reports to be
page 8068

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 27
Newspaper of the Republic
submitted to the Council of Ministers, to the Parliament
National and the Chamber of Accounts:

budget, within the deadlines determined by law, ensuring the
link between the results and the services provided and the
budget execution.

a) Prepare performance reporting forms to
be distributed to agencies;

6. It is incumbent upon the Ministry of Finance to ensure the
consistency of the amounts executed that appear in the
performance reports produced by the bodies and
analyzed and compiled by UPMA, validating the
financial information contained in them.

b) Form, clarify and monitor the focal points of the
planning, monitoring and evaluation of organs
about performance reports, the concepts in them
contained, as well as on its filling;

CHAPTER III
planning

c) Receive reports within the stipulated deadlines;

d) Articulate with the bodies the receipt of information
Article 4
complete and reliable in order to be able to evaluate the
National priorities and fiscal envelope
progress made and compile, edit and format the
performance reports to be sent to the
1. National priorities are defined based on the Plan
National Parliament and the Chamber of Auditors under the terms Development Strategy, in the Government Program,
of law;
in the five-year programs of the bodies, in the annual plans
and in any other political and strategic documents
e) Receive the Preliminary and Final Annual Report,
Government and are approved by the Council of Ministers.
complementary to the Performance Reports, for the
effects provided for in the present diploma;
2. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for collecting data
necessary for the preparation of the proposed tax envelope and
f) Any others assigned to it by law or
the resources needed to implement the priorities
determined by the Prime Minister.
nationals.
Article 3 the
Linking UPMA with other services

3. The tax envelope consists of information relating to the
total expenditure and sources of funding.

1. The UPMA is assisted by all bodies in the pursuit
of its functions of coordination and implementation of the
planning, monitoring and evaluation system
Government programs and policies, including the task of
ensure the link between planning, budgeting,
monitoring and evaluation.

4. The Ministry of Finance should organize a seminar,
which represents the beginning of budget preparation for the
next financial year.
5. In the seminar referred to in the previous number, they must be
national priorities and the amount of funding discussed.
aggregate fiscal envelope.

2. UPMA works in coordination with the Government body
responsible for planning and strategic investment
in ensuring that special funds and others
development capital projects have a plan,
budget and integrated results that allow your
monitoring and evaluation.

6. The body responsible for planning and investment
strategic, in relation to special funds, elaborates
the plans and information regarding the submission
budget by project and considering the status of the project
in the supply cycle and the progress of
implementation of the signed contracts, sending the
information to the Ministry of Finance and the UPMA, for
calculation of expenditure ceilings for special funds.

3. UPMA and the bodies work together, in the sense
to ensure that the programs and goals established in the
Government strategic documents, including the Plan
Development Strategy 2011-2030, the Program
of the Government and the five-year plans of the bodies, are
budgeted and implemented annually in accordance with
established priorities.

7. The Ministry of Finance estimates the
current expenses, for the next two financial years
and fiscal space for the next financial year, for the
introduction of new policies.

4. The UPMA and the bodies must work together in the
sense of collecting, based on the definition and analysis of the
performance indicators, reliable information about the
provision of public services made available to the
population, executed with the state budget,
allowing the monitoring, evaluation and correction of
policies and programs introduced.

8. The estimate of current expenses must be made by the
Ministry of Finance, assisted by UPMA, based on
in the information provided by the agencies, by agency and
by special fund, and should be calculated based on the
expenses considered necessary for a provision
essential public services.
9. Fiscal space is the difference between the fiscal envelope and the
sum of all current expenses of the bodies.

5. UPMA and the Ministry of Finance carry out the analysis and
prepare performance and execution reports
Series I, No. 25

page 8069

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 28
Newspaper of the Republic
10. The Ministry of Finance submits to the Board of
Ministers the information on the fiscal envelope, space

3. The bodies, assisted by the UPMA and the Ministry of
Finance, should define a set of indicators for

tax and the amount of current expenses by agency.

performance.

11. The Council of Ministers decides on the allocation of
fiscal space to agencies according to priorities and
with the rules for the introduction of new measures or
Software.

4. Performance indicators specify the assets,
products and services that contribute to the realization of
program objectives according to the priorities of the
Government program.

12. The expenditure ceiling of each agency is equal to the sum of its
current expenses and fiscal space amounts
allocated by the Council of Ministers to this body.

5. The bodies must prepare the annual plan based on the
programs, activities, performance indicators and
results, which should contain a cost estimate.

13. The fiscal envelope and expenditure ceilings by agencies are
approved by Government Resolution.

6. The annual plan must be accompanied by a justification
continuity of existing and new approved policies
according to the defined criteria, as well as justifying
that the respective budget allows achieving the goals of the

Article 5
Start of preparation of budget submissions

program and the provision of services planned for this
year and an indicative budget for the following year.

1. The Ministry of Finance shall, after consultation with the
UPMA, issue a circular with rules for the preparation of the
General State Budget for the following financial year.

7. The annual plan must be accompanied by the plan of
provisioning.

2. The circular referred to in the previous number must contain the
following information:
a) National priorities identified;

Article 7
Budget Preparation Committees
1. After the distribution of the expense ceilings, each agency must
appoint a Budget Preparation Committee, below
called CPO.

b) Fiscal envelope;
c) Information on fiscal space for new policies and
investments;

2. CPOs have the following functions:
a) Distribute the expense ceiling internally, prepare the
annual plan, define the budget to which the ceiling refers
of expense for the following financial year, in
coordination with UPMA to ensure
budget compatibility with programs,
activities and performance indicators;

d) Budget submission forms for the plan
provisioning and for the annual plan;
e) Budget submission calendar;
f) Information about the Development Program
Integrated District;

b) Verify strategic and policy coherence, in accordance
with the approved in the Development Plan
Strategic and in the Government Program, and

g) Information on items that have a unit cost;

plan priorities and check whether the budget affects
to the body allows the achievement of the expected results
in the financial year to which it relates;

h) Identification of the focal points of the UPMA and the
Finance Ministry;
i) Others considered relevant.

c) Ensure that the help of partners
development is aligned with the proposal
of the General State Budget and ensure that the
funding for these is prioritized in areas in the
which OGE is not enough to achieve the results
planned.

Article 6
Annual plan and performance indicators
1. The bodies, assisted by the UPMA and the Ministry of
Finance, must select and identify the programs,
activities, indicators and results to be included in the plan
Yearly.

3. The minutes of the decisions of the committee mentioned in paragraph
previous that are related to policies, should be
sent within two business days after taking the
2. The identification of the programs referred to in the previous number
decision, to the UPMA, for information and monitoring,
it is done in accordance with the Government Program.
Series I, No. 25

being able to make comments and suggestions within the deadline.
page 8070

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 29
Newspaper of the Republic
4. Budget submissions that do not contain the plan
annual, the procurement plan and the budget
duly justified, are rejected and must be of
new submitted within a maximum period of 5 working days.

three working days after receipt.
4. UPMA and the Ministry of Finance provide assistance
budget preparation committees at their request.

5. Budget submissions that do not respect the limits
approved are rejected and must be resubmitted.
within a maximum period of 3 working days.

CHAPTER IV
Budgeting
Article 8
Preparation of budget submissions

Article 10
green folder

1. The preparation of submissions must comply with the rules of
circular preparing the General State Budget
issued by the Ministry of Finance.

1. Upon receipt of budget submissions, the
Ministry of Finance prepares the green folder in
collaboration with UPMA.

2. The annual plan is the base document for the preparation of the
budget submission.

2. The green folder is composed of budget submissions and
by an analysis carried out by the Ministry of Finance, of
each budget submission.

3. The bodies must have their structure as a starting point.
organic and the competences defined by it at the level of
each division, identifying the performance of the different
activities, by each division, that contribute to each
program according to the annual plan and prepare its
budgeting at the level of each division and activity.

3. The green folder must be submitted for final consideration by the
Political Review Committee.
Article 11
Political Review Committee
1. The Policy Review Committee, hereinafter referred to as the CRP, is
appointed by the Council of Ministers.

4. Budgeting is done by division and activity, and may
be done by programs under the approved terms of the plan.
Yearly.

2. CRP has the following functions:
a) Verify the strategic allocation of resources with a view to
achieve the stated commitments and objectives
of strategic documents;

5. Total program budget is the sum of the budget
of the various divisions and activities of each agency that
identified in the annual plan.

b) Assess the feasibility of plans for the financial year
to which they report;

6. The budgeting process for each division is carried out
using the forms contained in the circular of
budget preparation issued by the Ministry of
Finances, with the bodies having to budget at the level of the
division and activity in a complementary way for purposes
consistency with the annual plan.

c) Others that are considered relevant.
3. The decisions of the CRP are recorded in the minutes signed by the
Chairman of the Committee and the head of the body.
4. Changes to budget submissions resulting from
CRP are carried out by the Ministry of Finance and the
annual plans are corrected by the bodies and validated by the
Ministry of Finance and UPMA within the scope of their
respective competences.

7. Budgeting at the division and activity level should
differentiate current activities and new activities
proposals.
8. After the budget submission process, the holder of the
supervisory body validates the budget submission after the
approval of the CPO members.

CHAPTER V
Execution, Monitoring and Evaluation

Article 9
Submission of budget submissions

Article 12
Budget execution and monitoring

1. The bodies must respect all the rules stipulated for
submission of the budget proposal, defined in the circular
of budget preparation.

1. Budget execution procedures must follow the
legal framework on finance procedures and rules
execution of the General State Budget.

2. Budget submissions must be sent to the
Ministry of Finance with copy to Prime Minister's Office
Minister.

2. The bodies must ensure that all commitments of
expenditure, are consistent with the plan and budget.
3. UPMA must carry out monitoring through the system
financial management computer, to verify the
consistency between the commitments and the elements that
contained in the respective annual plans.

3. Budget submissions must be entered into the System
Financial Management IT after approval by the Committee
Policy Review.
Series I, No. 25

Page 8071

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

Page 30
Newspaper of the Republic
4. The Ministry of Finance and UPMA should review the
consistency of the plan with the budget and the results that
appear in the proposals for the Commitment Form of
Payment, FCP by checking the elements
contained in the FCP and in the respective annual plan.

6. The bodies must send before the end of the
legal deadline for submission to the National Parliament and Chamber
of Accounts, to be defined in circular, the Annual Reports
finals for analysis and consolidation by UPMA and Ministry
of Finance.

5. The Ministry of Finance supported by the UPMA shall
develop a process review process for
expense and revenue made by the agencies in their
budget execution, through a sample as a
of a posteriori control for verification by the UPMA of the
fulfillment of the link between plan, budget and
results.

7. Reports every three months, the Preliminary Annual Report
and the Final Annual Report must be sent to UPMA
duly validated by the head of the agency or his
designated substitute.

6. From this review of expense and revenue processes review
will be prepared by the Ministry of Finance, with the support
UPMA a quarterly analysis report.

8. UPMA must ensure that exempt assessments are carried out
and systematic to projects, programs or policies in
course or completed, its design, implementation and
results.
CHAPTER VI
Final dispositions

7. This report must be sent for information to the Prime
Minister.
8. Budget changes must be made accordingly.
with the legal regime on budget and financial management
and on public finance procedures and rules of
execution of the General State Budget.

Article 14
regulation
1. The procedures defined in this diploma are
implemented through the Prime Minister's circulars
in coordination with the Ministry of Finance.

2. The bodies shall establish within their structures
9. Without prejudice to the provisions of the previous number, the amendments
organizational units, planning, monitoring and
that represent a change to the annual plan.
evaluation, which should integrate, among other elements,
approved, must be sent by the Ministry of Finance
the focal points in the area of ​planning and monitoring.
to UPMA, for adjustment in the monitoring process.
Article 15
Implementation

Article 13
Procedures in the field of monitoring and evaluation
1. The bodies must, in the first three, six and nine months of the
financial year, prepare performance reports,
cumulative, in which progress should be updated.
physical and financial achievements.
2. After collecting and verifying the information referred to in
previous number, it must be sent to UPMA to,
along with information on budget execution,
serve as a basis for quarterly execution reviews
budget and performance.
3. The bodies must produce and send to UPMA, by the end of the
month of January of the following financial year, a Report
Annual Preliminary, related to the budget cycle of the year
previous with progress data and results
achieved, as well as budget execution.
4. The report mentioned in the previous number must be
detailed, by program, achievements in each indicator of
performance compared to annual targets
agreed.
5. The Preliminary Annual Report must also include comments,
difficulties, contingencies, deviations, advantages and lessons
learned, as well as any other information.
qualitative that may allow the Prime Minister and the
Council of Ministers know, evaluate and decide
on the programs and policies adopted and the introduction
of corrections, changes in policies and programs before
priorities and the fiscal envelope for the
next financial year.
Series I, No. 25

This Decree-Law enters into force on the day following the
your publication.
Approved by the Council of Ministers on April 28, 2015.

The Prime Minister,
__________________
Dr. Rui Maria de Araújo

The Minister of Finance,

________________________
Santina JRF Viegas Cardoso

Enacted on 6/30/2015

Publish yourself.
The President of the Republic,

_____________
Taur Matan Ruak

Wednesday, July 8, 2015

page 8072

