Page 1

Newspaper of the Republic
Wednesday, August 28, 2013

Series I , No. 30

OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR - EAST

$2.00

The legislation to be approved under and under this law
will represent an improvement of the administration system
of criminal justice and the achievement in Timor-Leste of a system
of execution of private and non-private penalties and measures
of human freedom, fair and safe, oriented towards
social reinsertion of the convicts. At the same time, it corrects
if an important gap in the field of administration of the
criminal justice, which, since its creation, has evolved without the
due to the legal and regulatory framework of this matter,
relying, until now, only on UNTAET Regulation no.
2001/23, of 28 August, on the creation of a service
prison in Timor-Leste, and with some dispersed rules of the
Criminal Code and Code of Criminal Procedure.

SUMMARY
NATIONAL PARLIAMENT:
Law no. O 6/2013 of August 28
Legislative authorization on the execution of sentences and
privative and non-custodial measures ........... 6698
MINISTRY OF HEALTH:
MINISTERIAL DIPLOMA No. 11/2013 of 8 August
INS Internal Regulations .................................................. . 6700
MINISTERIAL DIPLOMA No. 12/2013 of 8 August
Organic Statute of the Directorate General for Health ................. 6708
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS

Thus, the National Parliament decrees, pursuant to paragraph 1
of article 95 and of subparagraph a) of paragraph 1 of article 96 of the Constitution
of the Republic, to be valid as law, the following:

MINISTERIAL DIPLOMA No. 13/2013 of 8 August
Changes models of Sector Certificates Construc tion
Civil Law provided for in Ministerial Diploma No. 3/MI/2011 .....6728
(And attached Support Guide for Construction Companies
Civil see Supplement)

Law no. the 6/2013 of 28 August
Legislative authorization on the execution of sentences and
private and non-custodial measures
This law of legislative authorization results from the requirement
of consecration of a regime of execution of sentences and measures
enforced by virtue of a criminal decision, under the
provisions of the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure.

Article 1
Object
Authorization is granted to the Government to approve the regime
of execution of the penalties and measures that are decreed in
by virtue of a criminal decision, under the terms provided for in the Code
Criminal, applicable to the execution of the prison sentence and the measure of
non-imputable internment security, as well as the
execution of the suspended prison sentence and the work sentence to
favor of the community.
Article 2
sense and extension
1. The regime elaborated under this authorization law
legislation observes constitutional principles and norms
and the standards contained in international instruments
that, in this matter, bind the Timorese State.

The content and extension that constitute the object of this
legislative authorization law guarantee respect for rights,
2. The authorization has the following meaning and extension:
fundamental freedoms and guarantees of the citizen, within the scope of
execution of the penalties and measures provided for and applied under the terms
a) Enshrine the regime applicable to the execution of sentences and
of the Criminal Code. In addition, the proposed solutions had in
private and non-custodial measures,
consideration of the general principles of criminal law and
namely the penalty of imprisonment, the measure of
administration of criminal justice enshrined in instruments
internment security of inimputables, of the penalty
international legal instruments, already ratified by Timor-Leste, as well
of suspended imprisonment and the penalty of work in favor of the
such as respect for the sociocultural context of the country.
community;
It should also be noted that the content of this authorization
is articulated with the Penal Code and with the
b) Introduce more favorable conditions for reintegration soCriminal Procedure Code and other complementary legislation.
of the convicts and improvement of the functioning of the
Series I, No. 30

page 6698

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Page 2
Newspaper of the Republic
administration of criminal justice and the prison system;

from resorting to a hospital
prison;

c) Enshrine the guiding principles for the execution of
penalties and measures, such as the principle of respect
for the dignity of the human person, the principle of equality.
ity and non-discrimination and the principle of respect
for the personality and for the legal rights and interests
of the convict unaffected by the sentencing sentence
or decision to apply the penalty or measure;

saw. The rules regarding the organization of leisure time
and educational, training and work activities
in the prison establishment;
vii. The definition of the normative principles of the regime
applicable to education, work and training
professional in prison, while
essential tools for preparing prisoners
for freedom and its reintegration into society,
with regard to work in prisons,
a set of rules that bring you closer to the
working conditions of life in freedom;

d) Define that the execution of the sanctions and measures decreed
by virtue of a criminal decision is guided by the creation
of favorable conditions for social reintegration.
promote the convict's sense of responsibility,
encouraging you to participate in planning the execution
and its social reintegration process, namely
through education, work and professional training;

j) Consecration of the regime applicable to visits and
contacts with the outside, namely
correspondence, telephone contacts and access to
information;

e) Determine that the judicial courts are responsible for guaranteeing the
rights of the convicts, monitor the execution of the
penalties and measures and decide on their modification,
replacement and extinction, under the terms of the law;

k) Definition of the means of order and security allowed
in the prison establishment and the conditions under which
obeys its use, as well as the use of means
coercive and other security forces in case of
serious disturbance of the order and security of the
prison establishment;

f) Define the competence of the Public Ministry in promoting
tion and monitoring of the execution of sentences and
measures;
g) Enshrine the inmate's legal position, under the
constitutional rules on penalty limits and
measures and the rights and duties of the inmate during the
execution;

l) Definition of the inmate's disciplinary responsibility,
of the applicable disciplinary measures and their respective
disciplinary action;

h) Determine the intervention of prison services and
social reintegration services in the execution of sentences and
measures, in accordance with the respective purposes;

m) Definition of the establishment's exit license regime.
prison cement, its requirements and criteria for
your grant;

i) Determine the principles and rules applicable to execution
of imprisonment in prisons
dependent on the Ministry of Justice, namely:

n) Definition of special rules for the execution of the penalty
imprisonment applicable to young people, people over
65 years old, to women and foreigners, taking into account
the specific needs of each one;

i. The principle of individualization of execution and
prison monitoring, based on
court decision and the assessment of the needs of the
inmate;

o) Definition of the rules applicable to the execution of the prison
preventive, in accordance with the principle of
presumption of innocence and in order to exclude any
restriction of freedom not strictly indispensable
to its precautionary purpose;

ii. The principles on the organization of establishments
prisons as to its constitution,
structure, mode of operation and classification
depending on the level of security, as well as the
criteria for separating inmates;

p) Consecration of the implementation modification institute
of imprisonment for sick inmates
severe, evolving and irreversible, severely disabled or
permanent or old age;

iii. The inmate's entry procedures into the state
prison establishment, initial evaluation, allocation and
planning your prison follow-up;

q) Definition of the regime for the granting of conditional freedom.
and freedom to test, its procedure and
non-compliance and revocation;

iv. The regimes for the execution of the prison sentence, its
modalities, requirements and competence for the
placement, maintenance, alteration and
cessation relating to them;

r) Enshrinement of specific rules on execution
of the internment security measure of
unimputable;

v. The minimum conditions regarding accommodation,
food, hygiene and clothing, way of
spiritual and religious assistance and general conditions
access to health care and protection of the
health, whether in prison or through

s) Forecast of the principles and rules applicable to execution
from suspended prison sentence and from work sentence to

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Series I, No. 30

page 6699

Page 3
Newspaper of the Republic
favor of the community applied to replace the
execution of the prison sentence.

April, to go into effect for the National Institute of Health.
Article 1
Amendment to the INS Regulation and Organic Law that approves
by Ministerial Diploma No. 1/2012 of 25 April.

Article 3
Articulation with current legislation
The entry into force of the criminal enforcement regime
refers to the present legislative authorization law shall articulate the
if with the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure and others
legislation in force in criminal matters, by imperative of
security and coherence of the legal order.
Article 4
Duration
The legislative authorization granted by this law has the
duration of 180 days, counting from the date of its entry into force.
Article 5
Implementation

Article 3 of Ministerial Diploma nº 1/2012 of 25 April
is worded as follows:
"Article 3
The Training Department is the service that directs and coordinates the
study and research activities in Health, and training
continuous and professional development of workers in the
under the Ministry of Health, and comprises:
The)
…
B)
…
ç)
…
d)
Department of Health Studies and Research.
Article 2
additions

This law enters into force on the day following its
Publication.

È added to the INS Regulation and Organic Law no.
Section I of Chapter II to Subsection IV and article 9-A, with the
following wording:

Approved on May 21, 2013.

The President of the National Parliament,

SUBSECTION IV
DEPARTMENT OF STUDIES AND RESEARCH IN
HEALTH

Vicente da Silva Guterres
Article 9-A
Enacted on August 22, 2013.

1. The Department of Studies and Research has its
main functions for health research
understands the development of actions that contribute
to the study of techniques and methods that are recommended or
for the provision of health services.

Publish yourself.

The President of the Republic,
2. It is incumbent upon the Department of Health Studies and Research
namely:
Taur Matan Ruak
a) Establish research priorities and define the
strategies for health research;
b) Technically analyze the research proposals
presented by individuals or institutions, their
relevance, opportunity and quality assurance;

MINISTERIAL DIPLOMA No. 11/2013 of 8 August
INS INTERNAL REGULATIONS

c) Submit to the Ethics and Quality Control Office
Ministry of Health research proposals
approved, for an opinion before its execution;

The Statute of the National Institute of Health (INS), approved
by Decree-Law No. 9/2011, of March 16, in paragraph c) of the
article 9 gives the Governing Board competence to define
the organic structure of the INS to be submitted for approval by the
Minister of Guardianship.

d) Issue the technical standards for approval of proposals
and funding, under the Ministry of Health,
of health research.

Thus, under the proposal of the INS Board of Directors, the
Minister of Health, in the exercise of its powers.
were conferred in paragraph a) of article 2 of the INS Statute,
approves the following amendments to the Organic Regulation of
INS, approved by Ministerial Diploma No. 1/2012 of 25th
Series I, No. 30

e) Encourage studies in the areas of interthe one for health.
f) Promote and support the publication of the results of the
studies/research and make recommendations to services
page 6700

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Page 4
Newspaper of the Republic
health information about their practical application.

SECTION I
TRAINING DIRECTORATE

g) Examine and approve the proposals based on the needs
real development needs of the health sector
meeting the priorities of the Ministry of Health;

Article 3
The Training Department is the service that directs and coordinates the
study and research activities in Health, and training
continuous and professional development, provided by the INS,
and understands:

h) Support researchers in acquiring knowledge.
ments on research methodologies and techniques in
health;
3. The Department of Health Studies and Research is
headed by an employee of a category no less than
Senior Technician Grade C, who carries out his duties in the
directly under the Director of Training.

a) Department of Identification and Training;
b) Standardization and Quality Control Department;
c) Department of Information and Documentation.

4. The Department of Studies and Research may organize
into units to carry out their activities. "

d) Department of Health Studies and Research

Article 3
republication

SUBSECTION I
DEPARTMENT OF IDENTIFICATION FORMATION

Pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 of article 18 of Law no. 1/
2002, of August 7th, the full republication of this
Diploma, with the amendments now approved.

Article 4
1. The Training Identification Department exercises its
skills in the field of identification, planning and
organization of continuous training and improvement of
Health professionals, namely:

Article 4
Implementation
The present diploma enters into force on the day following the date of
your publication.

a) Ensure the collection and processing of relevant data
for the organization and planning of actions of
continuous training and improvement of professionals
of health;

ATTACHMENT
(Writing updated)

b) Design, change and terminate continuing education courses
and improvement of health professionals;

CHAPTER I
GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS

c) Develop the short-medium training plan and
long term for health professionals;

Article 1
d) Develop the syllabus of courses and
training actions, to be given at INS;

1. The present diploma establishes the organic regulation
of the services of the National Institute of Health (INS).

e) Produce statistical data regarding the actions
2. The structure of the services is in accordance with the attached organizational chart of formations
to this regulation, which forms an integral part thereof.
f) Ensure the process of admission of trainees, monitoring
CHAPTER II
take the entire training process, as well as, the
SERVICES
issuing of the respective training certificates;
Article 2

g) Manage the process of recognition and issuance of resrespective certificate of equivalence, relating to
training and professional training actions in
areas of health, which do not confer academic titles.

INS Services are:
The)

Training Department;
h) Prepare statistical data and information on the
continuous training actions and improvement of
Health professionals, taught by the INS;

B)

Cooperation Directorate;

ç)

Administration, Finance and Logistics Department.

d)

i) Carry out other activities in the field of management of the
continuous training and improvement of professionals
when superiorly entrusted.

Office of the Executive Director.

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Series I, No. 30

Page 6701

Page 5
Newspaper of the Republic
2. The Identification and Training Department is headed
by an employee of a category not less than Technician
Superior Grade B, who performs its functions in the
directly under the Director of Training.

3. The Department of Standardization and Quality Controlde is composed of the Curricular and Monitoring and Quality Control;
SUBSECTION III
DEPARTMENT OF INFORMATION AND
DOCUMENTATION

3. The Identification and Training Department is composed
by the functional units of Identification and Planning
and Continuous Training and Improvement of Professionals
of health;

Article 6

SUBSECTION II
DEPARTMENT OF STANDARDIZATION AND
QUALITY CONTROL

1. The Department of Documentation and Information has as
main objective to respond to the needs of
documentary information of trainers and trainees, as well
how to ensure the IT services at the INS.

Article 5
2. The Department of Documentation and Information comprises
from the Library, the Laboratory and the
Computing.

1. The Standardization and Quality Control Department
exercises its competences in the field of dynamization
of quality management systems and establishment of
standards of training provided by INS, as well as,
in identifying the needs and opportunities of
improvement, namely:

3. The Documentation and Information Department is headed
by an employee of non-inferior category Technical Suhigher Grade B, who performs their functions in dependence
directly from the Training Director, and who is responsible for,
a) Ensure the integrated management and continuous improvement of the
coordinate and supervise the operation of the units
quality of training, in concert with other
functional, as well as managing human resources and
organizational units or project structures;
materials to these affections.
b) Promote and carry out studies, namely of
characterization and diagnosis of the main problems
in the processes of continuing education and
improvement of health professionals;

Article 7
1. It is especially incumbent upon the Library unit:
a) Acquire bibliographic specimens, if
according to the procurement system approved by the agencies
INS directors.

c) Ensure the development, management and application of
self-assessment and institutional assessment systems in
INS;

b) Ensure the conservation and integrity of documents;
d) Boost national benchmarking actions and
International;

c) Carry out the technical document processing in a logic of
effective functioning of the recovery system.
information;

e) Stimulate innovation and modernization projects that
contribute to improving the quality of training
given;

d) Implement the most effective technological means of accessing
to scientific information available at national levels
and international;

f) Regularly assess the needs and levels of
satisfaction of the parties involved, as well as proceeding
to the treatment, analysis and disclosure of the respective
results;

e) Provide technical support and provide all documentation
and information to support ongoing training and
improvement of health professionals;

g) Ensure the forwarding of statistical data and
other relevant information about the evaluation of the
quality of continuing training actions and
improvement of health professionals, to
various bodies and entities;

f) Watch over the bibliographic collection of the INS, proposing, for
the effect, the necessary measures for its conservation and
recovery, and promoting its dissemination;
g) Identify, select, acquire, process, preserve,
disseminate and make accessible information resources
to support training activities, using
appropriate technologies and techniques;

h) Perform other activities related to the
evaluation of the quality of training, when
in charge of superiors.
2 . The Department of Standardization and Quality Controlde is headed by an official of no lesser rank.
the Higher Technician Grade B , who carries out his duties in the
direct dependence of the Director of Training.
Series I, No. 30

h) Ensure the reprographic service.
2. The Library unit carries out its activities
in the areas of library management and reprography, she is headed
Page 6702

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Page 6
Newspaper of the Republic
by a technical librarian of a category not less than
Higher Technician Grade C, matched for all purposes
the head of section, and performs his duties in the
direct dependence of the head of the Department of
Information and Documentation.

2. The IT unit technically ensures the management,
maintenance and operation of network infrastructures,
servers, databases and INS communications,
is headed by a non-infectious IT technician.
superior to Higher Technician Grade C, equivalent for all purposes
the head of section, and performs his duties in the
direct dependence of the head of the Information Department
and Documentation.

Article 8
1. It is especially incumbent upon the Laboratory unit:

SUBSECTION IV
DEPARTMENT OF STUDIES AND RESEARCH IN
HEALTH

a) Provide technical support in the area of ​iconography to trainers
and INS graduates;
b) Develop and improve iconographic techniques,
namely in the fields of image in medicine,
as well as other audiovisual techniques;

Article 9-A
1. The Department of Studies and Research has its functions.
tions for research in the health field comprises
the development of actions that contribute to the study
of Techniques and Methods that are recommended or used
for the provision of health services.

c) Provide medical materials and equipment
necessary for the ongoing training of professionals in the
health;
2. The Laboratory unit ensures the management of the laboratory
and provides the necessary material for practical activities
of the trainees, is headed by a laboratory technician
of category not inferior to Superior Technician Grade C,
equated for all legal purposes to head of section, and
performs its functions directly under the head.
from the Information and Documentation Department.

2. It is incumbent upon the Department of Health Studies and Research
namely:
a) Establish research priorities and define the
strategies for health research;
b) Technically analyze the research proposals
presented by individuals or institutions, their
relevance, opportunity and quality assurance;

Article 9
1. It is especially incumbent upon the Information Technology unit:

c) Submit to the Ethics and Quality Control Office
Ministry of Health research proposals
approved, for an opinion before its execution;

a) Ensure the installation of equipment and applications
information technology, as well as ensuring its good
operation;

d) Issue the technical standards for approval of proposals
and funding, under the Ministry of Health,
of health research.

b) Manage and maintain the INS computer network;
c) Give prior opinion on the acquisition of equipment
and computer applications;

e) Encourage studies in the areas of interthe one for health.

d) Provide technical and training support in your field
specific;

f) Promote and support the publication of the results of the
studies/research and make recommendations to services
health information about their practical application.

e) Improve the use of information technologies and
communication at INS and design solutions for the
problems identified;

g) Examine and approve the proposals based on the
real development needs of the
health meeting the priorities of the Ministry of Health;

f) Promote the use of a computer infrastructure.
of servers that guarantee the services of
adequate support for the functioning of systems of
existing information, as well as all services
basic computing;

h) Support researchers in the acquisition of knowledge.
reports on research methodologies and techniques in
health;

g) Ensure a set of multimedia services with
aimed at promoting development, presentation and
content communication, internally and externally to the
INS;

3. The Department of Health Studies and Research is
headed by an employee of a category no less than
Senior Technician Grade C, who carries out his duties in the
directly under the Director of Training.

h) Perform other activities that are committed
by the INS management in the field of services.
Computing.

4. The Department of Studies and Research in Health may
organize themselves into units to carry out their activities.

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Series I, No. 30

Page 6703

Page 7
Newspaper of the Republic
SECTION II
COOPERATION DIRECTORATE

INS international cooperation;
b) Support the negotiation and preparation of proposals for
protocols, agreements, conventions or others
international cooperation instruments;

Article 10
The Cooperation Directorate is the service that ensures the
institutional and external relations of the INS, and comprises:

c) Encourage activities that promote internationalization.
of the INS;

a) Department of partnership and social communication;
d) Ensure the management of protocols relating to the interinternational exchange of trainers in the health area;

b) Department of Policy and External Cooperation.
SUBSECTION I
PARTNERSHIP AND COMMUNICATION DEPARTMENT
SOCIAL

e) Ensure the management of information relating to initiatives
carried out by INS, within the scope of the exchange
international institutional of trainers in the field of
health;

Article 11
f) Develop the INS strategic plan and monitor the
your greeting.

1. The Department of Partnership and Social Communication exercises
your skills in managing partnerships
and institutional cooperation agreements signed with
national public and private entities, and ensures the
relations with the media, in particular:

g) Develop the continuing training policy and
improvement of health professionals.
h) Prepare statistical data and ensure forwarding
information on the activities of the
department, to the various bodies and entities;

a) Coordinate the relationship with the service departments
of the Ministry of Health and its departments
relevant.

i) Carry out other activities in the field of relationships
for which powers are conferred.

b) Negotiate, prepare proposals, and manage agreements of
institutional cooperation and partnerships;
c) Inventory the needs of the various institutions
in terms of continuing training and
training of health professionals;

2. The Department of Policy and External Cooperation is headed
by an employee of a category not less than Technician
Superior Grade B, and carries out its activities in dependence
hierarchical and functional role of the Director for Cooperation.

d) Ensure the exchange of information, concerning the
continuous training and improvement of professionals
health, between the INS and interested entities;

3. The Department of Policy and External Cooperation is
composed of two functional units, the unit of
Politics and the External Cooperation Unit.

e) Ensures the link with the media.

SECTION III
DIRECTORATE OF ADMINISTRATION, FINANCE AND
LOGISTICS

2. The Partnership and Social Communication Department is headed by
sworn by an employee of no less than Technical
Superior Grade B, who performs his duties in the dependency
directly from the Director for Cooperation.

Article 13
The Administration, Finance and Logistics Department is the service
which coordinates and ensures the functioning of the administration and
human resources, finance and logistics of the INS, and
understands:

3. The Department of Partnership and Social Communication is
composed of two functional units, the unit of
Partnerships and the Social Communication Unit;
SUBSECTION II
DEPARTMENT OF POLICY AND COOPERATION
EXTERNAL

a) Department of Administration and Finance;
b) Department of Logistics and Procurement.

Article 12

SUBSECTION I
ADMINISTRATION AND FINANCE DEPARTMENT

1. The Department of Policy and External Cooperation exercises the
their skills in the field of relationships and exchange
international for continuous training and improvement
of Health professionals, namely:
a) Coordinate, dynamize and support exchange actions and
Series I, No. 30

Article 14
1. The Department of Administration and Finance has as
main objectives to ensure financial management,
administrative and human resources of the INS.
Page 6704

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Page 8
Newspaper of the Republic
2. The Administration and Finance Department is composed

October, and the Statutes, in collaboration with the

by the functional units of Finance, and

other INS services;

Administration and Human Resources.
f) Inform the processes regarding the legality of the
3. The Administration and Finance Department is headed

acquisition procedure;

by an employee of a category not less than Technician
Superior Grade B, who exercises his functions in the

g) Carry out the accounting recognition of all movements.

direct dependence of the Director of Administration,

assets and results, in accordance with the

Finance and Logistics.

Approved Accounting Plan;

Article 15

h) Prepare the summary pieces and maps provided for in the
Accounting Plan;

1. The Finance unit ensures budget management,

i) Draw up the list of expense documents to be paid

accounting and treasury at INS , is headed by a

and submit to the appreciation and approval of the Board of

financial technician of no less than Technical Su-

Direction;

superior Grade C, equivalent for all legal purposes to chief
of section, and performs its functions in direct dependence

j) Organize the management account;

the head of the Department of Administration and Finance.
k) Instruct the processes related to the authorization of
2. It is especially incumbent upon the Finance unit:

provision of overtime, payment of
personnel services and transfers;

a) Elaborate, follow up and monitor the execution of the budget.
ment;

l) Organize and keep the inventory and register updated
movable and immovable property of the services;

b) Analyze and project with the funds made available
by the State Budget and other resources obtained,

m) Ensure in general all other tasks of a nature

so that they evenly cover the activity

accounting.

of programming, the fixed costs of structure and the
investment spending, alerting the Council

n) Make approved or authorized payments

Director whenever possible

by the board of directors;

treasury breaks;
o) Keep the writing of the treasury strictly updated,
c) Strictly comply with payment deadlines

so that you can check at any time

contracted, as well as payment terms

the accuracy of safe and escrow funds;

established by law, namely as regards the obligations
payment to the State and other public entities,

p) Ensure all tasks relating to the treasury.

whenever the Treasury allows it, and if not
if possible, alert the Governing Board to the fact;

Article 16

d) Comply with all procedures imposed by law or

1. The Administration and Human Resources Unit ensures

by contract to the INS within the scope of their relationship

the management of the administration and personnel of the INS, is headed

with external entities, namely with the

by a professional of a category not less than Technical

Ministries of Health and Finance, trade unions,

Higher Grade C, equivalent for all legal purposes to

suppliers, service providers, customers and with

head of section, and performs his duties in the dependency

internal entities, namely with the Statutory Auditor

direct from the head of the Administration Department and

of the INS, other organic units of its structure,

Finance.

Workers and and others;
2. It is especially incumbent upon the Administration Unit and
e) Render accounts in accordance with Law No. 13/2009, of 21st of

Human Resources:

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Series I, No. 30

Page 6705

Page 9
Newspaper of the Republic
a) Develop strategies and present proposals for

o) Promote the recovery of degraded documents

Human Resources policies;

proceeding to its reproduction, thus avoiding its
misplacement;

b) Undertake global resource planning
Humans, ensuring their respective consolidation;

p) Facilitate the consultation of all necessary information
to the various Services, with a view to the successful pursuit of

c) Develop organizational design and structure functions

varied missions of these;

and valences in the staff, according to the
directives of the Board of Directors;

q) Organize and maintain the general archive.

d) Ensure the administrative management of human resources.

r) Carry out other activities in the domain of the administration.

us, particularly with regard to processing.

tion and human resources, for which it is

of remuneration and other allowances, declarations of

conferred competences.

income, social benefits, travel in
service and management of individual processes;

SUBSECTION II
DEPARTMENT OF LOGISTICS AND

e) Manage attendance and compliance criteria

PROVISIONING

schedules, in accordance with the defined rules and with the
guidelines of the Board of Directors;

Article 17

f) Constantly update on labor legislation

1. The Logistics and Procurement Department has

and alert the Board of Directors of any

as main objectives to ensure public procurement,

nonconformity or for any relevant change,

the procurement, stock management, and heritage of the

that implies the need to readaptation of

INS.

functioning of human resources;
2. The Logistics and Procurement Department is responsible for
g) Draw up the personnel map, control the staff and

placed by the Maintenance and Supply units

ensure the relative administrative procedures

and Heritage Management and Storage.

to the constitution, modification and extinction of the relationship
public employment law;

3. The Logistics and Procurement Department is
headed by an employee of a category no less than

h) Carry out the management of the evaluation process of the

Superior Grade B Technician, who carries out his duties in the

performance of workers;

direct dependence of the Director of Administration,
Finance and Logistics

i) Ensure the forwarding of information about
human resources to the various bodies and entities;

Article 18

j) Ensure registration and forwarding of correspondence.

It is especially incumbent upon the Maintenance and

weighting;

Supply,

k) Ensure in general all other related tasks

a) Develop the Procurement procedures;

to office hours;
b) Carry out public procurement and manage contracts for
l) Organize all documents entrusted to its custody;

provisioning and provision of services;
c) Develop strategies and present policy proposals

m) Build means for evaluating the documents to be

then at the Economato;

serve on all Services;
d) Create conditions for the reduction, whenever possible, of
n) Assist in the construction of policies that make the circulation

office acquisition costs;

more rational and efficient documental tion;
Series I, No. 30

Page 6706

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Page 10
Newspaper of the Republic
e) Manage the registration and inventory of movable and immovable property;

SECTION V
FINAL DISPOSITIONS

f) Ensure the maintenance of real estate and equipment;
Article 21
g) Carry out other activities, in the field of procurement.
management of assets, for which it is assigned.

1. By decision of the Governing Board, on the proposal of the

Skills.

directors of services, units can be created.
functional, in addition to those provided for in the
Article 19

present Regulation, projects or working groups, the
in order to respond to non-permanent needs of the

It is particularly incumbent upon the Heritage Management unit and

Services and, aiming at greater efficiency and

Storage:

accountability.

a) Manage all assets belonging to or allocated to INS.

2. Functional Units can be elevated to category
of Section, by decision of the Board of Directors, provided that

b) Ensure proper storage of purchased goods;

meet the legally prescribed requirements.
c) Manage stocks in order to avoid stockouts that
3. The deliberation that creates the projects or working groups,

can generate delays in the various departments;

defines its objects and scope of action, names the
its members and establishes the form of remuneration of the

SECTION IV

same.

EXECUTIVE SUPPORT OFFICE
Article 20

Article 22

1. The Support Office exercises its powers in the

1. The personnel necessary for the execution of the attributions and

administrative support areas and protocol to the bodies of

Services areas Integrates the single personnel map of the

administration of the INS, being responsible for:

INS, approved under the terms of the Law.

a) Ensure the secretariat of the Board of Directors;

2. The allocation of personnel necessary for the functioning of the
various services is determined by order of the Direc-

b) Provide technical support necessary for the preparation of documents.

Executive tor.

ments and preparation of meetings of the Board of
Management and Advisory Board;

Article 23
c) Organize and coordinate the Executive Director's agenda;
This Regulation enters into force on the day following the date of
its publication in the Jornal da Republica.

d) Ensure the dissemination of internal rules, guidelines
and deliberations of the Board of Directors with the
organic units of the INS;

The Chairman of the Board of Directors
e) Ensure personalized service and activities
protocols;
(Ivone de Jesus do Santos, Lic.SP)
f) Ensure the management of the Director's correspondence
Executive, Board of Directors and Board
Advisory.

Approved by the Ministry of Health in Dili, on 12 days of
August 2013

2. The Support Office is headed by an official with the
minimum category of Professional Technician grade D,
equivalent, for all legal purposes, to Head of Section

(Dr. Sergio GC Lobo, SpB)

and, exercises its functions directly under the Directorate.
Executive tor.

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Series I, No. 30

Page 6707

Page 11
Newspaper of the Republic
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE NATIONAL HEALTH INSTITUTE (INS)
Governing Board

consulting board

Fiscal Council

Executive director

DG Support Office

Administration Department,

Training Directorate

Cooperation Directorate

Finance and Logistics
Department of Studies and Research in Health

Identification and Continuous Training Department

Dept. Policy and External Relations
Administration and Finance Department

Un. Identification and Planning
Un. dePolitics

Un. Administrasaun and HR

Un. For. Perfected to the Professionals of
Cheers

Un. of External Relation

Un. deFinance

Dep. Estabarizasaun and quality control

Logistics and

Un. Standardizasaun and Quality Control

Dept. Partnership and Social Communication

Provisioning

Un. Monitoring and Evaluation
Un. departnership

Un. Asset Management and

Department of Information and Documentation

Storage
Un. of Social Communication

Un. of laboratory
Un. of Maintenance and
Provisioning

Un. of library
Un. of Informatics

Article 2
Nature

MINISTERIAL DIPLOMA No. 12/2013 of 8 August
ORGANIC STATUTE OF THE GENERAL MANAGEMENT OF
HEALTH
The Organic Statute of the Ministry of Health, approved by the
Decree-Law No. 03/2013, of 6 March, created as an organ
Ministry of Health, in addition to the Inspection Office,
Inspection and Audit, and the Office of Ethics and Control of
Quality, the Directorate General of Health, which is why,
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of article 24 of the same law.
ploma, to approve its organic-functional structure.
Thus, the Government, through the Minister of Health, orders, under
of nº 1 of article 24 of Decree-Law nº 03./2013, of March 6,
publish the following diploma:
Chapter I
General Provisions

Article 3
Mission and assignments
1. The DGS is the central organ of the MdS whose mission is to ensure
to provide superior coordination, guidance,
regulation and supervision of the activities of the
administration and promotion of health, prevention of
disease, health care and
public and private institutions and services providers
of these cares.
2. DGS has the following attributions:

Article 1
Object
The present diploma establishes the organic-functional structure
of the General Directorate of Health, as the central body of the
Ministry of Health.
Series I, No. 30

The Directorate General of Health, referred to as DGS for short,
integrates the direct administration of the State, within the scope of
Ministry of Health.

a) Ensure the general orientation of the central services and
territorial areas of the MdS, in accordance with the plan of
activities and guidelines of the Minister or Vice
Ministers;
b) Coordinate and harmonize the execution of annual plans
Page 6708

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Page 12
Newspaper of the Republic
of activities according to policies and strategies.
defined.
c) Supervising the health institutions of the Service
National Health, under the terms of the law;

e) National Directorate of Hospital Support and Service;
f) Legal and Litigation Support Office:
g) Protocol and Social Communication Office
h) DGS Secretariat;

d) Supervising on administrative and financial matters
all central and district agencies and services;

i) 13 District Health Departments

e) Approve the necessary operating instructions
central and territorial health services;

2. National directorates may be structured into directorates
of service and/or departments.

f) Exercise disciplinary authority over all personnel
central and territorial health services;

3. Service departments are structured into departments:

4. The departments are structured in units and can be
or not constituted in sections.

g) Ensure compliance with conventions, agreements and
international health regulations;

5. The organic-functional structure of the district offices will be
defined by ministerial diploma.

h) Undertake the licensing of private establishments.
of health care provision;
i) Promote and coordinate the mobilization of all means,
in cases of epidemic or serious health threat
publishes, supervising its use;

Article 6
Hierarchy
1. The Director-General of Health shall report to the Minister of
Health.

j) Oversee and evaluate the activities and programs of
Public health;

2. The National Directors report to the DirectorGeneral of Health.

k) Exercising the other competences assigned to it
by law or by the Minister of Health.

3. The Service Directors are accountable to their
National Director;

Article 4
Oversight

4. The Heads of Department are accountable to the respective
Service Director, if any, or before the Director
National.

1. The superintendence of the DGS is ensured by the DirectorGeneral of Health who is appointed under the law.

5. The Heads of Section are accountable to the respective
Department boss.

2. The Director General of Health is replaced in his absence
and impediments by a National Director, appointed by the
Minister of Health, upon his proposal.

Section II
Structure and Functioning of Services

Chapter II
Organic-Functional Structure

Subsection I
National Directorate of Planning, Policy and Cooperation

Section I
General Structure

Article 7
assignments

Article 5
Organization

1. The National Directorate of Planning, Policy and Cooperation,
abbreviated as DNPPC, it is the DGS service
that defines health policies, technically supports and
coordinates the design, implementation and monitoring of
plans, strategic, development and action/
activities, politically supports the decisions of the services
and manages cooperation relationships within the MoH;

1. The General Directorate of Health integrates the following services:
a) National Directorate of Planning, Policy and
Cooperation;
b) National Directorate of Administration and Resources
Humans;

2. It is incumbent upon DNPPC:
a) Support the definition and structuring of policies, prioritizing
objectives and objectives of the MoH;

c) National Directorate of Financial Management and
Provisioning;

b) Coordinate the design, approval, execution and monitoringimplementation of the strategic plan for the health sector;

d) National Directorate of Public Health;

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Series I, No. 30

Page 6709

Page 13
Newspaper of the Republic
c) Coordinate and technically support the planning process.
qualification in the various MdS services, ensuring
the links to state planning services in the
process of elaboration of the National Plans of
Development and control of its execution;

Article 9
Department of Policy and Planning
1. The Department of Policy and Planning is the body
of DNPPC, which coordinates the definition and implementation of
health policies, technically supports the preparation of
strategic, development and action plans/
activities, monitors and assesses compliance with the
different MdS services.

d) Harmonize the activity and action plans of the
various bodies of the National Health Service,
ensuring the follow-up of policies and strategies
defined and monitoring their execution;

2. It is incumbent upon the Policy and Planning Department, in
Special:

e) Organize in coordination with other services and
MoH bodies and the National Statistical Service,
the production and dissemination of statistical indicators
of interest to the planning and follow-up of the sechealth care provider.

a) Develop and implement health policies;
b) Analyze and disseminate the impact of implemented policies.
of;

f) Instruct the licensing processes of the Units
Private Health;

c) Politically justify the actions, activities and
MoH legislative initiatives;

g) Develop the MoH's cooperation policy, and ensure
maintain its relationships with national partners,
international entities or organizations, in
consultation with the Ministry of Business
Foreigners and Cooperation;

d) Participate in the development of national policy for areas
related to health;
e) Define the standards and procedures for planning
strategic, implementation plans and/or plans
annual actions/activities;

h) Define in consultation with other bodies and services.
of the MoH the annual or multi-annual objectives, in
matters of cooperation and establish strategies for
action taking into account countries and organizations
considered priorities and the necessary means.

f) Provide technical support and supervise the
implementation of standards and procedures for
preparation of plans and reports in all services
of the MdS;

i) Prepare the participation of the MoH in the meetings of the
joint committees, provided for in the framework of the conventions
or agreements to which Timor-Leste is a party;

g) Coordinate and support planning processes
carried out by the different MdS services, giving
special emphasis on harmonization between the National Policy
Health, the National Strategic Health Plan and the
Annual and Multiannual Action/Activity Plans;

j) Periodically carry out the assessment and produce information
briefings on the state of cooperation within the
MdS, favoring the introduction of corrective measures
and/or promoters of this cooperation.
k) Manage international technical assistance and assess the impact of assisted projects and programs;

h) Collaborate with the Department of Statistics and
Health information in data compilation and analysis
of information from the different bodies and
MdS services;

l) Exercising other competences and attributions
are committed by law or by superior decision.

i) Participate in the licensing process of the units
private health care;

Article 8
Structure

j) Exercising the other competences assigned to him
by law or by superior decision.

1. DNPPC is composed of the following departments:

Article 10
Department of Cooperation

a) Department of Policy and Planning;
1. The Department of Cooperation is the body of DNPPC
to support the definition and implementation of the policy of
cooperation and partnership for health and which coordinates in the
under the MoH, relations with national partners and
international.

b) Department of Cooperation;
c) Department of Statistics and Health Information;
d) Monitoring and Evaluation Department

2. It is especially incumbent upon the Department of Cooperation:
e) DNPPC Secretariat;
a) Define the MdS cooperation policy and establish
Series I, No. 30

Page 6710

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Page 14
Newspaper of the Republic
the framework of partnerships to be developed both to
national and international level;

c) Coordinate the collection, analysis and dissemination of data
statistical and technical health information;

b) Draw up protocols and cooperation agreements to
be signed with national partners and
international by direct administration services
within the scope of the MoH, and carry out the procedures
required for their approval:

d) Periodically publish official data regarding the
health statistics;
e) Arrange the mechanisms with the competent authorities.
methods of data collection in sectors related to the sechealth care provider;

c) Coordinate activities aimed at implementation
of protocols and cooperation agreements,
interacting regularly with MdS partners to
monitoring of project implementation;

f) Compile data and prepare statistical reports on
the performance of the National Health Service;
g) Exercising any other competences assigned to him/her.
by law or by superior decision.

d) Issue technical opinions relevant in their area of ​resresponsibility;

Article 12
Monitoring and Evaluation Department

e) Keep an up-to-date record of agreements for
bilateral and multilateral cooperation/partnership between the
MdS and national and foreign partners, including
reports of cooperation projects and a register
updated and detailed advisors hired in the
scope thereof;

1. The Monitoring and Evaluation Department is the
DNPPC body whose mission is to develop the
monitoring and evaluation policy in the MoH, coordinate and
develop technical standards for monitoring and
evaluation of compliance with the MoH plans.

f) Prepare and manage the involvement and participation of the MdS
at meetings, conferences and other activities of
international organizations of which he is a part,
cial to WHO;

2. It is incumbent upon the Monitoring and Evaluation Department,
namely:
a) Define the policies, technical standards and mechanisms of
Health Monitoring and Evaluation;

g) Monitor compliance by the MoH of the
national and international commitments assumed
in the context of cooperation agreements;

b) Act as a focal point of the MoH with institutions
relevant government on issues of
monitoring of compliance with plans;

h) Organize periodically meetings with partners
national and international headquartered in the country to
coordination of projects and balance of activities.

c) Coordinate the preparation of regular reports to be
submitted to government entities and partners;

i) Contribute to the development and execution of policies
in areas related to health where there is involvement
from internal and external partners;

d) In coordination with relevant departments, monitor
to advise and evaluate the implementation of the approved plans;

j) Exercising the other competences assigned to him
by law or by superior decision.

e) Provide technical support and supervise the implementation
Monitoring and Evaluation at the National Service
of health;

Article 11
Department of Statistics and Health Information

f) Exercising the other competences assigned to it
by law or by superior decision.

1. The Department of Statistics and Health Information is the
DNPPC body whose mission is to collect the
computer processing and dissemination/publication of data
health statistics.

Article 13
DNPPC Secretariat
1. The DNPPC secretariat is the unit that ensures the management
of the working hours and technically and administratively support the
National Director.

2. It is incumbent upon the Department of Statistics and Information of
Health, namely:
a) Define technical standards and collection mechanisms,
analysis and publication of statistical health data;

2. It is incumbent upon the DNPPC Secretariat, in particular:
a) Ensure and administrative service of DNPPC

b) Organize the collection of data and information on the
health and epidemiological surveillance, in coordination
with the relevant services;

b) Organize and coordinate the National Director's agenda;
c) Ensure the management of correspondence to and from the
National Director;

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Series I, No. 30

Page 6711

Page 15
Newspaper of the Republic
d) Manage and ensure the conservation of all documentation
of DNPPC;

for health, taking into account the
priorities defined in the National Strategic Plan
for the Health Sector and the general indicators of
development approved;

e) Exercising the other competences assigned to him
by law or by superior decision.

ii. Develop personnel management standards, create and manage
a database of healthcare professionals;

3. The DNPPC Secretariat works with the National Director
and is headed by a Head of Section.

iii. Promote the recruitment and mobility of
health professionals from the National Service of
Health;

Subsection II
National Directorate of Administration and Human Resources
Article 14
assignments
1. The National Directorate of Administration and Human Resources
abbreviated as DNARH is the DGS service
responsible for the administrative and property management of the
central services, as well as by development, management.
and implementation of the human resources policy for the
health sector;

iv. Participate in the preparation of the staff in
collaboration with other Ministry services;
v. Ensure compliance with the legislation applicable to the
Public administration;
saw. Ensure registration, control of attendance and
punctuality of service workers
centrals;

2. It is incumbent upon DNARH:
vii. Participate in the preparation of annual plans for
training and specialization in the country and abroad and
promote and organize its implementation;

a) In the administration area:
i. Administratively manage the central services of the
MdS, ensuring the management of office hours and
correspondences;

viii. Promote refresher and refresher courses,
seminars and on-the-job training for cadres
of the Ministry;

ii. Systematize and standardize procedures
administrative offices of the Ministry;

ix. Manage the scholarship system, within the scope of
MdS, for training in the country and abroad;

iii. Ensure the logistics of central services and
territorial;
iv. Manage the MdS warehouses;

x. Ensure relationships with organizations
representatives of the professional classes of the
health;

v. Ensure the management of movable and immovable property
assigned to central and territorial services;

xi. Exercise other skills and attributions that
are committed by law or by superior decision.

saw. Ensure the management of the MdS IT park
Article 15
Structure

vii. Ensure the collection, archiving, conservation and
electronic processing of all documentation
concerning the MdS;

1. DNARH is structured in:

viii. Keep the website up and running
electronic MdS, maintaining confidentiality
of data and computer records, in accordance with the
law;

a) DNARH Secretariat;
b) Administration Department;
c) Human Resources Department.

ix. Manage the inactive MdS archive;
x. Collaborate with human resources services in
training, training and management of personnel
administrative services of central and territorial services.

2. The Directorate of Administration and the Directorate of Resources
Humans are headed by directors equated with DiDistrict rector, for salary purposes.
Article 16
DNARH Secretariat

xi. Ensure surveillance, cleaning and conservation of
facilities of central services.

1. The DNARH secretariat is the unit that ensures the management
of the working hours and technically and administratively support the
National Director.

b) In the area of ​human resources:
i. Define resource development policy
Series I, No. 30

Page 6712

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Page 16
Newspaper of the Republic
2. It is incumbent upon the DNARH Secretariat, in particular:

k) Ensure the surveillance, cleaning and conservation of the facilities.
central services relations;

a) Ensure the administrative service of DNARH;
l) Exercising other competences and attributions
are committed by law or by superior decision.

b) Organize and coordinate the National Director's agenda;
c) Ensure the management of correspondence to and from the
National Director;

Article 18
Structure

d) Manage and ensure the conservation of all documentation
of DNARH;

DA consists of the following departments;
a) Department of Central Administration;

e) Exercising the other competences assigned to him
by law or by superior decision.

b) Department of Logistics;

3. The DNARH Secretariat works with the National Director
and is headed by a Head of Section.

c) Department of Infrastructure Management;
d) Department of Technological Information.

Division I
Administration Directorate

Article19 the
Department of Central Administration

Article 17
assignments

1. The Department of Central Administration is the body
of the DA responsible for the elaboration of the MdS policy
for the administrative management of central services and
as well as for the management of the central building of the
OMG.

1. The Directorate of Administration, hereinafter referred to as DA, is the
DNARH service, responsible for administration,
management of files and correspondence, at the level of the
central service of the MdS, for the definition of the policy of
maintenance of facilities, asset management, and
technological information services in the MdS.

2. It is incumbent upon the Department of Central Administration:
a) Elaborate the administrative management rules of the services.
central and territorial departments and oversee the implementation.
tation and compliance with them;

2. It is incumbent upon the DA:
a) Administratively manage the central services of the MdS,
ensuring the management of the file and corresponding
cies;

b) Establish the formats and mechanisms related to the
processing of internal correspondence and
external;

b) Systematize and standardize administrative procedures.
assets in the MdS;

c) Ensure the implementation of the policies and standards of the
administration in all MdS services and
ensure technical support and supervision;

c) Ensure the logistics of central and territorial services;
d) Manage the MdS warehouses;

c) Provide technical support, and supervision over the
administrative activities to all institutions
assigned to the Ministry of Health;

e) Ensures the management of movable and immovable property
to central and territorial services;

d) Coordinate the capacity building and training plan in the
administration area to the personnel of the Ministry of
health in coordination with the relevant services of the
Ministry of Health;

f) Ensure the management of the MdS IT park
g) Ensure the collection, archive, conservation and treatment
electronic of all documentation relating to the
OMG;

e) Ensure support for organized official events
by the central services in coordination with the
relevant services in the Ministry of Health;

h) Keep the electronic site up and running and updated.
only one of the MdS, maintaining the confidentiality of the data
and computer records, under the terms of the law;

f) Organize and update the central archive of
correspondence and documents related to the
activities of central services;

i) Manage the inactive MdS archive;
j) Collaborate with human resources services in the
training, training and management of technical personnel and
administrative of central and territorial services;

g) Manage the maintenance, cleaning and security of the building
central services;

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Series I, No. 30

Page 6713

Page 17
Newspaper of the Republic
h) Exercising other competences committed by law or
by superior decision.

k)

3. Under the supervision of the Head of the Department of
Central Administration operates the following units:

Exercising other competences committed by law or
by superior decision.
Article 21 the
Infrastructure Management Department

a) Reception and Handling of Correspondence;

1. The Department of Infrastructure Management is the organthe DA responsible for the development of policy and management
of the buildings assigned to the Ministry of Health, as well as the
repair, maintenance and conservation of the same.

b) Central Archive and Library Management;
c) Support Service of the Ministry's Central Buildings
of Health (control of the provision of services of
Cleaning, electricity, water, telephone, internet, management
of vehicles, and others

2. It is incumbent upon the Infrastructure Management Department:
a) Prepares the policy for the maintenance and conservation of
buildings assigned to the Ministry of Health;

Article 20 the
Logistics Department

b) Elaborate the rules of procedure for the management of
Ministry of Health buildings;

1. The Logistics Department is the responsible DA body.
responsible for policy development and management, accommodation
and provision of goods (not including buildings),
necessary for the functioning of the bodies and services of the
MdS, as well as repair, maintenance and conservation
of the same.

c) Coordinate the preparation of the infrastructure plan,
as well as the strategic plan and annual plan;
d) Keep an updated and detailed record of all
Ministry of Health buildings;

2. It is incumbent upon the Logistics Department:

e) Participate in the reception of new buildings delivered
to the services of the Ministry of Health and carry out their
use.

a) Develop policy on logistics and monitor its
Implementation;

f) Manage the regular maintenance of the buildings assigned to the
Ministry of Health services;

b) Elaborate the rules of procedure in the management, accomodating
donation and provision of goods from the bodies and services
of the MoH, namely means of transport,
furniture, equipment and non-medical utensils,
electrical and electronic equipment and others;

g) Provide technical support and supervision of services
maintenance and repair of infrastructure to all
the services of the ministry of health;

c) Maintain an up-to-date and detailed register of goods from
MoH bodies and services;

h) Identify capacity building and training needs.
to the heads of each service assigned to the
Ministry of Health;

d) Participate in the reception of equipment and materials not
doctors provided to the different services of the MoH and
proceed with their cataloging and records.

i) Exercising other competences committed by law or
by superior decision.

e) Ensure the distribution of materials and equipment
acquired centrally by the MdS;

Article 22
Technological Information Department

f) Ensure maintenance, repair and conservation of
movable goods assigned to central and territorial services
of the MdS;

1. The Department of Technological Information is the body
of DA, responsible for Informatics in the central services
of the MoH.

g) Manage the central warehouses of the MdS;

2. It is incumbent upon the Department of Technological Information:

h) Coordinate the Ministry of Health's logistics plan,
both the annual plan and the strategic plan;

a) Define the technical standards for the use of equipment
electronic and computer systems in central services and
territorial areas of the MdS;

i) Identify capacity and training needs
in the area of ​logistics in coordination with the services
relevant Ministry of Health;

b) Keep the Ministry's electronic portal operational
of health;

j) Provide technical support and supervision to services
assigned to the Ministry of Health;

c) Ensure the proper functioning of the computer network of the
OMG;

Series I, No. 30

Page 6714

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Page 18
Newspaper of the Republic
d) Ensure maintenance and repair of all
computer and electronic equipment.

b) Department of Planning and Development of
Human Resources;

e) Exercising other competences committed by law or
by superior decision.

Article 25
Personnel Management Department

Division II
Human Resources Department

1. The Personnel Management Department is the body of the
DRH responsible for defining the management policy of
human resources for the health sector in general as well.
as for the central and territorial services of the MdS in
particular.

Article 23
assignments
1. The Human Resources Department, hereinafter referred to as DRH
is the DNARH service, responsible for defining the
human resources development policy for the
health and human resources management of central services
and territorial;

2. It is incumbent upon the appointed Personnel Management Departmentmind:
a) Define the human resources management policy for
the national health service

2. It is incumbent upon the DRH:
b) Ensure implementation of approved legislation
for the area of ​human resources management;

a) Develop resource development policies
human health, taking into account the priorities.
defined in the National Strategic Plan for the Sector
of Health and general development indicators
approved;

c) Develop uniform rules and procedures for the
registration and approval and replacements, transfers,
absences, leaves, allowances and supplements
remuneration of health professionals, and
development and training of human resources;

b) Develop personnel management standards, create and manage a
database of health and service personnel
National Health;

d) Ensure the registration of health professionals in the
terms of law;

c) Promote the recruitment and mobility of professionals
from health to the National Health Service;

e) Ensure the management of the staff of the central service and
provide technical support and supervision to others.
services assigned to the Ministry of Health;

d) Participate in the preparation of the staff of the
central and territorial services in collaboration with the
same;

f) Submit monthly to the Civil Service Commission
staff maps reflecting changes to
staff assignment; Organize and manage the indiemployees in compliance with the system
management of personnel in the Public Administration;

e) Ensure registration, control of attendance and punctuation.
quality of workers in central services;
f) Participate in the preparation of annual training plans
and specialization in the country and abroad and promote and
organize its implementation;

g) Develop, review, analyze and adjust regularly, in
coordination with the competent authorities, the framework
staff of central and territorial services;

g) Promote refresher and update courses, seminar
rivers and on-the-job training for MoH staff;

h) Coordinate and manage the annual performance evaluations;

h) Manage the scholarship system, within the scope of the MoH,
for courses in the country and abroad;

i) Technically support the definition of skills and
employee profile for the various agencies and services
of the MdS;

i) Ensure the relationship with organizations
representatives of the classes of health professionals;

j) Coordinate the recruitment of personnel for the different
Ministry of Health agencies and services;

j) Exercising other competences committed by law or
by superior decision;

k) Prepare contractual documents and support management
of hired professionals;

Article 24
Structure

l) Ensure the management of the staff of the central services and
support autonomous and personalized services in
management and recruitment;

1. The DRH is composed of the following Departments:
a) Department of Personnel Management;

m) Exercising other competences committed by law or
by superior decision.
Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Series I, No. 30

Page 6715

Page 19
Newspaper of the Republic
Article 26
Department of Planning and Development of
Human Resources

c) Ensure the transparency of procedures for
Ministry's public expenditures and revenues;
d) Coordinate activities related to the
elaboration, execution, monitoring and evaluation
of the annual and multi-annual plans, in the financial aspect.
and the MoH budget;

1. The Planning and Resource Provision Department
Humans is the DRH body, responsible for
policy definition and human resources planning
for the health sector;

e) Develop and disseminate routine procedures for the
correct management of the budget, income and funds;
taking into account the standards issued by state bodies
competent authorities.

2. It is incumbent upon the Planning and Provision of
Human Resources:
a) Participate in the definition of development policy
human resources for the health sector;

f) Manage the current and investment budgets of the
central and territorial services, as well as other funds,
internal or external, made available.

b) Develop plans and strategies for development.
of resources for the health sector;

g) Ensure general accounting operations and
financial, as well as accountability and
periodic realization of the respective balance sheets;

c) Mobilize resources for resource formation
human beings, both for general regime workers.
as for the careers of health professionals;
d) Develop policies for the rational use of resources
human resources in the field of health taking into account the priorities.
of services and, according to the basic packages for
primary and hospital care;
e) Technically support the bodies and services of the
MdS in the definition of Competencies and profile of
workers for the various posts;

h) Create and maintain an information subsystem
financial related to budget management, revenue
collected and other funds made available;
i) Develop and maintain a procurement system
effective, transparent and accountable, including a
projection of the future needs of the MdS;

f) Support the dissemination of technical standards, protocols
and manuals, with health professionals;

j) Define and ensure the implementation of a policy of
acquisition for the National Health Service compatible
with the demands and within the defined parameters
in the law;

g) Prepare the resource development plan
human health and guide its due
Implementation;

k) Elaborate the technical and regulatory standards in the matter
of provisioning, supervising its due
Implementation;

h) Exercising other competences committed by law or
by superior decision.

l) Exercising the other competences assigned to him
by law or by superior decision.

Subsection III
National Directorate of Financial Management and
Provisioning

Article 28
Structure
1. DNGFA is structured in:

Article 27
assignments

a) Department of Planning and Budget Management;

1. The National Directorate of Financial Management and Procurement
ment, abbreviated as DNGFA, is the service
of the DGS responsible for the preparation, management and control of the
budget as well as centralized procurement management
by the MoH's central and territorial services.

b) Accounting and Treasury Department;
c) Department of Internal Control and Management of
Financial Information;
d) Procurement Department;

2. It is incumbent upon DNGFA:
e) DNGFA Secretariat.
a) Support the definition of the main options in the matter
budget;

Article 29
Planning and Budget Management Department

b) Ensure the efficient budget execution of the Directorates
and Services;

Series I, No. 30

1. The Planning and Budget Management Department is the
DNGFA body responsible for planning and
Page 6716

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Page 20
Newspaper of the Republic
management of the State Budget for the MoH.

financial on the budgetary management of revenue
collected and funds made available to the MoH;

2. It is incumbent upon the Planning and Management Department
Budget:

d) Manage the current and investment budgets of the
central and territorial services including funds,
internal or external, made available to the sector
of health;

a) Support the definition of the main options in the matter
budget;
b) Elaborate technical standards for budget planning
and financial management and guide its due
Implementation;

e) Coordinate with the different services the management of the
execution of contracts;
f) Prepare execution and financial management reports
regularly, to be submitted to the entities
authorities of the MoH and the Government under the terms of the law;

c) Ensure the preparation of the operating budget
of central and territorial services and monitor the
respective execution;

i) Exercising other competences committed by law or
by superior decision.

d) Prepare detailed budget execution plans
for each organic unit of the MdS;
e) Develop and define routine procedures for the correct
management of the State Budget for the MoH, included
the income and funds, taking into account the standards issued.
by the competent state bodies;
f) Define the rules and procedures for the preparation
of the budget and its implementation, as well as norms
for financial management in different agencies and services
the Ministry of Health;

Article 31
Department of Internal Control and Information Management
Financial
1. The Department of Internal Control and Information Management
Finance is the DNGFA body responsible for
internal control of expenditure and information system
financial in the MoH.
2. It is incumbent upon the Department of Internal Control and Management of
Financial Information:

g) Ensure the effective execution of the allocated budget
to the different bodies and services of the MoH;

a) Develop and adopt operational control guide
internal financial management in the MoH;

h) Act as a focal point of the MoH with institutions
relevant government on issues related to
budget execution and financial management;

b) Develop and adopt system maintenance guide
financial information in the MoH;

i) Support budget planning processes and
financial activities carried out by the different bodies and
MdS services, with special emphasis on
harmonization between plans and budget;

c) Ensure internal control of service expenses
of the MoH before processing payments by the
Ministry of Finance and before its file;
d) Coordinate with FMIS Ministry of Finance, the
maintenance of the financial information system in the
OMG;

j) Exercising other competences committed by law or
by superior decision.
Article 30
Accounting and Treasury Department

e) Produce quarterly internal control reportsmind;

1. Accounting and Treasury Department is the body
of DNGFA responsible for the accounting and treasury of the
OMG.

f) Develop electronic financial documentation;
g) Produce expense reports for each organic unit
the MdS based on “free balance” information;

2. It is incumbent upon the Accounting and Treasury Department:
h) Provide guidance on control mechanisms
internal to the MdS organic units;

a) Define accounting management standards and mechanisms
for MdS services in accordance with the Law
Budget and Financial Management;

i) Assist the services in the implementation of the system of
online financial management;

b) Ensure general accounting operations and
financial, as well as accountability and
periodicity of the respective balance sheets;

j) Exercising other competences committed by law or
by superior decision.

c) Create and maintain an information subsystem
Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Series I, No. 30

Page 6717

Page 21
Newspaper of the Republic
Article 32
Procurement Department

d) Manage and ensure the conservation of all documentation
of DNGFA;

1. The Procurement Department is the body of
DNGFA, responsible for organizing the procurement
centralized services for central services and
MoH territorial areas and support to agencies and services
autonomous.

e) Exercising the other competences assigned to him
by law or by superior decision.
3. The DNGFA Secretariat works with the national director
and is headed by a Head of Section.

2. It is incumbent upon the Procurement Department:

Subsection IV
National Directorate of Public Health

a) Manage the procurement process for goods, services
and works, of the different organs and services of the centrals.
of the MoH, under the terms of the law;
b) Define the rules and procedures for the definition of
needs of the services and elaborate the respective
specifications;

Article 34
assignments
1. The National Directorate of Public Health, for short
known as DNSP, is the DGS service responsible for
design, coordination of support and supervision of
promotion and education policies and activities for the
health, disease prevention and care
primary health care

c) Prepare the annual supply plan
centralized;
d) Elaborate the regulation of the procedures of
supply and disseminate it to the organs and
MdS services;

2. It is incumbent upon the DNSP, namely:

e) Ensure the participation of representatives of the bodies and
MdS services, beneficiaries of acquisitions, in the
procurement processes and management of
contracts;
f) Keep an updated and comprehensive record of
procurement processes and reporting
periodicals, under the terms of the law;

a) Define national programs for public health and
develop technical standards for promotion and education to
health, disease prevention and care
primary health care;
b) Provide technical support to providing institutions
of primary health care within the Service
National Health;
c) Monitor and evaluate program implementation
for public health;

g) Keep an up-to-date register of suppliers,
service providers and contractors, indicating the
respective specialties and performance in
contracts previously concluded with the MoH;

d) Collaborate with other State institutions in the
definition of sanitary and environmental hygiene policies;

h) Ensure technical assistance to the bodies and services of the
MdS, in the decentralized procedures of
provisioning;
i) Exercising other competences committed by law or
by superior decision.
Article 33
DNGFA Secretariat
1. The DNGFA secretariat is the unit that ensures the management
of the working hours and technically and administratively support the
National Director.

e) Support territorial health services in surveillance and
health control, within the scope of the attributions and
MdS competencies, and in collaboration with others
competent state bodies;
f) Ensure the functioning of the information system
epidemiological and operatively use the
information collected for early detection of outbreaks
epidemics and monitoring of disease trends
mandatory notification and provide information
epidemiological study to the countries of the region and the Organization
Health World Cup;
g) Coordinate national initiatives in matters of its
competence;

2. It is incumbent upon the DNGFA Secretariat, in particular:
h) Exercising other competences and attributions
are committed by law or by superior decision.

a) Ensure the administrative service of DNGFA;
b) Organize and coordinate the National Director's agenda;

Article 35
Structure

c) Ensure the management of correspondence to and from the
National Director;
Series I, No. 30

1. DNSP is structured in:
Page 6718

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Page 22
Newspaper of the Republic
a) Support Office for Care Programs
Primary Health

Article 37
DNSP Secretariat

b) DNSP Secretariat
c) Directorate of Disease Control;

1. The DNSP secretariat is the unit that manages the
expedient and technically and administratively support the DiNational rector.

d) Directorate of Community Health.

2. It is incumbent upon the DNSP Secretariat, in particular:

2. The Disease Control Directorate and the Health Directorate
Community are headed by a director equivalent to
District Director, for salary purposes.

a) Ensure the DNSP's administrative service;
b) Organize and coordinate the National Director's agenda;

Article 36
Support Office for Primary Care Programs
of health

c) Ensure the management of correspondence to and from the
National Director;

1. The Support Office for Primary Care Programs
of Health , abbreviated as GAPCPS is the
DNSP body, whose mission is to coordinate and
oversee the implementation of all programs for
primary health care in close collaboration with the
District Health Directorate in each district.

d) Manage and ensure the conservation of all documentation
DNSP;
e) Exercising the other competences assigned to him
by law or by superior decision.
3. The DNSP Secretariat works with the National Director
and is headed by a Head of Section.

2. It is the responsibility of the GACSP;
a) Define policies and strategies for programs and
primary care protocols to be
implemented in the districts;

Division I
Disease Control Directorate
Article 38
assignments

b) Elaborate the guides or protocols for the implementation of the
primary health care;

1. The Directorate of Disease Control, for short
designated as DCD is the DNSP service responsible for
definition of prevention, control and treatment policies
of contagious and non-contagious diseases.

c) Develop supervision instruments, monitoring
sation and evaluation of primary care provision
in consultation with the Department of
DNPPC Monitoring and Evaluation;

2. It is incumbent upon DCD:
d) Collaborate with the district health directorates in the imimplementation and evaluation of the performance of
care program and protocols
primary health care in the districts;
e) Support the District Health Directorate, in the definition of
programs to be implemented;

a) Define policies to combat contagious diseases and
not contagious;
b) Define control strategies, programs and protocols
of diseases;

f) Monitor and evaluate program performance
implemented in the districts in concert with the
DNPPC Monitoring and Evaluation Department;

c) Provide technical support, supervise and monitor
the implementation of strategies, programs and
protocols established at all levels of the Service
National Health;

g) Collaborate with the Department of Statistics and
Health information in data collection and analysis of
information related to your area of
competence;

d) Collaborate with territorial health services in the
establishment of sentinel mechanisms, of
detection and development of timely actions to the
epidemic control;

h) Exercising other competences that are assigned to him/her.
by law or by superior decision.

e) Monitor the implementation of programs and protocols
of established treatments;

3. GAPCPS works directly under the Director
National Public Health and is led by a Head of
Department.

f) Provide technical support to inspection teams, investigation
or research in the field of public health, carried out.
by the competent authorities of the MoH, under the terms
of law;
Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Series I, No. 30

Page 6719

Page 23
Newspaper of the Republic
g) Exercising other competences committed by law or
by superior decision.
Article 39
Structure
DCD comprises the following departments:
a) Department of Contagious Diseases;
b) Department of Non-contagious and Mental Diseases;

2. It is incumbent upon the Dep.DNCM, namely:
a) Define policies, strategies, programs and protocols
for controlling and combating non-communicable diseases,
chronic degenerative diseases, as well as
respective risk factors, especially tobacco.
and alcohol;
b) Technically support and monitor implementation
of control strategies, programs and protocols and
combating non-contagious and mental illnesses, in
all levels of the National Health Service;

c) Department of Epidemiological Surveillance.
Article 40
Department of Communicable Diseases
1. Department of Communicable Diseases, for short
designated Dep.DC, it is the responsible DCD body.
for the definition of policy and strategies for prevention,
control and fight against contagious diseases, target diseases
eradication, neglected tropical diseases, and
emerging diseases.
2. It is incumbent upon the Dep.CDC, namely:

c) Support territorial services in the implementation of the
sight primary care program;
d) Collaborate with the Department of Statistics and
Health information in data collection and analysis of
information related to your area of ​competence;
e) Exercising other competences committed by law or
superior decision.
Article 42
Department of Epidemiological Surveillance

a) Define policy, strategies, programs and protocols
of controlling and combating contagious diseases, diseases
eradication target, neglected tropical diseases,
and emerging diseases;

1. The Department of Epidemiological Surveillance, abbreviateddesignated mind Dep.VE is the body of DCD,
responsible for defining policies and strategies for
epidemiological surveillance for the entire national territory;

b) Provide technical support and supervise the
implementation of strategies, programs and protocols
of combat and treatment of contagious diseases in
all levels of the National Health Service;

2. It is incumbent upon the Dep.VSE, namely:

c) Collaborate with territorial health services in the
establishment of sentinel mechanisms, of
detection and development of timely actions to the
epidemic control;
d) Monitor the implementation of programs and

a) Define the surveillance and epidemiological control policy
for the entire national territory;
b) Adopt surveillance protocols and programs
epidemiological at all levels of the National System
of health
c) Provide technical support and supervise the
implementation of protocols and programs for

established treatment protocols and provide
technical support to different agencies and services
territorial authorities responsible for its implementation;

surveillance and epidemiological control;
d) Exercising the powers assigned to it by the
Decree-Law No. 9/2005 of 8 November;

e) Collaborate with the Information System department
in the collection of data and analysis of information
related to your area of ​competence;

e) Collaborate with the Department of Statistics and Information
Health organization in data collection and analysis of
surveillance-related information
epidemiological;

f) Exercising the other competences entrusted to him
by law or by superior decision.

f) Exercising other competences committed by law or
superior decision;

Article 41
Department of Non-Communicable and Mental Diseases
1. The Department of Non-Communicable Diseases, abbreviatednamed Dep.DNC is the DCD body
responsible for defining, policy and strategies for
prevention, control and fight against diseases
contagious diseases, chronic degenerative diseases, and management
of emergencies and natural disasters.
Series I, No. 30

Division II
Community Health Directorate
Article 43
assignments
1. The Directorate of Community Health, hereinafter referred to as DSC,
page 6720

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Page 24
Newspaper of the Republic
is the DNSP service responsible for defining the
health promotion and education policies, with
cial emphasis on the areas of nutrition, maternal diseases,
children, vaccination and environmental health.

c) Define health policies for nutrition;
d) Define strategies, protocols and programs related to
nutrition, prevention and control of Malnutrition;

2. It is incumbent upon the DSC, namely:

e) Coordinate, supervise and monitor implementation
from health programs to Nutrition;

a) Participate in the definition of the national promotion policy
and health education;

f) Provide technical support to the dietary services of the
Hospitals in the National Health Service;

b) Contribute to the definition of the national policy of
nutrition;

g) Promote healthy eating habits;

c) Develop, in consultation with other entities of the
Competent states and partners, the national strategy
to combat malnutrition;

h) Collaborate with the Department of Statistics and
Health information in data collection and analysis of
information related to your area of ​expertise;

d) Define policies for maternal and child health;

i) Exercising other competences committed by law or
superior decision;

e) Define strategies, programs and protocols related to
prevention and control of maternal and child diseases;

Article 46
Department of Maternal and Child Health

f) Promote family planning and reproductive health,
1. The Department of Maternal and Child Health, for short
designated Dep.SMI is the DSC body responsible for
definition of policies for maternal and child health.

g) Define strategies, programs and protocols related to
environmental health education, prevention and control
of diseases derived from the environment and the environment.
special attention to issues related to water and the
sanitation;

2. It is incumbent upon the Dep.SMI, namely:
a) Contribute to the definition of national policy for the
maternal and child health;

h) Contribute to the definition of environmental standards that
provide a good quality of life;

b) Define strategies, programs and protocols related to
prevention and control of maternal and child diseases,

i) Exercising other competences committed by law or
superior decision.

c) Promote family planning and reproductive health,
Article 44
Structure

d) Develop control and combat protocols
integrated with childhood diseases, with special emphasis on
for vaccination programs for children;

DSC comprises the following departments:
a) Department of Nutrition;
b) Department of Maternal and Child Health;
c) Department of Sanitary Surveillance and Environmental Health,
d) Department of Health Promotion and Education.

e) Provide technical support, supervise and monitor
the implementation of strategies, programs and
protocols for defending the health of mother and child;
f) Collaborate with the Department of Statistics and
Health information in data collection and analysis of
information related to your area of ​expertise;

Article 45
Department of Nutrition
1. The Department of Nutrition is the body of the DSC
responsible for defining health policies for
nutrition;

g) Exercising other competences committed by law or
superior decision.
Article 47
Department of Health Surveillance and Environmental Health

2. It is incumbent upon the Nutrition Department, namely:
a) Contribute to the definition of the national policy of
nutrition;

1. The Department of Health Surveillance and Environmental Health is
the DSC body, responsible for defining the
health policies for the environment and prevention and combat
diseases arising from adverse environmental conditions.

b) Develop in consultation with other entities of the
Competent states and partners the national strategy
to combat malnutrition;

2. It is incumbent upon the Health and Health Surveillance Department
Environmental:

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Series I, No. 30

Page 6721

Page 25
Newspaper of the Republic
a) Participate in the definition of policies for the environment
and basic sanitation;

implementation of the respective strategies, programs
and protocols at all levels of the National Service
of health;

b) Define strategies, programs and protocols related to
Environmental Health education, prevention and control
of diseases derived from the environment and the environment.
particular to issues related to water and sanitation;

d) Coordinate and supervise the implementation of the
school health program;

c) Contribute to the definition of environmental standards that
provide a good quality of life;

e) Coordinate the organization of national campaigns of
health promotion and education in thematic areas
specific;

d) monitoring the compliance with Decree-Law No the . 14/2005
of December 1, on health surveillance, by the
public entities and establish the mechanisms of
control;

f) Provide technical support to campaigns and/or
health promotion and education activities,
organized by the different bodies and services of the
Ministry of Health;

e) Define sanitary standards for housing, locations
public and work spaces, industrial or
trade and monitor compliance.

g) Collaborate with the Departments of Statistics and
Health and Health Surveillance Information and
Epidemiological, in data collection and analysis of
information related to your area of ​competence;

f) Provide technical support to survey teams,
health inquiries or investigations to be
carried out in accordance with the law;

h) Exercising other competences committed by law or
superior decision.

g) Provide technical support and supervise the
implementation of strategies, programs and protocols
adopted for environmental health at all levels.
the National Health System;

Subsection v
The National Directorate of Hospital Support and Services
Article 49
assignments

h) Participate in inspections, inquiries or investigations
carried out by the competent authorities, under the terms
of law;

1. The National Directorate of Hospital Support and Services,
abbreviated as DNASH, it is the service of
Support DGS in the definition, regulation, execution and
evaluation of the National Pharmaceutical Policy, of
medicines and medical equipment, as well as for
the clinical/hospital and patient referral areas.

i) Disseminate the adopted environmental standards;
j) Collaborate with the Department of Statistics and
Health information in data collection and analysis of
information related to your area of
competence;

2. It is incumbent upon DNASH:
a) In the Support area:
i. Define the national pharmaceutical policy;

h) Exercising other competences committed by law or
superior decision;

ii. Define the policy for medical equipment,
ensure the acquisition, availability,
maintenance, repair and management thereof;

Article 48
Department of Education and Health Promotion
1. The Department of Education and Health Promotion,
Abbreviatedly called Dep.EPS, is the body of the DSC,
responsible for defining policies and strategies for
education and health promotion.

iii. Participate in the definition of policy relating to production,
marketing, import, export, control
and consumption of medicines or other products
health as well as medical equipment;

2. It is incumbent upon Dep.EPS namely:

iv. Develop and propose technical installation rules and
operation of pharmaceutical establishments,
namely, manufacturers and wholesalers, pharmacies,
pharmaceutical services of hospitals and clinics,
public and private, as well as outlets
of medicines;

a) Define the national promotion and education policy
to health;
b) Define strategies, programs and protocols related to
health promotion and education, focusing on
modification of most common risk behaviors
and priority combat;

v. Ensure the necessary inspection activities
and inspection for the purposes of licensing
pharmaceutical establishments;

c) Provide technical support and supervise the
Series I, No. 30

Page 6722

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Page 26
Newspaper of the Republic
saw. Study and propose legal measures for the activity
pharmaceutical,

vii. Exercise other skills and attributions that
are committed by law or by superior decision.

vii.Elaborate and update the National List of
Medicines and ensure compliance;

Article 50
Structure

viii. Plan medication needs,
consumables and medical equipment for
meet the needs of the institutions of the
National Health Service;

1. DNASH is structured in:
a) Department of Pharmacy, Laboratory and Control of
Medicines;

ix. Ensure the quality of medicines;

b) Department of Hospital Support and Referralment;

x. Issue opinions on licensing processes
for pharmaceutical activities;

c) Medical Emergency Department;

xi. Organize and keep a database up to date
of pharmacies, medicine sales outlets,
pharmaceutical production laboratories, warehouses
of medicines and pharmaceuticals.

d) Department of Medical Equipment Management;
e) DNASH Secretariat.
Article 51
Department of Pharmacy, Laboratory and Control of
Medicines

xii. Ensure compliance with obligations
international activities undertaken within the scope of activities
pharmaceuticals, namely the protocols
relating to drugs and other substances
potentially toxic, narcotic and
psychotropic drugs.

1. The Department of Pharmacy, Laboratory and Control
Medicine, abbreviated as Dep.FLCM is the
DNASH body responsible for policy
pharmaceutical and laboratory as well as the provision
services by private health units.

xiii.Ensure the implementation of the maintenance policy
of technical facilities, hospitals through the
regulation, monitoring and coordination of
interventions in this area;

2. It is incumbent upon the FLCM Department:
a) Define the national policy for the pharmaceutical sector and
from clinical laboratories;

xiv.Exercising other skills and attributions that
conferred upon it by law or by a superhigher;

b) Define programs and protocols relating to use
rationale of medications as well as the standards of
efficient management of pharmaceutical products by
National Health Service;

b) In the area of ​Hospital Services and Referral
of Patients:
i. Define policy, regulate and monitor the
specific programs for the curative area;

c) Define the national network of clinical laboratories;
d) Licensing to private Import units,
storage, wholesale and export of
medicines, reagents and medical equipment;

ii. Support the development of policies and standards
techniques for providing hospital services and
referral of patients and monitor your
greeting;

e) Check the quality of medicines and reagents
produced or imported and the conditions of your
storage and distribution;

iii. Encourage continuous improvement in the quality of
clinic-hospital services;

f) Authorize the production, import and marketing of
medicines and reagents, as well as suspending or
revoke their authorizations;

iv. Ensure the functioning of the forwarding network.
between primary health care and
hospitals;

g) Provide technical support and supervise the implemention of the respective strategies, protocols and
standards defined for the pharmaceutical and laboratory areasrial, at all levels of the National Health Service;

v. Define management standards for the Service's hospitals
National Health;
saw. Design, establish and supervise the
establishment of a National Emergency Service
Doctor.

h) Prepare the drug classification proposal,
equipment and health products, define the
respective national lists, together with

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Series I, No. 30

Page 6723

Page 27
Newspaper of the Republic
relevant entities and carry out their periodic review;

emergency care for patient stabilization
before its proper referral to the Hospital;

i) Exercising other competences committed by law or
by superior decision.

d) Coordinate the provision of ambulance services to
high-ranking foreign entities visiting Timor-Leste;

Article 52
Department of Hospital Support and Referral

e) Collaborate with national and local entities
relevant, in the preparation of plans for situations of
emergency/disaster;

1. The Department of Hospital Support and Referral,
Abbreviatedly designated Dep.AHE is the body of
DNASH responsible for defining the provision policy
clinical care and patient referral.

f) Guide the coordinated action of health agents
in situations of catastrophe or calamity, integrating
the organization defined in the respective plans;

2. It is incumbent upon Dep.AHE namely:
g) Establish a communication system for the
medical emergency situations;

a) Define clinical protocols and technical standards for
provision of hospital care;

h) Ensure emergency transport services and/or
emergency of patients or injured, either through the
air, sea or land, within the scope of the Service
National Health;

b) Define the management support and control mechanisms
of the Hospitals of the National Health Service;
c) Supervise the operation of the Hospitals of the
National Health Service and propose to the Minister of
Welcome corrective measures to be taken;

i) Collaborate with the Statistics and System Department
Health information in data collection and analysis of
information related to your area of ​competence;

d) Exercise the powers of DNASH provided for in
Decree Law 9/2010, on medical assistance in
foreign;

j) Exercising other competences committed by law or
by superior decision.

e) Define the rules for the referral of enbetween the different levels of care provision.

Article 54
Medical Equipment Management Department

f) Collaborate with the Department of Statistics and System
Health information in data collection and analysis
within its area of ​competence;

1. Medical Equipment Management Department is the
DNASH body, responsible for defining the
Service's medical equipment policy and management
National Health;

g) Exercising other competences committed by law or
by superior decision.

2. It is incumbent upon the Equipment Management Department
Doctor, namely:

Article 53
Medical Emergency Department

a) Define the medical equipment policy for the
National Health Service;

1. The Medical Emergency Department is the body of the
DNASH responsible for the definition, organization,
coordination, participation and evaluation of activities and
functioning of a medical emergency system, capable
to ensure urgent or emergency medical care
throughout the national territory, as well as the transport of
injured or victims of sudden illnesses for the
health care institutions
appropriate.

b) Standardize medical equipment for the Service
National Health;
c) Define the rules and procedures for management,
maintenance and repair of medical equipment of the
National Health Service.
d) Provide technical support and monitor implementation.
tion of adopted norms and procedures;

2. It is incumbent upon the Medical Emergency Department:
e) Keep an up-to-date and extensive record of
medical equipment of the institutions of the Service
National Health;

a) Contribute to the definition of policies in the domains
emergency medical and emergency transport and/or
emergency and first aid;

f) Manage the medical equipment warehouses of the services
centrals of the Ministry of Health;

b) Develop clinical guidelines relating to
emergency medical activities;

g) Prepare plans for the acquisition of medical equipment
to the National Health Service;

c) Establish the minimum criteria for the provision of
Series I, No. 30

Page 6724

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Page 28
Newspaper of the Republic
h) Support the various entities of the National Service of
Health in equipment maintenance and repair
doctors;

health sector development;
b) Provide permanent legal advice to managers
of the MoH, namely in the elaboration and interpretation
of laws, regulations, agreements, contracts, conventions
and orders;

i) Ensure the functioning of a workshop and teams
maintenance furniture and equipment repair
doctors;
j)

c) Support the decision and formulation of sectoral policies,
ensuring its legal framework;

Collaborate with the statistics department and
health information in data collection and analysis of
information related to your area of ​expertise;

d) Ensure legal support for inspection, auditing
and inquiries conducted by the authorities.
authorities of the MoH;

k) Exercising other competences committed by law or
by superior decision;

e) Participate in the resolution of labor disputes in the MdS;
Article 55
DNASH Secretariat

f) Manage the files of related legislation and regulations
to the health sector and related areas;

1. The DNASH secretariat is the unit that ensures the management
of the working hours and technically and administratively support the
National Director.

g) Issue a legal opinion on proposals submitted to the
MdS, both by national and foreign entities;

2. It is incumbent upon the DNASH Secretariat, in particular:

h) Exercising any other competences
committed by law or by superior decision.

a) Ensure the administrative service of DNASH;
3. The GAJC works with the DGS and is led by a Chief
of Department.

b) Organize and coordinate the National Director's agenda;
c) Ensure the management of correspondence to and from the
National Director;

S UBSECTION VII
Protocol and Social Communication Office

d) Manage and ensure the conservation of all documentation
of DNASH;

Article 57
assignments
1. The Office of Protocol and Social Communication is an organization
of the DGS, responsible for the media at the level of the
MdS, ensures the protocol and reception services in the
central services.

e) Exercising the other competences assigned to him
by law or by superior decision.
3. The DNASH Secretariat works with the National Director.
and is headed by a Head of Section.

2. It is incumbent upon the Protocol and Social Communication Office
namely

Subsection VI
Legal and Litigation Support Office

a) Ensure the public relations of the MdS through
press conferences, regular issuance of
press releases, information leaflets and others related to
to the activities of the different bodies and services of the
OMG;

Article 56
assignments
1. The Legal and Litigation Support Office,
abbreviated as GAJC, is the body of the DGS,
whose mission is to support the central services and
MoH territorial areas in establishing a legal framework
coherent for the health sector, advise on the
legality of acts, contracts, conventions and
procedures, as well as participating in the training of
leaders and officials in the field of legislation and
regulations applicable to Public Administration in general
and to the health sector in particular.

b) Handle all travel documentation to the
foreigner, on a service mission (Passports, Visas,
tickets, allowances, permits, and
others) of the holders of management and leadership positions in the
MdS, as well as advisors and other workers;
c) Manage the reception, protocol, communication service;
d) Organize and coordinate the protocol aspects of the
official events in which the holders of the
MoH bodies and services;

2. It is incumbent upon the GAJC:
a) Propose to the DGS and coordinate the preparation of diplomas
laws and regulations, justified in their need,
opportunity and adequacy to the policies of

e) Ensure all institutional support to the cooperators in the
MdS service, namely in obtaining a visa
stay or work.

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Series I, No. 30

Page 6725

Page 29
Newspaper of the Republic
f) Coordinate media participation in events or
relevant activities of the MdS and of public interest;

3. The DGS Secretariat works with the Director General of
Health and is headed by a Head of Department.

g) Organize an effective communication system between the
MdS and civil society, using the means of
social communication more accessible to the population;

Subsection IX
Territorial Services
Article 59
Organic-Functional Structure

h) Ensure the internal circulation of information about the
agenda of the service departments, as well as the
related to publications made or sponsored
by MdS or its partners.

1. The territorial services of the MdS consist of 13
District Health Directorates operating in the
dependence on the Director General of Health;

i) Maintain a database on business trips to the
foreigner and presence of foreigners working
for the MdS;

2. The organic-functional structure of the District Directorates of
Health will be approved by Ministerial Diploma.

j) Exercising the other competences assigned to him
by law or by superior decision.

Chapter III
Final and Transitional Provisions

3. The Protocol and Media Office works
with the DGS and is headed by a Head of Department.

Article 60
Organizational structure of departments

Subsection VIII
General Directorate of Health Secretariat

1. Departments are organized into Units.

2. The definition of skills and profile of officers and
Article 58
other employees of the Units, the internal distribution
assignments
of tasks, as well as the planning of activities and their
respective budgeting, are the responsibility of the
1. The Secretariat of the General Directorate of Health is the service of the DGS head of department, and lack the approval of the Director.
which administratively supports the Director General of Health
General Health Department.
in the superintendence of the central and territorial services of
health, ensuring the management of the day and the entire
3. The Units may form a section whenever
documentation, organization and management of the work schedule
meet the requirements set out in the law.
of the DGS including organization of work meetings
with various entities and services.
Article 61
Management and Heads
2. It is incumbent upon the Secretariat of the General Directorate of Health,
cial:
The appointment for the positions of management and leadership provided for in the
This diploma is made in accordance with the law.
a) Ensure the administrative service of the DGS;
Article 62
b) Organize and coordinate the Director General's agenda;
Implementation
c) Ensure the dissemination of work orders, guidelines
and other information addressed to central services,
territorial and personalized or autonomous;

The present diploma enters into force on the day following its
Publication.

d) Ensure the management of correspondence to and from the
Director General of Health;

Dili, August 21, 2013

e) Ensure coordination between territorial services
and the DGS;

The Minister of Health

f) Manage and ensure the conservation of all documentation
of DGS;

Dr. Sergio GC Lobo. SpB

g) Involve all MdS bodies and services in the
preparation of periodical publications;

Annex: Organizational chart of the Directorate General of Health

h) Exercising any other competences
committed by law or by superior decision.

Series I, No. 30

Page 6726

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Page 30
Series I, No. 30

ORGANIC STRUCTURE GENERAL HEALTH DIRECTORATE
General Directorate of Health
Cabinet
Legal Support and

Secretariat of
General Directorate of
Health.

Wednesday,

National Directorate of
Planning, Policy and
Cooperation
Secretariat of
DNPPC

Protocol Cabinet
Social Communication

National Directorate of
Administration and

National Directorate of
Financial Management and

Human Resources

National Directorate of
Public health

Direction
Support and Services
Hospital

Provisioning

Secretariat of
DNARH

Secretariat of
DNGFA

Secretariat of
DNSP

APCPS Office

August 28th
DIRECTION OF

SERVICES
TERRITORIALS

DIRECTORATE OF

DIRECTION OF

MANAGEMENT

CONTROLDOEN
CAS

Human Resources

DIRECTION OF
HEALTH
COMMUNITY

of 2013
Department of
Planning and
Politics

Dept. of Administration
Central

Department of Statistics and
information from
Health

of the Personnel Management

Planning and
Management
Budget

Dept.
of Planning of
Human resources

Department of
Accounting and
Treasury

Page 6727

Department of
Contagious Diseases
s

Nutrition Department

Department of
Diseases I don't get

Department of
Maternal HealthInfa

Management Department of
Infrastructures

Medicines

wings and mentals

Support Department
and

ntil

s

Department of
Information Technology

Department of
Provisioning

Department of
Epidemi Surveillance

Cooperation Department

Surveillance sanitary

Promotion Department
and
health education

Internal control and
Management of
financial information

Page 31
Newspaper of the Republic
MINISTERIAL DIPLOMA No. 13/August 28
AMENDS THE MODELS OF CIVIL CONSTRUCTION SECTOR CERTIFICATES PROVIDED FOR IN THE DIMINISTERIAL PLOMA No. 3/MI/2011.
Taking into account the legal regime for certification and registration of civil construction companies and civil technical consultancy
approved by Decree-Law No. 27/2010, of December 22, which determines that the approval of certificate models are
approved by Ministerial Diploma;
Considering the provisions of no. 5 of article 7 of Decree-Law no. 27/2010, of 22 December;
The Government determines, by the Minister of Public Works, the following:
Article 1
Certificate Templates
1. The Certificate Models of the civil construction and civil technical consulting companies attached to this document are approved.
Ministerial Diploma and which are an integral part of it (Annex 1 and 2).
2. Ministerial Diploma nº3/MI/2011 and its annexes are revoked.
3. The Support Guide for Civil Construction and Civil Technical Consulting Companies is attached to this Diploma.
prepared under paragraph 4 of article 7 of Decree Law 27/2010 of 22 December (Annex 3).
Article 2
Implementation
This statute enters into force on the day following its publication in the Jornal da República.

publish yourself

The Minister of Public Works

Gastão Francisco de Sousa

Wednesday, August 28 , 2013

Department of
Environmental Health and
EmergencyM

logical
Department of

OMG

Series I, No. 30

Pharmacy Department
Lab. and Control

Logistics Department

Department of
Monitoring and
Assessment

Department of

Dept.

Page 6728

Management Dept.

Newspaper of the Republic

