Page 1

Newspaper of the Republic

Series I , No. 50

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

OFFICIAL PUBLICATION OF THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR - EAST

$3.75

first public establishment of technical education. The creation
of this Institute responds to the need to provide a greater
opportunity for higher education in areas essential for the
strengthening of the economy and progress of science and technology.

SUMMARY
GOVERNMENT :
Government Decree No. 18/2016 of December 29
Subsidy to the Members of the Installation Committee of the Polytechnic Institute of
Betane ..................................................... .............................................. 782
Decree-Law N. the

50 /2016 of December 28

First Amendment to Decree-Law No. 6/2005, of 14 September,
Timor-Leste Red Cross Recognition .....................................................................................................
Decree-Law No. 51 / 2016 of December 28
Advertising Message Licensing ..................................................................................................
Decree-Law No. 52 /2016 of December 28
New Legal Regime of Passports .................................................. .. 799
Government Resolution No. 45/2016 of 26 October
Approving the Treaty of Commercial Cooperation between the Government of the Republic
East Timor and the Government of the State of Kuwait .............. 809

MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS, TRANSPORT AND
COMMUNICATIONS (MOPTC):
Ministerial Diploma No. 73/GMOPTC/XI/2016 of 28 December
Structure of the Administrative Organization of the General Directorate of Electricity .... 813

MINISTRY OF TOURISM, ARTS AND CULTURE:
Ministerial Diploma No. 74/2016 of December 28

The creation of such an Institute, a specific program of the VI
Constitutional Government, needs a solid process and
effective to ensure its eventual success as
reference higher education institution in the country. Per
this was provided for in article 22 of the Decree-Law in question to
formation of an Installation Committee, responsible for
implement the preliminary structural steps for the effective
functioning of the Institute, including the preparation of the
curriculum programs, action plans and human resources,
between others.
It is now up to the Government to determine the value of the allocation of
subsidy to the members of the Installation Committee, valuing,
thus, their commitment and contribution to ensuring the
effective functioning of the IPB as early as 2017, such as
enshrined in number 5 of article 22. Decree-Law no. 45/
2016, November 9th.
Thus, the Government decrees, under the provisions of paragraph 5
of article 22 of Decree-Law No. 45/2016, of 9 November,
to be valid as a regulation, the following:

Extends the Period for Opening the Tender for Licensing the Exploration of
slot machines in Timor-Leste .................................................. ............. 818

Article 1
Object

NATIONAL OIL AND MINERALS AUTHORITY (ANPM):
REGULATION No. 2/2016, of December 28, 2016

This Decree establishes the amount of the subsidy to be awarded
to the members of the Installation Committee of the Polytechnic Institute
of Betano.

About
Marketing Activities ..................................................... .......... 819

Article 2
Beneficiaries
GOVERNMENT DECREE No. 18/2016
of December 29th
SUBSIDY TO COMMISSION MEMBERS
INSTALLER OF THE POLYTECHNICAL INSTITUTE OF
BETAN

1. Beneficiaries of the subsidy are civil servants or
public administration agent member of the Commission
Installer of the Polytechnic Institute of Betano appointed
by ministerial order, as provided for in paragraph 4
of article 22 of Decree-Law no. 45/2016, of 9 November.
2. The benefit is due upon the effective participation of the
member through:

Through the approval of Decree-Law No. 45/2016, of 9th of
In November, the Polytechnic Institute of Betano, the
Series I, No. 50

Page 2

a) The presence of at least 75% of the meetings of the
Installation Commission carried out;
Page 782

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
b) The effective performance of their functions in accordance
with the structure of the Installing Commission.

ATTACHMENT
Occupation

Value of
subsidy

Article 3
Subsidy amount

Presidency

USD 1050

1. The amount of subsidy to be awarded varies depending on the level of Deputy Presidency
responsibility of the member of the Installation Committee of
Secretariat Directorate
according to the structure of the Commission approved by
Ministerial Order of the Minister of Education.

USD 900

Deputy Directorate of Secretariat

USD 800

2. The subsidy amounts are provided in the annex, which makes
an integral part of this decree.

Area Coordination

USD 750

Technical Member

USD 600

USD 850

Article 4
Grant Frequency
The subsidy is paid to your beneficiary in a single facility,
when performing the functions for which he was appointed.
Article 5
Order Instruction
Decree-Law N. The 50/2016

1. The request for payment of the subsidy is instructed by the
central services with the competence to manage the
human resources of the Ministry of Education.
these inform the similar services of entities
relevant public bodies when their
employees as a member of the Installation Committee.

of December 28th
FIRST AMENDMENT TO DECREE-LAW No. 6/2005,
OF SEPTEMBER 14, RECOGNITION OF
EAST TIMOR RED CROSS

2. The request is accompanied by a copy of the Ministerial Order
which determines the structure and appointment of members of the
Installation Commission, as well as documentation
evidence of the requirements set forth in paragraph 2 of the
article 2 of this decree.

Decree-Law No. 6/2005 of 14 September recognized the Cross
Timor-Leste Office (CVTL) as a legal person of
private law and public utility, recognizing the importance
of its mission of humanitarian assistance and support to the
public authorities and government institutions in the management of
disasters.

Article 6
Implementation

It is in this context and within the scope of CVTL's objectives, of
prevention and relief of human suffering, assistance
humanitarian and protection of human life and health, which arises.
the need for this legislative amendment, allowing the
existence of a legal framework that guides the support that the
Government grants to CVTL, within the scope of availability
annual financial and fiscal policy framework in force.

The present diploma enters into force on the day following its
Publication.

Approved by the Council of Ministers on December 20,
2016.

Publish yourself.

Thus,

The Prime Minister,

The Government decrees, under the terms of subparagraph e) of paragraph 1, of article
115 of the Constitution of the Republic, to be valid as law, the
Following:
Article 1
Addendum

___________________
Dr. Rui Maria de Araújo

Article 7-A is added to Decree-Law No. 6/2005, of 14th of
September, with the following wording:
"Article 7-A
State support

The Minister of Education,

1. The Government grants to CVTL, under the terms of the law and in accordance with
your financial availability, a contribution
annual financial support for its activities.

___________________
António da Conceição
Series I, No. 50

Page 3

Page 783

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
2. The Government's support to CVTL is reflected, namely in:
a) Support for the development of CVTL's activities
as a humanitarian institution;
b) Support for cooperation between CVTL and the departments
government agencies and other bodies and institutions of the
State;
c) Support to humanitarian assistance actions, relief of
human suffering and protection of life and health
human beings. ”
Article 2
Implementation
The present diploma enters into force on the day following its
Publication.
Approved by the Council of Ministers on 15 November 2016.

The Prime Minister,

economic, or as an instrument to promote the
competition or even as a cultural instrument.
In this sense, the protection of the public interest to safeguard
determines, that the conditionings to the
licensing and establish the reasons for rejecting the application
licensing or license renewal.
In the Municipality of Dili and in other Municipalities,
verified a sharp increase in advertising activity in the
recent years, both in terms of supports and the number of
competition from companies operating in this market.
the definition of a normative discipline of advertising activity
with regard to the posting and registration of advertising media.
Decree-Law No. 51/2011, of December 21st, which establishes
the Legal Regime of Advertising Activities, on the one hand,
reveals itself incomplete in relation to the advertising issues that
in the last four years, given the growth of activities
economic and the demands of coexistence between
consumers and the various services has been happening, and
on the other hand, it is silent with regard to the
advertising message licensing process.
Hence, it is imperative, through this legislation, to update
and harmonize the existing legal discipline in matters of
advertising, giving legal coverage to the appearance of new
forms of advertising and support for posting or registering
advertising messages, detailing your process of
licensing.

____________________
Dr. Rui Maria de Araújo

The Minister of Social Solidarity,

In short, this Decree-Law comes to legislate for the first time on
the advertising message licensing process, which
so far they have grown in a disorganized way and without any
guidance.

____________________
Isabel Amaral Guterres

Enacted on 14 . 12 . 2016
Thus, the Government decrees, pursuant to paragraph d) of article
116 of the Constitution of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste,
to be valid as law, the following:

Publish yourself.

CHAPTER I
SCOPE

The President of the Republic,
________________
Taur Matan Ruak

Article 1
Object
1. This Diploma establishes the conditions and criteria
which are subject to the posting or inscription of messages
advertisements aimed and visible from the public space and the
occupation of this with advertising media.
2. The advertising message licensing process
governed by this law.

DECREE-LAW No. 51 /2016
of December 28th

Article 2
Scope of application

LICENSING OF ADVERTISING MESSAGES
1. This Diploma applies to any form of advertising of
commercial nature, regardless of the medium used.
for its diffusion, when visible or perceptible from space
public.

Preamble
Advertising assumes, nowadays, an importance and a prominence
significant, either as an instrument of the activity
Series I, No. 50

Page 4

2. Except as provided in the previous number:

Page 784

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
a) The words that result from legal imposition, namelytraffic signs;

c) Institutional or humanitarian advertising: when the
objective is to incite people to take actions that say
respect for the well-being of the community (campaign of
accident prevention, disease prevention, actions
of solidarity) and carried out by the bodies of the
Direct or indirect administration of the State;

b) Notices, notifications and other forms of information
that relate, directly or indirectly, to the
compliance with legal requirements or with the use
of public services;

d) Public space: all use spaces
collective that include streets and circulation routes;

c) The indication of brands, prices or quality,
placed on items for sale inside the
establishments and marketed in them;

e) Private space: are the spaces of use
exclusively private, inserted in walled areas
or prohibited by their owners and/or beneficiaries;

d) Shop windows with access only from the interior of the
establishments and that do not open onto the public highway;

f) Public road: roads, avenues, streets, squares, park,
gardens, squares and all the other places where
freely circulate pedestrians, cars and others
vehicles;

e) Badges of any nature intended to indicate
that in the establishments where they are placed, if
grant perks inherent in the use of systems
of debit, credit or the like, created with the
in order to facilitate payment for services;

g) Occupation of public space: any implementation,
occupation, diffusion, installation, posting, of furniture
urban, advertising media or other means of
use of public space, on the ground, air space,
building facades and gables;

f) Advertisements placed or posted in urban buildings
or rustic with the simple mention of "for sale" or
"For rent";
g) The identification of public bodies and institutions.
social solidarity organizations based in the area of
respective Municipalities;

h) Public air space: the upper air layers
to the public space on the ground, being its limits
defined by a vertical and perpendicular line
at the same;

h) The dissemination of press releases, unofficial notes or others
clarifications on the activity of bodies of
sovereignty and central or local administration;

i) Urban equipment: set of installed elements
in the public space with the specific function of ensuring
the management of urban structures and systems, namely,
road signage, traffic lights, vertical, horizontal
and informative directional lighting lamps
public, technical cabinets, metal guards and pillars;

i) Nameplates that contain only the names
of places of worship;
j) The plates that identify the location of the representative
diplomatic agencies accredited in Timor-Leste, the
representatives of the UN and its bodies or agencies
and non-governmental organizations;

j) Street furniture: all installed equipment,
designed or supported in public space that allows
a use, provide a service or support an activity,
namely kiosks, benches, tables and shelters
of public public transport and its components,
visors, awnings, among others;

k) Political Advertising: all activity aimed directly at
or indirectly promote candidacies, either from the
candidates, political parties, holders of
its bodies or its agents, namely the
publication of texts or images that express or
reproduce the content of that activity.

k) Advertising support: medium used for transmission
of the advertising message, namely the panel, mupi,
light or not, electric, electronic, sign,
mast, flag, board, visor, band, pennant, poster,
awning, signs, plate, director, poster and pamphlet;

Article 3
Definitions
1. For the purposes of this statute, the following definitions apply:

l) Electronic advertisement: advertising support constituted
by a computerized system for issuing
messages and images or with the possibility of linking
to television and video circuits;

a) Advertising: any form of communication made in the
scope of an economic activity (commercial,
industrial, artisanal or liberal), with the direct objective
or indirect to promote the commercialization or alienation
of any goods or services, including rights and
obligations, as well as any form of communication
aimed at promoting ideas, principles, initiatives or
institutions, which are not political in nature;

m) Bright Ad: All advertising support that
emit its own light;
n) Illuminated Ad: All advertising support about
which is intentionally focused on a source of
light;

b) Outdoor advertising: all forms of communication
advertising provided for in the previous paragraph when visible
or noticeable from the public space;
Series I, No. 50

Page 5

o) Advertising installed on ground floors: to which it refers
Page 785

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
to the advertising devices installed at the level of the
j) Poster: all advertising message inscribed on paper, canvas
entrance to the buildings and in the windows of the establishments. or plastic for posting, glued or otherwise affixed
commercial resources;
directly in a shop window or in a place suitable for the purpose
and bordering the public road;
p) Gable: side wall of a building, without openings;
k) Mobile advertising units: motor vehicles and
other means of locomotion used to exercise the
advertising activity;

q) Mobile advertising: referring to devices
advertisers installed, registered or posted on
land, sea, river or air vehicles and their
trailers;

l) Sound advertising: all forms of sound diffusion with
commercial purposes, emitted in the public space and audible from it and
noticeable;

r) Advertising affects street furniture: advertising in
self-support, designed to be installed on parts
of urban furniture or equipment, existing in the
public space, managed and/or belonging to the
County;

m) Pamphlet: printed that is folded for ease of
transport and accommodation and that unfolds for consultation;

s) Complaint: advertising made in any way, advertisement
to an establishment, product or brand.
Article 4
Forms of Advertising Dissemination

n) Blimp, Balloon, Zepplin, Inflatables and similar: all
supports that, for their exposure in the air, lack gas,
the connection to the ground can be established by elements
of fixation;
o) Street advertising campaigns: all means or forms
advertising, occasional and ephemeral, which
involve street actions and direct contact with the public;

They are forms of advertising dissemination, namely:
a) Panel or "Outdoor" : support consisting of frame and
respective structure fixed directly to the ground, wall or
wall, which can be static or rotating, manual or
electronic;

p) Advertising with scope directional indicators
commercial: signs indicative of commerce, industry or
services with individualization of the activity or person
concerned.

b) Mupi: type of street furniture for advertising,
equipped with interior lighting, and may, in some cases,
contain information and support the posting of posters
institutional or commercial advertising;

Article 5
General rules
1. When designing advertising media, you should choose
a design characterized by flat shapes, without elements
sharp or sharp, made of materials
impact resistant, non-flammable or corrosive and,
when applicable, a watertight lighting system and
inaccessible to the public.

c) Director: piece of urban furniture, single or double-sided,
with support structure fixed directly to the ground, no
luminous, designed to support up to three arrows
directional;
d) Flag: advertising support, attached to a pole, pole or
lamp and which presents as a characteristic form the
figure of a square or rectangle;

2. Advertising media with a horizontal dimension of less than
4m should, whenever possible, have a single element
of attachment to the ground.

e) Flag: oscillating advertising support affixed to
pole or lamp;
f) Banners or "Banners" : advertising message supports,
inscribed on canvas or plastic detached from the building facade
or from public lighting poles;
g) Pala: advertising support with a predominance of dimension
horizontal, fixed to the walls of the buildings and which works as
support for displaying and registering advertising images;

3. Anti-reflective glass should preferably be used
and lackluster materials in advertising media so
not to cause the chain of drivers and pedestrians.
4. Advertising supports with their own lighting must
preferably have a lighting system
economic, namely photovoltaic panels with
use of solar energy, in order to promote the
rational use of energy and minimization of impacts
associated environmental

h) Awning: all removable cover that serves to shelter the
5. The installation of an advertising medium must respect the
sun or rain, applicable to doorways, windows,
following conditions:
shop windows and facades of commercial establishments and where
a) On a sidewalk with a width greater than 1.20m: leave one
advertising messages are registered;
space equal to or greater than 0.80m in relation to the limit
i) Plate / Signboard: support applied to the wall, usually
outside of the sidewalk;
used to advertise offices, doctors' offices,
b) On a sidewalk with a width of less than 1.20m: leave one
restaurants or other similar activities;
Series I, No. 50

Page 6

Page 786

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
space equal to or greater than 0.50m in relation to the limit
outside the sidewalk.

g) Do not impair the visibility of toponymic plates,
traffic lights, traffic signs and informational signs;

Article 6
Advertising Operators

h) No layouts, formats or colors
likely to be confused with the elements of paragraph
previous;

1. The advertising operators are:
i) Not harm or hinder the circulation of vehicles from
relief and emergency;

a) The owner of the advertising;
b) Companies that are dedicated to providing the service of
advertising or advertising agencies, under the terms
of article 2 of Decree-Law no. 51/20011, of 21st of
December.

j) Do not harm public lighting;
k) Do not harm green spaces;
l) Not harm the health of public spaces;

2. For the purposes of paragraph a) of the previous number,
is considered advertising owner any person
to organize advertising activities on its behalf and in
your benefit.

m) Do not hinder access, in any way, to buildings;
n) Do not cause noise beyond the normal hours of
functioning of the civil service.

3. For the purposes of paragraph b) of the previous number,
considers itself as a company dedicated to providing
public services the economic and social unit, which
integrates human, material and technical elements, which have
the objective to obtain utilities through its
advertising market share.

Article 8
Previous Licensing
1. The posting or inscription of advertising messages on goods
or spaces related to public use or visible to them,
is subject to prior licensing by the Administration
Municipal or Municipal Authority.

4. Companies that are dedicated to providing the service of
advertising or advertising agencies must be licensed
for the exercise of its activity under the terms of the law.

2. In order to safeguard the aesthetic quality and integration
architecture of advertising in buildings and space
public, projects must be submitted for approval.
prior notice of the competent services of the municipality.

CHAPTER II
LICENSING
SECTION I
General Provisions

3. Except for the provisions of number 1, specific events
organized by the Municipal Administration or by the
Municipal Authority or supported by it, with character
provisional, whose creativity and originality can be
considered as an enhancing element for the building and/
or to the surrounding urban landscape, namely
“ graffiti ” type interventions not being so
considered advertising interventions, provided that
expressly safeguarded by decision of the
Municipal Administration or Municipal Authority.

Article 7
Licensing Criteria
1. The criteria for licensing commercial advertising
should aim for the following:
a) Do not obstruct panoramic perspectives
or affect the aesthetics or ambience of places or
landscape;

Article 9
Precariousness of Licenses

b) Not harm the beauty or framing of
national monuments, buildings of public interest
or others likely to be classified by the
public entities;

When space reordering imperatives,
namely the execution of works, poor state of
conservation of buildings or other manifest works
public interest so justifies it, may be ordered by
Municipal Administration or by the Municipal Authority, the
removal of equipment and advertising media or its
transfer to another location.

c) Not cause damage to third parties;
d) Not affect the safety of people or things,
namely in road traffic;

Article 10
Exclusive Concession

e) Do not present layouts, formats or colors that
may be confused with those of traffic signs;

1. The Municipal Administration or the Municipal Authority
may grant, for a period not exceeding 5 years,
through public tender and in well-defined locations

f) Not harm the movement of pedestrians, namely
of the disabled;
Series I, No. 50

Page 7

Page 787

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
and previously approved by the Minister responsible for this
Article 13
article, exclusive of advertising exploration in
Prohibition
certain elements of street furniture, in particular.
local publications of the Municipality and in advertising media already
Without
there prejudice to the provisions of the previous articles, it is prohibited:
installed, according to the mapping done by this and
approved by the competent Ministry.
a) Advertising through inscriptions or mural paintings of
advertising character in national monuments, buildings
2. The rules for public tenders are defined by the Ministry.
religious, headquarters of the organ of sovereignty, be this carried out
river of the State Administration.
on walls or public buildings whether on walls or buildings
private;
3. The value arising from the award is deposited in an account
own, under the terms of the law.
b) Advertising through inscriptions or character paintings
advertising on traffic signs, electricity poles,
4. When granting exclusive exploration,
road and outdoor signposts of any
namely, the aesthetic adequacy of the support.
offices or public buildings;
advertising to the surrounding area and the counterparts for the
County.
c) Advertising carried out inside or outside of
any public buildings;
5. In case of non-renewal of the license and the deadline for
its removal, advertising supports or structures
d) The use of pamphlets or similar designed means
where they are installed, revert to the
or launched by land or air means.
Municipal Administration or for the Municipal Authority
at no cost.
Article 14
Licensing conditions
Article 11
Choosing locations for certain forms of advertising
Advertising broadcast cannot be licensed whenever
place:
1. The places where the broadcast of messages is allowed
advertising, through panels or billboards , billboards and
a) At traffic signals, traffic lights and central dividers;
of banners or banners, are identified by order
the President of the Municipal Authority or the
b) On roundabout signs, with the exception of situations in
Municipal administration that has territorial competence
that this is in return for its treatment and beautification.
about those places.
ment;
2. The order provided for in the previous number is subject to
c) In containers or other storage containers of
prior favorable opinion of the Director General of the Organization
urban solid waste and transformation stations for
Urban.
energy.
3. The opinion provided for in the previous number is mandatory and
binding.
Article 12
Responsibility of Assembly and Installation Companies
1. The companies supplying and assembling supports
advertisements to be installed in public and private space, only
must provide the service after the license has been issued or
authorization from the Ministry responsible for this matter.

Article 15
Advertising on public roads outside urban areas
1. Without prejudice to the provisions of the previous article, publicity
to be posted or inscribed on roads or in the vicinity of roads
outside urban areas, must comply with a
minimum distance of 6m from the berm.
2. You may exempt yourself from the conditioning provided for in paragraph
previous, advertising of cultural and tourist interest.

2. These companies are responsible for the damages that support it.
can provoke third parties, when they result
of its fall due to a faulty assembly.

Article 16
Sound advertising

1. It is allowed to carry out sound advertising activities:
3. In view of the provisions of paragraph 2, the Municipal Administration or the
Municipal authority may require insurance from
a) Between 8:00 am and 5:30 pm, when the same
civil responsability.
take place on working days;
4. The assembly of advertising media can only be carried out
in locations previously defined by the Administration
Municipal or Municipal Authority.

b) Between 10:00 am and 6:00 pm when the same
take place on non-working days.
2. It is prohibited to carry out sound advertising activities,
within a radius of fifty meters around:

Series I, No. 50

Page 8

Page 788

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
a) Hospitals;

c) The initial application must be accompanied by a
certified copy of the license to exercise the
commercial activity issued by the competent Ministry.

b) Health Centers or Posts;
c) Educational establishments;

2. The application for a license to broadcast advertising through
of means or supports, in addition to the provisions of paragraph 1, obeys
still to the following:

d) Buildings where services are installed
public;

a) Licensing for the dissemination of advertising through
of means or supports that, by themselves, require a license.
ment or authorization for civil construction works,
must be cumulatively required, pursuant to the
applicable law;

e) Buildings where delegations or
representations of international organizations, missions
diplomatic offices or consular posts.
Article 17
Advertising in Election Campaign

b) In non-compliance with the provisions of the previous number, the
Municipal Administration or the Authority
Municipal after notifying the offender for this purpose, it is
competent to order the removal of messages
and to embargo or demolish the works at the expense of the
offender and, if he/she understands, make the supports,
being exempt from indemnification.

During electoral campaign periods, the Municipality may place
available to competing forces, spaces especially
intended for displaying your advertisement.
Article 18
Advertising message content

3. The request for a license to occupy the public space and
private with advertising media complies with the following:

Without prejudice to the provisions of this diploma, the content
of the advertising message must strictly comply with the
provisions of the Legal Regime of Advertising Activities
approved by Decree-Law No. 51/2011, of 21 December.

a) Initial application addressed to the Administrator
Municipal or the President of the Municipal Authority;

Article 19
Orthography

b) The initial application must be submitted at least
30 days before the start of the deadline for the
civil construction works;

1. All forms of advertising dissemination must be of
preference in Tetum or Portuguese and the terms in
foreign language, should, whenever possible, be
accompanied by translation into any of the languages
officers.

c) Occupation of public space can only be done in
locations in the Municipality previously defined by the
Municipal Administration or by the Authority
Municipal, pursuant to article 11;

2. The inclusion of foreign words and expressions can be
authorized in the following situations:

d) For places reserved by the Municipal Administration
or by the Municipal Authority to be occupied
with advertising media, a contest is held
public to which all interested parties can apply.

a) In the case of registered trademarks or names
of firms;

Article 21
mandatory elements

b) When it comes to names of extras or titles
of cinematographic, theatrical and variety shows.
sports or sports.

1. The application must contain:

SECTION II
Licensing Process

a) The name or company name of the applicant
depending on whether it is a legal person or an entrepreneur in
individual name, tax identification and residence or
the applicant's seat and the indication of the quality in which
requires license;

Article 20
initial application
1. The request for a license to broadcast advertising, obeys
to the following:

b) The license to carry out the activity, issued by the
Competent Ministry;

a) The license for advertising broadcast depends on
initial application addressed to the Administrator
Municipal or the President of the Municipal Authority;

c) The exact indication of the place and the means or support to
use;
d) The intended period of use;

b) The initial application must be submitted at least
15 days before the start of the desired period;
Series I, No. 50

Page 9

e) Name of the commercial establishment, when applicable;
Page 789

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
f) Field of activity performed.

diary of the beginning and end of advertising and map of
location of the place from which it is issued;

2. The application must include:
e) For banner advertising: description or scheme
of the flag;

a) Descriptive memory with indication of materials, forms
and colors;

f) Street advertising campaign: model of the pamphlet or
product to promote and design of support equipment,
short description of the campaign; number of participants
and how to identify them.

b) Color photographs indicating the planned location for the
posting;
c) Photomontage clarifying what was intended regarding the
posting of the advertising medium, presented in
A4 size paper support;
d) Other elements that the applicant considers
suitable to complement the previous ones and
clarify what is intended.

2. The Ministry of State Administration prepares the formats
to be used in the licensing process in order to facilitate
the implementation of this process by the
Municipal Administrations or Municipal Authorities.
Article 23
binding opinions

3. When the intended location is located in an area that
oblige the consultation of entities outside the Municipality,
namely in the context of cultural heritage, of the network.
national road, the elements referred to in paragraph
above must be delivered in a number plus
how many external entities to consult.
4. Other documents that each case specifically requires.
5. The licensing request must also be accompanied by
document proving that the applicant is
owner or holder of the right he invokes over the
asset or goods where you want to post, register or disseminate the
advertising message.

1. It is incumbent upon the Municipal Administration or the Authority
Municipal promote, within 20 days of the date
upon receipt of the application, the consultation of entities with
jurisdiction in the places where the advertising message will be
posted or inscribed.
2. The entities consulted must, within 30 days,
from the date of receipt of the case, pronounce itself
exclusively within the scope of its competences.
3. The opinions of the consulted entities will be binding,
without prejudice to any special provisions.
Article 24
leave period

Article 22
Specific elements
1. In the context of advertising, without prejudice to the aforementioned
previous article, should still be attached to the process:
a) For advertising with relative temporary posters
to events: declaration of the promoting entity in which the
undertakes within 5 working days after the
event, to remove advertising;

1. Licenses are issued for the corresponding maximum period
to the period of time until the end of the calendar year in
course, and may be issued for a shorter period, upon request
of the applicant.
2. License renewal takes place during the month of January
of each calendar year, and the respective payment must be
carried out during that month.

b) For advertising displayed in private vehicles, from
3. The license renews automatically and successively by
company and collective transport: design of the medium or
successive periods of one year, as long as the interested
support, indicating the shape and dimensions of the
pay the respective fee, within the term of the license
registration or posting; color photograph of the vehicle(s)
existing, unless:
with assembly of the graphics to be placed and with the registration number
legible, affixed to A4 sheet; photocopy of the booklet of
a) The Municipal Administration or the Municipal Authority
vehicle; statement from the vehicle owner, when
notify the holder of decision in writing in writing
do not be the one to submit the request, authorizing the
contrary and at least 30 days in advance
advertising placement;
the end of the respective period;
c) For advertising displayed on air transport: plan
of the aircraft's flight and declaration, under the commitment of
b) The holder communicates in writing to the Administration
honor, that the advertising action does not contend with
Municipal or Municipal Authority intention
areas subject to military or aeronautical easements,
contrary and at least 30 days in advance;
prior and express authorization of the rights holders
or jurisdiction over the spaces where you want your
c) Upon death, declaration of insolvency, bankruptcy or other
installation;
form of extinction of the holder entity.
d) For sonorous advertising on public roads: timetable
Series I, No. 50

Page 790

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 10

Article 25
Order decision

a) When the fees due, provided for
in article 34;

The Municipal Administration or Municipal Authority decides
about the licensing request, within 15 days of:

b) When no changes are intended
to the object of licensing.

a) The date of delivery of the initial application and all
documents referred to in article 20;

3. By changing ownership, the new owner is authorized,
after payment of the respective fee, to enjoy the advertising
in question until the end of the period of duration of the license to which
the previous holder was authorized.

b) From the date of receipt of the opinions issued by the entities
consulted.

Article 29
Counterparts for the Municipality

Article 26
decision notification

Licensing of advertising media may determine the
reservation of some advertising space or spaces, until the
maximum 20% for broadcasting messages relating to
activities of the Municipality or others supported by it, free from
any charges on the part thereof.

The decision on the licensing request is notified by
written to the applicant within eight days of the decision.
Final.
Article 27
deferral

Article 30
Cumulative Licensing

1. In case of deferral, the notification of the decision must
include an indication of the location, the deadline for the survey
license and the amount of the respective fee.

1. In cases where the dissemination of advertising requires execution
of civil works subject to license or
authorization, these must be requested cumulatively,
under applicable law.

2. The authorization granted expires if the liand pay the fee within the specified period.

2. The Municipal Administration or the Municipal Authority,
upon failure to notify the removal of
advertising messages not licensed under the
this law, may proceed with the embargo or demolition of the
works, always at the expense of whoever gave them cause.

3. The license must always specify the obligations and conditions
to be fulfilled by the holder, namely:
a) Duration period;
b) Deadline for communicating non-renewal;

Article 31
Revocation

c) Order number assigned to the medium or support, which
must be affixed to it, together with the number.
the license and identity of the holder;

The license for posting or posting messages
advertising can be revoked whenever:

d) Obligation to maintain the medium or support in good
conditions of conservation, functioning and
safety.

a) Exceptional situations of overriding public interest like this
require it;
b) Its holder does not comply with legal and regulatory standards
to which it is subject or any obligations to which it has
linked in licensing.

4. The license holder may only exercise his rights.
conferred by licensing after payment of the
rate referred to in Article 34.

Article 32
Rejection

5. The Municipal Administration or the Municipal Authority
can reasonably condition the lifting of the
license, upon presentation of the insurance contract of
civil liability of adequate value, in situations
that justify it.

The licensing request may be rejected based on
any of the following grounds:
a) Disrespect for legal norms in force at the time;

Article 28
Change of License Ownership

b) Violation of the limits provided for in articles 12, 13 and 14 or
the conditions established in chapter V of this diploma,
for advertising media;

1. The use of the advertising license is valid for your
holder.

c) Failure to join the documents referred to in the articles
58th, 62nd and 67th;

2. Change of ownership does not require a license and depends on the
respective annotation, being authorized only in the following
conditions:
Series I, No. 50

Page 11

d) For reasons of relevant public interest;
Page 791

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
e) When the applicant has debts with the Municipality in the
area of ​advertising activity.

Article 35
Payment

Article 33
General Duties of the Holder
The holder of the advertising license is bound by the following
obligations:

Advertising fees are paid by the owner of the
advertising as well as companies dedicated to providing
the advertising service or advertising agencies, in the
pursuant to Article 6.
Article 36
Rental Value for Advertising (VAP)

a) Do not tamper with the elements such as
approved;

1. The calculation basis to determine the amount of the advertising fee.
ity is what we call VAP.

b) Do not transfer the license to others, unless the
authorized ownership;

2. The VAP referred to in the previous number is calculated based on
account the following factors:

c) Remove the message and its support immediately
at the end of the license term, if there is no renewal;

a) Form of advertising;
d) Reset the existing situation at the site, at your expense, as if
was at the date of installation of the support, posting or
registration of the advertising message or use with the
advertising event, after the license term expires;

b) Materials used;
c) Place of placement (Avenue, Street, Traverse, Road,
Alley);

e) Have always placed in a place visible to inspection, the
advertising licenses;

d) Duration of advertising (days);

f) Preserve media, other advertising media and
surrounding spaces, within the standards of the best
presentation, hygiene, storage and state of conservation;

e) The number of advertising messages or supports
advertising;
f) The dimension of the forms of advertising dissemination.

g) When the approved advertising implies the performance of
works on sidewalks or other public spaces, is from the
responsibility of the license holder for the proper execution of the
finishes with the existing floors, as well as when
the expiry of the respective licenses, the reinstatement of the
same in the state prior to the placement of the means or
advertising media.
CHAPTER IV
FEES

Article 37
Result of VAP calculations
1. The VAP for advertising broadcast forms is calculated
taking into account the factors referred to in subparagraph a) of paragraph 2 of the
article 36.
2. The results of the VAP calculation for the forms of diffusion
of advertising such as Panels or “Outdoors” and Múpi are
the following:

Article 34
Fees

dimension of
posting location

publicity

Time course

1st avenue

1 M2

1 day

$5.00

2 street

1 M2

1 day

$4.00

3 platter

1 M2

1 day

$3.00

4 road

1 M2

1 day

$3.00

5 alley

1 M2

1 day

$2.00

At the.

1. Advertising licenses or their renewal are due
the fees contained in the annex to this diploma and that
they are an integral part.

VAP (US$)

2. Fees are paid upon approval of the request for
3. The results of the VAP calculation for the diffusion forms
licensing or license renewal. The payment
advertising such as Banners or Banners, Flag,
of the value of fees in the licensing regime is made
Flag, Direction, Plate/Signboard, Overhead, Awning and
upon withdrawal of the license or, in the case of
renewal, within the period established for the purpose under penalty of similar are as follows:
expiry of the respective right.
3. Fees are paid upon withdrawal of the license
or the registration of the renewal and are a condition of its
efficiency.
4. Payment of fees is made by deposit in a bank account
open under the law.
Series I, No. 50

Page 12

The result of calculating the Advertising Rental Value (VAP)

Place of

Dimension

Quantity of

posting

(M2)

publications

time course

Avenue

1 m2

1 unit

1 day

$2.00

Road

1 m2

1 unit

1 day

$1.50

platter

1 m2

1 unit

1 day

$1.00

Road

1 m2

1 unit

1 day

$1.00

Alley

1 m2

1 unit

1 day

$0.50

VAP (US$)

Page 792

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
4. The example of the VAP calculation is attached to this
diploma and is an integral part of it.
Article 38
Result of VAP calculation for other forms of diffusion of
publicity
1. Advertising through posters: USD 0.10 / m2 (ten
cents per square meter) and with the minimum number of
posters totaling at least $500.00
(five hundred US dollars) per license.
2. Advertising through flyers: USD 0.05 / sheet (five
cents per sheet) and with the minimum number of pamphlets
totaling at least USD 50.00 (fifty
dollars) per license.
3. Mobile advertising -Mobile advertising units: USD0.50/
m2/day (fifty cents per square meter per day).

CHAPTER V
ADVERTISING SUPPORT
SECTION I
Panels and Billboards
Article 41
Placing
1. Panels and billboards must be placed in such a way that they do not
constitute a disturbing element to road users
public.
2. Licensing the occupation or use of public space
by panels is preceded by a public tender for
allocation of locations for their installation.
3. The panels must be placed at a height greater than
2.20m counted from the ground and always level.

4. Advertising in the air -Blimp, Balloon, Zepplin, Inflatables and
similar: USD200.00 (two hundred US dollars) per
each demo. It cannot last longer than one
month.

4. Panels cannot be arranged in continuous band,
leaving free spaces of equal size between them
or greater than the length of panels required.

5. Sound advertising: USD0.20/15 seconds (Twenty cents
for fifteen seconds of time). Less than 15 (fifteen) is
considering 15 seconds.

5. The support structure of the panels must be metallic and in the
color that best integrates with the surroundings, not being able to, in
in no case, remain in place without message.

6. Demo advertising: USD40.00 (forty dollars)
for each demo campaign.
7. The example of the VAP calculation is attached to this
diploma and is an integral part of it.
Article 39
The fee

6. Given the specificity of the urban space in the center of
city, the attribution and choice of the places of the mupis in this
geographical area is only allowed, on an exceptional basis,
considering the environment and aesthetics of the respective locations,
safeguarding its good integration.
7. The shapes and dimensions of the billboards are approved by the
competent ministry

1. The amount of the fee to be charged by the Municipality is 25% (twenty and
8. The panel cannot be located on roundabouts, separators from
five per cent).
car traffic, nor can its support interfere with
2. The amount of the fee to be charged for advertising alcoholic beverages public or private buildings, namely through
cutting them or cutting them in any way
is 50% (fifty percent).
Article 40
Formula for calculating advertising rate
1. The amount of the fee to be paid by taxpayers is obtained
multiplying the advertising fee by the value of the VAP
of every form of advertising.
2. The calculation of the fee to be charged by the State for forms of
advertising referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 of article 37 below
the following formula:
Rate value x VAP x period x dimension = rate value of
advertising to be charged by the state

9. When installed on building gables, the panel must
be attached directly to the gable.
Article 42
dimensions
The panels or " billboards " must have the following dimensions
maximums:
a) 12 meters wide by 6 meters high;
b) 10 meters wide and 7 meters high;
c) 9 meters wide and 3 meters high;

3. The calculation of the fee to be charged by the State for forms of
advertising referred to in article 38 follows the following
formula:

d) 8 meters wide by 4 meters high;
e) 6 meters wide by 3 meters high;

Rate value x VAP of each form of advertising = value of
advertising fee to be charged by the state

f) 5 meters wide by 3 meters high;

Series I, No. 50

Page 13

Page 793

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
g) 2.50 meters wide by 6 meters high.

2. Without prejudice to the provisions of the previous number, they may be
exceptionally licensed, duly substantiated,
flags and flags with other dimensions, provided that
the environment and aesthetics of the places are not called into question,
nor the visibility of traffic signals.

Article 43
Structures
1. The support structure must be made of resistant material and in the
color best suited to the environment and aesthetics of the place.

SECTION IV
tracks

2. The structure cannot, under any circumstances, remain in place
no message for more than 30 days.

Article 47
Installation conditions

3. After the term of the previous number, the license is revoked and the
Municipal Administration or Municipal Authority
1. Installation of cloth, plastic or other material strips
removes the support structure at its owner's expense
similar that cross the public road or are trapped
or, if you understand, keep it for advertising
on railings and facades, it is only authorized if its
institutional.
posting does not compromise the normal use of the posts
electricity or lamps they are attached to and not
4. The assigned order number must be posted on the structure
condition the road circulation.
to the support, the license number and identity of the holder, not
this can exceed the dimensions of 0.40 x 0.20 meters.
2. They must be placed longitudinally to the tracks or to the
railings and facades, height greater than 3m.

SECTION II
Directional Signaling

3. Can only be installed in locations defined by
Municipal Administration or by the Municipal Authority.

Article 44
Directional signage

4. After the term of the license, they must be removed by the
entities responsible for their placement.

Licensing the occupation or use of public space
why this urban equipment is done in place previously
approved by the Municipal Administration or the Authority
Municipal.

SECTION V
Canopies and Awnings
Article 48
Limits

SECTION III
Flags and Flags

1. When installing sun visors and awnings, the following shall be observed
Limits:

Article 45
Installation conditions

a) The maximum overhang must always leave a
distance not less than 0.60m from the vertical of the
external limit of the sidewalk, a
greater distance whenever car traffic or
the existence or prediction of the installation of equipment
urban justify it;

1. The flags must remain oscillating and can only
be placed in a perpendicular position and affixed to a pole
or lamp.
2. The placement of flags must comply with the following
distances:

b) In no case may the occupation exceed the advance of
1.50m, as well as, laterally, the limits of the facilities
belonging to the respective establishment;

a) The distance between the bottom of the pennant and the ground
cannot be less than 3m;
b) The distance between flags affixed along the
roads cannot be less than 10m;

c) Installation must be done at an equal distance from the ground
or greater than 2.10 m or 2.60 m, depending on
respectively of awning or canopy.

c) The distance from any type of signage
transit time cannot be less than 10m;

2. In the Center of the City are only allowed:

d) Flags can only be made of material
lightweight, mainly plastic or cloth.

a) Non-rigid, folding awnings;

3. The flags must be affixed to a pole, lamp
or post above 2.20 m in height.

b) Awnings that must ensure a horizontal clearance
minimum of 0.60 m in relation to the end of the pavement;

Article 46
dimensions

c) Only the identification of the respective establishment is allowed.
cement;
d) Awnings must be canvas or similar material, not
being allowed in plastic material;

1. Flags and flags cannot have dimensions
greater than 1m in width and 1m in height.
Series I, No. 50

Page 794

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 14

e) Awnings must be inserted in the span to which they belong.

SECTION VII
Poster

Article 49
prohibitions

Article 54
Installation conditions

It is prohibited to affix or hang any objects on the awnings and
visors.

1. Posters can only be posted in the places defined by the
Municipal Administration or by the Municipal Authority.

Article 50
Conditions for application of canopies and awnings

2. Only posters can be posted, provided they are supported
authorized, on fences, fences, walls or walls,
as long as they are removed by your
promoters or beneficiaries within five days,
counted from the date of verification of the event, and
they proceed to clean the occupied space or area
by those.

1. Awnings may not be located above the floor level of the
1st floor of buildings.
2. The canopies and awnings must be kept in good condition.
conservation and cleaning.
SECTION VI
Plates and Tablets

3. When removal or cleaning is not carried out within the deadline
provided for in the previous paragraph, the Municipal Administration
or the Municipal Authority proceeds with its removal, being
the beneficiaries of advertising subject, in addition to the
administrative infraction, to the payment of the respective
expenses.

Article 51
Conditions of application of Plates and Signboards
1. Plates cannot:

SECTION VIII
Mobile advertising units, motor vehicles and others
means of locomotion

a) Located above the floor level of the 1st floor of the
buildings;
b) Your measures must be proportionate and appropriate
to the spacing of the openings of the establishment or to the
insertion into the building, seen on a case-by-case basis.

Article 55
circulation area
Mobile advertising units can only circulate in the
downtown area with express authorization from the
Municipal Administration or Municipal Authority.

Article 52
dimensions
The plates must not exceed in their maximum dimension 1
m2 as well as its maximum overhang must not exceed 0.10m.

Article 56
Limit

Article 53
Conditions for applying the tablets

Mobile advertising units may use material
sound provided that they comply with the provisions of article 16.

1. Tablets cannot:

Article 57
Dimension

a) Be posted less than 3m from each other previously
licensed;

The mobile unit, as a whole, cannot exceed in
length 5 meters, except in exceptional situations, when the
advertising message announces occasional event of nature
ephemeral, with a social, sporting and cultural character, of
recognized public interest, duly authorized by the
Municipal Administration or by the Municipal Authority.

b) Distant less than 2.60 m from the ground;
2. Signs must be affixed perpendicular to the
facades of buildings, with the posting of
advertising messages on both sides;

Article 58
Mandatory insurance

3. In each urban front this type of
stand is the same size as your installation
define an alignment, leaving distances between them
regular.

Whenever the support used exceeds the dimensions of the vehicle,
must be attached to the initial application, the
liability insurance contract.

4. When they emit their own light, the thickness of the tablets does not
must exceed 0.20m and when they do not emit their own light, they do not
must exceed 0.30m.

Article 59
Parking

Mobile advertising units should not remain
Series I, No. 50

Page 15

Page 795

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
parked on the public road, and must pass the message
advertising while circulating.

products or any other waste resulting from each
campaign, abandoned in public space, within a radius of 100
meters around the distribution sites, so in the end
of each day and of each campaign cannot exist any
vestiges of the advertising action developed there.

SECTION IX
Blimps, Balloons, Zeppelins, Inflatables and similar in the air
Article 60
Advertising in Means or Air Transport

Article 65
Distribution Conditions

1. Cannot be used together or simultaneously
with sound advertising.

The maximum period authorized for each campaign
distribution of leaflets is five days, non-extendable, in
each month for each entity, except character initiatives
cultural and social.

2. It is not allowed to project or launch flyers or
of any other products through actions or means
of air transport.

SECTION XI
Illuminated, illuminated and electronic ads

Article 61
Military or aeronautical easements

Article 66
Installation conditions

The posting of advertising messages cannot be licensed
in aerial means or supports, planes, helicopters, hang gliders,
paragliding, blimps or similar, that invade subject areas
to military or aeronautical easements, except when the entity
with jurisdiction over these spaces to give assent, in the
pursuant to Article 23.

The advertisements referred to in this article, placed on the
facades are subject to the following limitations:
a) They cannot be located above the floor level of the 1st floor
of buildings, except when they are intended to advertise
commercial activity or services that occupy a level
above the 1st floor;

Article 62
Mandatory insurance

b) Cannot hide decorative or other elements with
interest in the architectural composition of facades;

It is mandatory to add to the initial application, the contract of
valid liability insurance.

c) They must be at least 0.60 m away from the vertical of the
outer edge of the sidewalk;

SECTION X
Street Advertising Campaigns

d) In the case of streets without sidewalks, the advance cannot exceed
0.20m;

Article 63
Street Advertising Campaigns

e) The distance between the ground and the bottom of the ad does not
can be less than 2.60m.

Street advertising campaigns, namely those that
occur through the distribution of leaflets, distribution of
products, tastings, street occupations
with objects or equipment of an advertising or
support or other promotional actions of a commercial nature, only
can occur when the principles and
following conditions:

Article 67
Structure, disclaimer and insurance

a) Only the distribution of the aforementioned products is authorized
if it is done by hand to pedestrians and without harming the
its circulation, being prohibited its distribution in the bands
of road circulation;
b) The distribution cannot be made by throwing;
c) Any equipment to support the distribution of products
or devices of an advertising nature, involving
occupation of public space, it cannot have a dimension
greater than 4 square meters.

1. The structures of luminous, illuminated and systembut electronic, installed on the roofs or facades of
buildings and spaces affected by the public must both
as possible be painted in the color that gives them the smallest
Spotlight.
2. Whenever installation takes place on the roof of a
building or above 4 m from the ground, must be
along with the initial application, a disclaimer
signed by technician.
3. Whenever installation takes place on the roof of a
building must be attached to the application, a study of the
ad stability.

Article 64
Restrictions

4. In the cases referred to in numbers 2 and 3, the lifting of the
license is subject to the delivery of an insurance contract
of civil liability.

It is mandatory to remove all pamphlets, wrappers from
Series I, No. 50

Page 796

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 16

SECTION XII
Exhibition of articles outside the establishments

listed in this diploma abstractly aggravates the fine
applicable for its double, without prejudice to legal limits.

Article 68
Licensing

5. Attempt and negligence are punishable.
Minimum limits set forth above are halved

The exhibition of articles outside the respective
6. Payment of the fines provided for in this diploma
establishments need licensing when there is
does not exempt offenders from the duty of replacement of the
occupation of the public road, however, it cannot harm the
legality.
circulation, the environment and the aesthetics of the respective places, never
under no circumstances can it occupy the usable width for passage
Article 71
of pedestrians, at least 1.20m until the end of the walk.
Competence to apply fines
CHAPTER VI
PENALTIES

It is incumbent upon the Municipal Administrator or the President of the
Municipal authority the application of the fines provided for in this
University Degree.

Article 69
Oversight

Article 72
Collection of fines

1. Without prejudice to the competence attributed by law to others
entities, it is up to the competent municipal services
monitoring compliance with the provisions of this
University Degree.

After the notice has been drawn up by the competent services
of the Municipality for the inspection of this law and applied to
fine for offending behavior by the Administrator
Municipal or the President of the Administrative Authority, the
fines are paid by deposit in an account opened for
to this end, by the competent Ministry in establishment
Bank officer.

2. The competent municipal services are supported
technically by the competent National Directorate in the
processing the administrative offense process.

Article 73
Resource

Article 70
Administrative offenses

1. The member may be appealed against the decision to apply the fine.
1. It is an offence, punishable by a fine, to post
of the Government on which the President of the Authority reports
or registration of advertising messages, with violation of the
provided for in paragraphs 4 and 5 of article 27, paragraph 2 of article 30,Municipal or the Municipal Administrator who has it
uttered.
subparagraph b) of article 32, when it does not respect the limits to
referred to in Articles 41 to 68, the conditions laid down
2. The member of the Government referred to in the previous number
in the respective license, the period of removal or when
can delegate the competence to decide the resources
have not been preceded by licensing, aggravated
of the decision to impose a fine on a member
in the latter situation, when you do not respect the
of the coadjutor Government or director of the Administration
conditionings and prohibitions mentioned in the articles
Public that depends on you.
13th, 14th and 15th.
3. The rules for filing and processing the procedure
of appeal provided for in paragraph 1 are approved by diploma
ministerial of the member of the Government to which it also refers.
the same number.

2. The applicable fines are based on the minimum wage
national law at the time of its practice, and have the following
Limits:
a) Ten times the SMN if they have not been preceded
of licensing and do not respect the conditions.
ments and prohibitions mentioned in Articles 13, 14.
and 15th;

Article 74
Execution for payment of fines
The provisions of article 65 of Decree-Law no. 32/2008, of 27th
August is applicable for the payment of fines that do not exist
been voluntarily paid.

b) Four times the SMN, in case they have not been
respecting the limits referred to in articles 41 to
68. and the conditions provided for in the respective license;

CHAPTER VII
TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS

c) Three times the SMN, in case of non-compliance with the deadline
of removal.

Article 75
transitional regime

3. The value of the fines provided for in the previous number increases
double when the offender is a person
collective.

1. Licensing requests that at the date of entry into
force of the present diploma are pending of
decision, the provisions of the present diploma shall apply.

4. Recurrence of any sanctionable behavior
Series I, No. 50

Page 17

Page 797

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
Article 78
Effects production

2. Licenses that, at the time of entry, cannot be renewed.
in force of this diploma, do not comply with the
principles contained in them.

The present diploma enters into force on the day immediately following its
Publication.

3. To advertising media existing at the time of entry into
force of this diploma whether they are located in public spaces
whether in private spaces a period of 6 months is granted
for the owners or owners of these supports to come

Approved by the Council of Ministers on April 20, 2016.

regularize their situation under the terms of this law.
4. After the term of the previous number, the Municipal Administration The Prime Minister
or the Municipal Authority removes them
or depending on the case, in which reasons of interest
institutional, cultural and social
revert to the Municipal Administration or to the
Municipal Authority, not entitled to any compensation
by offenders.

_____________________
Dr. Rui Maria de Araújo

The Minister of State Coordinating the Affairs of
Administration of State and Justice and Minister of
State Administration

5. These supports start to spread institutional advertising
and of cultural or informational interest.
6. For the purposes of paragraph 4, when dealing with
supports located in private spaces, the owner and
or the user of the space in question is obliged to
authorize the entry of the Municipality team, duly
identified so that it can remove the supports.

__________________
Dionisio Babo Soares

7. In relation to the Panels already existing at the date of entry into
force of this diploma, they remain in the places
occupying in public or private space until the date of
award to the winning bidder of the public tender
to allocate the places intended for their installation.

Enacted on 12/14/2016

Publish yourself.

8. For small merchants, restaurants, kiosks,
hairdressers and other small businesses with up to 3
employees, the entry into force of this diploma is deferred,
in the sense that they are exempt from payment
of fees for a period of three years from the date of your

The President of the Republic,

________________
Taur Matan Ruak

entry into force, but not of the licensing application.
Article 76
Revoking rule
1. With the entry into force of this statute, they are revoked
Articles 21, 22 and 23 of Decree-Law No. 51/2011, of 21
from December.

ATTACHMENT
2. All legal norms that
have on matters relating to advertising and, that
contradict the provisions of this
Decree-Law.

A. Example of the Calculation of the Fee to be charged by the State for the
Panels or "Outdoors" , Mupi, Advertising column,
Sign, Pala and similar:-

Article 77
Commercial Advertising

Place of
No.

posting

1

Avenue

two

provided for in article 34.

Road

Time course

Advertising (VAP)

(days)

The fee
charge for

Rate of
Advertising

5

state

3

4

6

7

27

$5.00

365

25%

$12,318.75

27

$4.00

365

25%

$9,855.00

3

platter

27

$3.00

365

25%

$7,391.25

4

Road

27

$3.00

365

25%

$7,391.25

27

$2.00

365

25%

$4,927.50

5

Series I, No. 50

Rental Value

advertising (M2)

two

1

Licensing commercial advertising as is
defined in this diploma implies the payment of fees

dimension of

Alley

Page 798

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 18

adoption of PETL, with a view to making it more secure, modern and
compatible with the systems adopted by most countries,
thus facilitating the movement of national citizens.

A. Example of the Calculation of the Fee to be charged by the State for the Bands or "Banners",
Flag, pennant, director, plaque/tablet/plate, awning and similar:

dimension of
publicity
(M2)

Place of
posting

No.

Rental Value
Advertising (VAP)

Time course
(days)

1

two

3

1

Avenue

5

USD 2.00

365

25%

$912.50

Road

two

4

Fee amount to
charge for
state

Fee of
Advertising

5

6

5

USD 1.50

365

25%

$684.38

3

platter

5

USD 1.00

365

25%

$456.25

4

Road

5

USD 1.00

365

25%

$456.25

5

USD 0.50

365

25%

$228.13

5

Alley

With the new electronic passport model, they are reinforced
aspects relating to security, authenticity and reliability
Timor-Leste's passport and the resolution of constraints.
verified during the execution of the previous system,
which means greater security for citizens and the community
International.

7

B. Example of the Calculation of the Fee to be charged by the State for other forms of
advertising broadcast:

Value of

Value of

rental

No.

Forms of

Measures of

Advertising

Advertising

1

two

Advertising

3

From the outset, the new model of the Timor-Leste passport
takes on electronic form, having introduced a
biometric identifier, through which it is guaranteed that the
person who presents the passport, is in fact the person to
who was originally issued, which makes it difficult,
its forgery.

Fee to
Time course

(VAP)

(days)

4

5

Rate of

charge for

Advertising

state

6

Note

7

8

Number
minimum of
USD 0.10/m2
advertising
1

across

(ten cents
100 m2
by meter
posters

posters that
1

25%

make up the
$250.00

Also with regard to its technical specifications, it was
integrated a chip that fully reproduces the elements
holder's biographies and the issue descriptions that appear
of the document's visual inspection zone, includes a photograph
and electronic signature to ensure authenticity and
data integrity.

full of fur

square)

any less
US$500.00/
license.

Number
minimum of
flyers that
advertising
two

USD 0.05/paper

through

in

1000 Flyers

1

25%

make up the
$12.50
full of fur

flyers
any less
$50.00/
license.

The graphic presentation of the Timorese passport now has
a modern design and complies with the most
high safety standards.

Advertising
USD 0.50/m2/

mobile3

Units

morning

8 m2

365

25%

$365.00

furniture
advertisers

Advertising on

4

Note also the creation of a procedure for registering
PETL data and concession that allows the collection of
biographical data through the presentation of the Ticket of
Identity, with subsequent validation by the data applicant
of civil identification contained in the respective database.
The application for granting the new electronic passport is
always personal and can be presented in the services.
authorities of the National Directorate of Registries and Notaries
Ministry of Justice and in the Timorese consular services.

Can not have
air-Blimp,

USD 200.00/

Balloon, Zepplin,

1 Demo

1

25%

duration
$50.00
greater than one

Demonstration

Inflatables and

month.
similar

Less than
USD 0.20/15
5

Advertising
sonorous

seconds

100 minutes

15sec (fifteen
1

25%

$33.33

seconds) is
considered
15 seconds.

Advertising
6

per

USD 40.00/
1 Demo
demonstration
demonstration

1

25%

$10.00

We also took the opportunity to review the requirements and elements
of mandatory presentation for the granting of the passport,
having given special attention, in this part, to the applicable regime.
the granting of a passport to minors, as well as the requirements
on which the validity of the travel authorization depends, when
travel without the company of both parents, accompanied by
only one parent or by a person other than the parents or by
who exercises parental power.
DECREE-LAW No. 52 /2016
The new Timorese electronic passport meets the standards
of modernity and respects the technical specifications set.
by ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organization and
complies with international good practices and obligations
assumed by the State of the Democratic Republic of TimorEast on travel documents.

of December 28th
NEW LEGAL PASSPORT REGIME

The present diploma approves the new legal regime of
passport and aims to adapt it to the changes introduced by the
Timor-Leste's new electronic passport (hereinafter referred to as
by PETL) which is now in the implementation phase.
The VI Constitutional Government, through the Ministry of Justice,
is changing the model of the RDTL passport, through the
Series I, No. 50

Thus,
The Government decrees, pursuant to paragraph b) of paragraph 1 of article
115 of the Constitution of the Republic, to be valid as law, the
Following:
Page 799

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 19

CHAPTER I
GENERAL PROVISIONS

through appropriate technical means, and the data
biographical, the photograph, the signature of the holder and the
laser-engraved emission descriptive information on the
biographical page.

Article 1
Object

4. Biographical data, facial image, fingerprints
and the issue descriptive information are stored in a
contactless chip, after electronic signature,
in conditions that guarantee a high level of safety,
in order to facilitate the authentication of the holder.

This decree-law approves the new legal regime of
Timor-Leste electronic passport, for short
called PETL.
Article 2
General principles and function

5. The operations referred to in the previous number are
programmed and executed according to specifications
provided for in the instruments of international law that
bind the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, so
to ensure, inter alia, that:

1. PETL is an individual travel document, which allows
to its holders the entry and exit of the Timorese territory,
as well as the territory of other states that recognize it.
for this effect.

a) The optical reading zone is read using
adequate technical equipment;

2. The PETL concession observes the principles of legality,
authenticity, veracity and security of data in it
constant.

b) The reading of data stored on the chip, conditioned
by access key obtained by reading the
optical reading, with an open passport, through
of contact with the respective technical equipment and the
effective application of the basic control regime of
access;

3. PETL is owned by the Timorese State, being
its violation and misuse punishable under the
general law.
Article 3
Categories

c) The reading session established between the equipment
appropriate technician and the chip inserted in the passport
runs safely.

1. PETL can be issued in the following categories:
a) Common passport;

6. Fingerprints stored on the chip match
right index finger and left index finger.

b) Diplomatic passport;
7. Whenever the fingerprint of the fingers referred to in
previous number cannot be collected, due to total lack or
part of these fingers, the passport must be included in the
mention of that fact and the identification of the finger used in
replacement for this purpose and should be used preferably
the right thumb and the left thumb.

c) Service passport;
d) Passport for foreign citizens.
2. PETL always takes the form of an electronic passport
in any of the categories.

Article 5
Endorsements and validity period

3. PETL may be replaced by a single travel permit in
conditions provided for in the present diploma.

1. Post-issuance endorsements are not allowed
of the PETL.

Article 4
Identification, characteristics and authenticity control
1. PETL consists of a 48-page notebook
numbered and one containing the biographical data, which
is protected by a security film made of
polycarbonate.

2. The validity period of the PETL is determined in compliance
to the provisions for each of the categories, being
not subject to extension.
Article 6
Validity conditions

2. PETL is identified by:
a) By the international electronic document symbol;

1. PETL is only valid if all spaces destined for
registration of variable mentions are filled in or
b) By an alphanumeric set consisting of 7
unused, with no amendments, erasures or
digits and 1 letter, laser engraved on the biographical page
between the lines of any kind.
and perforated on the remaining pages and on the back cover of the
notebook.
2. The PETL must contain the signature of its holder, unless,
in the place indicated, the issuer mentions that
3. PETL, in horizontal position, enables optical reading
the same does not know or cannot sign.
Series I, No. 50

page 800

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 20

Article 7
PETL Issuance

Article 12
Claims

1. The issuance of PETL covers its production, customization
1. The granting of the interested party's claim, with
and remittance, and it is the responsibility of the National Directorate of based on error of the issuing services or defect of
Registries and Notary (hereinafter referred to as DNRN)
manufacturing, involves issuing a new passport.
of the Ministry of Justice.
2. The issuance provided for in the previous number is free, since
2. The PETL concession is the responsibility of the entities
that the claim is filed within 30 days to
referred to in this law, depending on the category of
counting from the date of delivery of the passport.
passport.
Article 13
Article 8
Subsidiary application
Requisition and usage control
The rules established for the common passport are
1. The request of PETL forms and the control of
subsidiarily applicable to the other categories of
the use of these are the responsibility of the Ministry's DNRN
passport.
of Justice.
CHAPTER II
2. The requisition of the single travel title forms and the
PASSPORT CATEGORIES
control of their use are the responsibility of the Ministry.
of Foreign Affairs.
SECTION I
common passport
Article 9
Template of prints and quality control

Article 14
Ownership

1. The model of forms for each of the categories of the
PETL is approved by a joint ministerial diploma of
Government members responsible for the areas of Justice
and Foreign Affairs.

Citizens are entitled to hold a common passport.
of Timorese nationality.

Article 15
2. Quality control of the forms referred to in this
Competence for the concession
article is the responsibility of the Director of DNRN of the Ministry of
Justice.
They are competent entities for granting the passport
ordinary:
Article 10
Concession costs
a) The member of the Government responsible for the area of ​justice,
with the possibility of delegation;
1. The granting of diplomatic passport and passport
service is free of charge for your
holders, with the respective costs being borne by the
entities that require them.

b) The consular authorities designated by order of the
member of the Government responsible for the Business area
Foreign.

2. For the issuance of PETL, a fee is payable,
whose amount is defined by a joint ministerial diploma
of the members of the Government responsible for the areas of
Justice, Foreign Affairs and Finance.

Article 16
Submission of the grant application
1. The granting of a common passport is required in personby the holder and the confirmation of the
respective biographical data contained in the ticket of
identity and obtaining and collecting the signature of its
personal data, your facial image and your
fingerprints in accordance with Article 4(4).

3. PETL emission fees are for acquisition
of investment goods and acquisition of services for the
competent authority for its issuance.
4. The proceeds from the sale of PETL prints and the title of
single trip, issued by consular services and others
competent entities, constitutes State revenue.

2. For the purposes of granting a common passport,
mandatory submission:
a) Valid identity card;

Article 11
PETL Shipping

b) Previous passport, if you already hold it, except in cases
provided for in subparagraph c) of paragraph 1 of article 25;

The PETL can be sent to its holder by post
insurance, upon prior payment of shipping charges,
the amount of which is fixed in the diploma referred to in paragraph 2 of the c) Proof of payment of the fee applicable to the
issuing the passport, under the terms of the law.
previous article.
Series I, No. 50

Page 21

Newspaper of the Republic
3. The application for granting a common passport is
presented to the competent services, the DNRN of the
Ministry of Justice or consular services.

3. In the case of a minor who is the child of married parents
or who live in a situation similar to that of the spouses, the minor
must be accompanied by one of the parents and this must
must submit:

4. Verification of the authenticity of declarations and data
provided by the passport holder at the time of the
submission of the application for the respective concession
it is the responsibility of the services that receive the order.
respective.

a) Valid identification document;
b) Copy of registration certificate or marriage certificate or, when
live in a situation analogous to that of the spouses, a
joint declaration on honor of
both parents with the mention that they live in the situation
analogous to that of spouses for more than 2 years.

Article 17
external service
1. The collection of the necessary elements for the issuance of
ordinary passport can be held at the place where
find the applicant if he produces proof properly
justified of illness that disables him from being able to move,
by its own means, to the issuing services.

4. In the case of a minor child of divorced parents,
separated or who have never lived in a situation analogous to
of the spouses, the minor must be accompanied by the person
exercise parental responsibilities and should
must submit:

2. For the performance of the external service, payment of
an increased fee, fixed in the diploma referred to in no.
2 of article 10.

a) Valid identification document;
b) Document proving the exercise of resparental responsibilities or guardianship issued earlier
of 1 year.

Article 18
proof of identity
1. The applicant for an ordinary passport, independently
of the respective age, must provide proof of identity through
the mandatory presentation of a valid identity card,
which is immediately refunded after checking.
2. For the purpose of granting a passport, the presentation
of the identity card by the respective holder cannot
be replaced by any other document of
identity.

5. In the case of interdicts or disabled, it is mandatory to
appearance of the interdict or disqualified, bearing the
their identity card, which cannot be
replaced by another document and accompanied by the
person exercising guardianship responsibilities, who
must present valid identification document and
document proving the exercise of guardianship or trusteeship,
issued less than 6 months ago.
6. Whenever possible, the signature of the
minor, interdicted or disabled.

Article 19
Complementary test

Article 21
Travel authorization for a minor passport holder

1. Whenever doubts arise about the veracity of
data contained in the identity card, as well as about
the respective authenticity, must be practiced by the
competent services for granting the passport
common, the necessary steps to prove and can
additional proof is required.

1. Minors, when traveling without the company of whom
exercise parental authority, they can only enter and leave the territory
national, upon presentation of authorization to
trip signed by both parents, when married or
by whoever exercises parental power.

2. The services responsible for civil identification and other
services whose competence is relevant for the foreseen effects
in the previous number provide the appropriate cooperation to the
swift implementation of the necessary steps.
Article 20
Passport for minors, banned or disabled

2. Minors, when traveling accompanied by only one
of parents, they can only enter and leave the national territory
when armed with a signed travel authorization
by the other parent.

1. The application for granting a common passport to
under the age of 17 is presented by whom, pursuant to the
law, exercise parental authority or guardianship thereof.

3. Minors, when traveling accompanied by third parties,
who are not the parents or whoever exercises parental authority or
their guardianship, they can only enter and leave the national territory
with travel authorization signed by both parents,
when married or by those who exercise parental authority.

2. When submitting the application for the
the granting of a passport is mandatory for the attendance of the
minor and the presentation of your identity card and not
can this be replaced by another document from
identity.

4. The authorization referred to in numbers 2 and 3 must
be in a written document, dated and with the signature
of those who exercise parental power, notarized
and check powers of follow-up by
third parties, properly identified.

Series I, No. 50

Page 22

page 801

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

page 802

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
5. The authorization can be used an unlimited number of
times within the validity period that the document
mention, which, however, cannot exceed the period
of a calendar year.

2. The granting of a new common passport may be requested
due to expiration of the validity period, due to outdated
identification elements of its holder or by verification
of the situations described in article 25.

6. If no other deadline is mentioned, the authorization is valid
for six months, counted from the respective date.

3. The granting of a new common passport is against the
mandatory delivery of the previous passport, except when
this contains visas whose duration justifies the conservation
in the holder's possession.

7. The minor's travel declaration is prepared in a template
to be provided by the competent services of DNRN,
approved by ministerial diploma of the member of the Government
4. Without prejudice to the provisions of the previous number, the holder of
responsible for the area of ​Justice.
previous passport replaced by new passport may
be authorized to keep the passport in their possession.
Article 22
previous, provided you submit it in advance and it is the same
Impediments to issuing a passport
physically disabled in a technically appropriate way,
an additional fee is payable in the amount to be fixed in the
Ordinary passports cannot be issued when relatively
diploma referred to in paragraph 2 of article 10.
to the applicant:
Article 25
Replacement of valid ordinary passport

a) In the case of a non-emancipated minor, any of the progeny
tors to oppose, until it is judicially decided
or provided the respective parental authority;

1. The issuance of a new common passport in favor of an individual
holder of a valid passport is only possible, exceptionally,
in the following cases:

b) There is a decision of Organs judicial bodies that prevents the
granting the passport;
c) Failure to pay charges due to the State occurs,
referred to in Article 10(2).

a) When the passport is fully
filled in on the visa sheets;

Article 23
passport issuance

b) Situations of poor condition or
passport destruction verified by the services
issuers;

1. The deadline for the delivery of the common passport is 10 days
useful, counted from the date of issuance of the deferral receipt
of the grant application.

c) The loss, destruction, theft or loss of the
passport declared by the holder;

d) Change of the elements contained in the passport,
2. Whenever possible, the issuer shall ensure the
relating to the identification of the holder.
issuance of the passport within a period shorter than that provided for in
previous number.
2. In the situations referred to in subparagraph c) of the preceding paragraph,
the applicant must submit:
3. In urgent cases, the issuer may, upon
request of the applicant, ensure shorter deadline for the
a) Declaration, under commitment of honor, given in
than provided for in number 1, with fees being charged
own form, with the reasoned request and
additional, according to the urgency of the request, to be defined
commitment not to use and return to service
under the terms of the diploma foreseen in no. 2 of article 10.º.
issuer of the replaced passport, if it recovers.
it;
4. The
applications whose decision is not communicated to the
applicant within 15 working days of the date of
submission of the concession application.

b) Report of loss, theft or loss together
competent law enforcement authorities.
3. In case of doubt about the grounds invoked for
the issuance of a duplicate, can the issuing entities
request the provision of additional evidence.

Article 24
Validity and issuance of a new passport
1. The ordinary passport is valid for a period of 5 years,
except:

4. Whenever a new passport is issued in the foreseen cases.
in paragraph 1, this circumstance is noted and the
service that issued the previous one, as well as its number and
issue date.

a) If, on the date of issue, the holder is older than
to 60 years, in which case the passport is for life;

Article 26
Cancellation and seizure

b) If, at the date of issue, its holder is of the same age or
under 12 years, in which case the passport is valid
for 2 years.
Series I, No. 50

Page 23

1. The holder of the lost, destroyed, stolen or
page 803

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
lost must immediately report such fact to the
issuing entity and the competent law enforcement authorities,
for the purposes of cancellation and seizure.

3. The diplomatic passport is subsidiarily governed by the
provided for in the general part of the legal regime of passports
provided for in this diploma.

2. Legal representatives of minors and incapable persons may
require the issuer to cancel and seize
of the passport issued to them.

Article 30
Holders
1. Holders of diplomatic passports:

3. The issuing entity must request the border authorities
that proceed with the seizure of the passport to which they refer
the numbers 1 and 2.

a) The President of the Republic;
b) The President of the National Parliament;

4. The consular authorities, when asked to fund the
repatriation of passport holders,
must retain this, which is only refunded in the
destination, after payment of the charges caused to the
State.

c) The Prime Minister;
d) The President of the Supreme Court of Justice;
e) The President of the Supreme Administrative Court,
Tax and Accounts;

5. In the situation provided for in the previous number, the returnee
he returns to Timor-Leste with a single travel permit.

f) The members of the Government (Ministers, Deputy Ministers and
Secretaries of State);

Article 27
Granting of second passport

g) Members of the National Parliament;
1. In exceptional circumstances, duly substantiated
a second passport may be granted, to
individual holder of another still valid, when, after
careful assessment of the situation, if you conclude that your
issue corresponds to the national interest or to a
legitimate interest of the applicant, arising from the relationships
between third States.

h) The Attorney General of the Republic;
i) The Ombudsman for Human Rights and Justice;
j) The Vice-Presidents of the National Parliament;
k) The General Officers of the Defense and
Safety;

2. The competent authority must ensure that the second
passport will be used only in situations that gave
origin of its concession.

l) Deputies of the Attorney General of the Republic;

Article 28
Passport expiry

m) Employees of the Ministry's diplomatic service
Foreign Affairs and Cooperation;

1. Loss of Timorese nationality in relation to a
individual who has been issued a common passport
determines the expiry of this document.

n) Persons accredited by the Ministry of Business
Foreigners to carry out missions with
foreign governments or international bodies.
nals;

2. The communication of loss of Timorese nationality must
be carried out by the DNRN of the Ministry of Justice when
Migration Department within 30 days after the respective
registration.

o) Other persons provided for by law.
2. They are also holders of diplomatic passports, when
have Timorese nationality:

SECTION II
diplomatic passport

a) The spouse and minor children of the entity referred to in
subparagraphs a) to am) of the previous number;

Article 29
Object and general principles

b) The spouse and minor children of the entities referred to in
paragraph n) of the previous number, when they have
to travel for such professional reasons;

1. A diplomatic passport grants its holder the rights
and subject it to the duties applicable to diplomatic agents
and to persons internationally protected in legislation
national and international law.

c) Without prejudice to the provisions of subparagraph a), the persons of
family of entities referred to in subparagraph m) of paragraph
previous, when they live with them and have to
travel for professional reasons like these, which do not exercise
any profession and that they are in charge of.

2. The diplomatic passport is granted and issued under the terms
of this decree-law, without prejudice to its granting to
entities provided for in special provisions.
Series I, No. 50

page 804

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 24

Article 31
exceptional situations

of article 30 are valid for five years, without prejudice to the
its forfeiture by termination or suspension of the respective
functions for any reason.

1. The granting of
diplomatic passport to entities other than the
referred to in the previous article, by order of the member of the
Government responsible for the area of ​Foreign Affairs,
when situations of public interest occur
relevant or if the service passport is insufficient.

3. The diplomatic passports referred to in subparagraph m) of paragraph 1
of article 30 are valid for the period corresponding to the
likely duration of the mission for which the
respective holders, but never for a period longer than five
years, expiring as soon as the holder ceases the position or the
mission that determined its grant.

2. May be authorized by the responsible Government member
by the Foreign Affairs area the granting of
diplomatic passport, exceptionally, the person of
foreign nationality when foreign policy reasons
Timorese justify it.

4. The diplomatic passports referred to in paragraph 2 of article
30 are valid for the period established in the numbers
above, as applicable, if the
respective assumptions of its concession.
Article 36
Use

Article 32
Model

1. The diplomatic passport can only be used when
its holder moves in the capacity that justifies its
concession.

The diplomatic passport has the characteristics provided for in the
n. the 2 of Article 4 the of this law and contains good shape
visible, the identification of the passport as diplomatic, the
indication of the quality of its holder or of the mission in which
is invested, the legal provision that allowed the concession and
a communication, in Portuguese and English, according to
attached to this decree-law.

2. Holders of diplomatic passports who have left
to be valid for any reason stipulated herein.
ordinance must immediately return them to the service that
granted them.

Article 33
Competence for the concession

3. The persons referred to in subparagraph m) of paragraph 1 of article 30
must also return immediately after expiry.
of the mission they were assigned to, the passports
1. The granting of a diplomatic passport in favor of
diplomats who have made use of the respective service
entities referred to in subparagraphs a) to k) and paragraph n) of no.
who granted them.
1 of article 30 does not need to be authorized, being carried out
upon request of the service related to the Protocol of
Article 37
State, accompanied by a document proving the
Seizure
position held.
Diplomatic passports that do not meet the requirements
2. The granting of diplomatic passports in favor of
in this decree-law and those who have ceased to be
entities referred to in subparagraphs l) and m) of paragraph 1 and in paragraph
2 ofreason stipulated in this decree-law
valid for any
article 30 is the competence of the member of the Government
are apprehended by the authorities who take from these facts
responsible for the area of ​foreign affairs, with
knowledge, being immediately sent to the Ministry
possibility of delegation, except in the case of the
of Foreign Affairs, under the Protocol of
itself, upon request addressed to the Protocol of
State.
State.
SECTION III
Service Passport

Article 34
issue

Article 38
Holders

The issuance of diplomatic passport, which covers your
production, customization and shipment, it is up to the DNRN of the
Justice ministry.

1. Are entitled to an official service passport:
a) The members of the Civil and Military House of the President of the
Republic;

Article 35
Validity
1. The diplomatic passports referred to in subparagraphs a) to k) and
in subparagraph n) of paragraph 1 of article 30 are valid for the entire
period of their mandate, without prejudice to their
forfeiture by termination or suspension of the respective
functions for any reason.
2. The diplomatic passports referred to in subparagraph l) of paragraph 1
Series I, No. 50

Page 25

b) Judicial magistrates and public prosecutors;
c) The service directors of the Ministries or
equivalent, when on an official mission;
d) Employees and technicians of the Ministry of Business
Foreigners and Cooperation, when on an official mission.
Page 805

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
2. Official service passport holders may also:
a) The civil or military entities proposed by the
President;

production, customization and shipment, it is up to the DNRN of the
Justice ministry.
Article 41

Use
b) Persons expressly mandated by the State
Timorese public service mission, if your
nature does not matter the granting of the passport
diplomatic;

The service passport should only be used when your
holder moves on official service and in the capacity that justifies
your concession.

c) Ministry staff
of Foreign Affairs when, on a mission to
public service, are not entitled to the issuance of
diplomatic passport;

Article 42
Validity

d) Honorary consuls when of nationality
Timorese, provided that they do not have the nationality of the
country in which they exercise their functions.
3. The concession of the service passport can be extended
to the spouse and minor children, when traveling in the
company of its holder and have nationality
Timorese.

1. The service passport is valid for the period you choose.
set by the competent authority for the concession, of
according to the nature and likely duration of the mission
trusted or the situation that allows its concession, but
never for a period exceeding five years.
2. The service passport expires as soon as its holder loses
the position or cease the mission or the situation that determined the
respective issue.
3. The expiry of the service passport requires that the service
requestor or bidder proceed to its immediate
return to the issuing entity.

Article 39
Concession
1. Are competent to grant the passport of
service, with the possibility of delegation:

SECTION IV
Passport for foreign citizens

a) The member of the Government responsible for the area of ​justice;
b) The member of the Government responsible for the area of
foreign affairs, whenever situations
occur outside the national territory.

3. The concession proposal must be accompanied by
document proving the status or service mission
public of which the recipient was responsible, with indication
what is the foreseeable duration of this.
4. Pursuant to paragraph 1, service passports may be granted:
a) The designated services and embassies of Timor-Leste
by order of the member of the Government responsible for
area of ​foreign affairs;
b) The DNRN of the Ministry of Justice.
5. The granting of service passports by embassies
must be immediately communicated to the Ministry's DNRN
of Justice.
Article 40
issue

b) Foreign individuals who, without their own passport,
abroad resort to diplomatic or consular protection.
Timorese under consular cooperation agreements
between Timor-Leste and its countries of origin;
c) Foreign individuals who are outside the
Timorese territory, when exceptional reasons recommend
granting a passport to a foreign citizen.
Article 44
Concession
1. The passport for foreign citizens is granted by the
Member of the Government responsible for the area of ​Justice.
2. The granting of a passport to a foreign citizen is
requested in person by the holder and proceeds to the
collection of the signature and your personal data under the terms
of no. the 4 of Article 4
3. The application for granting a passport to citizens
foreign depends on the mandatory presentation of:

Issuing a service passport that covers your

Page 26

Passport holders for foreign citizens may be:
a) Individuals who, authorized to reside in the territory
Timorese, whether stateless or nationals of countries without
diplomatic or consular representation in Timor-Leste or
that demonstrate, unequivocally, that they cannot obtain
another passport;

2. The grant is decided upon request or proposal
substantiated, as the recipient holder of
position or public function of continuous exercise or of
other situations.

Series I, No. 50

Article 43
Holders

Page 806

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
a) Valid proof of your identity,
with photography;

CHAPTER III
Protection of personal data

b) Residence permit valid in Timorese territory,
issued by the Migration Service.

Article 49
Purpose, organization and structure of the System of
Timor-Leste Electronic Passport Information

4. The situations considered in subparagraphs b) and c) of article 43
are decided upon proposal of the consular authority
territorially competent, upon the opinion of the services
of the Ministry of Justice.

1. The Electronic Passport Information System of TimorThis (SIPETL) is intended to register, store, process,
keep updated, validate and make available, under legal terms,
the information associated with the granting process
passports, in their different categories.

Article 45
issue
1. Issuing a passport for a foreign citizen, who
covers its production, customization and shipping, it's up to the
DNRN of the Ministry of Justice.

2. SIPETL is governed by the principles of security and
control of information and ensures levels of access,
modification, addition or deletion of data,
as well as ways of communicating those.

2. The deadline for issuing passports to foreigners is
10 working days from the date of delivery of the
application, accompanied by all documents
necessary.

3. SIPETL ensures the combination of all structures and
of all data acquisition procedures and the
articulation of all entities involved in the registration
physical and logical data collected.

Article 46
Validity

Article 50
Entity responsible for SIPETL

1. The passport for foreigners is valid for a maximum period of time.
mo of a year.

1. The DNRN of the Ministry of Justice is the responsible body.
responsible by SIPETL.

2. The passport referred to in the previous number, when issued
in national territory, may guarantee or prohibit the right to
return to Timorese territory, according to the mention that
register in it.

2. SIPETL complies with the technical specifications in the matter
of protection of computerized personal data, under the terms
to be defined in its own legislation.
3. It is incumbent upon the Director of DNRN of the Ministry of Justice to ensure
the right to information and access to data by the respective
holding assets, the correction of inaccuracies, the complement
of omissions and deletion of data improperly
registered, as well as ensuring that the consultation or communication
of the information respects the conditions legally
determined.

SECTION V
single trip title
Article 47
Concession and issue
1. The single travel permit is issued to individuals from
Timorese nationality, duly confirmed,
find undocumented people abroad and to whom,
for urgency, it is not possible, in due time,
offer enough proof of identification.

4. It is incumbent upon the Director of DNRN of the Ministry of Justice to dedecide on complaints regarding access to the
personal information therein and can be used for hierarchical resources
of your decision.

2. The single travel permit is granted and issued by the
consular authorities.

Article 51
Access to SIPETL by external entities

3. The single-trip ticket form is
1. You have the right to access the information contained in SIPETL the
approved by ministerial diploma of the member of the Government
following departments and directions:
responsible for the area of ​foreign affairs.
a) The Department of Migration;
4. The requisition of printed single travel permits and the
control of their use are the responsibility of the Ministry.
b) The Directorate of Consular Affairs.
of Foreign Affairs.
2. The levels of access, form and interconnection of the different
Article 48
SIPETL's computer systems are defined by law.
Validity
joint ministerial between the member of the Government
responsible for the area of ​Justice and members of the Government
The single travel permit is issued with strictly validity
which oversee the services referred to in subparagraphs a) and b) of the
necessary to return to Timor-Leste.
previous number.
Series I, No. 50

Page 807

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 27

Article 52
Accreditation and Confidentiality

competent for the initiation and instruction of processes
of administrative offense provided for in articles 54 and 55 concerning
diplomatic passport and single travel permit.

1. Employees and agents of state agencies with
access to SIPETL, must be authorized for this purpose.
by the directors of the respective services.

3. For the purposes of the previous numbers, the application of fines
and ancillary sanctions is the responsibility of the top manager of the
respective entity.

2. Employees and agents who, in the exercise of their functions,
tions are aware of the personal data recorded
at SIPETL they are obliged to maintain professional secrecy.

4. The proceeds of the fines referred to in articles 54 and 55 reflows to the entity responsible for granting the
passport.

CHAPTER IV
Sanctioning Provisions

CHAPTER V
Final and transitional provisions

Article 53
Violation of file regulations

Article 59
transitional regime

Violation of rules relating to computerized files of
granting and issuing a passport is punishable under the
law.

1. Passports issued before the date of entry into force of the
this decree-law retains the validity provided for therein,
without prejudice to its replacement being required
upon delivery of the passport to be replaced.

Article 54
Passport misuse

2. During the period of 1 year after the entry into force of the
this decree-law, may be issued exceptionally,
passports either under the system previously
current or under the new PETL electronic system,
according to the availability of the competent service
for its issuance.

The misuse of any type of passport constitutes
offense punishable with a fine of (USD) 200 to 500 and may
the ancillary sanction of apprehension of the
passport.

3. By issuing the passport under the issuance system
and the concession of a passport previously in force, are
charged the fees provided for in article 53 of the Decree-Law
No. 46/2011, of October 19, which approves the Regime
Register and Notary Fee.

Article 55
Failure to present a previous passport

Failure to present the previous passport at the time of the
application for granting a new passport constitutes
infraction punishable with a fine of USD $100, except in
justified cases provided for in paragraph 3 of article 23 and in sub-paragraph
c) of paragraph 1 of article 25.

Article 60
Proof of identity of children under 12 years old

Proof of identity of children under 12 for the purposes of
granting of a passport is made, exceptionally, through the
presentation of the birth certificate in replacement of the
identity card, until the ticketing system
of current identity is updated and allows the issuance of the
identity card for children under 12 years of age.

Article 56
Non-compliant passports
Passports that do not comply with the
law are seized by the competent authorities.
Article 57
Fraudulent acquisition and use of document

Article 61
Procedure manual

Providing false declarations to obtain a passport,
the forgery of passports or the corresponding forms
themselves, the use of a forged passport, as well as the use of
passport, are punished under criminal law.

1. It is the responsibility of DNRN to prepare a procedures manual
in order to standardize the procedures for issuing,
granting and replacing a passport.
2. The procedures manual referred to in the previous number
is approved by ministerial diploma of the member of the Government
responsible for the area of ​justice.

Article 58
Competence

1. The DNRN of the Ministry of Justice is the competent entity
Article 62
for the establishment and instruction of the processes of
Further regulation
administrative offense provided for in articles 54 and 55 concerning
the common passport, the service passport and the
Within 90 days of the entry into force of this
passport for foreign citizen.
decree-law, the complementary legislation is approved.
refers to this decree-law, namely:
2. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the entity
Series I, No. 50

Page 28

Page 808

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
a) Joint ministerial diploma of the members of the Government
responsible for the areas of Justice and Business
Foreigners, which approves the PETL print model,
referred to in Article 9(1);

The Minister of Justice,

___________
Ivo Valente

b) Joint Ministerial Diploma of Government Members
responsible for the areas of Justice, Finance and
Foreign Affairs establishing the amounts
applicable to the fees due for issuing a passport
Timor-Leste, referred to in paragraph 2 of article 10;

Enacted in

c) Order of the Government member responsible for the area
of Foreign Affairs, which designates the authorities
competent consular officers for the granting of a passport
common, referred to in subparagraph b) of article 15;

Publish yourself.

d) Ministerial diploma of the responsible Government member
by the area of ​justice that approves the authorization model for
travel to minors, referred to in paragraph 7 of article 21;

The President of the Republic,

e) Ministerial diploma of the responsible Government member
by the area of ​foreign affairs that approves the model
the single travel permit, referred to in paragraph 3 of article 47;

________________
Taur Matan Ruak

f) Ministerial diploma of the responsible Government member
by the area of ​Justice that approves the procedures manual
referred to in Article 61.
Article 63
Revocation
1. Are revoked:
a) Decree-Law No. 44/2008, of December 31st;
b) Ministerial Diploma No. 3/2003, of June 18, which
approves the increase in consular fees on
passport issuance fees;

GOVERNMENT RESOLUTION No. 45/2016
of December 28th

c) Joint Ministerial Diploma No. 1/2009, of 27th of
March, which approves the printed models of
passport.

APPROVING THE COOPERATION TREATY
COMMERCIAL BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC
DEMOCRATIC OF EAST TIMOR AND THE GOVERNMENT
FROM THE STATE OF KUWAIT

2. Article 53 of Decree-Law No. 46/2011, of October 19,
which approves the Registration Fee Regime and
Notary, remains in force until they cease to be
passports produced and issued under the system
of issuing passports prior to PETL.

Taking into account the signing of the Cooperation Treaty
Commercial between the Government of the Democratic Republic of TimorEast and the Government of the State of Kuwait on 1 July
2007;

Article 64
Implementation

Considering that the aforementioned Treaty aims to
development of commercial relations between both
Parts;

This decree-law comes into force on April 1, 2017.

Approved by the Council of Ministers on October 5, 2016.

The Government resolves, pursuant to lines e) and f) of paragraph 1 of the
article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic, as follows:

The Prime Minister,

Approve the Commercial Cooperation Treaty between the Government
of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste and the Government of
State of Kuwait.

____________________
Dr. Rui Maria de Araújo
Series I, No. 50

Page 29

And, taking into account that the aforementioned cooperation is of interest
of the two countries;

Page 809

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
Approved by the Council of Ministers on August 23,
2016.

ARTICLE 2
FACILITATION OF TRANSIT OF GOODS
The Parties agree to:

The Prime Minister,

(a) Encourage and facilitate the free movement of goods
through their countries, in accordance with their respective
domestic laws and regulations in force.

____________________
Dr. Rui Maria de Araújo

(b) Encourage and facilitate the free movement of goods
originating from the country of a third party, destined for the country
of one of the parties.
ARTICLE 3
TECHNICAL COOPERATION

The Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation,

1. The parties will encourage technical cooperation between their
nationals, including individuals and legal entities.

______________
Hernani Coelho

2. Areas of cooperation include, but are not limited to:
(a) The exchange of visits and sector delegations
private of each part:
(b) The exchange of commercial information, knowledge and
technology;
(c) The exchange of technical knowledge, as well as
human resource development; and
(d) Any other field on which they agree
COMMERCIAL COOPERATION TREATY

ARTICLE 4
TRADE FACILITATION AND PROMOTION

IN BETWEEN

To strengthen trade relations between the two countries each
party will proceed in accordance with this Agreement and
respecting domestic laws:

THE GOVERNMENT OF
DEMORATIC REPUBLIC OF EAST TIMOR

(a) Encourage and facilitate visits by merchants and delegations
commercials.

AND
THE KUWAIT STATE GOVERNMENT

(b) Actively facilitate other participation in fairs of
trade organized by each country; and

The Government of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste and the
Government of the State of Kuwait (the parties mentioned) and
in the singular “the part”.
In order to develop commercial relations between the
two countries,

(c) Organize exhibition fairs of one of the Parties within the
territory of the other party.
ARTICLE 5
CUSTOMS FEES
In accordance with your domestic laws and regulations
the parties must allow the import and export of the
following goods and similar goods and exempt them
customs fees and other similar fees;

They reached the following agreement:
ARTICLE 1
FRAME PROVISION

(a) Examples of merchandise and advertising materials
(catalogues, pamphlets, photos and others) necessary for the
obtaining orders;

The parties will take all necessary steps to facilitate,
promote trade and strengthen economic cooperation between
their countries, in accordance with the provisions of this agreement, but (b) Products, merchandise, and materials needed for fairs
and exhibitions under the condition that such products,
subject to domestic laws, in force in their respective
goods and materials are re-exported.
countries.
Series I, No. 50

Page 810

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 30

ARTICLE 6
PAYMENTS

mutual consent between the Parties, and such amendment or
review shall take effect as provided in section 1 of the
Article 11.

All payments for the parties' goods and services
must be effected in any currency freely.
convertible.

2. The Amendment to this Agreement shall not have an adverse effect, or
in no way harmful to any rights or
obligations arising or earned in the execution of this
agreement prior to the effective date of such amendment.

Payments will be made through authorized banks
in both countries.

ARTICLE 11
IMPLEMENTATION

ARTICLE 7
COMPETENT AUTHORITIES

1. This Agreement shall enter into force after the Parties
The following competent authorities shall be responsible
have notified the other of the completion of their
for the implementation of this agreement, and other matters relating to it.
respective accomplishments of their respective procedures
legal and constitutional requirements for entry into force
(a) In the case of the State of Kuwait, the Ministry of Commerce and
of this Agreement. The date of entry into force will be the date of
Industry.
last notification.
(b) In the case of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, and the
Ministry of Development.
ARTICLE 8
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE BOARD COMMITTEE
1. The Parties agree to organize a board committee
composed of representatives from both countries.

2. This Permanent Agreement is in force for the period of (five)5
years and can be automatically renewed for a period
or for similar periods, unless a party notifies
to the other Party of its intention to terminate this Agreement by
written, through diplomatic channels, and at least six (6)
months preceding this termination.
3. Termination of this Agreement will not interfere with the duration of
no specific agreement, no projects or
activities carried out under this Agreement until the completion of
such specific arrangements, projects or activities.

2. The Board Committee is responsible for:
(a) Solve problems that may arise in the implementation.
of this Agreement
(b) Propose measures aimed at promoting and expanding the
commercial relations between the two countries.
(c) Suggest the modification or addition of any attachment to
this Agreement
3. The Board Committee shall meet as requested by
each party in their countries alternately, or to be agreed
between the parts.
ARTICLE 9
DISPUTE DECISION

The provisions of this Agreement shall continue to apply
Agreements made during its term but not taken
until its expiration date.
In witness of this, the undersigned, duly
authorized by the respective governments, sign the present
Wake up:
Done in Dili, on the 1st of July 2007, corresponding to the 16th Jamada
I 1428 H, in duplicate, in Portuguese, Arabic, and English, making
every text authentic.

In case of divergent interpretation, the English text will prevail.

1. Any dispute between the parties that should result from the
performance or interpretation of this Agreement shall be
resolved through consultation within the Boards Committee;
2. Each party shall submit the Matter to the Board Committee
if she considers such a matter incompatible with the good
operation of this Agreement.

By the Government of
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste
Archangel of the bush
Minister of Development

3. The Parties shall, in case of dispute, supply the Commission of
joins with the intention of finding an amicable decision and
acceptable to the Parties.
By the Government of
ARTICLE 10
AMENDMENT OF THE AGREEMENT

Page 31

Falah Fahad AL-Hajri
Minister of Commerce and Industry

1. This Agreement may be amended or revised with the
Series I, No. 50

Kuwait State

Page 811

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
TRADE CO-OPERATION AGREEMENT

ARTICLE 4
Trade Facilitation and Promotion

BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF TIMOR-LESTE
AND
THE GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE OF KUWAIT

In order to strengthen trade relations between two countries,
each Party shall, in accordance with this Agreement and subject
to the domestic laws in each country, undertake to:
(The). encourage and facilitator visits by business persons and
trade delegations.
(B). actively facilitated each other's participation intrade fairs
organized by either country; and

The Government of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste
and the Government of the State of Kuwait
referred to as the “Parties”) and in singular as a party.

(ç). organize trade exhibitions by one party in the territory of
the other party.
ARTICLE 5
Customs Duties

DESIRING to develop trade relations between the two
countries,

The Parties subject to the domestic laws and regulations in
force in their countries shall allow the import and export of
the following products with exemptions of custom duties taxes
and other similar cartoons:

have agreed on the following:
ARTICLE 1
Umbrella Provision

(The). Samples of goods and publicity materials
The Parties shall take all necessary measures to facilitate,
promote trade, and strengthen economic co-operation between
their countries, in accordance with the provisions of this
Agreement, but subject to the domestic laws in force in their
respective countries.
ARTICLE 2
Facilitation of Transit of Goods

(Catalogues, pamphlets, photos and others)
necessary for getting orders;
(B). Products, goods and materials necessary for fairs and
exhibitions on condition that such products, goods and
materials shall be exported.
ARTICLE 6
Payments

The parties agree:
(The). To encourage and facilitator freedom of transit of goods
through their Countries, in accordance with their respective
domestic laws and regulation in force;

All payments for goods and services by the Parties shall be
effected in any freely convertible currency. Payments will be
effected through authorized banks in both countries.
ARTICLE 7
Competent Authorities

(B). To encourage and facilitator freedom of transit of goods
originating from the country of a third party, destined for
the country of either Party.

The following competent authorities shall be responsible for
the implementation of this Agreement, and other matters
hereto

ARTICLE 3
Technical Co-operation
1. the Parties shall encourage technical co-operation between
their nationals, including natural and legal persons.

(The). In the case of the State of Kuwait; the Ministry of Trade
and Industry

2. The areas of co-operation shall include, but not be limited
to:

(B). In the case of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste, the
Ministry of Development
ARTICLE 8
Establishment of a Joint Committee

(The). The exchange of visits and delegations from the private
sector from either party.
(b).The exchange of trade information, expertise,
technology;

1. The Parties agree to set up the Joint Committee composed of
Representatives of both Parties.

(ç). The exchange of technical expertise as well as human
resources development; and

2. The joint Committee shall be competent to:
(The). Settle problems that may arise in the implementation of
this Agreement.

(d). Any other field as may be agreed by the Parties.
Series I, No. 50

Page 32

Page 812

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
(B). Propose measures, aim to promote and expand trade
relations between the two countries.
(ç). Suggest the modification or the addition of any annex
to this Agreement.
3. The Join Committee shall meet at the request of either Party
alternately in their countries, or as may be agreed by the
Parties.
ARTICLE 9
Settlements of Disputes

The provisions of this Agreement shall continue to be applied
to the agreements concluded during its validity but not fulfilled
at date of its expiration.
In Witness thereof, the undersigned, being duly authorized
by their respective government have signed this agreement.

Done in Dili, this 1 st of June, corresponding to 16 TH Jamad
Awal 1428 H, in Portuguese, Arabic and English languages, all
texts being equally authentic. In case of any divergences, the
English text shall prevail.

1. Any disputes between the parties that may result from the
implementation or interpretation of this Agreement shall
be resolved through consultation within the Joint
Committee;
2. Either Party may refer the matter to the Joint Committee if it
considers such a matter to be incompatible with the proper
functioning of this Agreement;
3. The Parties shall in the event of a dispute, supply the Joint
Committee with information required for a through
examination of the dispute with the view to seeking an
amicable settlement acceptable to the Parties.

FOR
The Government of the
East Timor

ARCHANGEL OF SILVA
MINISTER OF DEVELOPMENT

ARTICLE 10
Amendment of the Agreement

FOR

1. This Agreement may be amended or revised by mutual
consent between the Parties, and such amendment or
revision shall come into force in accordance with the
provision of section 1 of article 11.
2. The amendment of this Agreement shall not adversely affect
or in any way prejudice any rights or obligations accrued
or followed by virtue of the application of this Agreement
prior to the effective date of such amendment.

The Government of the State
of Kuwait

FALAH FAHAD AL-HAJRI
MINISTER OF TRADE
AND INDUSTRY

ARTICLE 11
Entry into Force
1. This Agreement shall enter into force after the parties have
notified each other of the completion of their respective
completion of their respective constitutional and legal
necessary procedures for entry into force of this agreement,
the date entry into force shall be the date of the last
notification.
MINISTERIAL DIPLOMA No. 73 /GMOPTC/XI/2016

2. This Agreement shall remain in force for a period of five (5)
years and shall automatically be renewed for similar period
or periods, unless either Party notifies the other its intention
to terminate this Agreement, by a notice in written, through
diplomatic channels, at least six (6) months prior to its
termination.
3. The termination of this Agreement shall not affect the
validity or the duration of any specific agreement, projects
or activities made under the present Agreement until the
completion of such specific arrangement projects or
activities.
Series I, No. 50

Page 33

of December 21st
STRUCTURE OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION
GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF ELECTRICITY

The Organic of the VI Constitutional Government, approved by the
Decree-Law No. 6/2015, of 11 March, placed in charge of the
Ministry of Public Works, Transport and Communications
(MOPTC) the satisfaction of public interests or purposes
Page 813

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
in the area of ​electricity, namely, production, transmission
and electricity distribution, support to the consumer of
electricity and energy promotion and development
renewables.

e) Promote, encourage and develop, or analyze studies and
projects, aimed at exploring and producing
renewable energies for electricity production for
domestic or other use;

f) Design, prepare, execute and/or supervise projects
Accordingly, the Organic Office of the Ministry of Public Works,
related to the use of renewable energy for
Transport and Communications (OMOPTC), approved by the
electricity production in a complementary way for use
Decree-Law No. 20/2016 of 22 June, in its structure
domestic or other, favoring isolated populations
administrative, provides for a General Directorate of Electricity (DGE),
and safeguarding RDTL's energy wealth;
that, materializing in its organizational units the
principles of necessity, functional adequacy, efficiency and
g) Develop training programs for operators and
effectiveness, manifests itself integrated by national directions, which
electricity consumers and encourage the consumption of
act in its dependence, which are structured in
alternative energies;
departments and these in sections, an organizational model
whose performance focuses on improving the quality of
h) Promote the reduction of RDTL's energy dependence,
provision of public services to the Timorese population.
minimizing the import flow through the use of
renewable energy sources;
The Government, by the Minister of Public Works, Transport and
Communications, orders, under the provisions of article 117,
i) Keep a file of information on operations and
no. 2, subparagraph a) of the Constitution and article 51 of Decree-Law no. energy resources;
20/2016 of June 22, which proves the Organic of the Ministry
j) Comply with and enforce laws, regulations and others
of Public Works, Transport and Communications, publish the
legal provisions in the areas of its attributions;
following diploma:
k) Any others assigned to it by law.

CHAPTER I
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Article 3
skills in general

Article 1
Object
The present ministerial diploma regulates the structure of the
administrative organization of the General Directorate of Electricity
(DGE).

1. The competencies or functionalized powers of the Board
Electricity General and National Directorates in which the
same and structure are described below in places
respective.
2. However, the functionalized powers or powers of the
bodies and services that structure the National Directorates the Departments and/or Sections - the designated
commonly “ jobs descriptions ”, are fixed in orders.
of services issued by the General Director under the proposal of the
National Director.

Article 2
assignments
DGE is in charge of implementing and developing the
public interests or specialized policy purposes
of the MOPTC in the area of ​electricity, namely,
production, transmission and distribution of electricity,
consumer support, energy promotion and development
renewable, in particular following:
a) Implement the Government's public policy for the area of
electricity, according to the guidelines of the Strategic Plan
Development Program 2011-2030 implemented in the Program
of the VI Constitutional Government and in accordance with the
superior guidelines of the Minister;
b) Provide public electricity supply service in the
better conditions of quality, continuity and
regularity, throughout the national territory on an equal basis.
treatment of electricity consumers;

3. The validity of the work orders mentioned in the number
above depends on the visa of the Secretary General of the MOPTC,
which declares that the resulting expenses are
authorized as an expense entered in an appropriation of the
State budget approved and the ratification of the
Minister.
Article 4
The administrative organization in general
The administrative organization of DGE is structured in the
following organizational units: DGE Office, six
National Directorates that are structured into 16 departments and
eight sections.

c) Develop the legal and regulatory framework in matters of
electricity and other energy resources, and regulate in
in particular, the activity of production operators of
electricity;

Article 5
Provision in management positions

d) Licensing and supervising public distribution activities
electricity, and prevent illegal connections to public networks.
of electricity distribution;
Series I, No. 50

The appointment in management positions is made by competition
public, without prejudice to provisional or transitory appointment.
of the respective holders, until the completion of the competitions
established in the legal terms.
Page 814

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 34

Article 6
hierarchical

functionalized to carry out material activities
specialized in the satisfaction of public interests in
area of ​production, transmission and distribution of energy
electrical, consumer support and promotion and
development of renewable energies, in particular the
following:

The holders of the bodies and services that make up the DGE are
bound to observe the rules of the organic and functional hierarchy
in the implementation of their professional activities.
Article 7
Articulation and functional coordination

a) Supervision and coordination of the National Directorates that
integrate it;

1. In the implementation of public interests in the areas
transversal aspects of the governance of the MOPTC such as those of
administration and finance, planning, budgeting and management
of heritage, procurement and resource management
human rights, the DGE must exercise its concrete powers
of intervention in articulation and functional coordination
with the General Secretariat.
2. The articulation and functional coordination referred to in the
previous number is established at the senior level of Secretary
General and General Director of Electricity.
CHAPTER II
THE ORGANIC STRUCTURE OF DGE

b) Implementation of studies, plans and action proposals
in the electricity sectors;
c) Support MOPTC, when requested, in the coordination
and evaluation of public policies in the area of ​electricity
to be submitted to the Council of Ministers for superior
definition and approval;
d) Support the implementation of administrative activities.
tion and finance, planning, budgeting and management of the
heritage, procurement, resource management
human rights, legal support and proposed initiatives
legislation in the area of ​electricity, in articulation and
functional coordination with the General Secretariat;
e) Improve the legal and regulatory framework of the
production, transmission and distribution of electrical energy.
tric, consumer support and promotion and development.
renewable energy, including the promotion and
research in these areas;

Section I
The administrative organization of DGE
Article 8
DGE's organizational units
1. The administrative organization of the DGE comprises the gabinet of DGE and the following public agencies and services:
a) National Electric Energy Production Directorate;
b) National Electric Energy Transmission Directorate;
c) National Electric Energy Distribution Directorate;

f) Provision of the public service of provision of
electricity in the best quality conditions in
throughout the national territory, continuously and regularly and
on equal treatment of consumers of the
public electricity service;
g) Licensing and inspecting distribution activities
electricity and prevent illegal connections to
public electricity distribution networks;
h) Promote, encourage and develop, or analyze studies
and energy exploration and production projects
renewables to produce electricity for use
domestic or other;

d) National Directorate for Consumer Support;
e) National Directorate of Renewable Energy;
f) National Directorate of Research and Development.

i) Design, prepare, execute and or supervise projects
related to the use of renewable energy for
production of electricity in a complementary way, to
domestic or other use, favoring populations
isolated, safeguarding the country's energy wealth;

2. The national directorates are organized into sixteen
departments that act in its dependence.
3. Departments can be organized into eight sections that
act in its dependence.
Section II
The structure of the DGE's organizational units

k) Keep an information file on operations and
energy resources;

Subsection I
General Directorate of Electricity
Article 9
Skills
1. The General Directorate of Electricity has competence or powers
Series I, No. 50

Page 35

l) Comply with and enforce laws, regulations and others
legal provisions in the area of ​production, transmission and
electricity distribution, consumer support
and promotion and development of renewable energy;
Page 815

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
Subsection III
National Electric Power Transmission Directorate

m) Any others assigned to it by law.
2. The DGE comprises the office of the director general which has
supporting functionalized competencies or powers
administrative, logistical and management and organization of
administrative procedures and processes, in particular,
the following:
a) Ensure the management of the administrative file, of the
DGE correspondence and documentation;
b) Ensure the organization and management of the DGE's agenda
and give execution or procedural sequence to the
orders from this;
c) Ensure notification and publication of orders for
service, guidelines and targeted service information
to the National Directorates in the areas of electricity;
d) Ensure the preparation of periodical publications of the
DGE.
Subsection II
National Directorate of Electric Energy Production

Article 12
Skills
The National Electric Power Transmission Directorate
(DNTEE), has competence or functionalized powers of
implement the specialized material activities of execution
of the public policies of the MOPTC for the area of ​transmission of
electricity, in particular the following:
a) Implement and ensure continuous and regular activities.
transmission of electricity through the
operation and maintenance of substations and equipment.
inherent ments;
b) Implement and develop the legal and regulatory framework
of the national electricity network, regulating in particular, the activity
of power transmission operators;
c) Prepare studies and proposals for technical cooperation with
national and international entities and bodies for the
electricity transmission sector to be approved
superiorly;
d) Comply with and enforce laws, regulations and other sources
regulations in the area of ​electricity transmission;

Article 10
Skills
The National Directorate of Electric Energy Production (DNPEE)
has the competence or functionalized powers to implement
the specialized material activities of policy execution
MOPTC's public sector in the area of ​electricity production, in
special, the following:
a) Prepare and develop the legal and regulatory framework of the
national electricity grid regulating, in particular, the activity
of energy production operators;
b) Prepare studies and proposals for technical cooperation with
national and international entities and bodies for the
electricity sector to be approved from above;
c) Continuously and regularly implement the activities of
production of electricity, through the operation and
maintenance of power plants;
d) Comply with and enforce laws, regulations and other sources
regulations in the area of ​electricity production;

e) Any others assigned to it by law.
Article 13
DNTEE bodies and services
DNTEE is structured, as organizational units, in
two following departments: (1) Department of the Network of
Transmission and Maintenance of Substations; and (2)
Control and Monitoring Department.
Subsection IV
National Electric Energy Distribution Directorate
Article 14
Skills
The National Electric Energy Distribution Directorate
(DNDEE) has competence or functionalized powers of
implement specialized material activities of execution
of MOPTC's public policies in the area of ​distribution of
electricity, in particular the following:
a) Implement material study and planning activities
technicians, in consultation and coordination with the directorates.
national, in the area of ​electricity distribution;

e) Any others assigned to it by law.
Article 11
DNPEE bodies and services

b) Implement material and technical preparation activities
proposals for technical cooperation with entities and
national and international organizations in the sector of
electricity distribution, to be approved
superiorly;

DNPEE is structured, as organizational units, in
following three departments: (1) Central Department
Electric of Hera; (2) Betano Power Station Department;
and (3) Comoro and Ataúro Power Plants Department.
Series I, No. 50

Page 36

j) Promote the reduction of energy dependence of the
RDTL, minimizing the import flow, promoting
the use of renewable energy sources;

a) Ensure the provision of services intended to ensure the
Page 816

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
supply of electricity in the best conditions of
quality, continuity and regularity throughout the territory
national, in accordance with the principle of equality of
treatment of users of the public service of
electricity under legal terms;
b) Licensing and inspecting public distribution activities
electricity, namely preventing illegal connections.
to public electricity distribution networks;

legal and regulatory framework of the public electricity network,
namely to prevent illegal connections to networks.
electricity distribution companies;
d) Comply with and enforce laws, regulations and others
legal provisions in the area of ​consumer support;
e) Any others assigned to it by law.
Article 17
DNAC administrative bodies and services

c) In collaboration with other services and public entities
competent, participate in the preparation and implementation of the DNAC is structured, as organizational units, in
legal and regulatory framework of the national electricity grid,
following three departments: (1) Department of
especially energy distribution activities.
Customer Service; (2) Department of
electric;
Service call; and (3) Department of Development
of Consumers;
d) Ensure the execution and management of service consumers
public electricity supply.
Subsection VI
National Directorate of Renewable Energy
e) Comply with and enforce laws, regulations and others
legal provisions in the areas of its attributions;
Article 18
Skills
f) Any others assigned to it by law.
Article 15
DNEE administrative bodies and services
DNEE is structured, as organizational units, in
following twelve departments: (1) Department of
Distribution of Ainaro; (2) Distribution Department of
Alieu; (3) Baucau Distribution Department; (4)
Bobonaro Distribution Department; (5) Department
Covalima Distribution; (6) Distribution Department
from Dili; (7) Ermera Distribution Department; (8)
Lautém Distribution Department; (9) Department
Distribution of Liquiça; (10) Distribution Department
of Manatuto; (11) Manufahi Distribution Department;
(12) Viqueque Distribution Department.
Subsection V
National Directorate for Consumer Support

The National Directorate of Renewable Energy (DNER) has
competence or functionalized powers to implement
specialized material activities of policy implementation
MOPTC's public sector in the area of ​promotion, development and
use of renewable energy, in particular the following:
a) Prepare studies and projects, with a view to developing the
exploration and production of renewable energy to be
approved from above;
b) Develop training programs for operators and
consumers to encourage resource exploitation
alternative energy sources and energy consumption
renewables;
c) Propose, execute and supervise projects related to
the use of renewable energy for electricity production
and other household uses;

16th
Skills
The National Directorate for Consumer Support (DNAC) has
competence or functionalized powers to implement
specialized material activities of policy implementation
MOPTC public services in the area of ​support to energy consumers
electrical, in particular, the following:
a) Implement material commercial management activities of
electricity, including consumer management,
namely hiring, invoicing, reading of
meters, facility inspection and billing;
b) Implement material branch maintenance activities
distribution of electricity to consumers;

d) Develop and prepare proposals for technical cooperation with
national and international entities and bodies in the
scope of renewable energies to be approved
superiorly;
e) Develop, in coordination with other public services
authorities, the legal and regulatory framework of the activities
related to renewable energy resources for
be approved from above;
f) Keep a file of information on operations and
energy resources;
g) Comply with and enforce laws, regulations and others
legal provisions in the areas of its attributions;

c) In collaboration with other services and public entities
h) Any others assigned to it by law.
competent, participate in the preparation and implementation of the
Series I, No. 50

Page 817

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 37

Article 19

Article 22
Implementation

DNER's administrative bodies and services
DNER is structured, as organizational units, in

The present diploma enters into force on the day following its
Publication.

following three departments: (1) Department of
Coordination of Wind Energy Activities, Biomass,
Biogas and Biodiesel; (2) Department of Energy Exploration

Publish yourself.

Hydro and Photovoltaic; (3) Department of Research and Policy
Alternative Energy.

The Minister of Public Works, Transport and Communications

Subsection VII
Eng. Gastão Francisco de Sousa

Article 20
National Directorate of Research and Development
The National Directorate of Research and Development (DNPD)
has the competence or functionalized powers to implement
specialized material activities of policy implementation
MOPTC public institutions in the area of ​research and development
in electricity, in particular, the following:
a) Develop plans and technical studies, in consultation and coordination.
denation with the national directorates, in order to ensure and

MINISTERIAL DIPLOMA No. 74/2016

ensure the continuity and regularity of the provision of
of December 28th

public services of production, storage, transport
and electricity distribution;

EXTENDS THE TERM FOR THE OPENING OF THE COMPETITION
FOR SLOT EXPLORATION LICENSING
MACHINES IN EAST TIMOR.

b) Develop studies and prepare cooperation proposals
technical with national entities and bodies and
for the production, storage,

With the publication of Ministerial Diploma No. 53/2016, of 12th of
October, the Competition for the Licensing of
Exploitation of SlotMachines in Timor-Leste.

transport and distribution of electricity to be
approved from above;
c) Design, prepare and draft regulations on the good

Under the terms of paragraph 1, of article 13, of this legal diploma, it is referred to
that " The entities that intend to compete for the concession of the
exploration provided for in Article 2, shall direct their
proposals to the Minister of Tourism, Arts and Culture……inside
within thirty days from the date of publication of the
present call for tender”.

electrical engineering practices, including rules
techniques, in the areas of production, storage,
transport and distribution of electricity, and in the areas of
laboratory tests to ensure quality and safety
of works and for environmental protection;

However, once the aforementioned period has elapsed,
no proposal entered the services of this Ministry,
although there are still potentials interested in
concession in question.

d) Promote scientific research and the participation of TimorEast in national and international organizations in the area of
intervention of the General Directorate of Electricity;

Thus, and because the dynamization is also of tourist interest
of this sector, I decided to grant a new deadline for the entities
that intend to compete for the concession of the exploration of the
slotmachines, provided for in paragraph 1 of article 13 of the Diploma
Ministerial No. 53/2016, of 12 October, remaining in
all the rest the text of the aforementioned Diploma.

e) Any others assigned to it by law.
Article 21
DNPD administrative bodies and services

Thus,

DNPD is integrated, as organizational units, by the
Department of Study, Evaluation and Planning.
Series I, No. 50

Page 38

The Government, through the Minister of Tourism, Arts and Culture, orders
Page 818

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1 of article 7 of the Decree-Law With the approval of this Regulation, ANPM has
6/2016, of 20 April, publish the following diploma.
of the legal instrument necessary to administer and manage, of
efficiently, the registration, licensing, organization and
Article 1
operation of importers, exporters and traders,
new and existing, of Fuels, Biofuels and
1. Article 13(1) of the Ministerial Diploma is hereby revoked
Lubricants, thus ensuring a level of
No. 53/2016, of 12 October, which is replaced by the following
compliance that supports the development of the Activities of
wording:
Marketing in the Downstream Sector in the Republic
East Timor, in a safe and efficient way.
"Article 13
Competition
Thus, pursuant to the provisions of subparagraph c) of paragraph 2 of article
7 and in subparagraph f) of paragraph 1 of article 8 of Decree-Law no. 1/
1. Entities wishing to compete for the concession of
2012, from February 1st, the Board of Directors of ANPM approves
exploration provided for in Article 2 shall direct their
the following Regulation:
proposals to the Minister of Tourism, Arts and Culture, in
closed and sealed letters addressed to the IGJ and with
CHAPTER I
indication outside the competition for which they are intended, within
GENERAL PROVISIONS
within thirty days from the date of publication of the
present ministerial diploma."
Article 1
Definitions
2. In everything else, the text of the Diploma is kept in its entirety.
Ministerial No. 53/2016, of 12 October.
1. The expressions, terms and concepts used in the
present Regulation and defined in article 2 of the DecreeArticle 2
Law No. 1/2012, of February 1st, have the same meaning
Implementation
assigned to them in that diploma.
The present diploma enters into force on the day immediately following its
2. For the purposes of this Regulation:
publication in Jornal da República.
a) “Year”: means a calendar year;
b) "Transaction Authorization": means an authorization
granted by ANPM under article 9,
required for a Licensee to carry out each Transaction
specific Import or Export;

The Minister of Tourism, Arts and Culture,

c) "Product Quality Certificate": means the
certificate issued by an accredited entity or
accepted by ANPM to ensure compliance with
the regulation regarding Standards and Specifications
Quality of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants, and detailing the specifications of the
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants to be
Imported into, or Exported from, Timor-Leste;

(Francisco KalbuadiLay)

Dili, 22 November 2016.

d) "Declaration of Free Circulation": means the
document according to the template included in the Annex
VI to this Regulation, issued by an Inspector
of the ANPM under the terms of article 11, confirming that
the Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants that
enter the Territory of Timor-Leste comply and are
in compliance with all rules, regulations and
applicable specifications;

REGULATION No. 2/2016, of December 28, 2016
ABOUT
MARKETING ACTIVITIES

e) "Export": means the commercial activity of
transfer or shipment of Fuels, Biofuels
and Lubricants from the Territory of Timor-Leste for
a foreign country;

This Regulation aims to implement the
general provisions of Decree-Law No. 1/2012, of February 1,
concerning the exercise of Downstream Activities in TimorEast and establishes the principles and conditions to be observed by the
entities that carry out Downstream Activities of
Marketing, as defined in paragraph g) of article 2,
of Decree-Law No. 1/2012, of February 1st.
Series I, No. 50

Page 39

f) “Exporter of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants": means an entity licensed to
perform Export activities;
g) "Import": means the commercial activity of bringing
Page 819

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants for the
Timor-Leste Territory;

q) "Transporter of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants": means an entity contracted for
transport fuels owned by a
third, through a Transport Vehicle of
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants
appropriate;

h) "Importer of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants": means an entity licensed to
carry out Import activities;

r) "Quarterly" or "Quarterly": means a period of 3
(three) consecutive months starting on the first day
January, April, July or October of each Year; and

i) "Importer or Exporter of Fuels,
Biofuels and Licensed Lubricants": means
an entity licensed to carry out activities of
Marketing of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants pursuant to Decree-Law No. 1/2012, of
February 1, and these Regulations;

s) “Fuel Transport Vehicle, Biofuel
Ware and Lubricants": means a road vehicle,
sea, air or other tank vehicle used for
transporting Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants from a foreign country to the Territory
of Timor-Leste, in the case of Import activities,
or from the Territory of Timor-Leste to a country
foreign, in the case of Export activities.

j) “Inspector”: means an individual named as
inspector by ANPM to perform activities of
inspection under the provisions of Chapter V of the
Decree-Law No. 1/2012, of February 1st, and others
applicable regulations and standards;

Article 2
Object

k) "Lubricant": means the products, most of the
which petroleum products, used in machines
to reduce friction of moving parts;

This Regulation establishes the principles, rules and
conditions to be observed in the registration, organization and exercise of
Fuel Marketing Activities,
Biofuels and Lubricants in the Territory of Timor-Leste.

l) "Handling of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants": means Transport, transfer or
Storage of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants;

Article 3
Scope

m) "Annual Report of Marketing Activities of
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants”:
1. This Regulation applies to all entities that
means the Report submitted annually by
carry out, or intend to carry out, Marketing Activities
Licensed, according to the model included in the
tion of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants in the
form in Annex IV to this
Territory of Timor-Leste, regardless of its
Regulation, and which includes information on the
nationality and nature.
Transactions carried out in the previous year, namely
the volume of Fuels, Biofuels and
2. These Regulations do not apply to the Activities of
Lubricants that have been imported into, and
Marketing of Crude Oil and Natural Gas to
exported from, Timor-Leste in the previous calendar year, and that Additional processing or treatment, as well as
is relevant, inter alia, for the final determination.
raw materials for Biofuels or for any
the amount of the annual fee;
another alternative form of fuel, which
are subject to specific regulation.
n) "Quarterly Report": means the Report submitted
quarterly by the Licensee, in accordance with the
CHAPTER II
model included in Annex V to these Regulations,
GENERAL PRINCIPLES FOR REGISTRATION,
which includes information about the Transactions carried out LICENSING, ORGANIZATION AND OPERATION OF
in the previous quarter, namely regarding the volume
MARKETING ACTIVITIES
of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants
FUELS, BIOFUELS AND
imported to, and exported from, Timor-Leste in the
LUBRICANTS
Previous quarter, and which are relevant, designatedmind, for statistical purposes and for volume correction
SECTION I
of Transactions for rate determination purposes
REGISTRATION AND LICENSING
Yearly;
Article 4
o) "Applicant": means a natural person or
General rules
collective that submits a formal application or
requests the issuance of a License, authorization or
1. All entities that intend to carry out activities of
approval with ANPM;
Marketing of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants must register with ANPM and obtain the
p) "Transaction": means the commercial exchange of
Corresponding license.
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants among
a buyer and a seller;
2. If entities already registered and licensed by ANPM
Series I, No. 50

Page 40

Page 820

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
for the exercise of other Downstream Activities
intend to carry out Commercialization Activities of
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants, must
apply for and obtain a specific registration and License and
independent, unless the Marketing Activities
are considered merely complementary or of
support for other Downstream Activity , applying
in such cases, article 8, paragraph 2, of Decree-Law No. 1/2012,
of February 1st.

registration and licensing by issuing a
Fuel Marketing Activities License,
Biofuels and Lubricants.
2. Licenses issued by ANPM under the terms of this
Regulation must present the format established in the
Annex I to Decree-Law No. 1/2012, of February 1, concerning
to the Downstream Sector .
SECTION II
ORGANIZATION AND OPERATIONS

Article 5
Application

Article 7
General principles

1. The application for registration and licensing must be made
through the submission to ANPM of a Form of
Downstream Activities License Application ,
according to the template included in Annex II to the
ANPM Regulation No. 1/2012, as amended by
Regulation No. 2/2014, together with the submission to the
ANPM of the model included in Annex I hereto
Regulation. The Applicant must indicate in the application,
namely, the specific activity you want
exercise, as provided for in Annex I to this
Regulation.

1. Fuel Marketing Activities,
Biofuels and Lubricants must be exercised in
facilities and infrastructure located in the Territory of
East Timor.
2. Workers assigned to Marketing Activities
of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants must
have an employment contract with the Licensee in a
in the ways provided for by the legislation of Timor-Leste,
foreign workers must also have
a valid work visa or residence permit.

2. In addition to other information and documentation indicated in the
Activity License Application Form
Downstream , the Applicant for an Import License
3. Entities registered and licensed to Comercializaor Export must, obligatorily, deliver a Plan
tion of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants
Annual of Fuel Trading Activities,
must have the necessary resources.
Biofuels and Lubricants for the first year of
operations, prepared in accordance with paragraph 1 of article 8 of the to carry out the respective licensed activity, designated
mind, financial capacity, workers, equipment
this Regulation.
and systems needed.
3. When analyzing and/or reviewing the License Application, ANPM
may require the Claimant to provide information and/or
Article 8
additional documentation not expressly provided for in the
planning
Annex I to these Regulations and that it is considered
necessary to properly evaluate the application.
1. Along with the application referred to in article 5 of the
this Regulation, and subsequently, until the 15th
day of January of each Year, Importers or
Exporters of Fuels, Biofuels and
Licensed Lubricants must submit a "Plan
Annual of Fuel Trading Activities,
Biofuels and Lubricants” to ANPM, according to the
model included in Annex II to these Regulations.

4. ANPM must issue a decision on an application
within ninety (90) days from the date on which
receive the last required document or information,
informing the Claimant of the decision in writing, as well as
of the steps, procedures and period for your
Implementation.
5. Applications are not considered if:

2. The Annual Plan of Marketing Activities of
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants must include,
namely, a field for the description of activities.
that the Applicant or Licensee envisages to exercise,
as the case may be, the requirement to submit a plan
of business, the explanation of the procedures to be observed and
the documentation to include in the plan.

a) It is foreseeable that the scheduled start date will be
operations exceed 6 (six) months;
b) The Applicant, any of the members of its board
of administration or employees have been punished
for a very serious foreseen Administrative Violation
in any legislation or regulation of
Downstream of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste
in the 5 (five) Years preceding the presentation of the
application.

Article 9
Application and authorization for transaction
1. Prior to the start of fuel transport,
Biofuels and Lubricants for the Territory of TimorEast or East Timor Territory for countries
foreigners, the Importers and Exporters of
Licensed Fuels must submit to ANPM a

Article 6
Approval
1. If the application is approved, ANPM must confirm
Series I, No. 50

Page 41

Page 821

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
"Application for Authorization of Transaction of
Marketing of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants", according to the model included in the Annex
III to these Regulations.

a Transaction Authorization, as well as others
documentation relating to the procedures and indication of the
period for its implementation.
4. If the Transaction is approved, ANPM must stamp and
sign the Application for Transaction Authorization
Marketing of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants in the respective field of approval, passing
said Application to be considered as a
Transaction Authorization.

2. The application must include, obligatorily, the following
documentation and information:
a) The type(s) and quantity(s) of Fuels, Biocomfuels and lubricants involved in the Transaction;
b) The origin of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants subject to the Transaction;

5. If the authorized Transaction is not completed within the deadline
60 (sixty) days from the date of the ANPM decision,
the Transaction Authorization issued pursuant to the
previous numbers of this article 9 expires
automatically, in which case the Licensee must start
a new authorization process through submission
of a new form, documentation and information
updated.

c) Declaration of the entity selling the Fuels,
Biofuels and Lubricants for Importers
or Licensed Exporter, confirming the acquisition;
d) The storage location at the origin;
e) The place of loading for transport;

Article 10
(Support documents)

f) The carrier of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants and means of transport, including
any applicable certification;

Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants must be
always accompanied by the Transaction Authorization and the
Product Quality Certificate, as well as any
other documentation required by ANPM under the terms of the
other applicable Regulations, including copy
certificate of the operator's Downstream Activity License
valid.

g) The Product Quality Certificate for the Transaction
of Import or Export issued by an entity
accredited or accepted by ANPM to ensure the
compliance with regulations relating to
Fuel Quality Standards and Specifications
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants, detailing the
Specifications of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants sold;

Article 11
Verification of marketing

h) If applicable, in Export Transactions, the
licensed exporters must submit to ANPM
adequate documentation that justifies the reasons
by which the relevant product does not comply with the
respective Quality Standards and Specifications of
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants
Timor-Leste, namely through the presentation
sufficient evidence that the country of
destination requires product standards or specifications
many different;

1. Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants must
be inspected by the ANPM Inspector on exit and entry
of the Territory of Timor-Leste, in order to examine the
quantity and related documents.
2. The ANPM Inspector may affix a seal, stamp,
signature, or other written record in the documentation.
presented, certifying that the inspection has taken place.
3. If in accordance with the documentation submitted by ImporFuels, Biofuels and Lubricants
who entered the Territory of Timor-Leste comply and
comply with all the rules,
applicable regulations and specifications, the Inspector of
ANPM issues a Declaration for Free Circulation, of
according to the model included in Annex VI hereto.
Regulation. If later it is determined
that Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants
do not comply with all rules, regulations and
applicable specifications, the Importer is subject to
any administrative, criminal or other sanctions
nature, applicable by virtue of the provision of false
declarations and importation in violation of laws and
applicable regulations.

i) The date of commencement of transport;
j) The place of entry into the country of destination;
k) The entity to which Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants are intended;
l) Storage facilities where the CombustFuels, Biofuels and Lubricants are
stored;
m) The confirmation of sale issued by the importer or
licensed exporter.
3. ANPM must issue a decision on the application in the
within 3 (three) business days from the date you receive
the last required document, delivering to the Applicant
Series I, No. 50

Page 42

4. If an Administrative Violation is detected, the Inspector of
ANPM shall, if applicable, prevent Fuels,
Biofuels and Lubricants leave or enter the
Page 822

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
Territory of Timor-Leste, as the case may be, through the
seizure of them, sealing the cisterns and retaining
all supporting documentation and other documents
that can serve as evidence of the Infringement.

CHAPTER III
FEES AND OBLIGATIONS
Article 14
Fees

5. In the cases referred to in paragraph 4, the ANPM Inspector shall
immediately prepare the respective Notice of the
Infringement or Infringement Report and send it to
ANPM Inspection Division responsible for
investigation of Administrative Offenses in the sector
Downstream to start the respective procedure. O
Importer or Exporter of Fuels,
Biofuels and Lubricants Licensed must be
always notified, in detail, of the seizure.
from Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants to
pursuant to paragraph 4, as provided for in Chapter V of the
Decree-Law No. 1/2012, of February 1st.

1. The assignment of a License for Commercial Activities
tion of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants
is subject to the payment of Annual fees.
2. Annual fees are due based on the amount of
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants planned
in the Annual Plan of Marketing Activities of
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants.
3. The Annual Fee for Import and Export activities
is USD 0.0005/L.
4. If the effective amount of Fuels, Biofuels
and Lubricants imported or exported reflected in the
Annual Report of Marketing Activities of
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants, or in the
Quarterly Report, is less than or greater than the amount
indicated in the Annual Marketing Activities Plan
of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants, should
there is a correction mechanism to reconcile the
payment of the fee with the actual quantity imported and
exported, following the annual or quarterly audit of the
ANPM

6. The rules contained in this article do not waive or
replace Licensee's obligation to comply with the
customs, tax and other rules that may
be applicable to the import or export of Fuels,
Biofuels and Lubricants for the Territory of TimorEast or out of it.
Article 12
Handling of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants

5. Fees must be paid by Licensee prior to issuance
or renewal of the License.

All Handling of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants for Import or Export purposes that
takes place in the Territory of Timor-Leste must comply with the
provided for in Decree-Law No. 1/2012, of February 1st, and with the
Complementary regulations of the Downstream sector .

6. Failure to comply with the obligation to pay fees has
as a consequence the refusal to issue or renew, or
cancellation of the License, as the case may be.
7. In case of extemporaneous renewal of a License
Marketing rates are increased by 50%.

Article 13
Annual and Quarterly Reports

8. Transmission or amendment of the Marketing License
is subject to payment of a fee corresponding to
50% of the fee.

1. Until the 15th of January of each Year, the Importers and
Exporters of Fuels, Biofuels and
Licensed Lubricants must submit to ANPM a
Annual Report on Marketing Activities
of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants,
containing all relevant information about the Transactions
held in the previous year.

Article 15
Obligations of Licensees
Without prejudice to other obligations and requirements set forth in the
this Regulation, in Decree-Law No. 1/2012, of 1st of
February, and other rules and regulations applicable to the
performance of their activities, the Licensees must,
as applicable:

2. The Annual Report on Marketing Activities of
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants should be
submitted to ANPM according to the model included in the
Annex IV, which contains the explanation of the procedures to
observe and the information to include.

a) Keep ANPM informed of the status of activities
scheduled and any changes to their
deadlines and details;

3. By the 15th day of the first month of each Quarter, the
Fuel Importers and Exporters,
Biofuels and Licensed Lubricants must
submit to ANPM a Quarterly Report, containing all
the relevant information about the Transactions carried out in the
Previous quarter.

b) Contract transport services that comply with all
national and international rules and standards, designated
mind with regard to the safety of people and the environment;

c) Comply with all laws and regulations in force in the
Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste namely in
4. The Quarterly Report must be submitted to the ANPM of
Environmental Matters, Quality Standards and Specifications
according to the template included in Annex V, which contains the
of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants, fiscal,
explanation of the procedures to be observed and the information to
customs and security;
include.
Series I, No. 50

Page 43

Page 823

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
d) Pay the fees determined by ANPM under the
this Regulation;

Article 18
Inspection of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants
for exportation

e) Ensure that they employ personnel with
the experience necessary to carry out activities of
Marketing of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants.

Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants
intended for sale to a foreign country shall be subject
to a preview to confirm the type of Fuel,
Biofuel and Lubricant and respective specifications, which
must be certified through a certificate or declaration.
issued by ANPM.

CHAPTER IV
INSPECTION
Article 16
General rules

CHAPTER V
INFRINGEMENTS

1. Licensees that carry out Marketing Activities
of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants must
fully cooperate with the ANPM Inspectors or with
any entity accredited by ANPM that participates in
any inspection, namely responding to all
the questions asked and submitting and/or delivering all
the documentation and reports requested.

Article 19
Classification of Infractions
1. Violations of the provisions of this Regulation
they are classified as very serious, serious and light and are
punishable under the terms of article 57 of Decree-Law no. 1/
2012, from February 1st.

2. Licensees must keep records at their offices
in the country of all relevant documentation, namely,
Transaction Authorizations, Certificates of
Product Quality, Quarterly Reports and
Annual Reports on Marketing Activities of
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants
submitted to ANPM and any additional information
referred to in Article 9.

2. Constitutes a light infraction, punishable by a financial penalty
from 250 to 15,000 US dollars,
or from 1,250 to 75,000 US dollars,
respectively, depending on whether the natural person is applied.
or collective, the following acts:
a) Employment of workers assigned to Activities of
Marketing of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants without an employment contract
in one of the ways provided for in the legislation of
East Timor;

3. All records must be kept in one of the languages.
Timor-Leste officials and/or in one of the working languages,
except the Quarterly Reports and the Annual Reports of
Fuel Marketing Activities,
Biofuels and Lubricants, which should always be
prepared in the official language used in the included template
in Annexes IV and V to these Regulations, respectivelymind.

b) Employment of foreign workers related to
Fuel Marketing Activities,
Biofuels and Lubricants, which do not have the
respective work visa or residence permit
valid;
c) Violation of the obligations of Fuels, Biocomfuels and lubricants to be accompanied by a
Transaction Authorization and a Certificate of
Product Quality, as well as any other
documentation required by ANPM, namely
certified copy of the Activity License
Valid operator downstream ; and

4. The documents must be made available to the Division of
ANPM inspection upon request.
Article 17
Inspection of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants
imported
1. All Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants
acquired outside the Territory of Timor-Leste and imported
for the country can only be sold to the public or used
after checking a prior inspection, which confirms the
type of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants and
that the respective specifications comply with the provisions
in the Regulation on Standards and Specifications of
Qualities of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants.

d) Violation of the operator's obligation to keep records in the
your office in the country and in one of the official or
Timor-Leste work, all documentation
relevant, including inter alia Authorizations of
Marketing, Product Quality Certificate,
Quarterly Reports, Annual Activity Reports
of Fuels Marketing, Biofuels
and Lubricants and Annual Eating Activity Plans
cialization of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubrication
songs presented to ANPM, as well as any
2. The inspection referred to in paragraph 1 must take place as soon as possible.
additional information mentioned in Article 9.
after the entry of the product into the Territory of Timor-Leste,
when it is in the tanks of the Vehicle of
3. It constitutes a serious infraction punishable by a financial penalty of
Initial Fuel Transport and, in any case,
750 to 50,000 US dollars, or
before any transfer or transfer operation
from 15,000 to 300,000 US dollars,
to other means of transport or to installations of
respectively, depending on whether the natural person is applied.
Storage.
or collective, the following acts:
Series I, No. 50

Page 44

Page 824

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic
a) Failure to comply with the obligation to submit,
in a timely manner, to ANPM the Annual Activity Plan
of Fuels Marketing, Biofuels
and Lubricants, according to the model included in the
Annex II;

f) Sale to the public of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants acquired outside the Territory of TimorEast and imported into the country without carrying out a
prior inspection that confirms the type of Fuel,
Biofuel and Lubricant and the respective
specifications comply with the Regulation of
Quality Standards and Specifications of
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants; and

b) Failure to comply with the obligation to submit
the Annual Report or the
Quarterly Report on Marketing Activities
of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants, from
according to the model included in Annexes IV and V,
respectively;

g) Sale in Timor-Leste of Fuels, Biofuels
products and Lubricants intended to be exported and
that do not comply with the Standards and Specifications of
Quality of Fuels, Biofuels and
Applicable lubricants.

c) Export of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants for foreign countries without observance
inspection of ANPM as referred to in article 18;

5. The offender who commits an Infraction under the terms of this
Regulation may also be subject to ancillary sanctions,
as provided for in Decree-Law No. 1/2012, of 1 of
February.

d) The input or output of Fuels, Biofuels
and East Timor Lubricants without the proper
verification in accordance with article 11 of the present
Regulation;

CHAPTER VI
FINAL DISPOSITIONS

e) Violation of articles 15, 16 or 17 of the present
Regulation; and

Article 20
Fuel Importers and Exporters,
Existing Biofuels and Lubricants

f) Failure to comply with any other technical standards
or of any other nature provided for in this Regulation.
that are not classified as Offenses
mild or very severe.

1. Entities that currently carry out activities of
Marketing of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants have 90 (ninety) days from the
publication of these Regulations to present to the
ANPM an Activity License Application
Downstream and other documentation required under
of article 5 of these Regulations.

4. It is a very serious infraction punishable by a penalty
1,500 to 150,000 US dollars
from America, or from 75,000 to 1,000,000 US dollars
United States of America, respectively, depending on whether
applied to a natural or legal person, the following acts:
a) Carrying out of Marketing Activities of
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants without the
necessary registration and licensing with ANPM, of
in accordance with Articles 4 and 5 or after the expiration of the
period provided for in paragraph 1 of article 20 for operators
existing;

2. Entities that at the date of entry into force of this
Regulation carry out Marketing Activities of
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants has
a period of 180 (one hundred and eighty) days to conform the
their activities with the established rules and requirements
in this Regulation.
Article 21
Revocation

b) Carrying out of Marketing Activities of
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants in
All previous provisions and diplomas are revoked
violation of the terms and conditions provided for in the respective
contrary to the provisions of these Regulations.
License;
Article 22
Implementation

c) Transport of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants for Timor-Leste Territory or countries
foreigners without observing the obligation to submit
prior to ANPM a Request for
Trading Transaction Authorization of
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants, from
according to the model included in Annex III;

This Regulation enters into force on the day following its
publication in Jornal da República.
Approved by the Board of Directors of ANPM on 10 October
2016

d) Import of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants for Timor-Leste without Certificate of
Product Quality issued by a competent entity;

Members:

e) Import of Fuels, Biofuels and
1) Gualdino do Carmo da Silva – President .......................
Lubricants for Timor-Leste that do not comply with
2) Jose Manuel Gonçalves – Member .............................
specifications provided for in the Standards Regulation
and Fuel Quality Specifications,
3) Jorge Martins – Member ...............................................
Biofuels and Lubricants, without obtaining previously
4) Verawati Corte Real de Oliveira – Member ..........................
an authorization from ANPM for this purpose under the terms of the
same Regulation;
5) Nelson de Jesus – Member ………………………………….
Series I, No. 50

Page 825

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 45

ANNEX I
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION AND DOCUMENTS TO SUBMIT WITH THE
REQUEST FOR REGISTRATION AND LICENSING OF ACTIVITIES OF
MARKETING OF FUELS, BIOFUELS AND
LUBRICANTS

1. IDENTIFICATION OF THE APPLICANT
Name or Firm of the Company:
Type of Identification Document:

Identification Document No.:

Tax Identification Number (TIN):
Registration Certificate No.:

Share capital:

Activity License No.:
Representative:
Address:
Juice:
County:

Administrative Post:
Village:

Telephone:

Fax:

Email:

2. TYPE OF APPLICATION
For the exclusive use of ANPM
Please tick “ √ ” in the appropriate box:
The Applicant is already
registered and licensed with the
☐ Yes ☐ No

ANPM for the exercise of

☐ Import Activities

others

Activities

in

Downstream ?
If it is a

☐ Export Activities

entity

what

exercise

currently Activities of
Commercialization,

O

applicant submitted this
Application within the deadline

☐ Yes ☐ No

90 days established in

☐ New License ☐ Renewal

article 20, paragraph 1, of the present
Regulation?

Series I, No. 50

Page 826

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 46
3. DOCUMENTS

Please tick " √ " in the appropriate box to confirm that the applicant delivered the required documents:

Claimant's Use Employee Use

Annex II of this Regulation duly completed (Annual Plan of
Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants)

☐ Yes ☐ No ☐ Yes ☐ No

D Additional Documents
please specify
____________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________

☐ Yes ☐ No ☐ Yes ☐ No

4. STATEMENT OF THE APPLICANT
NOTE: This form and any additional information is public record and will remain archived. With the submission of the
In this form, the Applicant declares that it will not use the information received now or later for any illegal purpose or
illicit.

To be completed by ANPM
I certify that all the information contained in this
form is complete and correct. I am aware that the information
provided to ANPM is subject to review and audit. the records
detailed information that substantiates the information contained in the
this form are available upon request.
Signature of responsible employee
Signature: ________________________________________

___________________________________________

Location: _________________________ Date: ___/___/_____

Grades:
i)

The application for registration and licensing must be made by submitting an Application for
License for Downstream Activities to ANPM, according to the model included in Annex II to the Regulation
of ANPM No. 1/2012, complemented with the submission of this form to the ANPM;

ii)

The Applicant must indicate in the application, namely, the specific activity that he/she wishes to exercise;

iii)

Entities that already carry out Fuel, Biofuel and Lubricant Marketing Activities
have 90 days, after the publication of this Regulation, to submit to ANPM a Form of
Application for Licensing of Downstream Activities ;

iv)

Applicants must also include the information and documentation indicated in the Application Form.
Application for Licensing of Downstream Activities ;

v)

ANPM may require the Claimant to provide additional information and/or the documentation considered
necessary to properly evaluate the application;

saw)

Applications are not considered if: (a) It is foreseeable that the scheduled start date for the
operations exceed 6 months; (b) The Applicant, any of the members of its board of directors or
employees have been punished with a very serious Administrative Violation provided for in any legislation
or Downstream regulation of the Democratic Republic of Timor-Leste in the 5 Years preceding the
application;

vii)

Entities that require registration and licensing for Fuel Marketing Activities,
Biofuels and Lubricants must have the appropriate resources to exercise the
respective licensed activity, namely, financial capacity, workers, equipment and
necessary systems;

viii)

The Fuel, Biofuel and Lubricant Marketing Activities must be carried out in
facilities and infrastructure located in the Territory of Timor-Leste;

ix)

The installation and operation of fuel storage infrastructure in the Territory of Timor-Leste
are subject to specific Regulations.

Series I, No. 50

Page 827

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 47

ANNEX II
ANNUAL FUEL MARKETING ACTIVITIES PLAN,
BIOFUELS AND LUBRICANTS

1. IDENTIFICATION OF THE APPLICANT
Name or Firm of the Company:
Type of Identification Document:

Identification Document No.:

Tax Identification Number (TIN):
Registration Certificate No.:

Share capital:

Activity License No.:
Representative:
Address:
Juice:
County:

Administrative Post:
Village:

Telephone:

Fax No.:

Email:

2. TYPE OF APPLICATION

Please tick “ √ ” in the appropriate box:

First Annual plan to be submitted with the application for registration and licensing of Activities of
Marketing of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants related to:
Year________

Activity registered by the Applicant:
Annual plan submitted after issuance of License
relevant to:

☐ Import of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants
☐ Export of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants

Year________

Series I, No. 50

Page 828

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 48

3. PLAN OF ACTIVITIES THAT IS PLANNED TO BE PERFORMED
Please mark with " √ " in the appropriate box to confirm which activities the Applicant intends to carry out and fill in the
required information below:

Fuel

domestic propane
or Industrial

Import/
Export /
Business

Seller (in
case of
Import or
Commercialization
)

Buyer (in
case of
Export or
Commercialization)

The amount

☐ Import
☐ Export

Domestic Butane
or Industrial

☐ Import
☐ Export
☐ Import

AutoGas

☐ Export
☐ Import

Gasoline

☐ Export
☐ Import

Kerosene

☐ Export

☐ Import
Automobile Diesel

☐ Export
☐ Import

Marine Diesel

☐ Export
☐ Import

fuel oil

☐ Export
☐ Import

Diesel
Heating
Avgas

☐ Export

☐ Import
☐ Export
☐ Import

Jet-A1

☐ Export
☐ Import

Fuel
Banking Maritime
fuel for
Turbo-generator
Cutback asphalt
MC250
Asphalt Cutback RCtwo

☐ Export
☐ Import
☐ Export
☐ Import
☐ Export
☐ Import
☐ Export
☐ Import

Asphalt 80/100

☐ Export
☐ Import

Asphalt 100/200

☐ Export

Series I, No. 50

Page 829

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 49
4. PLANS AND DOCUMENTS

Please tick " √ " in the appropriate box to confirm that the applicant delivered the required documents:

Claimant's Use Employee Use

Business plan

Documentation to be included in the business plan

D Additional Documents
please specify
____________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________

5. STATEMENT OF THE APPLICANT
NOTE: This form and any additional information is public record and will remain archived. With the submission of the
In this form, the Applicant declares that it will not use the information received now or later for any illegal purpose or

☐ Yes ☐ No

☐ Yes ☐ No

☐ Yes ☐ No

☐ Yes ☐ No

☐ Yes ☐ No

☐ Yes ☐ No

illicit

To be completed by ANPM
I certify that all the information contained in this
form is complete and correct. I am aware that the information
provided to ANPM is subject to review and audit. the records
detailed information that substantiates the information contained in the
this form are available upon request.

ANPM seal

Signature of responsible employee
Signature: ________________________________________
___________________________________________

Location: _________________________ Date: ___/___/_____

note:
i)

Until the 15th of January of each Year, Fuel Importers, Exporters and Traders
Licensees must submit this "Annual Fuel Marketing Activities Plan" to the
ANPM;

ii)

Before the start of fuel transport to the Territory of Timor-Leste or foreign countries, the
Licensed Fuel Importers, Exporters and Traders must submit an “Application
for Fuel Marketing Transaction Authorization" according to the template included in the
Annex III to the Regulation for the Marketing of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants;

iii)

All products imported to Timor-Leste or exported to foreign countries (insofar as
are not exempted under the Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants), must be accompanied by a Product Quality Certificate, issued
by an entity accredited or accepted by ANPM for that purpose, in case of export, or by a
entity in the country of origin recognized by ANPM for this purpose, in case of importation;

iv)

Pursuant to Article 23, paragraph 4, of the Regulation on Quality Standards and Specifications of
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants, Applicants must provide evidence of the supplier or
producer of the products attesting the respective specifications of origin.

v)

Unless otherwise stated in the Fuel Marketing Regulation,
Biofuels and Lubricants, the expressions, terms and concepts used in this form have the
meaning given by the Regulation on Fuel Quality Standards and Specifications,
Biofuels and Lubricants.

Series I, No. 50

Page 830

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 50

ANNEX III
APPLICATION FOR AUTHORIZATION OF FUEL TRANSACTION,
BIOFUELS AND LUBRICANTS

1. IDENTIFICATION OF THE APPLICANT
Name or Firm of the Company:
Type of Identification Document:

Identification Document No.:

Tax Identification Number (TIN):
Registration Certificate No.:

Share capital:

Activity License No.:
Representative:
Address:
Juice:
County:

Administrative Post:
Village:

Telephone:

Fax:

Email:

2. TYPE OF APPLICATION
Please tick “ √ ” in the appropriate box:

Activity registered by the Applicant:
☐ Import of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants
☐ Export of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants

3. FUELS TO IMPORT OR EXPORT
Please mark with " √ " in the appropriate box to confirm the activities the Claimant wishes to carry out and provide the information
required below:

Import/
Export /
sells
dog

Fuel

Information about the
place of entry in
destiny country

Start date
of transport

The amount

☐ Import
Propane
Domestic or
Industrial

☐ Export

Butane
Domestic or

☐ Import

Series I, No. 50

Page 831

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 51
☐ Import
Butane
Domestic or
Industrial

☐ Export

☐ Import
☐ Export

AutoGas

☐ Import
☐ Export

Gasoline

☐ Import
☐ Export
Kerosene
☐ Import
Diesel
Car

☐ Export

☐ Import
Diesel
Maritime

☐ Export

☐ Import
☐ Export

fuel oil

☐ Import
☐ Export

Diesel
Heating

☐ Import
Avgas

☐ Export

☐ Import
☐ Export

Jet-A1

☐ Import
Fuel
Maritime of
Banks

☐ Export

☐ Import
Fuel
for TurboGenerator

☐ Export

☐ Import
Cutback asphalt
MC250

☐ Export

☐ Import
Cutback asphalt

☐ Export

RC-2

☐ Import
Asphalt 80/100

☐ Export

☐ Import
Asphalt 100/200

☐ Export

Series I, No. 50

Page 832

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 52

4. DOCUMENTS
Please tick " √ " in the appropriate box to confirm that the applicant delivered the required documents:

Claimant's Use Employee Use

Documentation to certify the origin of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants

☐ Yes ☐ No ☐ Yes ☐ No

Documentation issued by the entity selling the Fuels,
Biofuels and Lubricants for the Importer or Exporter
Licensed, confirming the acquisition

☐ Yes ☐ No ☐ Yes ☐ No

Documentation issued by the entity selling the Fuels,
Biofuels and Lubricants for the Importer or Exporter
Licensee confirming storage place at source

☐ Yes ☐ No ☐ Yes ☐ No

Documentation certifying the place of loading for transport

☐ Yes ☐ No ☐ Yes ☐ No

Documentation on the Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants and on means of transport, including any
applicable certification

☐ Yes ☐ No ☐ Yes ☐ No

Documentation issued by the entity selling the Fuels,
Biofuels and Lubricants to Licensed Importer, confirming
that the type of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants and the
their specifications are in accordance with the law and
Timor-Leste regulations on Standards and Specifications of
Quality of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants, and
detailing the specifications of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants sold

☐ Yes ☐ No ☐ Yes ☐ No

Documentation on the entity(ies) for which the
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants

☐ Yes ☐ No ☐ Yes ☐ No

Documentation to confirm the Storage Infrastructures where the
Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants are stored

☐ Yes ☐ No ☐ Yes ☐ No

Documentation issued by the Importer, Exporter or Merchant
Licensed, to confirm the sale

☐ Yes ☐ No ☐ Yes ☐ No

D Additional Documents
please specify
____________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________

☐ Yes ☐ No ☐ Yes ☐ No

5. STATEMENT OF THE APPLICANT
NOTE: This form and any additional information is public record and will remain archived. With the submission of the
In this form, the Applicant declares that it will not use the information received now or later for any illegal purpose or
illicit

To be completed by ANPM
I certify that all the information contained in this
form is complete and correct. I am aware that the information
provided to ANPM is subject to review and audit. the records
detailed information that substantiates the information contained in the
this form are available upon request.
Signature of responsible employee
Signature: ________________________________________

___________________________________________

Location: _________________________ Date: ___/___/_____

Series I, No. 50

Page 833

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 53

6. ANPM DECISION
For official use only

Transaction Approval
☐ Approved
☐ Not Approved
☐ Deferred / Returned (additional elements requested)

Observations/Requirements/Procedures and respective deadlines:
_______________________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________________________

Transaction Authorization Number ______________________________________

Approval officer

ANPM seal

Name:
Office:
Signature
Date: ___________________
Valid until: ______________

___________________________________________

note:
i)

Before the start of the transport of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants to the Territory of Timor-Leste
or foreign countries, Importers, Exporters and Traders of Fuels, Biofuels and
Licensed Lubricants must submit an "Application for Transaction Authorization
Marketing of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants” for approval by ANPM;

ii)

The ANPM must make a decision regarding the application within 3 days from the date on which
receive the latest required documents, delivering a Transaction Authorization to the applicant, as well as
other documentation relating to the procedures and the period for their implementation;

iii)

In case of approval of the Transaction, ANPM must stamp and sign the "Request for Authorization of
Transaction of Marketing of Fuels, Biofuels and Lubricants" in the respective field, being the
said Application subsequently considered as a Transaction Authorization;

iv)

If the authorized Transaction is not completed within 60 (sixty) days from the date of the decision
of ANPM, the Transaction Authorization automatically expires, in which case the Licensee shall initiate a
new authorization process by submitting a new form, documentation and information
updated.

Series I, No. 50

Page 834

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 54

ANNEX IV
ANNUAL REPORT ON MARKETING ACTIVITIES
FUELS, BIOFUELS AND LUBRICANTS

1. IDENTIFICATION OF THE APPLICANT
Name or Firm of the Company:
Type of Identification Document:

Identification Document No.:

Tax Identification Number (TIN):
Registration Certificate No.:

Share capital:

Activity License No.:
Representative:
Address:
Juice:
County:

Administrative Post:
Village:

Telephone:

Fax:

Email:

2. TYPE OF APPLICATION

Please tick “ √ ” in the appropriate box:

Activity registered by the Applicant:

Annual Report related to:

☐ Import of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants
☐ Export of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants

Year ___________

3. REPORT OF ACTIVITIES PERFORMED
Please tick " √ " in the appropriate box to confirm the activities that the applicant has exercised and provide information
required below:

Series I, No. 50

Page 835

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 55
Import/
Export /
Business

Fuel

domestic propane
or Industrial

Information about the
place of entry in
destiny country

start date of
transport

The amount

☐ Import
☐ Export
☐ Import

Domestic Butane
or Industrial

☐ Export

☐ Import
☐ Export

AutoGas

☐ Import
☐ Export

Gasoline

☐ Import
☐ Export

Kerosene

☐ Import
☐ Export

Automobile Diesel

☐ Import
☐ Export

Marine Diesel

☐ Import
☐ Export

fuel oil

☐ Import
☐ Export

Diesel
Heating

☐ Import
Avgas

☐ Export

☐ Import
☐ Export

Jet-A1

☐ Import
Fuel
Banking Maritime

☐ Export

☐ Import
☐ Export

fuel for
Turbo-generator

☐ Import
Cutback asphalt
MC250

☐ Export

☐ Import
Cutback asphalt
RC-2

☐ Export

☐ Import
Asphalt 80/100

☐ Export

Series I, No. 50

Page 836

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 56
☐ Import
Asphalt 100/200

☐ Export

4. STATEMENT OF THE APPLICANT
NOTE: This form and any additional information is public record and will remain archived. With the submission of the
In this form, the Applicant declares that it will not use the information received now or later for any illegal purpose or
illicit

To be completed by ANPM
I certify that all the information contained in this
form is complete and correct. I am aware that the information
provided to ANPM is subject to review and audit. the records
detailed information that substantiates the information contained in the
this form are available upon request.

ANPM seal

Signature of responsible employee

Signature: ________________________________________

___________________________________________

Location: _________________________ Date: ___/___/_____

note:
Until the 15th of January of each Year, the Licensed Fuel Importers, Exporters and Traders
must submit this “Annual Report on Fuel, Biofuel and
Lubricants” to ANPM, which includes all relevant information relating to Transactions carried out in the previous year.

Series I, No. 50

Page 837

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 57

ANNEX V
QUARTERLY REPORT ON MARKETING ACTIVITIES
FUELS, BIOFUELS AND LUBRICANTS

1. IDENTIFICATION OF THE APPLICANT
Name or Firm of the Company:
Type of Identification Document:

Identification Document No.:

Tax Identification Number (TIN):
Registration Certificate No.:

Share capital:

Activity License No.:
Representative:
Address:
Juice:
County:

Administrative Post:
Village:

Telephone:

Fax:

Email:

2. TYPE OF APPLICATION

Please tick “ √ ” in the appropriate box:

Activity registered by the Applicant:
Quarterly Report on:
☐ Import of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants
☐ Export of Fuels, Biofuels and
Lubricants

☐ 1st Quarter of the Year
☐ 2nd Quarter of the Year
☐ 3rd Quarter of the Year
☐ 4th Quarter of the Year

3. REPORT OF ACTIVITIES PERFORMED
Please tick " √ " in the appropriate box to confirm the activities that the applicant has exercised and provide information
required below:

Series I, No. 50

Page 838

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 58
Import/
Export /
Business

Fuel

domestic propane
or Industrial

start date of
transport

Information about the
place of entry in
destiny country

The amount

☐ Import
☐ Export
☐ Import

Domestic Butane
or Industrial

☐ Export

☐ Import
☐ Export

AutoGas

☐ Import
☐ Export

Gasoline

☐ Import
☐ Export

Kerosene

☐ Import
Automobile Diesel

☐ Export

☐ Import
☐ Export

Marine Diesel

☐ Import
☐ Export

fuel oil

☐ Import
☐ Export

Diesel
Heating

☐ Import
Avgas

☐ Export

☐ Import
☐ Export

Jet-A1

☐ Import
Fuel
Banking Maritime

☐ Export
☐ Import

fuel for
Turbo-generator

☐ Export

☐ Import
Cutback asphalt
MC250

☐ Export

☐ Import
Asphalt Cutback RCtwo

☐ Export

☐ Import
Asphalt 80/100

☐ Export

Series I, No. 50

Page 839

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 59
☐ Import
Asphalt 100/200

☐ Export

4. STATEMENT OF THE APPLICANT
NOTE: This form and any additional information is public record and will remain archived. With the submission of the
In this form, the Applicant declares that it will not use the information received now or later for any illegal purpose or
illicit

To be completed by ANPM
I certify that all the information contained in this
form is complete and correct. I am aware that the information
provided to ANPM is subject to review and audit. the records
detailed information that substantiates the information contained in the
this form are available upon request.

ANPM seal

Signature of responsible employee

Signature: ________________________________________

___________________________________________

Location: _________________________ Date: ___/___/_____

note:
Until the 15th day of the first month of each Quarter, Fuel Importers, Exporters and Traders
Licensees must submit this "Quarterly Fuel Marketing Activities Report,
Biofuels and Lubricants" to ANPM, which includes all relevant information regarding Transactions carried out in the
Previous quarter.

Series I, No. 50

Page 840

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Newspaper of the Republic

Page 60

ANNEX VI
DECLARATION FOR FREE MOVEMENT

DECLARATION FOR FREE MOVEMENT
ANPM, IN ITS QUALITY OF REGULATORY ENTITY OF THE DOWNSTREAM SECTOR
IN TIMOR-LESTE AND IN THE EXERCISE OF ITS LICENSING POWERS UNDER
OF ARTICLE 11, No. 3, OF REGULATION No. 2/2016, OF …, HEREBY GRANTS A
FREE MOVEMENT TO _________ INCLUDED IN THE TRANSACTION AUTHORIZATION
NUMBER .................................................................

Name or Firm of the Company:
Type of Identification Document:

Identification Document No.:

Tax Identification Number (TIN):
Registration Certificate No.:

Share capital:

Activity License No.:
Address:
County:

Administrative Post:

Telephone:

Email:

Approval Officer

Juice:

ANPM seal

Name:
Office:
Signature of the responsible

___________________________________________

Series I, No. 50

Wednesday, December 28, 2016

Date: ___________________

Page 841

