Page 1

Decree No. 2019-341 of April 19, 2019 relating to the implementation
processing work involving the use of the number
registration in the national identification directory of
natural persons or requiring the consultation of
this directory
Data last update for this text: June 05, 2021
NOR: JUSC1835107D
JORF n ° 0095 of April 21, 2019
Version in force on 06 June 2021

The Prime Minister,
On the report of the Keeper of the Seals, Minister of Justice,
Having regard to Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of April 27, 2016 relating to
the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
personnel and the free movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC;
Considering the code of social action and families;
Having regard to the insurance code;
Having regard to the commercial code;
Having regard to the construction and housing code;
According to education Code ;
Having regard to the electoral code;
Having regard to the environmental code;
Having regard to the general tax code;
Having regard to the monetary and financial code;
Considering the code of mutuality;

Page 2

Having regard to the penal code;
Having regard to the civil and military retirement pensions code;
Considering the code of military pensions of invalidity and victims of the war;
Having regard to the code of criminal procedure;
Considering the rural code and maritime fishing;
Having regard to the public health code;
Having regard to the social security code;
Having regard to the national service code;
Having regard to the labor code;
Having regard to the book of tax procedures;
Considering the law n ° 51-711 of June 7, 1951 modified on the obligation, the coordination and the secrecy in matters
statistics;
Considering the law n ° 78-17 of January 6, 1978 relating to data processing, files and freedoms, modified
in particular by law n ° 2018-493 of June 20, 2018 relating to data protection
personal, in particular Article 22;
Considering the law n ° 83-634 of July 13, 1983 modified on the rights and obligations of civil servants;
Considering the amended law n ° 2004-105 of February 3, 2004 establishing the National Agency for
guarantee of the rights of minors and various provisions relating to mines;
In view of the amended law n ° 2010-2 of January 5, 2010 relating to recognition and compensation
victims of French nuclear tests;
Considering the law n ° 2018-771 of September 5, 2018 for the freedom to choose one's professional future;
In view of the ordinance n ° 2018-1125 of December 12, 2018 taken in application of article 32 of the law
n ° 2018-493 of 20 June 2018 relating to the protection of personal data and relating
modification of the law n ° 78-17 of January 6, 1978 relating to data processing, files and
freedoms and various provisions concerning the protection of personal data;
Considering the decree n ° 82-103 of January 22, 1982 modified relating to the national identification directory
natural persons;

Page 3

Considering the decree n ° 85-420 of April 3, 1985 modified relating to the use of the National Directory
identification of natural persons by social security bodies and
foresight;
Considering the decree n ° 86-835 of July 10, 1986 relating to the methods of use of the number
registration in the national register of identification of natural persons in processing
automated for the Ministry of Justice;
Considering the decree n ° 2006-79 of January 26, 2006 modified on various social measures
applicable to teaching and documentation staff mentioned in Article L. 813-8 of
rural and maritime fishing code;
Considering the decree n ° 2014-1181 of October 13, 2014 authorizing the creation of an automated processing
relating to the evaluation of module 3 of experiments with new remuneration methods
provided for by article 44 of law n ° 2007-1786 of 19 December 2007 on the financing of
social security for 2008, relating to cooperation between health professionals;
Considering the decree n ° 2017-1776 of December 27, 2017 authorizing the creation of
personal data for recording and consultation by observatories of
road safety reports of road traffic accidents;
Considering the decree n ° 2018-390 of May 24, 2018 relating to the processing of personal data
personnel referred to as the “national identifier management system”;
Having regard to the opinion of the Advisory Committee on Financial Legislation and Regulation No. 2018-79 of
December 20, 2018;
Having regard to the opinions of the Superior Council of the mutual insurance company n ° 2018-22 of December 27, 2018 and n ° 2019-2
January 31, 2019;
Having regard to the opinion of the supervisory commission of the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations of 13
February 2019;
Considering the deliberation n ° 2019-029 of March 14, 2019 bearing the opinion of the National Commission of
information technology and freedoms;
After hearing the Council of State (interior section),
Decrees:
Article 1

Within the scope of this decree are processing operations whose purposes require
the use of the registration number of persons in the national directory of identification of
individuals or who require consultation of this directory.

Page 4

Article 2

Modified by Decree n ° 2021-707 of June 3, 2021 - art. 4

For the implementation of article 30 of the aforementioned law of 6 January 1978, the purposes and
the categories of data controllers are those listed below:

A. - In the field of social protection:

1 ° For the performance of their social protection missions, including
when the use of the registration number in the national directory of identification of
natural persons is necessary for carrying out evaluations, studies,
statistics and research, or to implement exchanges or processing
of interest to several social protection actors:

a) The administrations and organizations responsible for the management of a basic
legally compulsory social security or the service of allowances, benefits and aid
mentioned in the social security code, the rural and maritime fishing code and the
code of social action and families as well as, where applicable, the authorized bodies
by law or by agreement to participate in the management of these plans, the organizations
responsible for collection, the funds providing the paid vacation service, the Caisse des
French abroad and the establishment mentioned in Article L. 767-1 of the Code of
social Security ;

b) The bodies responsible for the management of supplementary health insurance or
complementary pension ;

c) Groups formed by the bodies and administrations or services responsible for
the management of a social protection scheme between them and, where applicable, with the State,
the list of which is published and notified to the National Commission for Informatics and
freedoms;

Page 5

d) Bodies in charge of provident funds, including provident funds
mentioned in Article L. 727-2 of the Rural and Maritime Fisheries Code;

e) The Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations to provide services relating to the cash registers or
to funds whose management has been entrusted to it and, in particular, to manage pensions, liquidate
the rights to invalidity and disability compensation and to ensure the benefits of action
social;

f) Local authorities and their groups, municipal centers and
intercommunal social action, mentioned in Articles L. 123-4 to L. 123-9 of the Code of
social action and families, as well as other social and medico-social organizations
mentioned in the second paragraph of Article L. 232-13 of the same code for the allocation of
social assistance benefits they serve;

g) The National Agency for the Guarantee of the Rights of Minors, for all aid
and services that it pays for its missions provided for by the law of February 3, 2004
above;

h) The institutions mentioned in Article L. 3253-14 of the Labor Code, the group
of public interest Modernization of social declarations mentioned in the last member of the
sentence of the first paragraph of Article L. 133-5 of the Social Security Code, the institution
mentioned in article L. 5312-1 of the labor code and the body mentioned in article L.
5427-1 of the same code;

i) The departmental homes for disabled people mentioned in Articles L.
146-3 and following of the code of social action and families, and the agents of
administrations and organizations mentioned in I and II of article R. 247-5 of the same code;

j) The social and medico-social establishments and services mentioned in I of article L.
312-1 of the Social Action and Families Code, for the treatments necessary for the
care for people for health and medico-social purposes and for exchanges
with the organizations mentioned in a and i of this article;

Page 6

k) The agents of the National Solidarity Fund for Autonomy mentioned in 2 ° and 3 °
of article R. 146-42 of the code of social action and families, for the missions defined
in article R. 146-38 of the same code, subject to the registration number in the directory
national identification of natural persons has been the subject of adequate
pseudonymization to ensure the confidentiality of the identity of individuals, to
with regard to the information defined in article R. 146-39 of the same code;

l) The National Military Social Security Fund for administrative management and
financial benefits and aid allocated to military personnel affiliated to the
fund, to their families, to civilian staff of the Ministry of Defense, to reservists
operational staff and holders of a military invalidity pension;

m) The National Old Age Insurance Fund for the purposes defined in Article 1 of
decree of May 24, 2018 referred to above;

n) The Institute for Research and Documentation in Health Economics (IRDES) and
the ASALÉE association mentioned in the first paragraph of II of article 1 of the decree of 13
October 2014 referred to above, for the purpose defined in II of the same article;

2 ° For the instruction of the right to active solidarity income, its liquidation and its control
as well as to the conduct of integration actions: the departments, the institution mentioned in
Article L. 5312-1 of the Labor Code and the bodies which pay the remuneration or
employment or training aid;

3 ° For the provision of services subject to pricing defined by law on the basis
social criteria: companies requiring consultation of the national directory
common mentioned in article L. 114-12-1 of the social security code;

4 ° For the accomplishment of its missions: the body responsible, in accordance with
provisions of article R. 121-50 of the code of national service, management of aid and
social protection for volunteers engaged in civic service;

Page 7

5 ° To facilitate the identification of beneficiaries of the lifetime allowance scheme for
tobacconists and promote exchanges with other service providers
social services to which the life allowance scheme contributes: customs services and
indirect rights, the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations, and the association for provident
collective;
6 ° For verifying the identity of business leaders, their spouses and
all the natural persons making up the management of the company, as well as
transmission to the social organizations mentioned in appendix 1-1 to article R. 123-30 of
Commercial Code of the declarations mentioned in appendix 1-2 to articles R. 123-5 and R.
123-30 of the same code: the IT department mentioned in article R. 123-30-14 of this
coded.

B. - In the field of health:

1 ° For the operation of referencing health data by means of the number
registration in the national register for the identification of natural persons used as
as a national health identifier in the context of the care of people with
health and medico-social purposes: the professionals mentioned in Article L. 1110-4 of
public health code and the professionals constituting a care team in
application of article L. 1110-12 of the same code involved in the care
health or medico-social of the person concerned, under the conditions and according to the
terms set out in Articles R. 1111-8-1 to R. 1111-8-7 of the same code;

2 ° For the implementation of the shared medical file provided for in article L. 1111-14 of the code
public health: the National Health Insurance Fund for salaried workers;

3 ° For the implementation of the pharmaceutical file provided for in article L. 1111-23 of the code
public health: the National Council of the Order of Pharmacists;

4 ° For the feedback of nominative information to insurance organizations
illness: the technical agency for information on hospitalization provided for in article R.
6113-33 of the public health code;

Page 8

5 ° For operations related to invoicing and the financial support of expenses
health: professionals, institutions, structures or establishments, as well as their
groups, which provide social security policyholders or their beneficiaries with deeds or
services fully or partially covered by health insurance, including
the public accountants attached, where applicable, to these establishments;

6 ° For operations related to invoicing and the financial support of expenses
relating to telemedicine acts and tele-care activities as defined in Articles L.
6316-1 and L. 6316-2 of the Public Health Code: in addition to the actors mentioned in paragraph
precedent, any person contributing to these acts or activities and who is required in
because of his duties, the obligation of professional secrecy provided for in article 226-13 of
Penal Code ;

7 ° For the creation of files of people invited to screening programs for
cancers and for their management: the participating health insurance funds;

8 ° For the identification of professionals involved in the health system for the purposes of
increase reliability, by consulting the national directory for the identification of natural persons,
data from the shared directory of these professionals: the public interest group
responsible for the development of shared health information systems provided for in Article L.
1111-24 of the public health code;

9 ° For its mission of centralization, use and conservation of information
relating to the monitoring of workers' exposure to ionizing radiation and to
their medical monitoring: the Institute for Radiation Protection and Nuclear Safety mentioned in Article L.
592-45 of the environment code;

10 ° For the management and monitoring of health alerts: the National Public Health Agency
mentioned in Article L. 1413-1 of the Public Health Code, as well as the organizations or
the services responsible for a public service mission appearing on a list fixed by decree
joint of the ministers responsible for health and social security, taken after consultation with the
National Commission for Informatics and Freedoms;

C. - In the fields of work and employment in the private and public sectors:

Page 9

1 ° To fulfill their reporting obligations requiring the use of the number
registration in the national directory for the identification of natural persons, in particular
those provided for in Article L. 133-5-3 of the Social Security Code, and for the processing
automated payroll and personnel management resulting from legal provisions or
regulations and collective agreements concerning declarations, calculations of
contributions and payment intended for the organizations mentioned in article 1 of the decree
of April 3, 1985 referred to above: private employers, public employers and their third parties
appointed as well as the persons referred to in the first paragraph of Article L. 382-4 of the Code of
social security and the authorized third parties mentioned in article R. 382-19 of the same code;

2 ° For the financial management of the administration's human resources: employers
public and their authorized third parties;

3 ° For the steering and management of the social action carried out with regard to the agents of
central services and decentralized services of State administrations: the services
competent authorities of the State;

4 ° To verify the identity of the employee who is the subject of the declaration prior to
the hiring provided for in Article L. 1221-10 of the Labor Code during the phase
initial administrative processing of the declaration: social protection organizations
and the body mentioned in Article L. 5312-1 of the Labor Code;

5 ° For the keeping of the employee savings account, the establishment of account statements
individual and summary statements, in accordance with the third paragraph of article L.
3341-7 of the Labor Code: the bodies or services responsible for these missions;

6 ° For the keeping and transmission of monthly statements of mission contracts, in
application of article L. 1251-46 of the labor code: work contractors
temporary;

7 ° For the establishment of the electoral list in order to measure the audience of
trade unions in companies with less than eleven employees, mentioned in

Page 10

Article L. 2122-10-1 of the Labor Code: the services of the ministry in charge of labor and the
service provider acting on behalf of the ministry;

8 ° For the payment, control and management of employment assistance schemes: the Agence de
services and payment mentioned in Article L. 313-1 of the Rural and Fisheries Code
maritime;

9 ° For the support of young people for access to employment and the implementation
integration, consultation and evaluation actions, in accordance with the missions that
devolved: local missions for the professional and social integration of young people;

10 ° For the accomplishment of their monitoring, steering, studies and evaluation missions
public policies on employment and vocational training, as well as
purposes of studies, in particular follow-up of the course and the systems they implement:
the services of the general delegation for employment and vocational training and
general administration and civil service;

11 ° For the implementation of the personal activity account mentioned in Articles L. 5151-1
et seq. of the Labor Code and article 22 ter of the aforementioned law of 13 July 1983, and the
connection to the information system of the personal activity account mentioned in the articles
R. 5151-1 and following of the same code: the services of the ministry in charge of labor and
employment, the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations, legal persons governed by public law and
legal persons governed by private law entrusted with a public service mission which
develop and make available the online services mentioned in 3 ° of II of article
L. 5151-6 of the same code, as well as public employers and their authorized third parties;

12 ° For the implementation of the personal training account, provided for in Articles L. 6323-1
et seq. of the labor code and article 22 quater of the aforementioned law of 13 July 1983, the
connection to the information system of the personal training account mentioned in
Articles R. 6323-31 et seq. of the same code and the sharing of information provided for in Article
L. 6353-10 of the labor code: the services of the ministry responsible for training
professional, the services of the general administration and civil service
public, the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations, the national public institution in France
skills mentioned in Article L. 6123-5 of the Labor Code, joint bodies
accredited bodies mentioned in Article L. 6332-1 of the Labor Code, the accredited joint bodies
to cover the individual training leave mentioned in X of article 1

Page 11

of the aforementioned law of September 5, 2018, the regions and consultancy operators in
professional development mentioned in Article L. 6111-6 of the Labor Code, Pôle emploi, the
development fund for the professional integration of disabled people
mentioned in Article L. 5212-9 of the Labor Code, as well as the operators called Cap
employment, the Association for the employment of executives, local missions and, the
services and payment, public employers and their mandated third parties, the Association
National Center for the Continuing Education of Hospital Staff and the National Center for
territorial public service;

13 ° For the supply of the processing of personal data mentioned in
Article L. 5151-8 of the Labor Code and relating to rights acquired on the personal account of
training or days off, as part of volunteer activities or volunteering
identified by the citizen engagement account: the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations, the
departments of the youth department, popular education and community life, the
services of the information systems department of the general secretariat of the ministries
in charge of social affairs, legal and natural persons whose salaries
referred to in article R. 6323-37 of the labor code can feed the automated processing
mentioned in article R. 6323-32 within the framework of the purposes defined in 8 ° of article R.
6323-33 of the Labor Code and, for the management of the training course for holders of
citizen engagement account, the Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations, organizations
approved joint partners mentioned in Article L. 6332-1 of the Labor Code, as well as the
public employers and their authorized third parties;

14 ° For the implementation of the professional prevention account provided for in article L.
4163-4 of the Labor Code and the connection to the information system of said account: the
National health insurance fund, the network of organizations in the accident branch
of work and occupational diseases of the general scheme and the delegated bodies
mentioned in Article L. 4163-14 of the Labor Code;

15 ° For the payment of the remuneration of the beneficiaries of the transition project
professional: joint bodies approved to take charge of the leave
individual training mentioned in X of article 1 of the law of September 5, 2018
aforementioned, until December 31, 2019, and the inter-professional joint committees
mentioned in Article L. 6323-17-6 of the Labor Code;

16 ° For the liquidation, concession, management and settlement of pensions and allowances
civil and military, military invalidity pensions, invalidity pensions for
war victims, combatant pensions and salaries paid under the

Page 12

Legion of Honor and military medal, and information of officials, magistrates
and military on pension rights: State administrations and the Caisse des Dépôts
and consignments;

17 ° For the guarantee against the risk of non-payment: the association and the organization
mentioned in Article L. 3253-14 of the Labor Code;

18 ° For the instruction, monitoring and management of service accident files,
accidents at work and occupational diseases suffered by agents in
activity or retirees, and management of requests for medical surveillance
post-occupational health workers who have been exposed to an occupational risk during
the exercise of their functions: authorized agents of public employers as well as those of
their authorized third parties, authorized agents of private employers and occupational physicians
and prevention;

19 ° For the compensation of union defenders paid by commission: the Agency
of services and payments mentioned in Article L. 313-1 of the Rural and Fisheries Code
maritime.

D. - In the financial, fiscal and customs fields:

1 ° To have the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies certified
civil records of natural persons with bank accounts: the services of the
General Directorate of Public Finance ;

2 ° To verify the reliability of the elements of identification of natural persons appearing
in the processing of data relating to the assessment, control and recovery of
all taxes, duties, taxes, fees or fines, and for the exercise of the right to
communication to the persons listed in article R. * 81-A of the book of
tax procedures: the services of the general directorate of public finances and
General Directorate of Customs and Indirect Taxes;

Page 13

3 ° For transactions resulting from legal or regulatory provisions concerning the
recovery of sums due by the bodies mentioned in article 1 of the decree of
April 3, 1985 referred to above, and for the exercise of the right of communication available to the
public accountant of the State responsible for the recovery of hospital debts against
social security organizations in application of article L. 115-1 of the code of
social security: the services of the general directorate of public finances;

4 ° For communication, subject to the provisions of Article L. 288 of the Book of
tax procedures, the information provided for in Articles L. 152 and L. 154 of the
tax procedures, with the organizations and services mentioned in the same articles and
Article L. 135 ZH: the services of the general directorate of public finances and the
aforementioned organizations and services;

5 ° For the implementation of the withholding tax provided for by article 204 A of the code
general tax: employers, organizations, administrations and services responsible for
collect income tax;

6 ° For the accomplishment of its missions in terms of management of the banking file of
companies, the central file of unpaid checks and the national file of
reimbursement of loans to individuals, and for the centralization of
withdrawal of payment cards issued to their customers by credit institutions and
the institutions and services mentioned in Article L. 518-1 of the Monetary and Financial Code and
provided that the registration numbers in the national directory of identification of
individuals are not kept in these files: the Banque de France;

7 ° To search for deceased holders of inactive accounts or safes by
consultation of the national directory of identification of natural persons without further
use of the registration number to access the consultation: the establishments of the
banking and financial sector subject to the obligations relating to planned inactive accounts
by section 4 of chapter II of title I of book III of the monetary and financial code, or
person authorized for this purpose having signed a user license with the National Institute of
statistics and economic studies for consultation of the national directory
identification of natural persons;

8 ° To find insureds, members, subscribers or beneficiaries
life insurance contracts or deceased capitalization bonds or contracts: the

Page 14

insurance companies, mutual societies and unions, provident institutions and
unions, supplementary occupational pension organizations,
reinsurance and the Association for Information Management and Insurance Risk;

9 ° For the maintenance of the database relating to persons whose death is known to
the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies and the establishment of a
secure computer platform allowing the interrogation of this database by the only
authorized bodies: the Association for the management of information and risk in
insurance;

10 ° For querying the database relating to persons whose death is
known to the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies: the
guarantee of compulsory damage insurance, mentioned in article L. 421-1 of the code
insurance, and the guarantee fund for victims of acts of terrorism and other
offenses, mentioned in Article L. 422-1 of the same code, in the context of monitoring
payments of annuity arrears to victims or their dependents;

11 ° For compliance with obligations relating to the fight against money laundering and
the financing of terrorism, and the application of freezing measures and bans on
provision provided for by the Monetary and Financial Code, only in the event of
where the registration number in the national identification directory of natural persons
appears on the asset freeze or financial sanctions lists: people
mentioned in 1 ° to 7 ° of Article L. 561-2 of the Monetary and Financial Code;

12 ° For the accomplishment of their missions of combating fraud in social matters,
tax and customs: the agents of the services, duly authorized and within the limits of the law
to know about it, of control of the labor inspectorate mentioned in article L. 8112-1 of
labor code, judicial police, customs and tax administration;

13 ° For the accomplishment of its missions of combating fraud in social matters,
tax and customs, against money laundering, and against the financing of
terrorism: the service with national competence provided for in Article L. 561-23 of the Code
monetary and financial;

Page 15

14 ° For the fight against external or internal insurance fraud corresponding to an act
or omission intentionally committed by one or more persons in order to obtain a
advantage or profit illegitimately, illicitly or illegally: insurance companies,
mutual societies and their unions, provident institutions and their unions,
supplementary occupational pension, reinsurance companies, the
guarantee of compulsory damage insurance, mentioned in article L. 421-1 of the code
insurance and guarantee fund for victims of acts of terrorism and other
offenses, mentioned in article L. 422-1 of the same code;

15 ° For the signing, management and execution of insurance contracts, capitalization
and reinsurance, or their pension commitments for their insurance activities
sickness, maternity, invalidity and supplementary retirement, their insurance activities for
business interruption and job loss guarantees only for probative purposes,
their relations with professionals, establishments and health institutions in
under the provisions of 3 ° of Article R. 115-2 of the Social Security Code, as well as
the social declarations of the companies subscribing to the insurance contract, the
compensation for accidents under the provisions of Articles L. 376-1 and L. 454-1 of
social security code, compensation for traffic accidents under the
Articles R. 211-37 and R. 211-38 of the Insurance Code, the management of annuities under the
provisions of article 39 A of appendix III of the general tax code and article L. 81
A of the book of tax procedures, as well as the execution of legal provisions,
regulatory and administrative in force: insurance companies, mutuals and
their unions, provident institutions and their unions, pension organizations
supplementary professional and reinsurance companies;

16 ° In the context of their exchanges with social organizations with a view to presenting
an offer of compensation to victims of damages falling within their fields of
respective responsibilities: the guarantee fund for compulsory damage insurance,
mentioned in Article L. 421-1 of the Insurance Code, and the Victims Guarantee Fund
acts of terrorism and other offenses, mentioned in Article L. 422-1 of the Code of
insurance.

E. - In the field of justice:

1 ° For the management of court proceedings, when the mention of the quality
insured or the intervention of social security organizations within the framework of
procedures are provided for by the texts in force: lawyers at the Council of State and at the
Court of Cassation as well as lawyers;

Page 16

2 ° For the management of legal proceedings, when the mention of the registration number
persons in the national register of identification of natural persons or
the intervention of social security bodies in the procedures is provided for by the
texts in force: the services of the Ministry of Justice;

3 ° For the management and monitoring of legal representation, assistance,
supervision and control of persons placed, by the judicial authority, under the
liability of court administrators or legal representatives, as well as the
reporting to any authority empowered to know about them: the directors
judicial officers, legal representatives and natural or legal persons making
function in application of Articles L. 811-2 and L. 812-2 of the Commercial Code;

4 ° For the management and monitoring of legal representation, assistance,
supervision and control of persons placed, by the judicial authority, under
safeguard of justice, under guardianship, guardianship or support measure
judicial, and for the administrative and accounting management of the safeguard service
legal, guardianship, curatorship or legal support measure: the
legal representatives for the protection of adults as well as persons exercising this
function under the conditions provided for in Article L. 472-6 of the Code of Social Action and
families;

5 ° For the needs of educational support and monitoring of convictions of
minors and adults under the age of twenty-one entrusted by the judicial authority, under
educational assistance or child delinquency: institutions and services
mentioned in 1 ° and 4 ° of I and III of Article L. 312-1 of the Code of Social Action and
families;

6 ° For the management of the social rights of detained persons: the authorized services of
the prison administration;

7 ° For the exercise of their attributions entrusted by law, in particular to ensure the mission
control of legality and legal publicity: the clerks of the commercial courts;

Page 17

8 ° For the transmission to the formalities centers of the competent companies of
declarations provided for in appendix 1-2 of book I of the commercial code, when they
include an application for registration in the trade and companies register,
amending registration or cancellation: the clerks of the commercial courts.

F. - In the fields of official statistics and the census:

1 ° a) Until the entry into force of the aforementioned ordinance of 12 December 2018 according to the
conditions specified in Article 29: for processing for the purposes of studies,
research, evaluation or official statistics with the exception of those referred to in 1 ° of
article 22 of the aforementioned law of 6 January 1978, carried out in compliance with the law of 7 June
1951 above: the official statistical service and the other bodies responsible for such
treatments;

b) After the entry into force of the aforementioned ordinance of 12 December 2018 according to the
conditions specified in Article 29: for processing for the purposes of studies,
research, evaluation or official statistics with the exception of those referred to in 1 ° of
article 30 of the law of January 6, 1978 resulting from ordinance n ° 2018-1125 of December 12
2018 mentioned above, carried out in compliance with the aforementioned law of June 7, 1951, and which do not
the object of a cryptographic operation replacing the registration number in the directory
national identification of natural persons a non-significant statistical code: the
official statistical service and other bodies responsible for such processing;

2 ° For the management of the national directory of identification of companies and their
establishments, carrying out the processing operations necessary for the constitution of the electoral lists
and the management of the electoral process, in particular the single electoral register mentioned
in Article L. 16 of the Electoral Code, and the proposals for automatic registration on the lists
electoral: the National Institute of Statistics and Economic Studies;

3 ° For processing carried out for statistical purposes, analysis and evaluation of
road safety policies: the national interministerial road safety observatory
and the services responsible for regional or departmental observatory missions
road safety provided for by the aforementioned decree of December 27, 2017.

Page 18

G. - In the field of education:

1 ° For the control, allocation and service of disability benefits for teachers or
contractual or approved documentalists of private educational establishments under
contract and teaching and documentation staff of the establishments
private agricultural education under contract provided for in Articles R. 914-87, R. 914-115, R.
914-133 and R. 914-136 of the education code and by the aforementioned decree of January 26, 2006:
the state pensions service attached to the general directorate of public finances;

2 ° For the registration of students in social security and the management of consultations
medical procedures operated by the university or inter-university preventive medicine service
: public higher education establishments and the Agency for the mutualisation of
universities and educational or research establishments and support
higher education or research;

3 ° For processing work accident and occupational disease files
to which, before October 1, 1985, the pupils and students of
public education mentioned in Article L. 412-8 of the Social Security Code: the
departments of the ministries responsible for national education and higher education.

H. - In the field of housing:

1 ° For the registration of applications for social rental housing, under the conditions
provided for in Article R. 441-2-2 of the Construction and Housing Code, their monitoring,
the allocation of a unique registration number for these requests: the persons
legal entities or services listed in article R. 441-2-1 of the construction and
housing and the services responsible for these missions within the ministry responsible for
housing;

2 ° To obtain the information held by the tax administration in the
conditions provided for in articles R. * 135 ZH-A, R. * 135 ZH-2 and R. 135 ZH-3 of the book of
tax procedures: the services responsible for these missions within the ministry responsible for
housing;

Page 19

3 ° For the production of statistical data on the characteristics of requests for
social rental housing carried out under the conditions provided for in article R. 441-2-2 of the code
construction and housing: the competent ministerial statistical service.

I. - Other fields:

For the management, preparation and monitoring of compensation claims for victims of
nuclear tests, and for the development of monitoring statistics and the annual report
retracing the activity of the compensation committee for victims of nuclear tests mentioned
in article 4 of the aforementioned law of 5 January 2010: the secretariat of this committee
compensation.
NOTE:
In accordance with article 48 of decree n ° 2021-300 of March 18, 2021, these provisions come into force on the 1st
April 2021.

Article 3
Modified the following provisions
● Modifies Decree n ° 82-103 of January 22, 1982 - art. 8 (V)
● Modifies Decree n ° 82-103 of January 22, 1982 - art. 9 (V)
Article 4

The provisions relating to the characteristics of the processing operations which include the number
registration of persons in the national register of identification of natural persons,
other than the categories of data controllers and the purposes of such processing
determined by this decree may, when these treatments have been created by decree
in the Council of State, be modified by decree.
Article 5
I. Modified the following provisions:
-Public health code
Art. R1111-8-3 I.

Page 20

II. Repealed the following provisions:
-Decree n ° 90-273 of March 22, 1990
Art. 1, Art. 2, Art. 3, Art. 4
Repealed the following provisions:
-Decree n ° 91-169 of February 13, 1991
Art. 1, Art. 2, Art. 3
Repealed the following provisions:
-Decree n ° 89-509 of July 18, 1989
Art. 1, Art. 2, Art. 3, Art. 4, Art. 5
Repealed the following provisions:
-Decree n ° 91-188 of February 21, 1991
Art. 1, Art. 2, Art. 4
Repealed the following provisions:
-Decree n ° 91-549 of June 6, 1991
Art. 1, Art. 2, Art. 3
Repealed the following provisions:
-Decree n ° 91-1404 of December 27, 1991
Art. 1, Art. 2, Art. 3, Art. 4
7 ° Decree n ° 2000-714 of July 27, 2000 authorizing the use of the national directory
identification of natural persons by the interdepartmental directorates of
ministry in charge of veterans.
Article 6

I. - This decree is applicable in New Caledonia, in French Polynesia, in
the Wallis and Futuna Islands and in the French Southern and Antarctic Lands.

Page 21

II. - In New Caledonia, French Polynesia, the Wallis and Futuna Islands and in
the French Southern and Antarctic Lands, the provisions of this decree enter into
in force at the same time as ordinance n ° 2018-1125 of 12 December 2018 taken into
application of article 32 of law n ° 2018-493 of 20 June 2018 relating to the protection of
personal data and amending Law No. 78-17 of 6 January 1978 relating to
data processing, files and freedoms and various provisions concerning the protection
personal data.
Article 7

The Keeper of the Seals, Minister of Justice, and the Minister of Overseas Territories are in charge,
each with regard to the execution of this decree, which will be published in the Journal
official of the French Republic.

Dated April 19, 2019.

Edouard Philippe
By the Prime Minister:

The Keeper of the Seals, Minister of Justice,
Nicole Belloubet

The Minister for Overseas,
Annick Girardin

