Page 1

Signature Not
Verified

E
NEWSPAPER

Digitally signed by
VARVARA ZACHARAKI
Date: 2019.08.29 22:15:49
EEST
Reason: Signed PDF
(embedded)
Location: Athens, Ethniko
Typography

3379

OF THE GOVERNMENT
OF THE HELLENIC REPUBLIC
August 29, 2019

ISSUE FIRST

NOME NO. 4624
Personal Data Protection Authority
measures implementing Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of
Of 27 April 2016 on the
protection of natural persons vis-της-vis
processing of personal data
and transposition into national law
Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 27 April
2016 and other provisions.
THE PRESIDENT
of the Hellenic Republic

No. Sheet 137

Article 2
Substantive scope
The provisions hereof apply to, in full
or in part, automated data processing
Personal and non-automatic
processing of such data, which
or are to be included in a system
archiving by:
(a) public bodies or
b) private entities, unless the processing
performed by a natural person in the box
exclusively for personal or domestic activity.
Article 3
Territorial scope

We issue the following law passed by the Parliament:
CHAPTER AD
general provisions
Article 1
Purpose of the law

The provisions hereof shall apply to
losers. In private bodies they apply,
provided that:
(a) the controller or processor
processes personal data
within the Greek Territory,
(b) personal data submitted
processed in the context of the activities
an installation of the controller or his
performing the processing within the Greek
state, or if
(c) although the controller or executor
processing is not established in a Member State
the European Union or another party
State of the European Economic Area, falls
in the scope of the GCC.

The purpose of this law is:
(a) the replacement of the legislative framework laid down in
regulates the establishment and operation of the
Personal Data Protection,
b) the adoption of measures implementing Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
of 27 April 2016 on the protection of
natural persons against the processing of
of a personal nature and for free
circulation of this data and removal
Article 4
of Directive 95/46 / EC (General Regulation on the
Definitions
Data Station, hereinafter referred to as: GBP),
(c) transposition of the Directive into national law
For the purposes of this:
(EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of
(a) ‘public body’ means public authorities,
Council of 27 April 2016 on protection
independent and regulatory administrative authorities, the legal
natural persons versus data processing
public law entities, local bodies
of a personal nature by competent authorities for
first and second degree self-government and the
the purposes of prevention, investigation, detection or
legal persons and their undertakings,
prosecution of criminal offenses or the execution of criminal offensesor public enterprises and organizations, the legal
sanctions and the free movement of data
persons governed by private law owned by the State or
and the repeal of the Framework Decision
subsidized by at least 50% of the annual
Council Directive 2008/977 / JHA.
their budget or management is defined by it,

Page 2

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

3380

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

(b) "private entity" means a natural or legal person
in case he is also a public servant
or the association of persons without legal personality,
allowed only for good reason. After
which does not fall within the meaning of "public body",
termination of his employment contract as DPO, can not
(c) ‘competent supervisory authority’ means the Authority for the Protection
dismissedof
for one (1) year, unless the public
Personal Structures (hereinafter: the Authority).
let her have a great reason to file a complaint
his contract.
Article 5
5. Data subjects may
Legal database for data processing
consult the DPO on any matter relating to
personal by public
processing of personal data
carriers
and the exercise of their rights under the GCC,
Public bodies are allowed to process
of this and other protection legislation
of personal data. The DPO is
personal data when processing
obliged to maintain confidentiality as to
is necessary for the performance of a task that
the identity of the data subjects and
carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of
on the circumstances permitting the export
public authority delegated to the person in charge
conclusions regarding the data subject,
processing.
unless the subject's identity is revealed
Article 6
from this.
Appointment of the person in charge of protection
6. If the DPO is aware of Personnel data
data to public bodies
Character in the exercise of his work, for which
the head of the public body has the right to
1. Public bodies shall designate a protection officer
refuse to testify as a professional witness
data (hereinafter: DPO).
For this reason, this right applies to both the DPO and
2. A single DPO may be set for more
his assistants.
public bodies, taking into account the
structure and size.
Article 8
3. The DPO is selected on the basis of professional qualifications
Duties of the DPO in public bodies
and, in particular on the basis of his expertise in
1. In addition to his duties according to
personal data protection law
GPA, the DPO has at least the following tasks:
and data protection practices
a) to inform and advise the public body
of a personal nature, as well as on the basis of
and processing workers
to fulfill the tasks set out in Article 8.
their obligations under the
4. The DPO may be a public servant
provisions of this and any other legislation on
body with any employment relationship or to fulfill
protection of personal data;
his duties under a service contract.
b) to monitor the observance of its provisions
this and any other protection legislation
5. The public body shall make public the information
personal data, and policies
of the DPO and notifies them to the Authority, except
of the public body in relation to their protection
if this is not permitted for reasons of national security
or due to compliance with the duty of confidentiality (confidential personal data, including
accountability and related audits;
provided for by law.
(c) provide assessment advice
Article 7
impact on the protection of personal data
Position of the DPO in public bodies
and monitors its implementation
in accordance with Article 65;
1. The public body ensures that the DPO participates
(d) cooperate with the Authority;
duly and promptly on all matters relating to
(e) to act as a point of contact with the Authority in matters
protection of personal data.
related to processing, including
2. The public body supports the DPO during the
of the previous consultation referred to in
performing the tasks referred to in Article
Article 67, and shall consult it, as appropriate,
8, providing him with the necessary resources for
on any other subject.
performing these tasks and accessing
2. The duties of the DPO which may be defined by
personal data, processing, and
judicial and prosecutorial authorities do not concern
to maintain his special knowledge.
processing carried out by the courts
3. The public body shall ensure that the DPO does not
and prosecutors in the context of judicial
takes orders in the performance of his duties,
and their judicial duties.
refers directly to the highest hierarchical
3. The DPO may perform other tasks. THE
body of the public body, is not dismissed either
the controller or the processor
there are penalties from the controller
ensure that the performance of these tasks does not
because he performed his duties.
leads to a conflict of interest.
4. The termination of the employment contract of the DPO or
4. The DPO in the performance of the tasks of the
the revocation of the assignment of his duties to
take due account of the risk associated with

Page 3

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

3381

editing, nature, scope, context
and the purposes of the processing.

4. The members of the Authority shall be senior state officials.
γοί. Enjoy personal and functional independence.
and are not subject to hierarchical or administrative control
CHAPTER B
control. They exercise their duties and powers without
SUPERVISING AUTHORITY
external influences, either direct or indirect, and no
ask for or receive instructions from anyone.
Article 9
5. The President and the Vice President have
Personnel Data Protection Authority
exclusive employment with the Authority. Their quality
Character
this entails the suspension of any public
Supervision of the implementation of the provisions of the GCP, function and professional activity.
of this and other arrangements concerning
6. The members of the Authority are not subject to civil liability
protection of the individual against data processing
against any third party for acts or omissions
of a personal nature in the Greek Territory
in the performance of their duties. It does not
is exercised by the Authority established by n.
are absolved of their responsibility towards the Greek
2472/1997 (AD 50). The Authority is an independent public
State for acts or omissions of deceit or seriousness
authority under Article 9A of the Constitution and is based
negligence. Members of the Authority shall not be prosecuted for expressing
in Athens.
opinion and for an act or omission committed against
in the performance of their duties, unless they have acted
Article 10
with deceit or gross negligence. The Authority may take over
Competence
expenditure on the defense of its members in
1. The Authority shall cooperate with the supervisory authorities ofcase of action against them action or exercise
members of the European Union and with the European
to prosecute them for acts or omissions
European Commission.
which fall solely on the execution of
2. The Authority represents Greece in the European
their official duties.
Data Protection Council (the oBoard΄, hereinafter:
Article 12
NAPs) and other committees or bodies
Obstacles - irreconcilable members of the Authority
protection of personal data
in which the participation of a national supervisor is foreseen
1. No Chairman may be appointed,
principle.
President or member of the Authority: (a) Minister, Deputy
3. The Authority shall cooperate with respective third party authorities
Minister, Secretary-General or Special Secretary of the Ministry or
countries and international organizations for the fulfillment of
general or special secretariat and Member of Parliament,
for the purposes of Article 50 of the GIP.
and (b) who is a manager or a member of an
4. In cases where in international or transnational
business management, which provides services
contracts or in European Union law or in
related to the processing of personnel data
national legislation provides for independent control or
character or is linked to a project contract
supervision, the Authority shall exercise its respective responsibilitiescontent.
and powers.
2. It is incompatible with its membership
5. The Authority shall not be competent to control
Authority any professional or other activity
processing of personal data
related to the responsibilities of the Authority,
by the judicial and prosecutorial authorities in
with the exception of scientific and research
framework of judicial and judicial function
ριότητα. Members of the Authority may not attend
tasks, as well as processing operations
before the Authority for two (2) years after its expiration
classified personal data set
their term of office.
carried out for activities related to
3. Members of the Authority shall be permitted to exercise their duties
of teaching staff of A.E.I. with status
National security.
or part-time.
Article 11
4. Automatically relinquishes his status as President
Functional Independence
Acting Deputy Chairman or member of the Authority
1. The Authority shall be composed of the President and six (6) who, after his appointment:
members, appointed by their respective alternates.
a) Acquires one of the properties that constitute an obstacle
Their term of office is six years and cannot be renewed.
appointment, in accordance with paragraph 1.
2. As members, regular and alternate, are elected
b) Performs actions or undertakes any
persons of known prestige, who are distinguished
work or work or acquires another quality which, according to
for their scientific training and professional
at the discretion of the Authority, are incompatible with the tasks
their experience in areas related to
as a member of the Authority.
mission and responsibilities of the Authority. Prerequisites
5. In determining the incompatibilities of the
The selection mark for the position of member of the Authority is Greek
paragraph shall be made by the Authority without participation
nationality.
of its member, in whose person it may be
3. The election and appointment of the President, the members
there is the incompatibility. The Authority then decides
of the Authority and their alternates shall act in accordance with
by hearing that member. The process moves
defined in Article 101A of the Constitution.
either the President of the Authority or the President of the Parliament.

Page 4

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

3382

Article 13
Duties of the Authority

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

the Authority based on the importance and the general
interest in the subject.

1. In addition to its duties under Article
Article 14
57 of the GCC, the Authority:
Activity report
(a) are responsible for monitoring and implementing
The Authority shall draw up an annual report on the
this and other relevant arrangements
its shipment during the previous calendar
the protection of the individual against the processing of
another year. The report shall be submitted by its President
of a personal nature,
Authority to the Speaker of Parliament and the Prime Minister
(b) promotes awareness-raising in an appropriate manner;
and published in the Government Gazette with
public awareness and understanding of the risks, of
responsibility of the Authority, which may give to another
guarantees and rights associated with
kind of publicity in the report.
processing of personal data,
(c) provide an opinion on any arrangements to be made
Article 15
included in a law or regulation, which
Research and corrective powers
concerning the processing of personal data
1. Except as provided in Article 58 of the GCC
ρα.
powers, the Authority shall carry out on its own initiative or thereafter
The consultation takes place at the stage
complaint investigations and compliance checks
elaboration of the regulation in time and in a way that
compliance with this law under which
enables the timely formulation of an opinion by
technological infrastructure and other, automatically
Principle and relevant content consultation
localized or non-standardized instruments, which support the
of the regulation plan,
personal data. Against
d) issues Instructions and addresses recommendations for each
conducting investigations and audits the Authority has the
issue of personal data processing
power to acquire from the controller
without prejudice to his duties
and the executor, access to everything
NAPincl in accordance with Article 70 of the GCP,
the personal data they constitute
e) upon submission of a special request, informs
subject to processing and all information provided
the subject of Personal Data
required for the purposes of the relevant control and
to exercise his rights, according to
performing its duties without being able to
this law and other protection arrangements
oppose any kind of secrecy. Exceptionally
of the individual versus data processing
The Authority does not have access to the identity data
personal. To this end,
associates or employees of entities contained
with the supervisory authorities of other Member States
in records kept for national security reasons
The European Union,
or to identify particularly serious crimes.
f) issue standard documents and submission forms
2. Checks shall be carried out by a member or members thereof
complaint,
Authority or staff of the Department of Special Science
(g) examine complaints lodged by
Secretariat staff, specially mandated
data subject or by a body or organization or
to this end by the President of the Authority. The president
association and informs the complainant of the progress
and the members of the Authority, as well as the special
and the outcome of the investigation or audit within a reasonable timeSecretariat officials are special investigators
period of time,
employees and have all the rights it provides
h) carries out on its own initiative or upon termination
the Code of Criminal Procedure. They can
investigations or inspections for the application of this Law
conduct a preliminary investigation and without a public prosecutor
and other protection arrangements
order, in the case of a spontaneous felony or
of the individual versus data processing
defect or there is a risk of postponement. The
of a personal nature, including on the basis of
public authorities provide their assistance to the Authority
information from another public authority,
to carry out the audit.
i) monitors the relevant developments in the degree
3. The President of the Authority may delegate power
affecting data protection
conducting audits of members and supervisory staff
Of a personal nature, in particular on developments in
authority of another Member State of the European Union
information, communications and
(‘Secondment supervisory authority’) in the context of joint
commercial practices,
operations carried out under Article 62
j) contributes to the activities of the NAP.
of the GCC and Article 79 hereof.
2. In exercising its responsibilities, the Authority
4. The Authority for the needs of the present:
files requests, queries or complaints
(a) issue warnings to the responsible
manifestly vague, unfounded or
the processor or the processor that the
abusively or anonymously. The Authority shall inform
intended processing operations are likely to
data subjects and applicants for
violate the provisions hereof;
her actions. Subject to the deadlines set
(b) instruct the controller or
set out in the GCC, the priority of examining the
the processor to comply with the
requests, questions and complaints is assessed by
in a certain way and within a certain time limit with the

Page 5

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

provisions hereof, in particular through a correction order
or deletion of personal data;
c) gives an order and imposes temporary or final
restriction or even prohibition of data processing
of a personal nature;
d) gives an order and imposes the delivery on it
documents, archiving systems, equipment or
personal data processing
as well as their content in the case
of subparagraph (c) of this paragraph;
(e) confiscate documents, information
archiving systems of each equipment and
means of breach of personal data
as well as the content of those
in its perception in the exercise of powers
control and is designated as their trustee until
the competent judicial and prosecutorial authorities.
5. In addition to those provided for in Article 58 (2)
Article 2 of the GPA of the corrective powers, the Authority gives
instruction to the controller or executor
processing either to a recipient or to a third party to interrupt
the processing of personal data
or return or lock (freeze) of
relevant data or to destroy
archiving system or related data.
6. The Authority shall impose the administrative sanctions
referred to in Article 83 of the GIP and Article 39
of the present.
7. The Authority shall impose the administrative sanctions
θρου 82.
8. Where the protection of the individual against
data processing of a personal nature concerning
requires immediate decision by the President
may, at the request of the person concerned or
ex officio, to issue an interim injunction for immediate
total or partial, temporary restriction of processing
or operation of the file. The order is valid
until the final decision of the Authority is issued.
9. In order to ensure compliance with the
provisions of the GCC, this and other arrangements
concerning the protection of the subject against
the processing of personal data,
the Authority, without prejudice to Chapter VII of the GCC,
adopt regulatory administrative acts regulating
special, technical and detailed issues, in
which they refer to.
10. The regulatory acts of the Authority, for which
They are not planned to be published in the Journal
of the Government, are published on its website
Authority.
Article 16
Obligations and rights of members of the Authority
1. In the exercise of their duties, the President
and the members of the Authority obey their conscience
and the law and are subject to the duty of confidentiality.
As witnesses or experts may
data relating exclusively to
compliance with the provisions of the GCC and this. The
There is a duty of confidentiality even after

3383

any way the President and members leave
of the beginning.
2. For a period of two (2) years from its expiration
their term of office, if they participated with anyone
the President and its members
Authority may not be partners, shareholders, members
board of directors, technicians or other advisers or
to be employed with or without pay on a paid basis
or by any legal relationship, to a company or undertaking
whose activities were directly affected
or indirectly, to the control of the Authority during
their term of office. The same prohibition applies to
drop of complainants.
3. Regarding the disciplinary responsibility of the President and
paragraph 3 of the Authority shall apply
Article 18 of Law 2472/1997.
4. President or member of the Authority who, in breach
of this law, notifies in any way
personal data that is accessible
to them because of their service or leaves another to
become aware of these, is punished with imprisonment of up to two
(2) years and with a fine. But if he did it
act in order to offer to himself or to
another unlawful gain or harm to another, is punished with
imprisonment of at least (2) years and a fine.
Article 17
Operation of the Authority
1. The Authority may also function as a single person
body (Chairman) or to meet in sections,
composed of at least three (3) regular or alternate
Roman members and chaired by the President
of the Authority or his deputy. In meetings and
at the plenary and Sectoral conferences
are allowed to appear in the cases in which
Assistant rapporteurs, employees of the Sector have been appointed
Auditors.
2. The Authority shall draw up an operating regulation with
which regulates in particular its operation in plenary
and departments, the division of responsibilities between
plenary sessions, the responsibilities of the
body, and the award procedure by
the President to the Vice-President and to members,
regularly and alternately, of their responsibilities
the process of convening, meeting and receiving
decision, the prior hearing of the
the processing and processing process
cases, the manner of conducting the checks and
disciplinary proceedings. The operating regulation
published in the Government Gazette.
Until a new regulation of the Authority is
the existing operating regulations shall enter into force
the (209 / 6.3.2000 (BD 336) decision of its President
Authority, as amended and in force).
3. By decision of the Plenary Session of the Authority is approved
code of conduct for members and staff
of.
4. The Authority may conclude memoranda of cooperation
with higher education institutions, other public ones
bodies and local authorities for the purpose of mutual exchange
information and mutual assistance on issues

Page 6

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

3384

within its competence. Mutual assistance includes
in particular informing and conducting investigations
and studies, assistance in investigations and inspections, and
conducting autopsies on the basis of questions
the Authority is preparing.
5. It is possible to pay the Authority
internships for students and graduates
higher education institutions, the content of which studies
is relevant to the responsibilities of the Authority. By
Decision of the Authority shall lay down the terms and conditions
selection of trainees, its implementation
exercise and the terms and amount of the fee are defined,
which is borne by the budget of the Authority.
Article 18
Secretariat of the Authority

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

(AD 143), by way of derogation from the existing provisions. THE
The duration of the secondments amounts to one (1) year
with the possibility of simultaneous renewal for one (1) time.
The secondment shall be effected by a joint decision of the
in the case of a competent Minister and its President
Authority, without requiring the opinion of the Services concerned
Councils. Especially for secondments of employees
Ο.Τ.Α. of the first and second degree is required the previous
the opinion of those responsible for the appointment of bodies
of these bodies.
7. The staff of the Secretariat may be seconded
for a period of up to six (6) months, by decision of
Authority, supervisory authorities of Member States or the ACE or
authorities of third countries or international organizations
application of the provisions applicable to secondments to
EU institutions. It is also possible to receive from
Principle of staff of similar authorities as seconded
for a period of up to six (6) months.
8. The organic positions of university education
(PE) of the communication branch of the Protection Authority
Personal Data is converted to
corresponding positions of specialist scientific staff
with a private law relationship of indefinite duration. The already
servants, who hold the required against
the p.d. 50/2001 (AD39) 'Determination of the qualifications of
positions in public sector bodies "and
general legislation formal qualifications for filling
the position of specialist scientific staff in relation to
under private law, declare within one month of
the entry into force of this law if it accepts
to serve in that position. The recipients
to serve in a private law relationship, who
occupy one of the converted positions,
comply with the insurance scheme to which they belong
and count for grade and payroll
classification and time of previous relevant
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 4
of article 11 of law 4354/2015 (AD 176). In case
negative declaration or failure to submit a declaration, o
an official shall continue to serve as a permanent
in a personal position of category PE Communication.
During the period during which employees
serve in person positions in accordance with
previous subparagraph, corresponding items are not
specialist scientific staff in relation to
of indefinite duration.

1. The staff of the Authority shall be appointed in a
public or private law of indefinite duration in positions
provided for in its Agency and selected
in accordance with Article 4 (1)
of Law 3051/2002 (AD 220).
2. Employees of the Auditors Division are not allowed to
appear before the Authority for two (2) years after
termination of their official relationship with the Authority.
3. By presidential decree issued on a proposal
the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior
in the opinion of the Authority, the
its definition, by which the level is determined
functioning of the Secretariat, the structure of the
units in Directorates, Departments and Offices,
the qualifications of the staff, the number of posts
staff, their breakdown into Branches and
properties, the creation of new posts and any other
issue. With the Agency are also determined
the conditions, the instruments and the selection process
of the Head of Secretariat and the Heads
of the Organic units of the Authority. With the Organization
deviations from the
provisions in order for the relevant arrangements to be
in accordance with the GCC. For each modification of as
above presidential decree is required prior
opinion of the Authority. Until the issuance of the presidential
decree of the previous paragraph, the
π.δ. 207/1998 “Organization of the Secretariat of the Authority
Personal Data Protection and
establishment of organic positions "(A '164).
4. Without prejudice to the specific arrangements of this
Article 19
of the Agency of the Authority and of the
Budget and Financial Management
the official status of the staff
of the Authority, is governed by the provisions of paragraphs
1. The Authority shall draw up its own budget which
2 to 7 of article 4 of law 3051/2002, as in force
drawn up under the responsibility of its President. During the
ei, regardless of category, industry and science
implementation of its budget has full
specialization.
and no partnership of another body is required.
5. It shall apply mutatis mutandis to the staff of the Authority
Authorizing Officer is the President of the Authority.
paragraph 6 of Article 11.
2. The budget shall be drawn up on an annual basis
6. To cover emergency service needs
and is submitted directly to its General Accounting Office
of the Secretariat of the Authority, is allowed to take place
State, in accordance with the procedure provided
postings on a permanent basis or under a private employment contractin Public Accounting.
indefinite term employees from its bodies
3. Execution of the budget of the Authority belongs
Central Administration, as defined in the case
exclusively in it, in the context of full
of paragraph 1 of article 14 of law 4270/2014
of her perfection. Transfer of credits from

Page 7

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

3385

one account to another and between different
with paid lawyers, who
major categories, in accordance with the needs of the
recruited in accordance with the provisions of Code
Ms. Lawyer. The Authority may be represented by
by decision of the Minister of Finance if
does not change the total amount of the budget
case and by lawyers, specialized in
initially approved by Parliament. The costs
their object, by a reasoned decision with
of the Authority shall be carried out in accordance with the
which the relevant power of attorney is provided.
applicable provisions of the undertaking by
CHAPTER DG
authorizing officers, as well as public accounting. THE
SUPPLEMENTARY IMPLEMENTATION MEASURES
transfer of appropriations is made by decision of the Authority
DGP FOR DATA PROCESSING
and is notified to the General Accounting Office of the State.
PERSONAL CHARACTER
4. The budget of the Authority may be amended
by decision of the Minister of Finance, then
Article 21
submitted by the Authority, submitted to the General
Minor consent
State Library.
1. Where Article 6 (1) (2) applies
5. The Authority may participate in national, European or
(a) of the GCC, the processing of personnel data
co-financed research or other programs;
the. To this end, the Authority, by decision of the
minor, when offering services
can open a simple bank account
the information society directly to him,
under Account Group 260 - Cash Management
is lawful if the minor has completed
to the Bank of Greece, to which they will be transferred
the 15th year of age and provides consent
credits from these programs and from others
of.
resources from the exercise of its responsibilities which
2. If the minor is under 15 years of age, the
provided by the GCC or the law. The management
paragraph 1 shall be lawful only after
and the control of the above special account
obtaining the consent of his legal representative.
referred to in the specific Regulation referred to in Article 2
Article 22
paragraph 3 of Law 3051/2002. The Authority is fully independent
Processing of special categories of data
in the management of this account. Its revenue
personal
Authority constitutes revenues of the State Budget.
6. For the participation of members and staff
1. By way of derogation from Article 9 (1)
of the Authority in collegial bodies set up in
of GPD the processing of special categories of data
framework for the implementation of funded projects
of a personal nature within the meaning of Article 9
from European Structural and Investment Funds or
paragraph 1 of the GPA by public and private parties
from the Public Investment Program, applicable
bodies is allowed, if necessary:
The provisions of paragraphs 2, 3 and 5 shall apply mutatis mutandis (a) for the exercise of rights deriving from
of article 21 of law 4354/2015 (AD 176), under the
the right to social security and social security
Assuming that the relevant costs are borne by the above
and for the fulfillment of the relevant
sources of funding and do not incur a burden
thrusts;
in the State Budget.
(b) for reasons of preventive medicine, for the assessment of
7. The exercise of financial control by the Authority
the ability of the employee to work, for
extracted in a way that does not interfere with operation
medical diagnosis, to provide health or social
and not affect its independence.
care or systems management and
health or social care services or by force
Article 20
contract with a healthcare professional or other
Judicial protection against the Authority
a person bound by the professional
1. Regulatory decisions and individual
explicitly or under his supervision; or
acts of the Authority, including
(c) for reasons of public interest in the sector
decisions imposing sanctions,
public health, such as serious cross-border
with a request for annulment before the Council
threats to health or to ensure high
of the Territory.
quality and safety standards of health
2. The time limit for lodging the application shall be canceled.
and medicines or medical devices
as it does not suspend the execution of the defendant
logical products, in addition to the measures referred to in
deed. The court may, at the request of the
referred to in the second subparagraph of paragraph 3 must be
suspend, in whole or in part, the execution
to comply in particular with the provisions ensuring
of the act, in accordance with the provisions in force.
professional secrecy provided by law or
3. Application for annulment of decisions and acts
of the Authority may also be exercised by the competent Minister. ethics.
2. By way of derogation from Article 9 (1)
4. The Authority is represented in court and out of court
of GPD the processing of special categories of data
by its President. The Authority is independently present at
all kinds of trials with members who have the capacity
of a personal nature within the meaning of Article 9
of the lawyer or with her legal service, if
paragraph 1 of the GBER by public bodies
set up. The legal service of the Authority is staffed
if it is:

Page 8

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

3386

(a) absolutely necessary for reasons of essential
common interest;
b) necessary to prevent a significant threat
for national security or public safety; or
(c) is necessary for the reception of humanitarian
in these cases the interest for
processing is in the best interests of the
text of the data.
3. In the cases of the preceding paragraphs,
all appropriate and specific measures are taken for
safeguarding the interests of the subject
of a personal nature. Taking into consideration
state of the art, implementation costs
and nature, extent, context and purposes
processing, as well as the risks it poses,
depending on their seriousness in rights and
freedoms of individuals this processing,
These measures may include in particular:
(a) technical and organizational measures to ensure that
the treatment is in accordance with the FGM;
(b) measures to ensure that one of the
subsequent verification and determination of if and
by whom they have been inserted, modified or removed
privacy·
(c) awareness - raising measures
processing staff;
(d) restrictions on access by operators
processors and processors;
e) the pseudonymization of personnel data
character·
f) the encryption of personnel data
character·
(g) measures to ensure the capacity,
reliability, integrity, availability
and the resilience of systems and services
processing related to data processing
of a personal nature, including
the possibility of rapid recovery of available
access in the case of natural or
technical event;
(h) procedures for regular testing, assessment; and
evaluation of the effectiveness of the techniques and
organizational measures to ensure security
processing;
(i) specific rules to ensure compliance with
this law and the GCC in case of transmission
processing for other purposes;
j) the definition of DPO.

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

for which they have been collected is permitted when the
This processing is necessary for the fulfillment of
tasks assigned to them and if they are:
(a) it is necessary to verify the information provided
provided by the data subject because
there is good evidence that this information
are incorrect;
(b) necessary to prevent risks to the national
national security, national defense or public security or for
securing tax and customs revenues;
(c) necessary for the prosecution of criminal offenses;
(d) necessary to prevent serious damage to
rights of another person;
(e) necessary for the production of official
statistical.
2. The processing of specific categories of data
of a personal nature, as referred to in Article
Article 9 (1) of the GPA, for a different purpose
by the person for whom they were collected is allowed,
provided that the conditions of the previous one are met
paragraph and one of the
exceptions to Article 9 (2) of the GIP or
Article 22 hereof.
Article 25
Processing of personnel data
character for purposes other than private
carriers
1. The processing of personal data
by private entities for a purpose other than that
for which they have been collected is permitted, if any
required:
(a) to prevent threats to national security;
public safety at the request of the
or carrier; or
(b) for the prosecution of criminal offenses; or
c) for the establishment, exercise or support of lawyers
claims, unless it is in his best interests
data subject not to be processed
these data.
2. The processing of specific categories of data
of a personal nature, as referred to in Article
Article 9 (1) of the GPA, for a different purpose
by the person for whom they were collected is allowed,
provided that the conditions of the previous one are met
paragraph and one of the
exceptions to Article 9 (2) of the GIP or
Article 22 hereof.
Article 26
Transmission of personal data
by public bodies

Article 23
Processing of genetic data
Pursuant to paragraph 4 of Article 9 thereof
The processing of genetic data is prohibited
for health and life insurance purposes.

1. The transmission of personal data
from public body to public body is allowed,
if necessary for the performance of the tasks
of the transmitting institution or of the third party to
to which the data are transmitted and if
the conditions permitting processing
in accordance with Article 24. The third party to whom
put the data it processes just for him
purpose for which they were transmitted. Processing for

Article 24
Processing of personnel data
character for purposes other than
public bodies
1. The processing of personal data
by public bodies for a purpose other than

Page 9

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

3387

other purposes are allowed only if they are met
the conditions of Article 24.
2. Public bodies may transmit data
personal data to private entities
provided that:
(a) the transmission is necessary for the execution of
duties of the transmitting body and fulfilled
further the conditions of Article 24;
(b) the third party to whom they are transmitted has a legal
be aware of the transmission and the subject
data has no legal interest in not
the data relating to it are transmitted; or
c) processing is necessary for the foundation,
exercising or supporting legal claims and the third party
committed to the public body
passed the data that it will only process it for
the purpose for which they were transmitted. The processing
for other purposes is permitted, if the
transmission in accordance with paragraph 1 and the operator
transmission company has provided its consent to
transmission.
3. The transmission of specific categories of data
in the sense of Article 9 (2)
paragraph 1 of the GCP, is permitted provided that the
conditions of paragraph 1 or paragraph
2 and one of the exceptions of the article applies
9 paragraph 2 of the GIP or in accordance with Article 22
of the present.

obligations arising from labor law,
social security and social law
protection and there is no reason to consider
stated that the legal interest of their subject
data in relation to processing prevails. THE
paragraph 2 shall also apply to consent to
processing of specific categories of personal data
character. Consent must be stated
explicitly in these data. Article 22 (3)
subparagraph (b) shall apply mutatis mutandis.
4. The processing of personal data is permitted.
including specialists
Personal Data categories of
employees for the purposes of the employment contract
on the basis of collective bargaining agreements. The negotiations
parties comply with Article 88
Article 2 of the GPA.
5. The controller shall receive the appropriate
take measures to ensure that the principles in particular are complied with
for the processing of personal data
set out in Article 5 of the GIP.
6. Paragraphs 1 to 5 shall also apply when:
personal data, including
special categories of personnel data
character of the employees, are subject to
without being stored or intended to
stored in an archiving system.
7. The processing of personal data
via closed circuit optical recording within
Article 27
workplaces, whether publicly accessible
Processing of personnel data
with or without, is only allowed if necessary for
character in relationships
the protection of persons and property. The data
employment
collected through closed circuit optics
1. Personal data of employees
logs may not be used as
may be processed for
criterion for evaluating the efficiency of
for the purposes of the employment contract, provided that they are employees. Employees are informed in writing
necessary for the decision to award a contract
light, either in written or electronic form for
employment or after the conclusion of the employment contract for installation and operation of closed circuit
its execution.
recording within the workplace.
2. In the case of data processing
8. For the purposes of this law as workers
personal character of an employee has exceptionally
means employees with any
as a legal basis his consent to the crisis
employment relationship or project or service contract
that this was the result of free choice, it must
to the public and private body, regardless of
to take into account in particular:
validity of the contract, job applicants and
(a) its dependence on the employment contract
former employees.
employee and
Article 28
(b) the circumstances under which the
Editing and freedom of expression and
consent. Consent is given either in writing
information
in electronic form and must be distinguished
clearly from the employment contract. The employer must
1. To the extent necessary to compromise
inform the employee either in writing or at
the right to the protection of personal data
electronic form on the purpose of the
with the right to liberty
personal data and
expression and information, including
his right to withdraw consent accordingly
processing for journalistic purposes and
in accordance with Article 7 (3) of the GIP.
for academic, artistic or literary purposes;
3. By way of derogation from Article 9 (1)
expression, the processing of personnel data
of GPD the processing of special categories of data
character is allowed when:
of a personal nature within the meaning of Article 9
(a) the data subject has provided the
paragraph 1 of the FAP for the purposes of the
his explicit consent, (b) concerns personal data
is allowed, if necessary for the
explicitly disclosed
exercise of rights or fulfillment of legal
by the subject himself, c) the right to

Page 10

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

3388

freedom of expression and the right to information
protection of the right to data protection
personal nature of the subject, in particular
for matters of general interest or when it concerns
personal data of public
and (d) where it is limited to the measure necessary for
ensuring freedom of expression and
right of information, especially when it concerns experts
categories of Personal Data as well
and criminal prosecutions, convictions and the like
security measures, taking into account his right
subject to his private and family life.
2. To the extent necessary to compromise
the right to the protection of personal data
with the right to liberty
expression and information, including
processing for journalistic purposes, and
for academic, artistic or literary purposes
expression does not apply:
(a) Chapter II of the GCC "Principles", except
Article 5, b) Chapter III of the GCC "His rights
Subject ", c) Chapter IV of the GCP" Responsible
processing and executing processing ", except
Articles 28, 29 and 32, (d) Chapter V of the GCC
transfers of personal data to
third countries or international organizations ", e) Chapter
VII of GKPD "Cooperation and coherence and f) the
Chapter IX of the GCP “Provisions concerning special
processing cases ".
Article 29
Processing of personnel data
character for archiving purposes to
the public interest
1. By way of derogation from Article 9 (1)
of GPD the processing of special categories of data
personal, within the meaning of paragraph
Article 9 of the GIP, is permitted where it is
required for archiving purposes to the public
interest. The controller is obliged to
take appropriate and specific measures for
protection of the legal interests of the subject
of the data. These measures may include
as far as possible, in particular:
(a) restrictions on access by operators
processors and processors;
b) pseudonymization of personnel data
character·
(c) encryption of personal data
character;
d) definition of DPO.
By way of derogation from Article 15 of the GCC,
the data subject's right of access
data relating to it may be limited,
if its exercise is likely to make it impossible to
or seriously impede the achievement of the objectives
of paragraph 1, and the exercise of the right shall
required a disproportionate effort.
By way of derogation from Article 16 of the GCC,
data subject has no right to correct
of personal data Character that the

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

concerning it, if its exercise is likely to
impossible or severely impede achievement
the purposes of paragraph 1 or the exercise of
third parties.
4. By way of derogation from the provisions of Articles 18
paragraph 1 subparagraphs (a), (b) and (d) and in Articles 20
and 21 of the GCC, the rights of the subject of
data are restricted if their exercise is
likely to make impossible or impede social
the fulfillment of the purposes of paragraph 1
and if such restrictions are deemed necessary
to achieve these goals.
Article 30
Processing of personnel data
character for scientific purposes or
historical research or collection and preservation
statistics
1. By way of derogation from Article 9 (1)
of GPD the processing of special categories of data
personal, within the meaning of paragraph
Article 9 of the GPA, may be made without the consent of the
subject when the processing is necessary
necessary for the purposes of scientific or historical research
or the collection and maintenance of statistics and
interest of the controller is paramount
in the interest of the subject not to
processing of personal data. THE
the controller is obliged to receive
appropriate and specific measures to protect them
legitimate interests of the data subject
νων. These measures may include in particular:
(a) restrictions on access by controllers;
and processors;
b) pseudonymization of personnel data
Character·
(c) encryption of personal data
character;
d) definition of DPO.
2. By way of derogation from the provisions of Articles 15,
16, 18 and 21 of the GCP, the rights of the subject
personal data are limited,
if their exercise is likely to make
or seriously impede the fulfillment of
purposes of paragraph 1 and if the restrictions
they are deemed necessary for their fulfillment.
For the same reason, the provisions of
Article 15 of the GIPD, its right of access
subject, when personal data
are necessary for scientific purposes and the
providing information requires a disproportionate effort.
3. In addition to those set out in paragraph 1,
own categories of personal data
when processed for the purposes
of paragraph 1, should be anonymized
as soon as scientific or statistical
purposes, unless this is contrary to law
interest of the data subject. Until then,
features that can be used
to assign individual design details
with personal or factual situations of one

Page 11

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

identifiable or identifiable person must
stored separately. These features can
to be combined with individual details, only
if required by the survey or statistical purpose.
4. The controller may publish
personal data processed
in the context of research, provided that their subjects
data have been given in writing or the publication
is necessary for the presentation of the results
results of the research. In the latter case
the publication is done with a pseudonym.
Article 31
Information provided if the data
personal data collected by
data subject
1. The obligation to inform the subject of
data in accordance with Article 13 (3)
of the GCC does not exist other than the one mentioned
in Article 13 (4) of the GIPP exception, where
providing information on further
processing:
a) concerns a further processing of stored
in written data format, in which the
processing is addressed directly to the subject
of the data, the purpose is compatible with the original
purpose of collection according to the GCP, communication with
the data subject is not done in digital
format and interest of the data subject;
to provide information in the circumstances
in this case, in particular as regards
context in which the data were collected
is considered not to be high;
b) in the case of a public body, you would set to
risk of the proper performance of the duties of the
processing within the meaning of Article 23 (2)
Article 1 (a) to (e) of the GIP, and the interest
of the controller not to provide the information
information, is in the best interest of the subject
of the data·
(c) endanger national or public security;
and the interest of the controller to
does not provide the information is in the best interest of the
the subject of the data;
(d) would impede the establishment, exercise or support of
legal claims and the interest of the person responsible
processing does not provide superior information
the interest of the data subject;
(e) would jeopardize confidential transmission
data to public bodies.
2. If no information is provided to the subject
data in accordance with paragraph 1, o
the controller takes the appropriate measures
to protect the legitimate interests of the
text of the data, including
providing the public with the information provided
in Article 13 (1) and (2) of the GBER
transparent, comprehensible and easily accessible format,
in clear and simple language. The controller
state in writing the reasons why it was avoided
to provide information. The above paragraphs do not

3389

apply in cases dd and ed of the previous
paragraph.
3. If no notification is provided to the
falls of paragraph 1 due to the existence of a temporary
obstacle, the controller, taken
taking into account the specific processing conditions, must
to comply with the information obligation
within a reasonable time after his removal
obstacle, but not later than the time period
of two (2) weeks.
4. If at the beginning of the mandate or in the context of
were forwarded by the customer to one
professional confidentiality data of third parties, o
This transmitting entity has no obligation to inform
personnel data subject
in accordance with Article 13 (3) of
IFRS, unless the interest of the
provided to provide information is superior.
Article 32
Information provided if the
do not have personal data
collected by the data subject
1. The obligation to inform the subject of
data in accordance with Article 14 (1), (2)
and 4 of the GBER does not exist when the provision of
information:
(a) in the case of public bodies:
(aa) would jeopardize the proper execution of
of the controller, in the sense of
Article 23 (1) (a) to (e) of the GBER, or
(bb) would jeopardize national security or public
social security;
and therefore the interest of the
for the provision of information declines,
b) in the case of private entities:
aa) would harm the foundation, exercise or support
legal claims or the processing includes data
me from personal contracts they have
drawn up under private law and is intended to
prevention of damage from the commission of criminal offenses,
unless the data subject has superior
a legitimate interest in providing information; or
bb) the competent public body has identified
to the controller, that the disclosure of
would jeopardize national defense,
national security and public safety, in the
data processing for enforcement purposes
of the law, no determination according to
with the first paragraph.
2. If no information is provided to the subject
data in accordance with paragraph 1, o
the controller takes the appropriate measures
to protect the legitimate interests of the
text of the data, including
providing the public with the information provided
in Article 14 (1) and (2) of the GIPP in detail,
transparent, comprehensible and easily accessible format,
in clear and simple language. The controller
state in writing the reasons why he avoided
to provide information.

Page 12

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

3390

3. The obligation to inform the subject of
personal data in accordance with
Article 14 (1) to (4) of the GBER, except
referred to in Article 14 (5) of
GPD exceptions do not apply to the extent that through
fulfillment would reveal information, the
which due to their nature, in particular due to the superior ones
legitimate interests of a third party, must remain
secret.
Article 33
Right of access of their subject

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

Article 15 of the GCC does not apply, in so far as
information would be disclosed, the
which by law or by nature
in particular due to overriding legal interests
third, must remain confidential.
5. The obligation to notify in accordance with
Article 34 of the GCC, with the exception of that referred to in
paragraph 3 of Article 34 of the GIPP exception, no
applies to the extent that through notification will
information was disclosed, which according to
by law or because of their nature, in particular because

Right of access of their subject
data / Report violation
personal data in
data subject
1. Except for the exceptions provided for in
Article 29 (2) and (2)
Article 30, his right of access does not apply
data subject, in accordance with Article 15
of the GCC, when:
a) the data subject is not informed
in accordance with point (bb) of indents α΄ and β΄
of paragraph 1 of the preceding Article; or
b) the data,
(aa) were recorded only because they could not be
due to legal or regulatory provisions
obligation to maintain them, or
bb) serve exclusively protection purposes
or data control,
and the provision of information would require
reasonable effort and the necessary technical and organizational
make it impossible to process for
other purposes.
2. The reasons for refusing to provide information to
data subject must be documented.
The refusal to provide information must be justified
to the data subject, unless through
disclosure of factual and legal
on which the refusal is based would be jeopardized
the purpose pursued by the refusal to provide
of the information. The data stored with
for the purpose of providing information to the subject of
data and for the preparation of this
can only be processed for
for this purpose and for the purposes of their protection
personal data, processing for
other purposes is limited in accordance with Article 18
of the GCC.
3. The right of the data subject to
gain access to personal data;
which are not even subject to automation
nor in non-automated processing by
public authority, and stored in an archiving system
exists only if the data subject
provides information enabling retrieval
of data and the effort required for
the provision of information is not disproportionate
in the interest of the data subject for
update.
4. The right to information of the subject of
personal data in accordance with

of the overriding legal interests of a third party, must
to remain confidential. By way of derogation from
previous paragraph the data subject
personal must in accordance with Article
34 of the IGC to be informed, when its interests,
taking into account in particular the threat of damage,
outweigh the interest of maintaining the
ρήτου.
Article 34
Right to delete
1. If the deletion in case of non-automation
due to its special nature
storage is not possible or is only possible
with disproportionately great effort and interest
of the data subject to delete no
considered important, his right does not exist
subject and the obligation of the controller
delete personal data
in accordance with Article 17 (1) of the GIP, except
of the exceptions referred to in Article 17 (2)
Article 3 of the GPA. In this case, delete
replaced by processing restriction
in accordance with Article 18 of the GCC. The above paragraphs
do not apply if the personal data
have been illegally processed.
2. In addition to Article 18 (1) (b)
and (c) the GPA, the first and second subparagraphs of
paragraph shall apply mutatis mutandis to
indent of Article 17 (1) (a)
and (d) the GPA, to the extent that the controller
has reason to believe that the deletion would be
detrimental to the legitimate interests of the subject
of personal data. The person in charge
informs the data subject
on the restriction of processing, if the
This update is not impossible or does not entail
disproportionate effort.
3. In addition to Article 17 (3) (b)
paragraph 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis to
in the case of Article 17 (1) (a) of
GCC, if the deletion would conflict with the
legal or contractual retention periods.
Article 35
Right of objection
The right to object in accordance with Article 21
paragraph 1 of the GCC does not apply to the public
body, if there is an overriding public interest in
processing, which outweighs the interests

Page 13

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

of the data subject or a provision of the law
charges for processing.

3391

he intended to offer to himself or to another
illicit property gain or cause
substantial damage to another or to harm another and the whole
total benefit or loss exceeds the amount of
one hundred and twenty thousand (120,000) euros.
5. If from the operations of paragraphs 1 to 3
endangered its free operation
democracy or national security,
Imprisonment and a fine of up to three years shall be imposed.
thousands (300,000) euros.
6. The crimes provided herein
Article are the responsibility of the Three-Member Court of Appeal.
of Crimes.

Article 36
Ensure data processing
personal for national reasons
security
The processing of personal data
of the staff of the EYP carried out by
public and private bodies in the context of
or their responsibilities is carried out by
specially authorized officials for the
names of which the EYP is informed.
Any further transmission of the above data
personal is carried out only after
approval of the EYP.

Article 39
Administrative sanctions

1. Without prejudice to its corrective powers
Authority in accordance with Article 58 (2) thereof
GPD, the Authority with a specially reasoned decision
and after a previous call for an explanation
1. The accreditation of certification bodies
stakeholders may impose on
in accordance with Article 42 of the GIP
public sector bodies as defined
is from the National Accreditation System (ESYD) with
in the case of indent of paragraph 1 of Article 14
based on the standard EN-ISO / IEC17065: 2012 and in accordance of Law 4270/2014 (AD143), excluding public ones
with additional requirements set by
companies and organizations of Chapter AD
the begining.
Law 3429/2005 (AD 314), in their capacity as responsible
2. The Ε.ΣΥ.Δ. revokes accreditation if informed by
processing of personal data,
the Authority that the requirements are no longer met
for infringements:
or the certification body is in breach of the GPA
(a) indent (a) of paragraph 4 of Article
and the provisions hereof.
83 of the GCC, with the exception of Articles 8, 27, 29, 42, 43 of
(B) of paragraphs 5 and 6 of Article 83 thereof
Article 38
GPA, other than Articles 17, 20, 47, 90 and 91 of the GPA,
Criminal sanctions
(c) Articles 5, 6, 7, 22, 24, 26, 27 (excluding paragraph
1. Whoever, without right: a) intervenes with anyone
28 to 31), and Articles 32 (2)
any way in a data archiving system
paragraph 1 indent 33 to 35 of this Article,
of a personal nature, and by this act
administrative fine of up to ten million (10,000,000)
becomes aware of this data; (b) copies
euro.
eats, removes, alters, harms, collects, registers,
2. When making a decision on enforcement
organizes, structures, stores, adapts,
administrative fine, as well as for the determination
saves, retrieves, seeks information, correlates,
of this amount, for each individual case
combines, restricts, deletes, destroys, punishes
the following are taken into account:
is punishable by imprisonment for up to one (1) year, if the act
(a) the nature, gravity, duration of the infringement;
is not punished more severely by another provision.
the extent or purpose of the relevant processing, as well as
2. Whoever uses, transmits, disseminates, communicates
and the number of data subjects
transmits, has, announces or makes
of the nature of the infringement and the magnitude
data accessible to non-eligible persons
the damage they have suffered,
acquired in accordance with
(b) any action taken by the taxpayer
the case ai of paragraph 1 or allows non
public sector to mitigate the damage caused
persons entitled to be aware of the data
suffered from personnel data subjects
of these, shall be punished by imprisonment if the act does not
character,
is punished more severely by another provision.
(c) any relevant previous infringements of the tax
3. If the act referred to in paragraph 2 concerns specific categories public sector stream,
personal data of the article
d) categories of personal data
9 paragraph 1 of the GCC or related data
affected by the infringement,
criminal convictions and offenses or related offenses
(e) the manner in which the Authority was informed
security measures of Article 10 of the GCC, the culprit
infringement, in particular whether and to what extent its carrier
is punishable by imprisonment of at least one (1) year and
public sector reported the infringement and
fine up to one hundred thousand (100,000) euros, if
(f) if they have already been ordered against the carrier
the act is not punished more severely by another provision.
public sector, for the same infringement, the measures that
4. The employee shall be punished with imprisonment of up to ten referred
(10) years.
to in Article 58 (2) of the GIP, o
of the acts of the preceding paragraphs, if
degree of compliance with them.
Article 37
Accreditation of certification bodies and
certification

Page 14

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

3392

3. In the event that the public sector body
for the same or related processing operations,
violates more provisions of the GIP or the
the total amount of the administrative fine
does not exceed the amount specified for the heaviest
violation.

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

Article 42
Public access to documents

Article 40
Judicial protection against a responsible person
processor or processor
1. The data subject 's lawsuits against
the controller or the executor
processing for breach of the provisions on
data protection within the scope
of the IGC or the rights of the subject
are brought before him and brought before the civil court
in the region of which the controller
or the processor has its installation.
The actions referred to in the preceding subparagraph may be
to the civil court in its district
of which, the data subject has the usual
his stay.
2. The previous paragraph does not apply
in actions against public authorities, where the authorities
they exercise sovereign public power over them
assigned to.
3. If the controller or executor
processing has appointed a representative, according to
Article 27 (1) of the GBER, that representative
person is considered a substitute for all performance
made in the context of civil litigation in accordance with
paragraph 1.
Article 41
Data subject representation
1. When the data subject considers that
processing of personal data
infringes the provisions of the GCC or
Chapter DG of this law has the right to
entrust to a non-profit organization, organization, body
association or association or association of persons without legal
non-profit personality that
has been established and operates legally in Greek
Territory, its objectives are in the public interest
and is active in the field of
the rights and freedoms of their subjects
data in relation to data protection
of a personal nature, to submit in his name
complaint to the Authority in accordance with Article
77 of the ICCPR and to exercise in its name the rights
referred to in Article 78 of the GIP and
Article 20 of this law.
2. The assignment of representation according to paragraph
1 is done with a special written authorization, which
the original of the contractor's signature
in accordance with Article 11 (1) (a) of the
of Administrative Procedure (Law 2690/1999, A '45). The recall
of this assignment may be made at any time, in
in whole or in part.

1. The application of the provisions of Article 5 of the Code
Ms. Administrative Procedure relating to the granting
documents from public sector bodies involved in
fall within the scope of Article 1 above
Code, as well as other relevant provisions
in the issuance of documents by the respective body or
authority or service remains unaffected when
content of these documents are data
personal.
2. The application of the provisions of Article 22 thereof
Code of Organization of Courts and the Status of Courts
of Clerical Officers (Law 1756/1988, AD35) remains
unaffected.
CHAPTER D
INTEGRATION IN ITS NATIONAL LEGISLATION
DIRECTIVE (2016/680)
SECTION I
FIELD OF APPLICATION - GENERAL PRINCIPLES
Article 43
Field of application
(Articles 1 and 2 of the Directive)
The provisions of this Chapter shall apply
in the processing of personal data
by public authorities responsible for prevention,
investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offenses; or
the execution of criminal sanctions, including
protection against threats to public security
and their prevention. In the above cases
public authorities are always held accountable
processing. Where this Chapter includes
provisions are made for processors,
its provisions apply to them as well.
Article 44
Definitions
(Article 3 of the Directive)
1. For the purposes of this Chapter
νται as:
(a) ‘personal data’ means any information
information relating to identified or identifiable
natural person ("data subject"), the
an identifiable natural person is one whose
the identity can be verified, directly or indirectly, in particular
as a reference to an identity
such as name, ID number, data
location, on an online ID or on
one or more factors that characterize
physical, physiological, genetic, psychological,
legal, cultural or social identity of the person concerned
natural person;
(b) "processing" means any act or series of acts which
carried out, with or without the use of automation
media, personal data or
in personal data sets, such as
collection, registration, organization, structure, h
storage, adaptation or modification, retrieval,

Page 15

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

the search for information, the use, the disclosure with
transmission, dissemination or any other form of distribution, h
correlation or combination, restriction, deletion
or disaster;
(c) "processing restriction" means the labeling
stored personal data
with the aim of limiting their processing to
future·
(d) ‘profiling’ means any form of selfpersonalized data processing
nature of the use of data
personal for the evaluation of some
personal aspects of a natural person, in particular for
the analysis or prediction of aspects concerning
performance at work, in the financial situation,
health, personal preferences, interests
reliability, behavior, position or
the movements of that natural person;
(e) "pseudonymization" means the processing of data
personal data in such a way that the data
of a personal nature can no longer be
given to a specific data subject
without the use of additional information, provided
such additional information
separately and subject to technical and organizational
measures to ensure that the data
Personal Character can not be attributed
to an identified or identifiable natural person;
(f) ‘archiving system’ means any structured
of personal data which are
accessible based on specific criteria, either
all this is concentrated or decentralized
either broken down by functional or geographical basis;
(g) "controller" means the public authority;
which, alone or together with others, determines them
purposes and method of data processing
personal;
(h) "processor" means the natural or legal person
person, public authority or other body
processes personal data for
account of the controller;
(i) ‘recipient’ means a natural or legal person,
authority, service or other body to which
personal data are disclosed,
whether it is a third or not. However, the public
authorities that may receive personnel data
character in the context of specific research
under EU or other law are not considered as
recipients; the processing of this data by
these public authorities is carried out in accordance
with the applicable data protection rules
for the purposes of processing;
(j) "breach of personal data":
breach of security leading to accidental or accidental
legal destruction, loss, change, without permission
disclosure or access to personal data
treated products;
(k) "genetic data" means personnel data
character relating to genetic characteristics
natural person inherited or acquired
as they emerge, in particular, from biological analysis

3393

a sample of that natural person and which
provide unique information on the nature of
the health or health of that natural person;
(l) "biometric data" means personnel data
resulting from a special technique
treatment associated with natural, biological or
behavioral characteristics of a natural person, and the
which allow or confirm the indisputable
identification of that natural person, as
face powders or fingerprints;
(m) "health data" means data
of a personal nature relating to
physical or mental health of a natural person,
including the provision of health services
which disclose information
on his state of health;
(n) ‘special categories of personal data
character ": Personal Data that
reveal racial or ethnic origin, the
political views, religious or philosophical
beliefs or participation in trade unions
genetic data, biometric data for
unmistakable identification of a natural person,
health data, data related to
sexual life or sexual orientation
natural person;
(o) "supervisory authority" means an independent administrative authority;
established by the Member State in accordance with
Article 41 of Directive (EU) 2016/680;
(p) ‘international organization’ means an organization and its
governed by public bodies
international law or any other body that has
established under or on the basis of an agreement between two
or more countries;
q) "consent": any voluntary, for the needs
of the particular circumstance, indisputable and
after informing the subject a clear indication
of his desire with which he expresses with a statement
or clear positive energy that agrees to constitute
subject to the processing of personnel data
character concerning it.
Article 45
General principles
(Article 4 of the Directive)
1. Personal data must:
(a) undergo lawful and fair treatment;
(b) are collected for specified, clear and legal
purposes and are not processed
in a manner incompatible with those purposes;
(c) are appropriate, relevant and not excessive in relation to
for the purposes for which they are submitted
processing·
(d) is accurate and, where necessary, updated;
all reasonable steps are taken
from the existing provisions, which ensure the
without delay deletion or correction of inaccuracies
personal data, taken
account of the purposes of the processing;
(e) are kept in a form which allows the
identification of data subjects

Page 16

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

3394

for a period not exceeding what it is
necessary to achieve the purposes for which
processed;
(f) are processed in such a way that
guarantees their adequate security, including
protection against unauthorized or unlawful processing
accidental loss, destruction or deterioration, with use
appropriate technical or organizational measures.
2. The controller must be able to
to demonstrate compliance with its obligations, in accordance with
in accordance with the previous paragraph.
SECTION II
LEGAL BASIS OF PROCESSING
Article 46
Processing of special categories of data
personal
(Article 10 of the Directive)
1. The processing of special categories of data
only allowed when it is
absolutely necessary for the performance of duties
of the controller.
2. When processed by special categories
personal data shall apply
appropriate safeguards for protected
interests of the data subject. The
appropriate safeguards may be in particular:
(a) specific data security requirements
or monitoring data protection;
(b) specific time limits within which the data
should be reconsidered for deletion;
(c) awareness - raising measures
of the personnel involved in the processing
;
(d) restrictions on access to personal data;
in the context of the controller
(of the competent body);
e) processing of these data with spatial planning
and organizational segregation;
f) the pseudonymization of personnel data
character·
g) the encryption of personnel data
character; or
(h) specific codes of conduct to ensure
of legal processing in case of transmission or
processing for other purposes.

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

character for another purpose not mentioned in
Article 43, is permitted provided that it is expressly provided for in
law.
Article 48
Editing for archiving purposes
the public interest or purposes
scientific or historical research or
statistical purposes
(Article 4 of the Directive)
Personal data may
processed for the purposes
referred to in Article 43 for archival purposes
in the public interest or for scientific purposes
historical research or statistical purposes, if
this is in the public interest and
appropriate safeguards for the protected
legitimate interests of the data subject.
These safeguards may consist of
anonymization of personal data
as soon as possible, take measures to
prevent unauthorized access by third parties or
their elaboration with spatial and organizational
separation from other specialized tasks.
Article 49
Consent
1. To the extent that the processing of personal data
may, in accordance with the law, be
with the consent of the controller
be able to demonstrate consent
of the data subject.
2. In the event that the subject
data is provided in written form
statement concerning other matters, the application for
obtaining consent must be presented at
in a way distinct from the other subjects, in an intelligible and
easily accessible format and using simple and
comprehensible language.
3. The data subject has the right to
revoke his consent at any time. THE
revocation of consent does not affect legality
processing on the basis of the consent given
contacted before its revocation. The subject of
Data is informed of this right before
by giving his consent.
4. Consent produces the legal effects
only when it is based on his free will
data subject. When evaluating whether
consent was given freely, it must be
take into account the circumstances in which it
relationships. The data subject is informed about
the intended purpose of the processing. If it is
necessary in the circumstances of that
case or on request, the subject
data is also informed of the consequences
refusal of consent.
5. In the case of specific categories of data
consent, consent must be
explicitly in these data.

Article 47
Editing for other purposes
(Article 4 of the Directive)
The processing of personal data
for a purpose other than that for which they have
collected, allowed if the other purpose is one of
the purposes referred to in Article 43, the
processing authority is authorized to process
data for this purpose and processing
carried out is necessary and proportionate to
for this purpose. The processing of personnel data

Page 17

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

Article 50
Processing under the supervision of the person in charge
processing
(Article 23 of the Directive)

3395

Article 54
Right of information of the subject
(Article 13 of the Directive)
1. In special cases and especially when their collection
of the subject was performed under
conditions of secrecy, and in order to become
it is possible to exercise his rights, the subject
should, in addition to the information in the preceding
Article, at least be informed of:
(a) the legal basis of the processing;
(b) the period for which the data will be stored
personal data or, if that is not the case
possible, the criteria used for
determination of that period;
(c) the recipients of personal data;
building, if any;
(d) when necessary, provide him with additional
information, especially when personnel data
character were collected without his knowledge.
2. In the cases of the previous paragraph,
the controller may delay, to
restrict or omit to inform the subject
if necessary:
(a) for the performance of the duties of those responsible
authorities as described in Article 43,
(b) for national security or public safety; or
c) for the protection of legal interests
third parties, who would be otherwise threatened if
interest in avoiding these threats
takes precedence over the interest of their subject
data to be updated.
3. The provisions of paragraph 7 of the following
also apply to restrictions on
of the preceding paragraph.

Any person acting under his supervision
the controller or the executor
processing, which has access to raw data
personal data, processes this data
according to the instructions of the controller,
unless otherwise provided by law.
Article 51
Confidentiality
All persons employed in the processing
personal data processors
after leave and are required upon withdrawal
their duties in maintaining the confidentiality of
of. The obligation to maintain confidentiality
after the end of their employment.
Article 52
Automated individual decision making
(Article 11 of the Directive)
1. Making a decision based solely on
automated processing, which produces
legal effects on the subject of
or significantly affects it, only allowed
provided by law.
2. The decisions referred to in the previous
paragraph do not apply to specific categories
personal data, unless
appropriate measures are taken to safeguard the law
interests of the data subject.
3. It is forbidden to draw a profile that leads to
discrimination against individuals on the basis of experts
categories of personal data.

Article 55
Right of access
(Articles 14 and 15 of the Directive)
1. The controller shall inform, then
at its request, the data subject for
processing of personal data
concerning it. The data subject
is also allocated for:
(a) the personal data submitted by the
in the categories in which
belong to;
(b) the information available on the
data analysis;
(c) the purposes and legal basis for the
gaseous;
(d) the recipients or categories of recipients
to which the data were disclosed, in particular
recipients in third countries or international organizations;
(e) the period for which the data will be stored
personal data or, if that is not the case
possible, the criteria used for
determination of that period;
(f) the possibility of exercising the right of
deletion or deletion or restriction of processing
personal data;

SECTION III
RIGHTS OF THEIR SUBJECT
DATA
Article 53
General information about
data processing
(Articles 12 and 13 of the Directive)
The controller shall provide general and
publicly accessible information in simple and
understandable language and through the website
of the public authority regarding:
(a) the purposes of the processing;
b) the right of the subject to request from him
controller access, correction, deletion
or restriction of processing,
c) his identity and contact details
controller and the DPO,
(d) the right to lodge a complaint with the Authority; and
e) the contact details of the Authority.

Page 18

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

3396

(g) the right under Article 58 to
lodge a complaint with the Authority; and
(h) the contact details of the Authority.
2. The preceding paragraph shall not apply to
personal data submitted to
edit only because they can not be deleted
due to legal conservation requirements or serve
for data security purposes only or
data protection controls, if the provision
information requires a disproportionate effort and the
processing for other purposes through appropriate
technical and organizational measures is excluded.
3. No information is provided if the subject
does not provide information that allows
find his data and, consequently,
the effort required is disproportionate to
the interest of the data subject for
providing information.
4. In the cases referred to in paragraph 2 of the preceding
Article, the controller may refuse
the provision of information in accordance with the first
subparagraph of paragraph 1 or to limit, in whole or in part
in part, the information in accordance with the second subparagraph
of paragraph 1.
5. Not disclosed to the data subject
the identity of the natural persons of whom
the personal data came from when the
This information may endanger life or
physical integrity and fundamental freedoms
as well as in the case of protected persons
witnesses or informants.
6. The controller shall notify in writing
and without delay to the data subject
its decision refusing or restricting it
access. The above obligation to notify
controller does not apply when the provision of
such information entails risk accordingly
with paragraph 2 of the previous article. The above
The following disclosure includes the actual
or legal grounds on which the refusal is based
or the restriction, unless the above justification will
harmed the intended purpose of the denial or
restricting access.
7. The data subject in case of
or restriction of access, in accordance with
previous paragraph, shall be informed of the
exercise of the right of access through
Authority and in particular for it in accordance with Article 58
possibility of submitting a complaint to the Authority and
filing an application for annulment against the rejection
decision of the Authority before its Council
Territory. The decision of the controller
transmitted to the Authority, unless he invokes
for reasons of national security. In her case
complaint before the Authority, the latter is investigating
assistance with the conditions for the restriction of
and informs the subject, at least
that all necessary verifications have taken place or
review by it, as well as whether they were violated
the provisions on data protection
personal.

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

8. The controller shall document the
legal and legal grounds on which it is based
his decision.
Article 56
Right to correct or delete data
personal and restrictions as
to edit
(Article 16 of the Directive)
1. The data subject has the right to
request from the controller the
deprivation correction of inaccurate personnel data
character concerning it. In particular, in the case of
statements or decisions, the question of accuracy
does not matter the content of the statement or
decision. If the accuracy or inaccuracy of the data
personal data can not be identified,
the controller restricts the processing
instead of deleting the data. In this case,
the controller informs the subject
of the data before restricting it again. The
data subject may also request
filling in missing staff data
character, if that, taking into account the purposes
of processing, is reasonable.
2. The data subject has the right to
requests without delay from the controller
deletion of personal data
concerning it, when their processing infringes
the provisions of this Chapter, the knowledge of the
is no longer necessary for the implementation of
duties or these data must have
deleted in order for the controller to
fulfill his legal obligation.
3. Instead of deleting, the controller
restricts processing when:
a) there is reason to assume that the deletion will
harmed the legitimate interests of their subject
data,
b) personal data is required
to be preserved, as long as they serve as evidence
instruments for the purposes of Article 43, or
c) deletion would be impossible or would entail
disproportionate effort due to the special way of
storage.
The personal data subject to
limited processing as described above
can only be processed for
purpose which prevented their deletion.
4. In automated archiving systems,
technical measures must ensure that the restriction
of processing is distinct and that processing
for other purposes is not possible without further
examination.
5. When the controller has corrected
inaccurate personal data disclosed
correction to the body from which he received them. In
in case of its correction, deletion or reduction
processing in accordance with paragraphs 1 to 3,
the controller informs the recipients
to whom the personnel data were transmitted

Page 19

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

nature of these measures. The recipient
erases or deletes personal data
or restricts their processing.
6. The controller shall inform in writing
the data subject for any denial
correction or deletion of personnel data
nature or limitation of their processing. This
does not apply when providing such information
poses a risk in accordance with paragraph 2
of Article 54. The information provided in
previous paragraph include its reasons
refusal, unless those reasons endanger him
intended purpose of the denial.
7. In other respects, paragraphs shall apply mutatis mutandis.
7 and 8 of the previous article.

3397

of. This does not apply to data processing
personal information from the courts and prosecutors
authorities when processing this data in
framework of judicial and judicial function
their duties. The Authority shall inform the subject
progress data and its outcome
complaint and the possibility of applying
annulment before the Council of State
against the decision on his termination, according
with Article 20.
2. In the event of a complaint concerning
processing before the Authority, instead of the competent
authority of another European Member State
Union, the Authority must transmit, without delay,
to the supervisory authority of the other Member State
of the European Union, the complaint which falls
in its competence. In this case, the Authority
informs the data subject about the
transmission of his complaint and then provides it
request any assistance.

Article 57
How to exercise his rights
data subject
(Article 12 of the Directive)
1. The controller shall contact the
text of the data in a concise, comprehensible and easy-to-understand
manually accessible format, using clear and
simple wording, especially when addressed to minors.
The information, subject to special provisions,
provided by any appropriate means, including
and electronic media. The person in charge
must provide the information to
form in which the request was made.
2. Without prejudice to paragraph 5 of the article
55 and paragraph 6 of Article 56 the person in charge
processing shall without delay inform the
text of the data on the progress of his application.
3. The information provided in accordance with
Article 53, any communication
in accordance with Articles 54 and 64, as well as applications which
processed in accordance with Articles 55
and 56, are not subject to a fee. When an application
pursuant to Articles 55 and 56 is manifestly unfounded or
exercised abusively, the controller may
impose a reasonable fee on the basis of administrative
of expenses or may refuse to act under it
request. In this case, the controller
must be able to prove the
the claim is unfounded or abusive.
4. When the controller has reasonable doubts
information on the identity of their subject
data submitted in accordance with
Articles 55 and 56, the controller may
request additional information
necessary to confirm his identity
subject.
Article 58
Right to lodge a complaint with the Authority
(Article 17 of the Directive)
1. The data subject has the right
lodge a complaint with the Authority if it believes that
processing of personal data set
concerned by public authorities for the purposes set out in
referred to in Article 43 violates the rights

Article 59
Rights of the data subject
in criminal investigations and proceedings
(Article 18 of the Directive)
In the context of criminal investigation and proceedings,
information systems for processing, access
correcting or deleting and restricting
of a personal nature, in accordance with the provisions
Articles 54 to 56 shall be exercised in accordance with
defined by the provisions of the Code of Criminal Procedure,
special procedural provisions and the Code of Organization
Courts and the Status of Judicial Officers
(KODKDL), as they apply each time.
SECTION IV
OBLIGATIONS PERFORMING
PROCESSING AND PROCESSING RESPONSIBLE
Article 60
Person performing the processing
(Articles 22 and 23 of the Directive)
1. When processing is done on behalf of
controller, he takes care of compliance
of the obligations arising from this
law and other provisions on protection
of personal data. The right
of the subject for information, correction, deletion
and restricting the processing of personal data
as well as the claim for compensation in
in this case they are brought against the
processing.
2. The controller may authorize
the processing of personal data
only to processors who provide
appropriate technical and organizational measures that
the processing is carried out in accordance with the law and
that the protection of their rights is ensured
processing subjects.
3. Processing through the processor
must be based on a contract or other legal act

Page 20

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

3398

which connects the processor to
controller, who determines the object
duration, nature and purpose of processing,
the nature of the personal data,
categories of subjects and rights and
obligations of the responsible person. The contract or
another legal act provides in particular that the executor
processing:
(a) acts only on instructions and in accordance with
the controller, if the executor
processing considers an order to be illegal,
tell inform the controller without
delay·
(b) ensure that the persons empowered
to process personnel data
are required to maintain the confidentiality
insofar as they are not subject to any
a reasonable legal obligation to maintain confidentiality;
(c) assist, by appropriate means, the controller
to safeguard the rights of the subject
data retrieval;
(d) after the completion of the provision of services;
processing at the discretion of the
returns or deletes all personal information
data and destroys existing copies,
unless there is a legal obligation to store them
data;
(e) provide the controller with all
necessary information, in particular the information generated
registrations in accordance with Article 74 as proof
compliance with its obligations;
f) allows and contributes to the conduct of audits
carried out by the controller or the
given by an auditor;
(g) take all necessary measures in accordance with
Article 62;
(h) taking into account the nature of the processing
and the information at his disposal, helps
the controller for compliance with the
charges set out in Articles 62 to 65 and 67.
4. In the event that the processor
puts to another executor of the processing, must
imposes the same obligations on him in accordance with
its basis with the controller, according to
paragraph 3, which also applies to him, except
if these obligations are already binding on the other
processing under other provisions.
5. The processor may commission the processing
processing to another, only after a previous one
written permission of the controller. If the
the controller has granted the executor
processing a general permit for participation and
another processor, the processor
processing informs the controller about
any changes it intends to make and where
concerning the possible completion or replacement of
other processors. The person in charge
may in this case refuse
these changes.
6. The contract referred to in paragraph 3
must be written or electronic.

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

7. The processor that determines them
purposes and means of processing in violation thereof
of this Article shall be deemed to be the controller.
Article 61
Joint editors
(Article 21 of the Directive)
1. In case two or more managers
jointly define the purposes
and the means of processing, are made together
controllers. Duties and responsibilities
each of the co-processors
defined in a transparent manner, by written agreement
to the extent that their duties and responsibilities do not
determined by law. In particular, the
must determine who must fulfill the
information obligations and to whom the proposals are
bodies to which personnel data refer
can exercise their rights.
2. The existence of an agreement in the preceding paragraph
does not prevent the data subject from
exercise his rights against each of the
joint controllers.
Article 62
Processing security
(Articles 19 and 29 of the Directive)
1. The controller and the executor
processing, taking into account the available
technology, implementation costs, nature,
scope, circumstances and purposes
processing, as well as the likelihood and seriousness of
processing risks for the subjects
of the data, receive the necessary technical and
organizational measures to ensure a level
safety appropriate to the risk during the treatment
personal data, in particular as regards
concerns the processing of specific categories of data
personal.
2. The measures referred to in the previous
paragraph may include, inter alia
the pseudonymization and encryption of data
provided that they are of a personal nature
means are possible for processing purposes.
The measures provided for in paragraph 1 shall be
insure:
a) confidentiality, integrity, availability
and resilience of systems and services that
related to processing; and
(b) the possibility of restoring the availability of
access to personal data
in the event of a natural or technical event.
3. In relation to automated processing, o
the controller and the processor,
after a risk assessment, implement measures
aimed at:
(a) the prohibition of unauthorized access;
persons in equipment used
for processing (control of access to equipment);
(b) the prevention of unauthorized reading;
copy, modify or remove media

Page 21

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

storage (storage media control);
(c) preventing unauthorized importation
personal data and non-authoritative
certified control, modification or deletion
stored personal data
(storage control);
(d) preventing the use of automated systems;
processed by unauthorized
persons using communication equipment
data (user control);
(e) ensuring that persons empowered
to use an automation system
have access to data only
of personal character covered by the authorization
(data access control);
(f) ensuring that it can be verified
and verify to which bodies they were forwarded or
or may be transmitted or disposed of
personal data using equipment
data communication (communication control);
(g) ensuring that it can be verified
and to verify a posteriori which data
were introduced in automated systems.
processed processing, and when and by
who (import control);
(h) the prevention of unauthorized reading;
copying, modifying or deleting data
personal data during transfers
of a personal nature or during transport
data storage media (transmission control);
(i) ensuring that the operation of the
systems can be restored in
its cessation (restoration);
j) ensuring that the system functions
performed, that the appearance of errors in the functions
reported without undue delay (reliability) and
that the stored personal data
remain unchanged in the event of a malfunction
system (integrity);
(k) ensuring that personnel data are
processed for accounting purposes
the controller may be
processed only in accordance with the instructions
of the controller (processing control);
(l) ensuring that personnel data are
are protected from loss and destruction
(check availability);
(m) ensuring that personnel data are
collected for different purposes
can be processed with organizational
or spatial separation (possibility of separation).
The purpose of the first paragraph in cases bd
up to and including can be achieved in particular through the use of
encryption information.
Article 63
Notification of data breach
of a personal nature to the Authority
(Article 30 of the Directive)

3399

the Authority without delay and,
if possible, within seventy-two (72) hours
since he became aware of the violation, unless
reasonably considers that the violation is not probable
jeopardize the protected legal interests
natural person. The notification of the
rape to the Authority after the expiration of seventy-two
(72) hours should be specifically justified in relation to
the reasons for the delay.
2. The processor shall inform the
processing without delay, as soon as it is realized
breach of personal data.
3. The notification referred to in paragraph
1, contains at least the following information:
(a) the nature of the personnel data breach
character, including, where possible,
the categories, the number of interested parties
data subjects, as well as categories
and the number of relevant data files
personal character;
b) the name and contact details
the data protection officer or other
communication, from which they can be drawn
more information·
(c) a description of the possible consequences of
breach of personal data; and
(d) a description of the measures taken or
tend to be taken by the controller
to deal with data breach
personal as well as for mitigation
possible adverse effects.
4. In the event that it is not possible to provide
the information in the previous paragraph
at the same time as the notification of the violation, o
the controller may provide them with
once they are available, without
further delay.
5. The controller shall document any
reporting of personal data
the facts relating to the infringement
its consequences and the remedies taken
meters.
6. In case the data breach concerns
personal data transmitted
by or to the controller of another State Member State, the information referred to in paragraph
notified to the controller
of that Member State without delay.
7. Further obligations of the controller
notification of infringements
personal data remain unresolved
servants.
Article 64
Notification of data breach
personal to the subject of
data
(Article 31 of the Directive)
1. Where the breach of personal data
may pose a significant risk to
the protected legal interests of natural

1. In the event of a breach of personal data
nature, the notifier

Page 22

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

3400

the controller shall notify immediately
to the data subject the incident.
2. When disclosing to the data subject
in accordance with paragraph 1 is described by
in a comprehensible and clear manner the nature of the breach and
at least the content of the cases shall be
paragraphs β΄, γ΄ and δ΄ of paragraph 3 of the previous one
article.
3. Disclosure to the data subject no
required if any of them are met
following terms:
(a) the controller has received the appropriate
all technical and organizational security measures and has
apply these measures to personnel data
affected by this breach applies
especially for measures such as encryption through
whose data becomes inaccessible to non
authorized persons;
(b) the controller received a posteriori
measures to ensure protection against
theft of personal data; or
c) disproportionate efforts are required. In the
In this case, it must be made public
or take similar measures so that the subject
data to be updated with equal effect
semantic way.
4. If the controller has not been informed
the data subject for any infringement;
personal data, the Authority may
to state officially that it considers that the
conditions of paragraph 3. In this way,
must take into account the possibility that the damage will
lead to significant risk within its meaning
paragraph 1.
5. Notification to the data subject
in accordance with paragraph 1 may be postponed,
be limited or omitted under the conditions laid down in
laid down in Article 54 (2), unless the
interests of the data subject
significant risk of breach by
the meaning of paragraph 1.
Article 65
Impact assessment of processing in
protection of personnel data
character
(Article 27 of the Directive)
1. If a form of processing, in particular when
new technologies may be used, it may create
poses a significant risk to protected legal entities
interests of stakeholders by nature,
scope, conditions and purposes
of the processing, the controller evaluates
first the consequences of performing the treatment for
the data subjects.
2. In order to investigate similar acts,
with similar significant risk potential,
a joint impact assessment may be conducted for
protection of personal data.
3. The impact assessment shall take into account the
shoulders of the subject affected by

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

processing and must contain at least
following:
(a) a systematic description of the
purposes of processing;
b) assessment of necessity and proportionality
processing operations in relation to the
pursued purposes;
(c) risk assessment for protected
interests of the data subject; and
(d) the measures to be taken to address
existing risks, including
including guarantees, safeguards and
procedures to ensure their protection
personal data and to prove
compliance with legal requirements.
4. Where necessary, the controller
check whether the treatment follows the requirements
resulting from the impact assessment.
Article 66
Cooperation with the Authority
(Article 26 of the Directive)
The controller and the processor
cooperate with the Authority during the execution
of its duties.
Article 67
Prior consultation with the Authority
(Article 28 of the Directive)
1. The controller shall consult the
Top before processing personnel data
character, which will be included in a new system
archiving to be created, provided that:
(a) it follows from the assessment in Article 65 that
processing will pose a significant risk to
protected legitimate interests of the subject
of the data if the controller does not receive
measures to mitigate it; or
b) the type of processing, in particular due to the use of new ones
technologies, mechanisms or processes, involves significant
risk to the protected legal interests
of the data subject.
2. When drafting laws or regulations
operations relating to the processing of data
of a personal nature by competent authorities, for
the purposes of Article 43 or related to it
the opinion of the Authority shall be given in a timely manner.
3. The Authority may draw up a list of acts
processing, which are subject to prior
consultation in accordance with paragraph 1. The Authority
notify that list to the responsible
processing.
4. In the course of the previous consultation
submitted to the Authority:
(a) the impact assessment for the protection of
carried out in accordance with Article 65;
(b) where applicable, information on the
responsibilities of the controller, of the joint
controllers and the executives involved
processing;

Page 23

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

(c) information on the purposes and means
of the planned treatment;
(d) information on measures and safeguards
protection of the law
interests of data subjects; and
e) the name and contact details of the DPO.
Upon request, the Authority shall receive any other information
information required to assess its legality
and in particular the existing risks
for the protection of personal data
data subjects and related
safeguards.
5. If the Authority believes that the intended
would violate the law, especially because the person in charge
has not sufficiently identified the risk
or has not taken adequate measures to mitigate it
may provide, within a period of six (6)
weeks after receipt of the consultation request,
written recommendations to the controller, and
where applicable, to the processor,
as to the additional measures to be taken.
The Authority may extend this period by
one (1) month if the scheduled processing is
particularly complicated. In this case the Authority
assigns the controller or executor
processing for this extension.
6. If the attempted processing is necessary
for the performance of the duties of the
processing and, therefore, is particularly urgent, the
the controller may initiate the processing
after the start of the consultation, but before
the expiry of the period referred to in the first subparagraph of
of the preceding paragraph. In this case, the
attitudes must be taken into account afterwards
and the processing mode is adjusted accordingly.
Article 68
Archives of processing activities
(Article 24 of the Directive)
1. The controller must keep a record
for all categories of processing activities

3401

(h) the time limits provided for the deletion of
different categories of personal data
or to reconsider the need for deletion
their; and
i) general description of technical and organizational
security measures referred to in Article 62.
2. The processor must maintain a
for all categories of processing carried out
on behalf of the controller, the
which includes:
(a) the name or surname and details
communication of each processor, each
controller on whose behalf
the executor and, where appropriate, the DPO;
(b) the processing classes carried out for
account of each controller;
(c) the case-by-case transmissions of data
to a third country concerned or
international organization, provided that the processor
has received an explicit relevant order from the
processing; and
(d) where possible, a general description of the
and organizational security measures referred to in Article 62.
3. The records referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be kept
πτώς.
4. The controller and the executor
make the files available to the Authority
at her request.
Article 69
Data protection by design and
by definition
(Article 20 of the Directive)
1. The controller, both when
processing media and over time
processing, take appropriate measures for
the application of data protection principles
personal, such as the minimization of
data, in an effective manner in order to ensure
compliance with legal requirements and
protection of the rights of data subjects

falling within its competence. The file
receives the following information:
(a) the name or surname and details
communication of the controller and, against
In this case, any jointly responsible
processing and DPO;
(b) the purposes of the processing;
(c) the categories of recipients to whom
the data have been disclosed or are about to be disclosed
of a personal nature, including
recipients in third countries or international organizations;
(d) a description of the categories of subjects
and data categories of Personnel
Character·
(e) where appropriate, the use of training
Profile·
(f) where applicable, the categories of
personal databases to a third party
country or international organization;
(g) an indication of the legal basis for the processing;

vibrating. The controller takes into account
state of the art, implementation costs
and their nature, scope, context and
processing purposes, as well as the risks
different probability and severity of the
protected legitimate interests of their subject
data processing. In particular, the data
personal processing
and processing systems are selected and designed
in accordance with the principle of minimization. The
Personal Data becomes anonymous
or are nicknamed as soon as possible,
as far as possible, according to its purpose
processing.
2. The controller applies the appropriate
technical and organizational measures to ensure that,
by default, only data is processed
personal information necessary for each
specific purpose of the processing. This applies to
the number of data collected, the extent

Page 24

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

3402

of their processing, their storage period
and their accessibility. In particular, the measures
to ensure that, by definition, the data does not
are accessible with automated means within
indefinite number of persons.

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

data, as well as the extent to which they are
updated.
2. If the processing of personnel data
subject to special conditions as regards
their transmission, the transmitting authority shall inform him
recipient for these terms and the obligation
compliance. The obligation to provide information
may be fulfilled by appropriate labeling of
data.
3. The transmitting competent authority shall not apply them
terms of the previous paragraph to the recipients
in other Member States of the European Union or in
agencies, services and bodies set up
in accordance with Title V, Chapters 4 and 5 of the Treaty
for the Functioning of the European Union, except
those applicable to such data transmissions
within the Greek Territory.

Article 70
Distinction between different categories
data subjects
(Article 6 of the Directive)
1. When processing personnel data
the controller shall, in
as far as possible, in a clear distinction between
categories of data subjects. This
applies in particular to the following categories:
(a) persons for whom there are good reasons to
are believed to have committed a criminal offense;
b) persons for whom there are good reasons to
are believed to be committing a criminal offense;
c) persons convicted of a criminal offense
offense·
(d) victims of a criminal offense or persons for
which certain facts
believe that they may be victims of
offense; and
(e) other persons, such as witnesses,
donors or liaisons or associates of persons
referred to in cases α΄ to δ΄.

Article 73
Correction and deletion of data
personal nature and its limitation
processing
(Article 5 of the Directive)
1. The controller corrects inaccuracies
personal data.
2. The controller shall delete the data
be of a personal nature without delay, if the
Their processing is illegal, and they must
deleted to fulfill a legal obligation or h
Their knowledge is no longer necessary for execution
of his duties.
3. Paragraphs 3 to 5 of Article 56 shall apply
accordingly. The recipient is also informed
if inaccurate personnel data has been transmitted
or if the personal data
have been transmitted illegally.
4. Without prejudice to the provisions of
maximum storage deadlines or deletions
the controller provides for the deletion
personal data or periodic
review the need to store them and
ensures compliance with procedural arrangements
deadlines.

Article 71
Distinction of personal data
and verification of their identity
(Article 7 of the Directive)
During processing, the controller
considers, to the extent possible, personnel data
character based on real situations
and those based on personal assessments. For
for this purpose, the controller shall specify
evaluations based on personal assessments;
as such, as far as possible within its framework
such processing. It must also be possible
to determine which public authority maintains the records
on which the evaluation is based on personal
assessment.

Article 74
Listings
(Article 25 of the Directive)

Article 72
Transmission procedure
(Articles 7 and 9 of the Directive)

1. The controller and the executor
processing keep entries in automated
processing systems for at least the following
processing operations:
a) collection,
b) change,
c) consultation,
(d) disclosure, including
bases,
e) combination and
f) deletion.
2. Consultation and disclosure entries
they must enable the justification to be ascertained,
the date and time of such operations and, at

1. The controller receives the appropriate
measures to ensure that personnel data
character that is inaccurate or no longer
are not transmitted or available with
another way. To this end, the controller
verify, as far as possible, the
reasonable effort, data quality
before their transmission or disposal. The person in charge
should also, as far as possible and
reasonable, in all transmissions of personal data
to include the necessary information
information that will allow the recipient to evaluate
the degree of accuracy, completeness and reliability of

Page 25

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

3403

as far as possible, the identity of the person who
consulted or disclosed personnel data
character, as well as the identity of their recipients
data.
3. Entries can be used
only to verify the legality of the processing
personal data from
Principle and data subject as well as for
self-control, ensuring integrity and
of the security of personal data and for
criminal proceedings.
4. Entries are deleted at the end of the year
following the year in which they were created.
5. The controller and the executor
make the entries available to the
at her request.

to be approved by the competent authority of the other State member. Transfers without prior authorization
only if the transfer is necessary for
avoiding immediate and serious risk to the public
security of a state or for essential interests
of a Member State and prior approval does not
can be taken in time. In the case of
paragraph 2, the authority or body of the other State Member State which would be responsible for granting it
shall be informed immediately of the transmission.
4. The controller transmitting data
be of a personal nature in accordance with
takes the appropriate measures to ensure
that the recipient transmits only what has been transmitted
data in other third countries or in other international ones
agencies, if the controller has
previously allow this transmission. When
SECTION V
decides to grant the approval, the
PERSONAL DATA TRANSMISSIONS
takes into account all relevant factors
CHARACTER TO THIRD COUNTRIES OR INTERNATIONAL
in particular the gravity of the offense, the purpose
ORGANIZATIONS
of the original transmission and existing in the third country
or the international organization to which they are to be transmitted
Article 75
data, level of data protection
General principles governing transmissions
personal character. Permission can only be granted
personal data
if direct transmission to the other third party is permitted
(Article 35 of the Directive)
country or other international organization.
1. If all other conditions are met
Article 76
apply to the transfer of personnel data
Transfers subject to appropriate
as defined in this Regulation
guarantees
the transfer of personal data is permitted.
(Article 37 of the Directive)
to third country or international authorities
organizations if:
1. In the absence of a decision on ensuring adequate
(a) the authority or international organization is responsible for
level of protection in accordance with paragraph 1
the purposes referred to in Article 43, and
subparagraph (b) of the preceding Article, the
(b) the Commission has adopted a decision
personal data to a third country or
adequate level of protection by the third country,
international organization can take place if:
territorial area or by one or more
(a) provided in a legally binding act
sectors in that third country or by that
other guarantees regarding data protection
international organization or, in the absence of such a decision,
personal, or
appropriate guarantees have been provided or
(b) the controller assessed the conditions
their existence in accordance with the following Article or,
the transmission of personal data and
In the absence of the above, special derogations apply
considered that there are appropriate guarantees regarding
situations in accordance with Article 77.
their protection.
2. The transmission of personal data
2. The controller shall record the transmissions
not allowed, despite the existence of a sufficient
bases in accordance with indent b) of paragraph
in accordance with the preceding paragraph and
1. The entry shall include the date and
role as required by the public interest, if in
time of transmission, the identity of the recipient, the
In this case, the
reason for the transmission and the data transmitted
protection of fundamental and legal rights
personal. The above entry is set
interests of the data subject against
at the disposal of the Authority at its request.
the processing of its data by the
Article 77
their owners. The controller evaluates the grade
Derogations for special situations
ensuring the protection of those rights and
(Article 38 of the Directive)
legitimate interests of the subject on the basis of
whether the recipient of the personnel data
1. In the absence of a decision on ensuring adequate
character in the third country guarantees in that
level of protection in accordance with paragraph 1
appropriate protection.
Article 75 (b) or appropriate guarantees
3. Where personal data disclosed
pursuant to paragraph 1 of the preceding Article,
transferred or made available by another Member State
transfers that meet its other conditions
European Union must be transmitted in accordance
Article 75 shall be carried out only if this is necessary.
with paragraph 1, this transmission must first
required:

Page 26

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

3404

(a) for the protection of his vital interests
data subject or other person,
(b) for the protection of the legitimate interests of the
text of the data,
(c) to prevent an immediate and serious threat to
the public security of a country,
d) in individual cases for the purposes
laid down in Article 43, or
(e) in individual cases for the
exercising or upholding legal claims,
which are related to the purposes of Article 43.
2. The transmission of data shall not be permitted.
in accordance with the preceding
when the Transmitting Competent Authority considers that
fundamental rights and legitimate interests
of the data subject are superior to the
public interest in carrying out the transmission.
3. For transfers referred to in paragraph 1 shall apply
paragraph 2 of the preceding Article.

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

SECTION VI
COOPERATION BETWEEN SUPERVISORY AUTHORITIES
Article 79
Mutual assistance
(Article 50 of the Directive)

Article 78
Transmission of personnel data
character to recipients established
in third countries
(Article 39 of the Directive)
1. In special individual cases and if
all other transmission requirements are met
in third countries, the controllers
may transmit personal data
directly to recipients in non-member countries
referred to in indent a) of paragraph 1 of
Article 75, if the transmission is absolutely necessary
for the performance of their duties, and
a) in this case, no fundamental
right of the data subject does not exceed
public interest for the transmission,
(b) the transmission to the authorities referred to in
The indent of Article 75 (1) (a) shall be
ineffective or inappropriate, in particular because the transmission
can not be carried out in time, and
(c) the controller shall inform the
for processing purposes and gives clear
instructions to him that the transmitted data can be
can only be processed to the extent
that this is necessary for these purposes.
2. In the case of paragraph 1, the person in charge
inform the authorities without delay
referred to in indent a) of paragraph 1
Article 75, unless this is ineffective
or inappropriate.
3. Paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 75 shall apply
accordingly to transfers in accordance with paragraph 1.
4. In the case of transfers in accordance with
paragraph 1 the controller shall oblige him
recipient to process the transmitted data
to be personal without his consent
controller only for the purpose for
which were transmitted.
5. Agreements in the field of judicial cooperation
in criminal matters and police co-operation
are not affected.

1. The Authority shall provide the supervisory authorities of other
information of the members of the European Union and
mutual assistance to the extent necessary
for the application of this Chapter. The mutual
The assistance shall cover in particular requests for information
and supervisory measures, such as requests for consultation
inspections and investigations.
2. The Authority shall take all appropriate measures
are required to respond without delay to
request for mutual assistance from another supervisory authority
Member State and no later than one month after
receipt of the application.
3. The Authority may refuse to comply with
request:
(a) if it is not competent for the subject matter of the application;
or for the measures which it is required to carry out, or
b) compliance with the request violates the law.
4. The Authority shall inform the requesting supervisory authority
another Member State for the results or, against
where appropriate, on the progress or measures taken for
to respond to the request. In the case of
paragraph, justifies its refusal to
comply with the request.
5. The Authority shall, as a rule, provide the information provided
requested by the supervisory authority of the other State;
Member State by electronic means and in a standard
φή.
6. The Authority shall not charge a fee for the actions
taken in accordance with the request for mutual assistance
unless agreed with the supervisory authority
of the other State in individual cases in
compensation for specific costs incurred
benefit from the provision of mutual assistance.
7. Requests for assistance to the Authority are all provided
the necessary information, including
the purpose of the request and the reasons for submitting it.
The information exchanged is used
only for the purpose for which they were requested.
SECTION VII
LIABILITY AND PENALTIES
Article 80
Liability of the controller
(Articles 54 and 56 of the Directive)
Public authority, in the capacity of the responsible
processing of personal data, which
has unlawfully caused damage to their subject
personal data, in breach
the provisions of Articles 6 to 8 or the provisions of
of this Chapter is required, in accordance with
the provisions of Articles 105 and 106 of the EISNAK, in
compensation or in monetary satisfaction due to ethics
damage to the data subject.

Page 27

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

Article 81
Criminal sanctions
(Articles 54 and 57 of the Directive)

3405

3. The permanent and employment relationship under private law
serving staff, at the time of voting:
in the Authority is automatically classified as
items, by category, industry or specialty, positions
public or private law, in accordance with formalities
of qualifications.
4. Applications pending before the Authority until
on 25.5.2018, in addition to the admissible appeals of
data subjects of a personal nature,
in the file with a certificate from the President
of the beginning.

Article 38 shall also apply to the processing of
of a personal nature by competent authorities
for the purposes of Article 43.
Article 82
Administrative sanctions
(Articles 54 and 57 of the Directive)

1. Without prejudice to the control powers of the Authority
in accordance with Article 15 hereof, the Authority with special
Article 84
reasoned decision and following a previous one
Repealed provisions
call for explanations from interested parties
Law 2472/1997 “Protection of the individual from
may impose on competent authorities for infringements
processing of personal data ", with the
their responsibilities as controllers
without prejudice to the definitions in Article 2, where applicable
personal data the following
explicit reference to them in relation to
administrative fines:
data legislation, of the second to
(a) for infringements of Articles 6 to 8 and Articles
last subparagraph of indent b of Article 2
60 to 78 administrative fine up to one million
for the communication and publication of data
(1,000,000) euros,
of a personal nature and subparagraph (b) of paragraph
(b) for infringements of Articles 45 to 57, administrative
Article 3, paragraph 2, only in respect of offenses
fine of up to two million (2,000,000) euros and
described in it, the third to the third
(c) for non-compliance ordered by the Conforming Authority
the last subparagraph of indent b) of paragraph 2
in accordance with Article 15 (4) administrative fine
of Article 3 of the above law on installation
up to two million (2,000,000) euros.
and operation of surveillance systems, Article 13
2. When making a decision on enforcement
paragraph 3 of the recommendation of the Authority
administrative fine, as well as the amount thereof, for
Article 15 (1), Article 18 (2)
each individual case is taken into account
and 3 and Article 21 concerning the enforcement of
the following:
sanctions in accordance with Article 13 (1)
(a) the nature, gravity, duration of the infringement;
4 of Law 3471/2006 (AD133) which are maintained in
the extent or purpose of the relevant processing, as well as
force, repealed.
and the number of data subjects that
affected the infringement and the extent of the damage they
Article 85
suffered,
Validity of international or bilateral international agreements
(b) any action taken by the
International or bilateral international agreements concerning
Fashion authorities to mitigate the damage suffered
in the transmission of personal data to
the subjects of personal data,
third countries or international organizations in the field of
(c) any relevant previous infringements of Article
cooperation in criminal or police matters
Fashion Authority,
legal cooperation before 6.5.2016 and which
d) categories of personal data
are compatible with the applicable before
affected by the infringement,
date EU law is still
(e) the manner in which the Authority was informed
infringement, in particular whether and to what extent the competent are valid until they are amended, replaced or
be recalled.
Authority notified the infringement and
(f) if they have already been ordered to the detriment of the person responsible
Article 86
authority for the same infringement, the measures referred to
1. From the entry into force of this and with
in Article 15 (4), the degree of compliance
Without prejudice to paragraphs 2, 3 and 4, the following shall be deleted:
her with them.
(a) the first article of the Legislative Act of 18.7.2015
CHAPTER ED
Content “Urgent Arrangements for Adoption
FINAL AND TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
restrictions on cash withdrawals and transfers
(AD 84), which was ratified by Article 4
Article 83
of Law 4350/2015 (A '161), as in force, (b) the ministerial
Transitional provisions
decisions adopted by delegation of the
of the above Legislative Act of 18.7.2015
1. Where in provisions of current legislation it is done
And (c) the regulatory decisions of the
reference to Law 2472/1997 is understood as reference to
Committee for the Approval of Banking Transactions,
relevant provisions of the GCC and this.
2. The instructions and regulations of the Authority
referred to in paragraph 4 of Article 1 thereof
are in force, provided they do not conflict with the GCC
from 28 June 2015 Legislative Content Act
and in the settings hereof.
"Short-term bank holiday" (AD 65), which

Page 28

3406

GOVERNMENT NEWSPAPER

ratified by article 1 of law 4350/2015, as in force.
2. The Bank of Greece and the
remain responsible for the continuation of outstanding issues
inspections and new ones (sampling or
upon complaint) as to their compliance
institutions and bodies supervised by them
the provisions of the Legislative Act of 18.7.2015
Content "Urgent Arrangements for the Establishment of
cash withdrawals and transfers
(AD 84), which was ratified by Article 4
of Law 4350/2015 (AD 161), as in force, for violations
of its provisions which took place before the commencement
validity of this. Paragraphs 13 and 13a of
Article 1 of the Legislative Act of 18.7.2015
Content “Urgent Arrangements for Adoption
restrictions on cash withdrawals and transfers
(AD 84), which was ratified by Article 4 of
Law 4350/2015 (AD 161), as in force, are maintained in force.
3. Paragraph 14 of Article 1 thereof by
18.7.2015 Legislative Content Act “Urgent
Arrangements for establishing restrictions on
cash withdrawal and the transfer of funds "(AD
84), which was ratified by article 4 of law 4350/2015
(AD 161), as in force, is maintained in force, for violations
of its provisions which took place before the commencement
validity of this.
4. The first and second subparagraphs of paragraph 15
of article one of the Act of 18.7.2015
Positive Content "Urgent Arrangements for
introduction of restrictions on cash withdrawals and
transfer of funds ”(AD 84), which was ratified by
Article 4 of Law 4350/2015 (AD 161), as in force, maintains
in force.
5. The electronic file of the Bank Approval Committee
trading is sealed and kept unchanged
inactive in its respective systems
Bank of Greece, under the responsibility of the Information
of the above. More specific issues
with the electronic file can be configured with
act of the Governor of the Bank of Greece. The natural
The file is kept at the Finance Department

Issue A '137 / 29.08.2019

Of the General Secretariat for Economic Policy
of the Ministry of Finance. More specific issues
on the physical file can be configured with
decision of the Minister of Finance. The file is
accessible by the supervisory authorities referred to in paragraph 2,
as well as by any audit, judicial or prosecutorial
authority to investigate acts or omissions which
related to infringements of the repealed
of paragraph 1, at the time of their entry into force.
Deleting items from the file can be done
by decision of the Minister of Finance,
twenty years after the decision has been taken
of the Banking Transaction Approval Committee.
6. The validity of the present starts on 1.9.2019.
Article 87
Entry into force
This is valid from the time of its publication
in the Government Gazette, unless otherwise stated
class defines differently.
We order the publication of this in
Government Gazette and its execution as
State law.
Athens, 28 August 2019
The President of Democracy
PROKOPIOS V. PAVLOPOULOS
The Ministers
Finance

Justice

CHRISTOS STAIKOURAS

ΚΩΝΣΤΑΝΤΙΝΟΣ ΤΣΙΑΡΑΣ

The Great Seal of the State was considered and put.
Athens, August 29, 2019
The Minister of Justice
ΚΩΝΣΤΑΝΤΙΝΟΣ ΤΣΙΑΡΑΣ

Kapodistriou 34, PC 104 32, Athens
Tel. Center 210 5279000
Texts to be published: webmaster.et@et.gr

* 01001372908190028 *

