Page 1

DECREE NUMBER 90-2005
THE CONGRESS OF THE REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
CONSIDERING:
That for several decades the urgent need to implement the
legal regulations that regulate matters relating to personal documentation, to adapt it to
the technological advances of science and the natural evolution of customs; So
how to fulfill the commitment to modernize the electoral system,
specifically on the issue of documentation, adopted in the Peace Agreement on
Constitutional Reforms and Electoral Regime.
CONSIDERING:
That the Neighborhood Certificate, in addition to being a perishable document and lacking
trust, since it dates from 1931, having been created through the Decree
Number 1735 of the Legislative Assembly, is administered by the Registries of
Neighborhood that do not carry out controls on their expedition, which facilitates their falsification,
in addition to constituting that booklet a document elaborated in a material lacking
security measures and easy deterioration.
CONSIDERING:
That the normative precepts contained in Decree-Law 106, containing the Code
Civil, are those that give support to the Civil Registry, an institution of public law that is
in charge of the registration of births, marriages, divorces, deaths and
any facts and acts related to the civil capacity and civil status of the
natural persons and the procedures inherent to them, so they must
fit within a specific legal system.
CONSIDERING:
That by means of Decree Number 10-04 that contains reforms to the Electoral Law and
Political Parties, the implementation of the legal regulations that must create
an autonomous entity, with legal, technical and independent personality, integrated
among others by the Supreme Electoral Tribunal, in charge of issuing and administering the
Personal Identification Document -DPI-.
CONSIDERING:
That it is necessary for the Law to regulate what concerns the new
Institution, incorporating into its regulatory regulations, registry concepts
tending to automate information, unify registration criteria consistent with the
reality that our Nation lives; In addition, you need to implement a Document
Personal Identification that contains security measures, within which
will include the Automated Fingerprint Identification System -AFIS- (for

Page 2

its acronym in English), that facilitate its use and prevent its falsification, to provide
of legal certainty to the acts and contracts that are granted through it.
THEREFORE:
In the use of the powers conferred by articles 171 literal a), 175, 176, 177 and
180 of the Political Constitution of the Republic.
DECREE:
The next:
LAW OF THE NATIONAL REGISTRATION OF PERSONS
CHAPTER I
GENERAL DISPOSITION
ARTICLE 1. Creation.
The National Registry of Persons, hereinafter RENAP, is created as an entity
autonomous, under public law, with legal personality, its own assets and full
ability to acquire rights and contract obligations. The RENAP headquarters are in
the capital of the Republic, however, for the fulfillment of its functions, it must
establish offices in all the municipalities of the Republic; will be able to implement
mobile units anywhere in the national territory, and abroad, through
consular offices.
ARTICLE 2. Objectives.
RENAP is the entity in charge of organizing and maintaining the single registry of
identification of natural persons, register the facts and acts related to their
marital status, marital capacity and other identification data from birth to
death, as well as the issuance of the Personal Identification Document. For that end
implement and develop automated strategies, techniques and procedures that
allow an integrated and efficient management of information, unifying procedures
registration of the same.
ARTICLE 3. Nature.
The provisions of this law are of public order and will have preeminence over other
that deal with the same subject. In case of doubt, ambiguity or contradiction of
one or more of its provisions with other legal regulations, it will be chosen to apply the
contained in it.
ARTICLE 4. * Registration criteria.
Enrollments in RENAP will be made under simplified criteria, through the
use of unified forms and an automated system for processing
data, which allows the integration of a single identification record of all the

Page 3

natural persons, as well as the assignment to each of them, from the moment
that the registration of his birth is made, of a Unique Identification Code CUl-, which will be invariable.
The Unique Identification Code -CUl- to be assigned to each natural person, is
shall consist of thirteen (13) digits including: eight (8) assigned digits, one (1) digit
verifier, two (2) digits to identify the department of your birth and two (2)
Identification digits of the municipality of your birth. These thirteen (13) digits are
unique and unrepeatable.
In the case of consular registrations, registrations by naturalization or
foreign residents or others, as appropriate, the boxes will be used
corresponding to the identification codes of the department and municipality, as
establish the RENAP Board of Directors.
For the purposes of personal identification, the thirteen (13) digits that
make up the Unique Identification Code.
The RENAP Board of Directors must guarantee certainty and security mechanisms for
the assignment of all Unique Identification Codes -CUI-.
* Amended by Article 1, of Congress Decree Number 39-2010 on 11-092010

CHAPTER II
OF THE FUNCTIONS OF THE NATIONAL REGISTRY OF PERSONS
ARTICLE 5. Main functions.
RENAP is responsible for planning, coordinating, directing, centralizing and controlling the
activities of registration of civil status, civil capacity and identification of persons
natural indicated in the present Law and its regulations.
ARTICLE 6. * Specific functions. The specific functions of RENAP are:
a) Centralize, plan, organize, direct, regulate and rationalize the registrations of
your competition;
b) Register births, marriages, divorces, deaths and other events and
acts that modify the civil status and civil capacity of natural persons, as well as
such as judicial and extrajudicial resolutions that refer to them, which are susceptible to
registration and other acts specified by law;
c) Maintain permanently and updated the identification record of the
natural people;

Page 4

d) Issue the Personal Identification Document to Guatemalans and foreigners
domiciled, as well as replacements and renewals that prove the identification
of natural persons;
e) Issue the certifications of the respective inscriptions;
f) Send to the Supreme Electoral Tribunal the information of the citizens registered within
of the eight (8) days following the delivery of the Personal Identification Document DPI- to the owner of the same; and the information that the Supreme Electoral Tribunal requests
For the fulfillment of its functions, it must be delivered within a period of no more than
eight (8) days;
g) Promote the training and qualification of qualified personnel who require the
Institution;
h) Provide the Public Ministry, the police and judicial authorities and other
State entities authorized by the National Registry of Persons -RENAP-, the
information that they request in relation to marital status, civil capacity and
identification of natural persons;
i) Ensure the unrestricted respect of the right to identification of persons
natural rights and the other rights inherent to them, derived from their registration in the
RENAP;
j) Give information about people, under the principle that the information held by the
RENAP is public, except when it can be used to affect the honor or
citizen privacy. It is established as public information without restriction
only the name and surname of the person, their identification number, dates
of birth or death, sex, neighborhood, occupation, profession or trade, nationality and
marital status, not the address of your residence;
k) Implement, organize, maintain and supervise the operation of the registry
fingerprint, facial and others that are necessary for the fulfillment of their
functions;
l) File the complaint or become an adhesive plaintiff in those cases in which
Acts that could constitute criminal offenses are detected in matters of identification of
natural persons; Y,
m) Carry out the other functions entrusted to it by law.
n) Correct inconsistencies, errors or duplications, notified by the Court
Electoral Supreme Court, having to replace the Personal Identification Document to the holder
of the same, in accordance with the provisions of this Law.
The Supreme Electoral Tribunal must reject the information it contains
inconsistencies, errors or duplications in personal data or in the Unique Code of
Identification -CUI-, in order to preserve the electoral roll.

Page 5

* Without place the action of unconstitutionality of paragraphs f) and j) by the File
Number 1201-2006 on 12-28-2007
* Reformed literal k) by Article 1, of Decree Number 23-2008, of 05-122008
* Reformed literal f), added literal n) and a last paragraph by Article
2, of Congress Decree Number 39-2010 of 11-09-2010
ARTICLE 7. Coordination .
For the exercise of its functions, RENAP must maintain close and permanent
coordination with the following entities:
a) Supreme Electoral Tribunal;
b) Ministry of the Interior;
c) Ministry of Foreign Relations;
d) Public and private hospitals and health centers that intervene in the process of
registration of births and deaths;
e) Judicial Organism;
f) Public Ministry;
g) The municipalities of the country; Y,
h) Any other institution of public or private law, when pertinent.

CHAPTER III
ORGANIC STRUCTURE
ARTICLE 8. Organization.
The organs of the Registry are:
a) Directory;
b) Executive Director;
c) Advisory Council;
d) Executing Offices;

Page 6

e) Administrative Directions.
ARTICLE 9. * Of the Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors is the highest management body of RENAP and is made up of three
members:
a) A Magistrate of the Supreme Electoral Tribunal;
b) The Minister of the Interior;
c) A member elected by the Congress of the Republic.
The Supreme Electoral Tribunal will elect a member from among its regular magistrates
titular and an alternate member.
The Minister of the Interior who may delegate his representation to one of the
Vice Ministers, specifically designated by Ministerial Agreement.
The Congress of the Republic will elect a titular member and an alternate member.
They will last four (4) years in office, and may be reelected; having to carry out the
convocation by the Congress of the Republic to all professionals who
wish to apply for the position, thirty (30) days in advance. In the event of cessation of
functions for any of the causes established in this Law, Congress
will proceed to its replacement.
For the election of said members, titular and substitute, the Board of Directors of the Congress
will propose to the Plenary for its appointment a Commission made up of three (3)
deputies from different banks, which will be in charge of reviewing and verifying the
fulfillment of the requirements of the applications that are received. One time
Once this has been done, the Commission will present to the Board of Directors of Congress the
final list of applicants, so that it submits it to the consideration of the Plenary of the
Congress and the election is held, which will be decided by a simple majority of votes. Will be
the professional who obtains the highest number of votes is elected as owner member
and as an alternate member, whoever succeeds him in the votes obtained.
* Without place the action of unconstitutionality of subsection a) by the File
Number 1201-2006 on 12-28-2007
* Reformed the third paragraph by Article 3, of Congress Decree Number
39-2010 of 09-11-2010
ARTICLE 10. * Qualities.
The member of the Board of Directors elected by the Congress of the Republic, must fill out the
following qualities:
a) Be Guatemalan;

Page 7

b) Be a collegiate university professional; and must prove ten years of experience
in the exercise of the profession and accredit experience of no less than ten years in systems
computer science; Y,
c) Be of recognized good repute.
* Amended by Article 1, of Congress Decree Number 26-2010 on 08-14.
2010
ARTICLE 10 Bis. * Responsibility.
The members of the Board of Directors will perform their functions under their exclusive
responsibility, in accordance with the law, and will act with absolute independence from
criteria, as well as any interest unrelated to that of the National Registry of Persons.
Without prejudice to what other laws establish, the members who act as holders
will be jointly and severally liable for the damages caused by the acts
and omissions in which they incur in the exercise of their functions. In the case of sessions
of the RENAP Board of Directors, will not be jointly and severally liable, civilly and criminally, the
members who act as holders, if they record their objections in the minutes of the
respective session and reason their vote against
* Added by Article 4, of Congress Decree Number 39-2010 on 11-092010
ARTICLE 11. * Of the Presidency.
The Board of Directors shall be presided over by the Magistrate of the Supreme Electoral Tribunal. The decisions of the
Board of Directors will be adopted by the majority of its members.
* Without place the action of unconstitutionality, by File Number 1201-2006
on 28-12-2007
ARTICLE 12. Of the sessions.
The sessions will be called by its President and they will be held
ordinarily every fifteen (15) days and extraordinarily when required by
a member of the Board of Directors or if the agenda of the ordinary session is not exhausted, and thus
decided by the majority of its members.
ARTICLE 13. * Quorum and voting.
The attendance of the members of the Board of Directors at ordinary and extraordinary sessions
it is mandatory. The presence of two (2) members of the Board of Directors constitutes a quorum for
be able to hold a session. The agreements and resolutions will be valid if they obtain two (2)
votes, at a minimum. Attendance at sessions is mandatory for holders and
alternates. The incumbents will have voice and vote, and the alternates will only have voice, unless they are
serving as headlines. In case of no-show of the holder, his
alternate. The unexcused absence to two consecutive sessions by the holder, will be
will sanction, in addition to the civil and criminal responsibilities incurred, with a

Page 8

fine equivalent to the amount of two allowances, for each absence, notwithstanding that the
alternate attend the session.
The Board of Directors will meet in ordinary sessions once a week, but the President
or at the request of at least two (2) of its members, it may call sessions
extraordinary. The members of this body, both regular and alternate, will have
right to diets for attending sessions, but in no case will they be paid more
eight (8) monthly sessions. The amount of the allowances will be set in the regulations
respective.
In the event of the definitive absence of a regular member, the alternate will assume as the regular member,
the nominating body having to select a new substitute. The deadline for the
Supreme Electoral Court designates the new alternate, it must not be greater than fifteen
(15) days, and in the case of the Congress of the Republic, the term will be that established by the
present Law.
These deadlines will also apply in the selection process, in the case of absence
final of an alternate member.
* Amended by Article 5, of Congress Decree Number 39-2010 on 11-092010
ARTICLE 14. * Remuneration.
The members of the Board of Directors, both regular and alternate, will have the right to per diems
for attending meetings, in accordance with the provisions of Article 13 of the
present Law.
* Amended by Article 6, of Congress Decree Number 39-2010 on 11-092010
ARTICLE 15. * Powers of the Board of Directors.
The powers of the Board of Directors are:

a) Define the national policy regarding the identification of natural persons;
b) Supervise and coordinate the planning, organization and operation of the
identification of natural persons;
c). Promote measures that tend to strengthen RENAP and compliance with
its objectives and functions, in relation to the acts of the institution;
* d) Declared unconstitutional;
e) Approve the manuals for the organization of positions and salaries;
f) Approve the conventions, agreements, contracts and any other provisions that are
celebrate with public and private institutions, non-governmental organizations,

Page 9

national or international, for its ordinary operation and for compliance
of its objectives;
g) Issue and approve the pertinent regulations for the adequate and efficient
operation of the integrated systems of the Civil Registry of Persons;
h) Know, as the highest authority, the administrative resources
contemplated in the Law of Administrative Litigation;
i) Ensure that the institutions that are required information, collaboration and
support for the fulfillment of the functions inherent to the Institution, deliver it in
efficient and effective way;
j) Approve the contributions that are granted to the Institution and in general the
remunerations that are necessary to meet the costs of operation, maintenance and
quality improvement of the products and services provided and offered by the
Institution;
k) Approve the draft Budget of Income and Expenses of the Institution and
forward it to the Ministry of Public Finance;
I) Authorize the Executive Director through a resolution adopted in the session
corresponding, to temporarily and specifically delegate their legal representation
in one or more officials of the Institution, or in his case in a lawyer;
m) Set goals and objectives regarding enrollment coverage, facts and
vital acts related to marital status, marital capacity and other identification data
personal, as well as the issuance of the personal identification document;
n) Establish Civil Registries of the people in the municipalities that leave
creating, as well as the Mobile Units that it considers pertinent to achieve
of its purposes; Y,
o) All those that are compatible with its nature as the highest authority of the
Institution and that it is estimated will contribute to its better functioning.
p) Authorize the provision of services by RENAP to the public and private sectors
that allow access to information related to: a) names and surnames; b) code
unique identification; c) date of birth; d) sex; e) neighborhood; f) marital status; g)
occupation, profession or trade; h) nationality; and, i) date of death, in accordance
with the access levels established in this law and its regulations.
* Section d) was declared unconstitutional by File Number 1201-2006 on
12-28-2007
* Added literal p) by Article 2 of Decree Number 23-2008 of 05-172008
ARTICLE 16. * Cessation of functions.

Page 10

The members of the Board of Directors will cease their positions:
a) When the period for which they were elected or appointed ends;
b) By resignation or death;
c) For being convicted in a final judgment for the commission of a fraudulent crime;
d) Due to suffering from physical or mental incapacity, medically qualified by an organ
competent, which makes it impossible for more than six (6) months to exercise the position, or
have been declared by a competent court in a state of interdiction;
e) In the case of the Magistrate of the Supreme Electoral Tribunal and the Minister of
Government, or their respective alternates, for ceasing to exercise said
charges;
f) For committing fraudulent, illegal or obviously contrary to the functions,
objectives and interests of RENAP;
g) For acting or proceeding with manifest negligence in the performance of their
functions;
h) For not fully complying with the attributions that correspond to him as a member
of the Board of Directors, in accordance with the provisions of this Law;
i) Due to non-fulfillment of goals and objectives.
In the case of the titular member and alternate elected by the Congress of the Republic, the
removal must be approved by Legislative Agreement.
* Amended by Article 7, of Congress Decree Number 39-2010 of 0911-2010
ARTICLE 16. Bis. * Prohibitions.
The members of the Board of Directors will have the same prohibitions established in the Law
Probity and Responsibilities of Public Officials and Employees, Decree
Number 89-2002 of the Congress of the Republic, and especially, the prohibitions
contained in articles 18 and 19 of the aforementioned law.
* Added by Article 8, of Congress Decree Number 39-2010 on 11-092010

CHAPTER IV
FROM THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
ARTICLE 17. Of the Executive Director.

Page 11

The Executive Director of RENAP is appointed by the Board of Directors for a period of
five (5) years, being able to be reelected.
ARTICLE 18. * Qualities.
To perform the position of Executive Director of RENAP, the following is required:
a) Be Guatemalan;
b) Possess a university degree, at least, in one of the following professions:
Systems Engineer, Industrial Engineer, Bachelor of Systems, Bachelor of
Business Administration or Public Administration;
c) Be an active collegiate;
d) Demonstrate experience of at least five (5) years in computer systems and / or
databases; and prove a minimum experience of five (5) years in high-level positions
management and / or senior management in public administration;
e) Be of recognized good repute.
* Reformed literal b), d) and e) by Article 9, of the Congress Decree
Number 39-2010 of 09-11-2010
ARTICLE 19. Maximum Administrative Authority.
The Executive Director is the administrative hierarchical superior of RENAP; exercises the
legal representation and is in charge of directing and ensuring the normal and
suitable for the entity.
ARTICLE 20. Functions of the Executive Director.
The functions of the Executive Director are:
a) Comply with and ensure that the objectives of the institution are met, as well as the laws
and regulations;
b) Submit for the consideration of the Board of Directors the matters whose knowledge
corresponds and rule on them, verbally or in writing, according to their
importance;
c) Comply with the mandates issued by the Board of Directors;
d) Attend Board meetings with voice but without vote and exercise the function of
Secretary, signing the corresponding minutes;
e) Plan, direct, supervise, coordinate and administer all the activities that are
necessary for the proper functioning of RENAP;

Page 12

f) Submit for approval to the Board of Directors, the internal regulations and their
modifications, including those that hierarchically develop their structure
organizational and functional, based on the organic structure referred to in the
Article eight (8) of this Law, as well as its labor regime of hiring and
remunerations;
g) Present to the Board of Directors the draft Budget of Income and Expenditures of the
Institution, for your approval;

h) Appoint the staff and agree on all administrative acts that involve
promotions, removals, transfers, licensing, penalties and acceptance of
resignations of the Institution's personnel, in accordance with the Law and its regulations;
i). Sign the contracts for the acquisition of goods and services that are necessary
for the realization and execution of the plans, programs and projects of the Institution,
once these are approved by the Board of Directors;
j) Coordinate and maintain service relationships with institutions related to the Registry
Civil and identification of persons from other States and foreign entities, in the
matters that are its own;
k) Order the investigation for the loss and loss of information or documents
related to marital status, civil capacity and the identification of persons
natural resources, as well as deducting administrative responsibilities from those in charge of
their custody and order their reinstatement, exercising the pertinent legal actions;
I) Impose and apply the administrative sanctions established in this Law and its
regulations; Y,
m) All those that are necessary for the Institution to fully achieve its
objectives.
ARTICLE 21. Causes of removal.
The Executive Director of RENAP may be removed by the Board, for the reasons
following:
a) Commit fraudulent, illegal or obviously contrary to the functions,
objectives and interests of RENAP;
b) Act or proceed with manifest negligence in the performance of their duties;
c) To be convicted in a final judgment for the commission of a malicious crime;
d) Suffering from medically qualified physical disability, which makes it impossible for more than
six (6) months to exercise the position, or have been declared by a competent court in
state of interdiction;

Page 13

e) Failure to achieve the goals established by the Board of Directors, regarding the
coverage of inscriptions on vital events and acts, as well as the issuance of
personal identification documents; Y,
f) Run as a candidate for a popularly elected office.
ARTICLE 22. Substitution.
In the event of the temporary absence of the Director of RENAP, he will be substituted by one of the
directors of the executing offices, by decision of the Board of Directors. By resignation, removal
or death, it is up to the Board of Directors to make the selection within a period of no more than one
month in which the act that generates the definitive absence occurs, to complete the
corresponding period.
CHAPTER V
BODY OF CONSULTATION AND SUPPORT TO THE BOARD
ARTICLE 23. The Advisory Council.
The Advisory Council is a body for consultation and support of the Board of Directors and the Director
Executive, and will be composed of the following delegates:
a) A member elected by the General Secretaries of the political parties
duly registered in the corresponding Registry, which is affiliated with its
political organization;
b) An elected member from among the Rectors of the Universities of the country;
c) A member appointed by the business associations of commerce, industry and
farming;
d) The Manager of the National Institute of Statistics -INE-;
e) An elected member from among the members that make up the Board of Directors of the
Superintendency of Tax Administration -SAT-.
All members of the Advisory Council will have an alternate. Failure to
the appointment of the person who will make up the Advisory Council by the
nominating entity, carries the criminal and civil responsibilities that
correspond, without prejudice to the appointment being made.
ARTICLE 23 Bis. * Qualifications of the members of the Advisory Council.
The members of the Advisory Council must fulfill the following qualifications:
a) Be Guatemalan;
b) Be a university professional; Y,

Page 14

c) Be of recognized honor. "
* Added by Article 10, of Congress Decree Number 39-2010 of 0911-2010
ARTICLE 24. Functions. *
The functions of the Advisory Council are:
a) Report in writing to the Board of Directors and the Executive Director of RENAP, on the
deficiencies presented by the Institution, clearly stating the facts, laws
violated, evidence that evidences them, alternative solutions and possible sources. from
financing;
b) Serve as an advisory body to the Board of Directors and the Executive Director, on any
RENAP technical and administrative matter; Y,
c) Supervise the work of RENAP at all times.
d) During the months of January and July of each year, the Advisory Council must send
semiannual detailed report of work to its different nominating bodies,
as well as the Board of Directors of RENAP, the Supreme Electoral Tribunal, the Congress of the
Republic and the superior office of the Ministry of the Interior.
The Board of Directors and the Executive Director of RENAP must grant the Advisory Council
all the means and resources necessary to carry out their functions expeditiously.
* Added literal d) and a final paragraph by Article 11, of the Decree Del
Congress Number 39-2010 of 09-11-2010
ARTICLE 24 Bis. * Contracting and signing of agreements.
The Advisory Council will send, with due anticipation, to the Board, the planning
of audits and their respective budget proposal, for the hiring of all
the services that are necessary to develop the audit processes, which
correspond, according to this Law. The assignment will be in accordance with the
RENAP budget availability.
The Advisory Council may sign cooperation agreements with entities
national and international, prior express delegation of the Board .
* Added by Article 12, of Congress Decree Number 39-2010 of 0911-2010

ARTICLE 24 Ter. * Publicity of resolutions.

Page 15

All resolutions and recommendations made by the Advisory Council will be
public, as well as the results of the verification and audit processes
carried out, which must be published through the RENAP website.
* Added by Article 13, of Congress Decree Number 39-2010 of 0911-2010
ARTICLE 24 Quáter. * Access to information for audits and supervision .
The people, entities or companies that are hired to carry out the processes
inspection, they will have access to the headquarters and the information contained in files
physical or electronic RENAP and its contractors, it being understood that said access
It will only be for the development of the functions and during the time for which
they were hired.
* Added by Article 14, of Congress Decree Number 39-2010 of 0911-2010
ARTICLE 24 Quinquies. * Protection of personal data in processes of
oversight.
The inspection processes will be carried out respecting the confidentiality and
reservation established by the Political Constitution of the Republic and the law on the matter,
on the protection of personal data. The personal data to which the
Individual or legal persons hired, may not be used for other people's purposes
to the control of RENAP, under penalty of incurring the responsibilities
administrative, civil and criminal established by law.
* Added by Article 15, of Congress Decree Number 39-2010 of 0911-2010
ARTICLE 25. Period of the members of the Advisory Council .
The members of the Advisory Council will last four (4) years,
provided they are part of the nominating entity.

ARTICLE 26. Presidency.
The Presidency of the Advisory Council will be carried out by the same members
that integrate it, on a rotating basis, in a period of one year, starting with that of
older and following in descending order of ages. The same criteria will apply
to designate the order of the vowels from the first to the fourth.

ARTICLE 27. * Sessions.
The Advisory Council shall hold an ordinary session in the first week of
every month, previous call. The President or at least three (3) of its members,
they may call extraordinary sessions. The members of this body, both

Page 16

holders as alternates, will be entitled to per diems for attending sessions, but in
no case will be paid more than four (4) monthly sessions. The amount of the
Allowances will be set in the respective regulations.
* Amended by Article 16, of Congress Decree Number 39-2010 of 0911-2010
ARTICLE 28. * Attendance and vacancy.
Attendance at sessions is mandatory for holders and alternates. Headlines
will have voice and vote, and alternates only voice unless they are acting as
Headlines. The absence of more than two (2) continuous sessions, both of the holder or
substitute, without just cause, approved by the Advisory Council, entails that
declares the position vacant by the Advisory Council, an aspect that must be done
knowledge of the postulating body so that, within a month, it designates the
substitute, who must complete the corresponding period. From each session you must
Minutes to be drawn up that will be approved and signed in either of the two subsequent
sessions.
* Amended by Article 17, of Congress Decree Number 39-2010 of 0911-2010
ARTICLE 29. * Quorum and voting.
Four (4) members constitute a quorum to hold a session. The agreements and
Resolutions will be valid if they obtain at least three (3) votes. In case of
absence of the holder, the vote will be exercised by the alternate.
* Amended by Article 18, of Congress Decree Number 39-2010 of 0911-2010
ARTICLE 30. Prohibition.
The relatives within the degrees of law of the members of the Board of Directors, of the
members of the Advisory Council, the Executive Director, the Director of the Registry
Central of the People, the Director of the Office of Processes, the Director of the
Identity Verification and Social Support Office, they will not be able to choose or perform
any position within RENAP, during the period that their relatives are part of the
RENAP or within the following two (2) years, counted from the date on which
have definitively ceased in those functions, without prejudice to the other
prohibitions established in the respective laws. If after the appointment
someone will be included in the prohibition, it will be null and void.
ARTICLE 30 Bis. * Responsibility.
The members of the Advisory Council will perform their functions under their exclusive
responsibility, in accordance with the law, and will act with absolute independence from
criteria, as well as any interest unrelated to that of the National Registry of Persons.
Without prejudice to what other laws establish, the members who act as holders

Page 17

will be jointly and severally liable for damages caused by the acts
and omissions in which they incur in the exercise of their functions.
In the case of the sessions of the Advisory Council, they will not be jointly and severally
responsible, civilly and criminally, the members who act as holders if they do
state their objections in the minutes of the respective session and reason their vote against.
* Added by Article 19, of Congress Decree Number 39-2010 of 0911-2010

CHAPTER VI
EXECUTING OFFICES
ARTICLE 31. Central Registry of Persons.
The Central Registry of Persons is the agency in charge of centralizing the
information regarding the facts and acts registered in the Civil Registries of the
People, organization and maintenance of the central file and manages the base
country data. For this purpose, it will prepare and maintain the single record of the
natural persons and the respective assignment of the unique identification code;
It will also send the approved or improper information to where it corresponds, for the
issuance of the personal identification document or to initiate the review process.
He will be in charge of the Civil Registries of Persons established by the Directory in
all the municipalities of the Republic, as well as those attached to the consular offices and
the Citizen Registry. It will be in charge of the Central Registrar of Persons,
Who enjoys public faith and its operation in addition to being governed by this article is
It will be regulated by the respective regulation.
ARTICLE 32. Qualities of the Central Registrar of Persons.
The Central Registrar of Persons will have the following qualities:
a) Be Guatemalan, of legal age;
b) Be a lawyer and notary;
c) Four (4) minimum years of professional practice;
d) Be of recognized good repute;
e) Others that the respective regulation establishes.
ARTICLE 33. Of the Civil Registries of the People .
The Civil Registries of Persons are the dependencies attached to the Registry
Central of the People, in charge of registering the facts and acts related to the state
civil, civil capacity and other identification data of natural persons in all
the Republic, and observe the provisions that this Law and its regulations

Page 18

have. These dependencies will be in charge of a Civil Registrar of Persons,
who enjoys public faith.

ARTICLE 34. * Qualities of Civil Registrars of Persons.
The Civil Registrars of Persons, referred to in the previous article, must
have the following qualities:
a) Be Guatemalan;
b) Accredit complete studies of secondary education; preferably be a lawyer and
Notary Public or with at least three years of university studies in the professional career
of Lawyer and Notary Public.
c) Be of recognized good repute;
d) Others that the respective regulation establishes.
* Section a) declared unconstitutional in the phrase "over twenty-five years old",
from File Number 1201-2006 on 12-28-2007
* Reformed literal b) by Article 20, of Congress Decree Number 392010 from 11-09-2010
ARTICLE 35. Powers and functions of the Civil Registrars of the
People.
The Civil Registrars of the Persons referred to in article thirty-three (33),
They will have the following functions and powers:
a) Ensure the proper functioning of the dependencies under his charge, as well as the
excellence in the attention of the services requested by the users;
b) Sign when required, the certifications issued in those
dependencies. Said certifications will only contain the information that the
central computer system designane;
c) Report to his superior and the RENAP dependencies so that
corresponds for its resolution, all those queries or controversies that are
present and that this Law and its regulations do not empower it to resolve;
d) Attend, on behalf of RENAP, those official acts of their locality in which their
presence is required, prior information and authorization from his superior; Y,
e) Others that the regulation assigns.
ARTICLE 36. * Of the Registry of Citizens.

Page 19

The Central Registry of Persons will have a Department of Citizens,
in charge of preparing the list of persons of legal age; and it will be
directly responsible for referring said information periodically to the Court
Electoral Supreme.
* Amended by Article 1 of Decree Number 14-2006 on 06-19-2006
* Without place the action of unconstitutionality, by File Number 1201-2006
on 28-12-2007
ARTICLE 37. * Direction of Processes.
The Process Directorate is the agency in charge, based on the information
received from the Central Registry of Persons, to issue the Personal Document of
ID; It will also organize the operation of the biometric system and
graphotechnics. It will be governed by the respective regulations.
* Amended by Article 3 of Decree Number 23-2008 on 05-17-2008
ARTICLE 38. Identity Verification and Social Support Directorate.
The Identity Verification and Social Support Directorate is the agency in charge
to know and solve the problems of all those natural persons who, for
For any reason, the Central Registry of Persons denies the request for
registration, having to do the pertinent research, collaborating
with the interested person so that the requested registration can be made. It will be governed by the
respective regulation.

ARTICLE 39. Training Directorate.
The Training Directorate is the dependency of the National Registry of Persons
in charge of training all RENAP personnel, without exception. Training and
permanent updating is the primary function of this unit, for this purpose
It will constitute the Training School of the National Registry of Persons. I know
institutes the registry career of RENAP. This Directorate will be governed by the regulations
respective.

ARTICLE 40. Address.
The Central Registry of Persons and the aforementioned offices will have
with a Director, appointed by the Executive Director and ratified by the Board of Directors. The
exercise of the position of these Directors is incompatible with any other function
public. Candidates for popular election or
people who hold management positions in political organizations or who
they have exercised them four (4) years before their application. Directors must
be university professionals with experience and accredited training to
perform the position for which they are appointed; the obligations and powers of

Page 20

the Directors will be established in the respective regulations.

ARTICLE 41. Removal.
The Directors of the executing offices will be removed from their position by the Director
Executive, for some of the causes cited in article twenty-one (21) of this Law.

CHAPTER VII
ADMINISTRATIVE DIRECTIONS
ARTICLE 42. Directorate of Informatics and Statistics.
The Directorate of Informatics and Statistics is the entity in charge of directing the activities
related to the storage and processing of data originating from the
Central Registry of Persons, in relation to their marital status, civil capacity and others
identification data. Formulates the plans and programs of the Institution in the matter
of its competence, reports on the fulfillment of institutional goals
scheduled and compiles the relevant statistics.
For the protection of the database, this unit will be in charge of the custody
and preparation of electronic backups, ensuring that they are carried out
also a backup at a remote site and this is performed simultaneously with the
data entry and processing in the RENAP central site, ensuring that
the standards and best practices in technological matters are complied with that guarantee their
absolute security. It will be governed by the respective regulations.
ARTICLE 43. Directorate of Legal Advice.
The Legal Advice Directorate is the agency in charge of providing advice on
matter of its competence to all RENAP bodies. It will be governed by the regulations
respective.

ARTICLE 44. Administrative Direction.
The Administrative Directorate will be in charge of organizing and executing the activities
administrative offices of the Institution. Proposes to the Board of RENAP, through the
Executive Director, the policy in the administration and control of human resources,
financial and material.
ARTICLE 45. Budget Office.
The Budget Directorate is the department in charge of coordinating and conducting the
budgeting and spending rationalization systems; establishes and evaluates execution
budgetary. It will be governed by the respective regulations.
ARTICLE 46. Management and Internal Control Directorate.

Page 21

The Internal Control and Management Directorate is the unit in charge of the
formulation of institutional plans and programs, to oversee administrative management
of RENAP officials and monitor administrative performance, to ensure the
strict compliance with the regulations that govern it. It will also be regulated by the
respective regulation.
ARTICLE 47. Qualities of Directors .
The Directors of the Administrative Directorates must meet the following
qualities:
a) Be Guatemalan, of legal age;
b) Be a registered professional;
c) Four (4) minimum years of professional practice;
d) Be of recognized good repute;
e) Others that the respective regulation establishes.

CHAPTER VIII
ECONOMIC SYSTEM
ARTICLE 48. Of its patrimony.
RENAP's assets are made up of State Resources:
a) The financial resources that are annually programmed and assigned in the
General Budget of State Income and Expenditures. .
b) The extraordinary contributions that the State agrees to grant. Own resources:
a) Mainly those collected from the issuance of the Personal Document
Identification, the issuance of certifications; and registration of the acts of his
competition and for the concept of other services provided by RENAP;
b) Contributions, assignments, donations, bequests, transfers and grants already
either in money or species granted by natural or legal persons, entities
national or foreign, including those from technical cooperation
all of which may not have any level of conditionality.
The own resources previously indicated, will go on to constitute private funds of the
RENAP, as well as the financial resources from the General Budget of
State Income and Expenditures that are not executed in the respective fiscal period.
ARTICLE 49. On the budget .

Page 22

The RENAP budget project will be presented by the Board of Directors to the Ministry
of Public Finance, to be included in the General Budget of Income and
State expenditures, annually.

CHAPTER IX
OF THE PERSONAL IDENTIFICATION DOCUMENT
ARTICLE 50. On the Personal Identification Document.
The Personal Identification Document, which may be abbreviated DPI, is a document
public, personal and non-transferable, of an official nature. All Guatemalans and
Resident foreigners over eighteen (18) years old, registered with RENAP, have
the right and obligation to request and obtain the Personal Document of
ID. It constitutes the only Personal Identification Document for all
civil, administrative and legal acts, and in general for all cases in which by law
identification is required. It is also the document that allows the citizen
identify yourself to exercise the right to vote. The respective regulation will regulate
concerning the IPR.
ARTICLE 51. * Of the cost of the Personal Identification Document.
The Personal Identification Document will have the cost determined by the Directory; without
However, natural persons who are part of social groups that the
The RENAP Board of Directors determines that they do not have the economic capacity to pay the
cost of the IPR, you must authorize the free issuance of your Personal Document of
ID. The regulation will establish what concerns this matter.
* Without place the action of unconstitutionality, by File Number 1201-2006
on 28-12-2007
ARTICLE 52. Of its use.
The carrying of the Personal Identification Document is mandatory for all
Guatemalans and domiciled foreigners; its use will be subject to the provisions of the
present Law, regulations and other complementary norms.
ARTICLE 53. * Printing of security measures in the document .
The Personal Identification Document will be printed and processed with materials and
techniques that grant it conditions of inalterability, quality and non-transferability of
your data; Its size and other physical characteristics must be in accordance with the
international standards such as ANSI / NIST, ANSI / INCITS, ISO and standards
applicable ICAO to this type of documents, without prejudice to the efficiency and agility
of your expedition. The materials used in their manufacture, as well as the
procedures of the same, should ensure the highest reliability against
any attempted reproduction, manipulation or falsification.

Page 23

* Amended by Article 4 of Decree Number 23-2008 on 05-17-2008
ARTICLE 54. Identification.
For the purposes of official identification of natural persons, no individual,
The authority or official may require the presentation of a document other than the
Personal Identification Document; neither may it be requisitioned or retained.
ARTICLE 55. On the Personal Identification Document and unique code.
The Personal Identification Document -DPI-, is granted to all Guatemalans
born inside and outside the national territory and to domiciled foreigners, from the
following form:
a) In the case of Guatemalans of origin, from the date of registration of the
birth in the respective Civil Registry of Persons;
b) In the case of domiciled foreigners, from the moment they are granted residence
permanent by the General Directorate of Migration, after a report that on the
such an end shall effect said authority to RENAP. For this purpose they must register in the
Civil Registry of the respective Persons. In this case, the DPI in color will be extended
different;
c) In the case of people who have acquired nationality by naturalization,
from the moment that they reliably and documentary prove such an extreme before the
Civil Registry of the respective Persons. For the three previous cases, you must
also designate a unique identification code and it will remain unchanged
until the death of the natural person, as the sole reference for the identification of the
herself.

ARTICLE 56. * Content.
The Personal Identification Document -DPI- must contain at least the
photograph of the holder's face from the front and with the head uncovered, which will be
captured live and must also contain the following data:

a) Republic of Guatemala, Central America;
b) The name of the National Registry of Persons;
c) The name of Personal Identification Document -DPI-;
d) The unique identification code that has been assigned to the holder;
e) The names and surnames;
f) Sex;

Page 24

g) Place and date of birth;
h) Civil status;
i) Signature of the holder;
j) Effective date of the document;
l) The owner's neighborhood;
m) The residence of the holder, which will be consigned in the storage medium of
card information.
* Deletion of literal k) by Article 5, of Decree Number 23-2008 on 05-17-2008
* Reformed literal m) by Article 6, of Decree Number 23-2008 on 05-172008
ARTICLE 57. Document for minors.
The Personal Identification Document of minors is a document
public, personal and non-transferable; It will contain physical characteristics that distinguish it from
document for those of legal age, which will be established in the regulations
correspondent.
ARTICLE 58. Content of the Personal Identification Document for minors
old.
The IPR of minors will contain, for all cases, the data consigned in
Article fifty-six (56) of this Law, with the exception of literals i) and k).
ARTICLE 59. Printing of security measures in the Personal Document of
Identification of minors .
It will be printed and processed with materials and techniques that grant it conditions of
inalterability, quality and non-transferability of your data; its size and others
physical characteristics must be in accordance with international standards, such
such as ANSI / NIST, ANSI / INCITS, ISO and ICAO standards applicable to this type of
documents, without prejudice to the efficiency and agility of their issuance. The materials
used in its manufacture, as well as its own procedures, must
ensure the highest reliability against any attempt to reproduce, manipulate or
falsification.
* Amended by Article 7 of Decree Number 23-2008 on 05-17-2008
ARTICLE 60. Lack of fingerprint .
Exceptionally, the printing of the document without the fingerprint will be authorized,
when the person presents a permanent disability in all their
fingers. Likewise, the signature requirement may be omitted, when the person is

Page 25

illiterate or permanently prevented from signing.
ARTICLE 61. * Implementation of the Unique Identification Code.
The Unique Identification Code of the person -CUI-, constitutes the basis on which
society and the state identify it for all purposes. It will be adopted mandatory and
progressively by all State agencies as a single number of
identification of the natural person; in all cases in which there is an obligation to
keep a record, this number will be incorporated with the aim of replacing the
numbers that are in the public records of all identification systems, in
a term that must not exceed thirty-one (31) December of the year two thousand
sixteen (2016).
* Amended by Article 21, of Congress Decree Number 39-2010 on 0911-2010
ARTICLE 62. Replacement.
RENAP will issue the replacement of the Personal Identification Document in case of
loss, theft, destruction or deterioration. The replacement will have the same characteristics
of the original, and it must be stated that it is a replacement. The request and
authorization of replacement may be done through any electronic system,
procedure that must be contemplated in the respective regulation.

ARTICLE 63. * Validity .
The Personal Identification Document -DPI- will be valid for ten (10) years,
any time its owner does not produce changes in his marital status, marital capacity,
name change or substantially alter your physical appearance by accident and other
Causes. In these cases, RENAP will issue a new Personal Identification Document
-DPI-. After the ten-year period has elapsed, the IPR is considered expired and expires.
for all legal purposes.
* Amended by Article 8 of Decree Number 23-2008 on 05-17-2008
ARTICLE 64. Renewal.
Once the period referred to in the previous article has expired, the Personal Document of
Identification -DPI- must be renewed for the same period, except for persons
over seventy (70) years, in which case it will be valid indefinitely and will not be
renewal is necessary, except in cases established by law or when it is considered
relevant.

ARTICLE 65. Advance request.
All those young people who have reached seventeen (17) years of age, may
request their IPR, which will be delivered from the day they turn eighteen
(18 years.

Page 26

ARTICLE 66. Obligation.
All natural persons have the obligation to inform RENAP of everything
change in your residence, neighborhood and address, or any fact or act related to your
marital status, marital capacity and other identification data.
It is the obligation of the General Directorate of the National Civil Police and the Army of
Guatemala, immediately inform RENAP, for the purposes of updating the database
of citizen data, in relation to the people who are registered or
low in such institutions. For the same purposes, the judicial authorities
Corresponding persons must report within a period of fifteen (15) days, on the
people who by final judgment have been suspended in the enjoyment of their rights
politicians.

CHAPTER X
REGISTRATION IN THE CIVIL REGISTRY OF PEOPLE
ARTICLE 67. Civil Registry of Persons.
The Civil Registry of Persons is public, and in it the facts and acts are registered
relating to the marital status, marital capacity and other personal identification data of the
natural people; the registration regulations will determine what concerns that
respect.
ARTICLE 68. Obligation.
The inscriptions of the facts and acts of the civil status, civil capacity and other data
identification of natural persons, as well as their modifications are
mandatory before the Civil Registry of Persons. The
Right to request that such facts and acts be recorded. Registrations before
Civil Registrations of Persons are totally free if they are carried out within the
legal term.
ARTICLE 69. Of the lack of registration.
The lack of registration in the Civil Registry of Persons, prevents obtaining the
Personal Identification Document and the issuance of any certification by
part of RENAP.
ARTICLE 70. Inscriptions in the Civil Registry of Persons.
They are registered in the Civil Registry of People:
a) Births, within a period of no more than thirty (30) days after they occurred;
b) Marriages and de facto unions;

Page 27

c) Deaths;
d) The judicial decisions that declare the absence and presumed death;
e) The judgments that impose suspension or loss of parental authority and the
resolutions that rehabilitate them;
f) Resolutions that declare the nullity and non-subsistence of the marriage, the union of
fact, divorce, separation and subsequent reconciliation;
g) Name changes or person identifications;
h) The resolution declaring the determination of age;
i) The recognition of children;
j) Adoptions;
k) Marriage agreements;
I) The parentage sentences;
m) Resident foreigners;
n) The resolution that declares the temporary or permanent interdiction;
o) The appointment, removal, resignation of the tutor, protutor and guardians;
p) The declaration of bankruptcy and its rehabilitation; Y,
q) The acts that, in general, modify the civil status and civil capacity of the
natural people.
All previous registrations will be entered in the individual registry that will be created at
every registered citizen.
ARTICLE 71. * Birth registration.
Birth registrations must be made within sixty (60) days
following delivery, and may be registered in the place where the birth occurred.
birth or in the place where the parents or the
persons exercising parental authority. The other inscriptions related to the state
civil, civil capacity, as well as the certifications derived from them, may
be carried out in any of the Civil Registries of Persons nationwide.
* Amended by Article 9 of Decree Number 23-2008 on 05-17-2008
ARTICLE 72. Births abroad.

Page 28

The registration of births that occurred abroad may be carried out at the request of
part, before the respective consular agent or directly before RENAP. Will be governed
by the respective regulation.
ARTICLE 73. Application for registration.
The application for registration of the birth of minors must be made by
both parents; in the absence of one of them or in the case of a single mother, the inscription is
will be effected by it. In case of orphanhood, ignorance of the parents or abandonment,
Birth registration may be requested by the minor's ascendants, their
siblings of legal age or the Attorney General of the Nation.

ARTICLE 74. Of the inscriptions in the hospitals.
The registrations of births produced in public and private hospitals,
cantonal centers of the Ministry of Public Health and Social Assistance and the Institute
Guatemalan Social Security -IGSS-, will be carried out obligatorily and ex officio,
within three (3) days of its occurrence, in the Auxiliary Registry Offices
Civil of the People installed in said dependencies. Failure to comply with this
This obligation entails the imposition of a fine for each omission committed, which does not
It may be less than five hundred quetzals (Q. 500.00) and that will be imposed on the offender
by the Board of Directors, without prejudice to the criminal and civil responsibilities that
correspond.
ARTICLE 75. Of the Auxiliary Offices.
The National Registry of Persons -RENAP-, will require public hospitals and
private, as well as other health care centers mentioned in the present
Law, have a department in charge of carrying out the registration of the
registrations of births and deaths that occur in them, without this
constitutes a labor relationship with the National Registry of Persons -RENAP-. For him
register of the aforementioned acts, you must designate in at least one of
personeros this responsibility and carry it out in accordance with the Law and its
regulations. Said dependency will have the character of Auxiliary Office of the Civil Registry
People, and whoever performs such activity must be trained by the School
of RENAP Training.
The Board of Directors may, in its opinion, in hospitals and / or health care centers of a nature
public, adapt a place to the effect that the activity of
registration and registration of births and deaths that occur in them.
ARTICLE 76. Late registration.
Minors not registered within the legal term, can be registered upon request
of their parents or guardians, under the same conditions of an ordinary registration,
also having to comply with the following requirements:

Page 29

a) Said request will be known only in the offices of the Civil Registry of the
Persons, within whose jurisdiction the birth occurred or in the place where
the minor resides;
b) The applicant must prove to the Civil Registrar of Persons, their identity
and relationship with the minor;
c) The request must contain the necessary data for the identification of the minor and
of their parents or guardians;
d) The application must be accompanied by any of the following documents: item
baptism, birth certificate or school enrollment certificate with mention
of the degrees completed, proof of local authorities of the municipality where there is
occurred the birth, or failing that, sworn statement provided by two (2)
persons of legal age in the presence of the Civil Registrar of Persons.
ARTICLE 77. Over eighteen years of age .
Natural persons over eighteen (18) years of age who have not registered,
may request said registration, observing the rules in what is applicable of the
Article 76 literal d) of this Law, and other requirements that the laws or regulations
establish.
ARTICLE 78. Registration by parents.
Without prejudice to the provisions of the preceding article, the birth registration of the
Natural persons over eighteen (18) years old not registered, it may be requested
by both parents or by one of them and in the presence of the Civil Registrar of the
People.

ARTICLE 79. Non-applicability.
The right to judicially challenge the registrations made is imprescriptible
extemporaneously, in accordance with articles 76, 77 and 78 of this Law,
being able to exercise it any person who by such registration is affected in their rights.

ARTICLE 80. Judicial resolutions.
The inscriptions of judicial decisions will be made only in the event that
these are enforceable; For this purpose, the judges will arrange under their
responsibility of fifteen (15) days from the date on which the
resolution to transfer the information to the Civil Registry of Persons. The
Failure to comply with this obligation entails the deduction of responsibilities
criminal and civil that correspond.
ARTICLE 81. Rectifications or additions .

Page 30

Corrections or additions will be made in the inscriptions, by virtue of resolution
judicial or extrajudicial, which must be reported to the Civil Registry of Persons in
a period of no more than fifteen (15) days after it has been executed.
ARTICLE 82. Cancellation.
Registration registrations will be canceled, when ordered by resolution
judicial firm, or when it is accompanied by the request for the same-documents that
justify clearly and manifestly.
ARTICLE 83. Extension of certifications.
For the extension of certifications of the registry entries, the Registry may use
In addition to the direct service, any electronic system, which must be
regulated in the respective regulation.
ARTICLE 84. Registration period.
All records of facts and acts related to the civil status and civil capacity of
the natural persons referred to in this Law, will be carried out within the
a term of thirty (30) days after the occurrence of one or the other; otherwise, the inscription is
consider extemporaneous. In no case will the right to register be lost.
All registrations made within a period of thirty (30) days will be
will be made free of charge. All late registrations will have a cost
which will be established in the respective regulations.
ARTICLE 85. Consular Agents.
The Consular Agents of the Republic accredited abroad will carry the
registration of births, marriages, changes of nationality and deaths of
Guatemalans residing or transient in the countries where they exercise their
functions. Of each birth, death, marriage or change of nationality that
agree, they must notify RENAP to be entered into the database of
this.

CHAPTER XI
OF THE INFRACTIONS AND ADMINISTRATIVE SANCTIONS
ARTICLE 86. Of the infractions.
Infringements of this Law are considered to be actions or omissions that in the
RENAP employees and / or officials carry out their duties or functions.
They constitute infractions, which are mentioned below, regardless of the
Criminal and / or civil actions that correspond:
a) Alter the information contained in the registry entries;
b) Compose certifications with falsified information;

Page 31

c) Delay the delivery of reports, trades, certifications and any other
documents, either to the authority that requests it or to the individual that requires it;
d) Deliver passwords, forms or other documents without the endorsement of the
respective request;
e) Misuse the password to access the database or allow what other
person accesses it, without the respective authorization;
f) Disclose by any means, confidential information that by reason of their position or
know trade; Y,
g) Extract documentary or electronic information without due authorization.
ARTICLE 87. Sanctions.
Without prejudice to the criminal and civil responsibilities attributable to the offender,
The Executive Director shall impose the following sanctions:
a) Temporary suspension of their work, for a period of no less than one calendar month,
in accordance with the seriousness of the offense committed;
b) Definitive suspension of their work, taking into account the seriousness of the offense
committed or when he is credited with two temporary suspensions.

CHAPTER XII
OF ADMINISTRATIVE RESOURCES
ARTICLE 88. Of the resources.
Against the resolutions issued by the Board of Directors or the Executive Director, they may
to file the administrative appeals that for the effect establishes the Law of the
Administrative Litigation.
CHAPTER XIII
OF THE TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 89. First Transitory.
From the start of RENAP activities. The National Registry of Persons -RENAP-,
that is created through this Law, will begin its functions at the time each
entity involved appoint their respective representatives to the Board of Directors according to
to article nine (9) of this Law, nomination that must be made within a period
no more than thirty (30) days from the effective date of this Law.
ARTICLE 90. Second Transitory .

Page 32

Start of functions of the Advisory Council. All nominating entities must
appoint its delegates within a period of no more than thirty (30) days from the
the entry into force of the Law. If this term expires, the designations will not be
have been carried out in their entirety, the Board will begin its operation with the
members already appointed until full completion. During this period the
agreements and resolutions will be taken by simple majority of votes.
ARTICLE 91. Third Transitory.
Temporality of the Neighborhood Certificate. In the 2007 electoral process, the only
Valid document to vote both in the first and second round will be the Cédula de
Neighborhood, so citizens should keep it for this purpose regardless of
the date on which the process of issuing the Personal Document of
ID.
Likewise, for the sole purpose of replacing the Neighborhood Identification Card due to loss or
deterioration, of the natural persons that appear in the electoral roll, the Records of
Neighborhood will continue to perform this function.
ARTICLE 92. * Fourth Transitory. Replacement of the Neighborhood Certificate.
The replacement of the Neighborhood Identification Card must be made no later than two (2)
January two thousand thirteen (2013), by the Personal Identification Document -DPI-.
Consequently, the neighborhood certificates that were issued under the Decree
Number 1735 Law of Neighborhood Cédulas, will lose their validity and validity as of
January 2, two thousand thirteen; as of that date, any public or private authority
must require, as the only personal identification document, the presentation of the
Personal Identification Document -DPI-.
* Amended by Article 1, of Congress Decree Number 29-2007 on 06-092007
* Without place the action of unconstitutionality of the second paragraph, by the
File Number 1201-2006 on 12-28-2007
* Amended by Article 10 of Decree Number 23-2008 on 05-17-2008
* Amended by Article 22, of Congress Decree Number 39-2010 on 0911-2010
ARTICLE 93. * Fifth Transitory. Personal Identification Document of
minors.
Regarding the process of issuing the Personal Identification Document for
minors, a special program will be developed to start their
implementation, no later than January two (2), two thousand thirteen (2013).
* Amended by Article 23, of Congress Decree Number 39-2010 on 0911-2010

Page 33

ARTICLE 94. Sixth Transitory.
Obligation to deliver the information. All public institutions, be they
autonomous or decentralized, containing databases related to the
identification of natural persons, provided they have been assigned a Code
Unique Identification itself, such as social security, identification system
tax, driver's license or passport, must transfer a copy of said
information to the National Registry of Persons, if required. The shape and
characteristics in which this information must be sent will be established by the
RENAP.
ARTICLE 95. * Seventh Transitory.
From the current Civil Registries. Since the creation of RENAP, the entire
information contained within the current Civil Registries, in electronic media
or manuals, becomes an integral part of it. The Civil Registries must
use the registration procedures and mechanisms, as well as frame their
functions to the way of operating and the technology to be used that RENAP implements, all
which can be done progressively, ensuring that during this period,
at no time is the action and operation of the Civil Registries suspended
current. These procedures and mechanisms will be used for the registration of the
facts and acts related to marital status, civil capacity and other identification data
of natural persons.
* Without place the action of unconstitutionality, by File Number 1201-2006
on 28-12-2007
ARTICLE 96. Eighth Transitory.
Staff of the current Civil Registries. RENAP may hire personnel who
currently work in the Civil Registries of the Republic, who will continue
performing their functions with the obligation to train simultaneously in the
RENAP School, having to undergo the respective evaluation for this purpose.
ARTICLE 97. * Ninth Transitory .
End of the period. The Magistrate of the Supreme Electoral Tribunal that is part of the
RENAP's first Board of Directors, will be a member until the end of its term
as a Magistrate; however, when the new Supreme Electoral Tribunal is integrated,
The latter will designate the Magistrate to represent him before RENAP in his first session,
who will conclude the respective period.
* Without place the action of unconstitutionality, by File Number 1201-2006
on 28-12-2007
ARTICLE 98. * Tenth Transitory. Acquisition of computer equipment.
For the acquisition of hardware and software, the Board of Directors, according to the amount
of information to be processed, you must acquire equipment that is based on open systems,

Page 34

compatible with advances in cutting-edge technology, in order to allow their
constant updating, and should also be considered initially, the System
Automatic Fingerprint Identification (AFIS)
English), which must have the ability to capture, store, and compare the
records of the ten (10) fingerprints of the hands, allowing you to make your
comparison of "one to one" and "one against the universe", without the use of filters
alphanumeric, as well as a facial recognition system (FR, for its acronym in
English) that allows the same types of comparisons to be made for face photography
from each person,
Due to the importance of the APIS and the FR, RENAP should seek by all
possible legal means to guarantee the security, reliability and integrity of the system,
as for the eventual supplier.
The National Registry of Persons, as a bidding or contracting entity, shall not
fix technical specifications or special provisions that require or make
reference to certain brands, trade names, patents, designs, types,
specific origins, producers or suppliers.
In addition, the database that contains all the information of natural persons,
It will be the sole responsibility of the National Registry of Persons, who will be
deposited in the name of the State of Guatemala.
* Amended by Article 11, Decree Number 23-2008 on 05-17-2008
ARTICLE 99. Eleventh Transitory. Regulation .
All regulations must be promulgated within a maximum period of ninety (90)
days counted from the entry into force of this Law, with the exception of the
registration regulations referred to in the following article.
ARTICLE 100. Tenth Second Transitory. Of the inscriptions.
To carry out the registrations to which RENAP is obliged, the Board of Directors will approve the
respective regulation within sixty (60) days after it becomes effective
this Law.
* Declared unconstitutional by File Number 1201-2006 on 12-28-2007

ARTICLE 101. * Thirteenth Transitory. Of the resources.
The State's obligation is established to include an initial allocation of one hundred million
quetzales (Q. 100,000,000.00) in the General Budget of Income and Expenses of the
State, to cover the costs of installation, organization and operation of the
National Register of persons. These resources will constitute exclusive funds of the
National Registry of Persons -RENAP-.
The State will grant the corresponding financing to the National Registry of
People, for the issuance of the Personal Identification Document -DPI-, in

Page 35

replacement of the Neighborhood Certificate at no cost to the population that already has
the latter, having to cover all the expenses involved in the implementation process and
granting and / or issuance of the indicated document. Said financial contribution, the State,
will make of their current income from the General Budget of Income and Expenditures of the
State, through funding source eleven (11), current income, source
twenty-nine (29), other resources of the treasury with specific affectation, source fifty and
two (52), external loans and source sixty-one (61), external donations.
* Added a second paragraph by Article 12, of Decree Number 23-2008 the
05-17-2008

ARTICLE 102. * Fourteenth Transitory. From the Ministry of the Interior.
From the Ministry of the Interior. It is in charge of the Ministry of the Interior, through
of the Registry of Legal Persons, the registration and registration of legal persons
regulated in articles 438 to 440 of the Civil Code and other laws, due for the
effect implement the mechanisms and procedures for their registration, registration and
file, as well as to issue the regulations and the respective tariff, for the faithful
fulfillment of its functions and payment for the services it provides.
The Registry of Legal Persons will have its headquarters in the department of
Guatemala and may have sub-offices or delegations in the departments or municipalities
determined by the Ministry of the Interior, in charge of one or more registrars who
They must be lawyers and notaries, active members, Guatemalan of origin, be in
the enjoyment of their citizenship rights and being of recognized good repute.
The registration, authorization and
registration of neighborhood associations, community associations for the
development, associations of the communities of indigenous peoples referred to
Articles 19, 20 and 21 of the Municipal Code as it refers to the Law of the Councils
of Urban and Rural Development such as the organizations of the Councils
Municipal Development Councils -COMUDES-, and the Community Development Councils COCODES-. As well as the Educational Committees -COEDUCAS- and the School Boards
regulated by Government Agreement Number 327-2003 of May 29, 2003, the
which will be registered for registration and authorization before the municipality of the place that
corresponds to them.
The Municipal Council will implement the procedures and mechanisms necessary to
register the inscriptions and make the registers of the legal entities to which it does
referenced in the preceding paragraph, for this purpose it will appoint a municipal official
to be in charge of the reception, analysis of the documentation, registration and registration,
In addition, it will control, guard and custody the books or electronic media
that are authorized for this purpose, who must periodically inform said
Council of the activities that you carry out.
* Added the last paragraph by Article 1, of Congress Decree Number
31-2006 on 21-10-2006

Page 36

* Amended by Article 1, of Congress Decree Number 01-2007 on 02-092007

ARTICLE 103. * Fifteenth Transitory. Of the repeal.
All legal and regulatory provisions that in the
specific legislation refers to the matters that are regulated in this law; in addition,
those contained in other normative bodies that attribute functions or duties to the
Civil Registries, which are then complied with by the National Registry of
People -RENAP-.
Specifically, the following provisions are repealed: Articles 369, 370, 371, 372,
373, 374, 375, 376 to 437 and 441 of Decree Law 106 of the Head of Government, Civil Code;
Articles 14, 16 and 89 of Decree Number 12-2002 of the Congress of the Republic,
Municipal Code, which will be repealed on September 30, two thousand
eight.
Decree Number 1735, Law of Neighborhood Cédulas, will be repealed on
June 2009.
* Modified the first paragraph by Article 2, of Decree Number 14-2006 on 1906-2006
* Amended by Article 2, of Congress Decree Number 29-2007 on 06-092007
* Amended by Article 13 of Decree Number 23-2008 on 05-17-2008
ARTICLE 104. Sixteenth Transitory. Of the epigraphs.
The headings of the articles of this Law do not have interpretative validity.

ARTICLE 105. Seventeenth Transitory. Validity .
This Decree was approved with the favorable vote of more than two thirds
parts of the total number of deputies that make up the Congress of the Republic and
It will enter into force sixty (60) days after its publication in the Official Gazette.

REFER TO THE EXECUTIVE BODY FOR ITS SANCTION, ENACTMENT AND
PUBLICATION.
ISSUED IN THE PALACE OF THE LEGISLATIVE ORGANISM, IN THE CITY OF
GUATEMALA, ON TWENTY-THIRD NOVEMBER, TWO THOUSAND FIVE.

JORGE MÉNDEZ HERBRUGER

Page 37

PRESIDENT
MAURICIO NOHÉ LEÓN CORADO
SECRETARY

LUIS FERNANDO PÉREZ MARTÍNEZ
SECRETARY

NATIONAL PALACE: Guatemala, December 14, two thousand and five.

GET PUBLISHED AND COMPLIED

BERGER PERDOMO

LIC. JORGE RAÚL ARROYAVE REYES
GENERAL SECRETARY
FROM THE PRESIDENCY OF THE REPUBLIC

CARLOS VIELMANN MONTES
MINISTER OF GOVERNMENT

JORGE BRIZ ABULARACH
MINISTER OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS

