Page 1

New Directory Login Free Directory for 2 weeks

Coronavirus info

Legal library

Existing legislation New legislation Amended legislation Local government decree Laws of a thousand years

Legislation in force Search /

/ Act I of 2012 [Mt. (new)]

✖

Obtaining credit

Related: Smart Document
✖

Free
Switching to the next time status of the legislation (2021.VII.8.
-) Rights Library

The current state of the legislation (28.06.2021).
THE symbols indicate past and future changes in paragraphs.
I'll open it in the Rights Library

✖

Free Directory
IMPORTANT! Certain provisions of the legislation must be applied differently during an emergency.

Act I of 2012
on the Labor Code

*

FIRST PART
GENERAL PROVISIONS

Chapter I.
Introductory provisions
1. Purpose of the Act

§ 1 This law lays down the basic rules of decent work, the principle of freedom of enterprise and employment
taking into account the economic and social interests of the employer and the employee.
2. Scope of the Act

§ 2. (1) Scope of this Act
a) the employer,
b) the employee,
c) the employer's interest representation organization,
(d) the works council; and
e) the trade union
spread out.
(2) This Act
a) XVI. chapter to the borrower,
b)

*

shall apply.
§ 3. (1) The provisions of this Act shall be applied with regard to the rules of private international law.
(2) Unless otherwise provided, this Act shall apply if the employee normally performs the work in Hungary.
(3) Article XIX of this Act. and XX. shall apply if the employer has its registered office or independent establishment in the territory of Hungary.
§ 4 The employment of a person under the age of eighteen in the framework of non-employment shall be
provisions applicable to the worker shall apply accordingly.
3. Principles of interpretation

§ 5. (1) The provisions of this Act shall be interpreted in accordance with the legal order of Hungary and the European Union.
(2) A declaration of waiver or waiver shall not be construed broadly.
4. General behavioral requirements
*
§ 6. (1) During
the performance of an employment contract, unless a different requirement is prescribed by law, the procedure shall be as

situation is usually expected. No one may rely on his reprehensible conduct in order to gain an advantage. The other party is to blame
his conduct may also be relied on by one who has himself acted reprehensibly.
*
2. The
exercise of rights and the fulfillment of obligations shall be conducted in good faith and in good faith, and

they must cooperate with each other and it is not possible to engage in conduct that violates the rights and legitimate interests of the other party. Good faith
and the principle of fairness is also infringed by a person whose practice is contrary to previous conduct in which the other party has a reason to
could trust.
(3) The employer shall take into account the interests of the employee on the basis of fair consideration, unilaterally determining the method of performance.
shall not cause disproportionate harm to the worker.
(4) Those subject to the scope of this Act shall inform each other of all facts, data, circumstances or changes thereto,
which is the establishment of an employment relationship and the exercise of the rights and fulfillment of obligations specified in this Act
relevant to
*
§ 7. (1)
Abuse of rights is prohibited. For the purposes of this law, abuse of rights is especially when the legitimate interests of others

restricting, harassing, harassing or suppressing the expression of one’s interests.
(2) If the abuse of rights consists in the refusal of a declaration required by the employment rule and this conduct
overriding public interest or in the interest of the other party deserving special consideration, the court shall
that the conflict of interest cannot be remedied otherwise.
§ 8. (1) An employee may not engage in such conduct during the existence of the employment relationship, unless authorized to do so by law,
which would jeopardize the legitimate economic interests of his employer.
2. An employee may not engage in any conduct outside his working hours which, in particular the nature of the employee's job,
on the basis of his place in the organization of the employer - directly and actually suitable for the good repute of his employer, legitimate economic
jeopardize the interests or the purpose of the employment relationship. The conduct of the employee in accordance with the provisions of Section 9 (2)
can be limited. The employee must be informed in writing in advance of the restriction.
(3) The right of the employee to express his or her opinion is seriously infringed by the good repute, legitimate economic and organizational interests of the employer.
or exercise in a dangerous manner.
(4) The employee is obliged to keep the business secret that has become known to him / her during his / her work. In addition, you can not communicate unauthorized
information which has come to his knowledge in connection with the performance of his duties and the communication of which to the employer or
may have adverse consequences for another person. Confidentiality does not extend to the disclosure of data of public interest to and from the public interest
the obligation to provide data and information on public data specified by law.
*

5. Protection of privacy rights

*
§ 9. (1) In order
to protect the personal rights of the employee and the employer, unless otherwise provided by this Act, the Civil

Act V of 2013 on the Code (hereinafter: Civil Code) 2: 42-54. § shall be applied by stating that the Civil Code. 2:52. § (2) and (3),
and 2:53. §, the rules of this Act concerning liability for damages shall apply.
*
2. The
employee's right to privacy may be restricted if the restriction is directly related to the purpose of the employment relationship.

absolutely necessary and proportionate to the achievement of the objective. The manner, conditions and expected duration of the restriction of the right to privacy,
and the worker must be informed in advance in writing of the circumstances justifying his necessity and proportionality.
*
(3) An
employee may not waive his or her right to personality in general in advance. Having the right to privacy of the employee

you can only validly make a disclaimer in writing.
5 / A. Data handling *

§ 10

*

1. The employer may require the employee to make a declaration or to provide personal data which

for the establishment, performance, termination (termination) of an employment relationship or for the enforcement of a claim arising from this Act
essential.
(2) The exercise of the right of the employer, the works council, the trade union specified in Part Three of this Act or
may require a statement or information to be provided in order to fulfill its obligation.
(3) Pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2), the production of a document may be required.
An aptitude test prescribed in the Conditions of Employment may be applied to the worker, or
which is necessary in order to exercise the right or fulfill the obligation specified in the employment regulations.
(5) The employer shall inform the data subject in writing of the processing of data based on paragraphs 1 to 4.
*
§ 11. (1)
The biometric data of an employee may be processed for the purpose of identifying the data subject if it is related to a thing or

necessary to prevent unauthorized access to data which:
(a) the life, physical integrity or health of the worker or others, or
(b) a substantial interest protected by law
serious or massive, irreversible damage.
2. For the purposes of paragraph 1 ( b) , there is a significant protected interest in particular
(a) at least "Confidential!" to protect classified information at classification level,
b) for the protection of firearms, ammunition and explosives,
(c) for the control of toxic or dangerous chemical or biological substances,
d) for the protection of nuclear material,
e) the Criminal Code. at least for the protection of particularly high assets
interest.
(3) The employer shall provide the employee or the person intending to establish an employment relationship with the employer with the criminal personal data of the employee.
the law or, in accordance with paragraph 4, the employer
does not restrict or exclude employment in a job.
4. The restrictive or exclusionary condition referred to in paragraph 3 may be determined by the employer if the person concerned in the given job:
employment of a person
a) a significant financial interest of the employer,
(b) a secret protected by law, or
(c) an interest protected by law pursuant to paragraph 2 ( b) to (d)
risk of harm.
5. The employer shall impose a restrictive or exclusionary condition in accordance with paragraph 4 on which the processing of criminal personal data is based, and the criminal
determine the conditions for the processing of personal data in advance in writing.
11 / A. §

*

(1) An employee may be monitored in the context of his employment-related conduct. In this context, the employer

may also use a technical device, it shall inform the employee in writing in advance.
(2) The employee shall use the information technology or computer equipment and system provided by the employer for the performance of the work.
(hereinafter: computer equipment), unless otherwise agreed, solely for the purpose of performing the employment relationship
you can use.
(3) During the control of the employer, the data stored on the computer device used for the performance of the employment relationship
related data.
4. For the purposes of the right of inspection provided for in paragraph 3, employment-related data shall be deemed to be data referred to in paragraph 2.
data necessary to verify compliance with a specified restriction.
5. Paragraph 3 shall apply if, by agreement between the parties, the employee, in order to perform the employment relationship,
uses a computer device.
6. The requirement of equal treatment

§ 12. (1) The requirement of equal treatment shall be observed in connection with employment, and in particular with regard to remuneration. E
remedying a breach of this requirement shall not infringe or prejudice the rights of another employee.
2. For the purposes of paragraph 1, any pecuniary benefit granted directly or indirectly by virtue of an employment relationship shall be regarded as pay.
and benefits in kind.
(3) In determining the equal value of the work, in particular the nature, quality and quantity of the work performed, a
working conditions, the necessary skills, physical or mental effort, experience, responsibility,
conditions must be taken into account.
7. Employment rule

§ 13. For the purposes of this Act, the rules concerning employment are the law, the collective agreement and the employment agreement,
and a binding decision of the Conciliation Committee in accordance with Article 293.
II. Chapter
The disclaimers
8. The Agreement

§ 14 The agreement regulated by this Act shall be concluded by a mutual and unanimous legal declaration of the parties.
9. The unilateral legal declaration

§ 15. (1) Rights may arise from a unilateral declaration of rights only in the case specified in the rules concerning employment or
obligations.
(2) The exercise of the right of withdrawal provided for in the employment regulations or in the agreement of the parties shall terminate the agreement a
shall be terminated retroactively to the date of its conclusion. In the event of withdrawal, the parties shall settle accounts with each other.
3. The rules of the Agreement shall apply mutatis mutandis to the unilateral declaration.
(4) A unilateral declaration of rights shall take effect upon communication to the addressee and, unless otherwise provided by this Act, only
may be amended or revoked with the consent of the consignee.
(5) A declaration made in the course of performance of the Agreement, which does not constitute a legal declaration, as well as
with regard to the employer's legal declaration, Articles 20-26. § shall be applied accordingly.
10. The commitment

*

§ 16. (1) On the basis of a unilateral commitment (hereinafter: commitment) regardless of the acceptance of the right holder
the fulfillment of the undertaken obligation may be required. An employee is validly express only an employment rule
may make a declaration of commitment in accordance with the provisions of
2. The commitment may be modified or terminated with immediate effect at the expense of the right holder if the declarant
there has been a material change in circumstances that would make it impossible or impracticable to settle the obligation;
would cause disproportionate harm.
3. The provisions relating to the unilateral declaration of rights shall otherwise apply to the undertaking, with the exception that:
that the debtor may not plead the invalidity of his declaration that the communication to the creditor is not or is not properly
happened.
11. The employer's regulations

*

§ 17. (1) The employer shall comply with Articles 15-16. § in the internal regulations established by it or
it can also do so by enforcing a unilaterally established practice (hereinafter together: employer regulations).
(2) The employer's regulations shall be deemed to have been communicated if they are published in the manner customary and generally known locally.
12. Information

§ 18. (1) The rules concerning the declaration of rights shall be applied accordingly if the rule concerning employment is a party
requires him to provide information. The information shall be provided in accordance with the rules of employment, unless otherwise provided
it must be done in a timely manner and in such a way as to enable the right to be exercised and the obligation to be fulfilled.
2. Information shall be deemed to have been communicated if it is published in the manner customary and generally known locally.
13. The condition

§ 19. (1) The parties shall also make the conclusion, amendment or termination of the agreement dependent on a future, uncertain event (condition).
can do. No condition may be imposed on the basis of which the employment relationship would be altered to the detriment of the employee or the employment relationship
would result in its cessation.
(2) A contradictory, impossible or incomprehensible condition is invalid. In such a case, the agreement shall be treated as if
the parties would not have entered into that condition.
3. The parties shall, while the condition is pending, refrain from any conduct which the other party
would undermine its conditional right. The occurrence or failure of a condition may not be invoked by a party if it was caused by fault itself.
III. Chapter
How to make legal declarations
14. Representation

§ 20. (1) The exerciser of the employer's authority is entitled to make a legal declaration on behalf of the employer.
(2) The procedure for the exercise of the employer's rights shall be determined by the employer within the framework of legal regulations.
(3) If the employer's power was not exercised by the person entitled to do so (body, body), its procedure shall be invalid, unless the power
practitioner has approved the disclaimer. Even in the absence of approval, the disclaimer is valid if the employee is out of circumstances
on the basis of which he was entitled to conclude that the proceedings were justified.
4. An employer may claim that his representative has acted in excess of his powers if the employee has not
could reasonably infer the merits of the party.
§ 21. (1) The employee may make his / her legal declaration in person. You can also make a disclaimer through your authorized representative
power of attorney shall be in writing. In the absence of such authorization, the relative may act on behalf of the employee,
if the employee is prevented from making the legal declaration. In the event of a dispute, you must prove the impediment.
2. The employer shall take into account the personal statement made by the employee if the employee and the
the legal declaration of that Member differs.
3. An employee may not, unless the content of the representation is clearly limited, claim that, in excess of the powers of his representative,
acted.
*
(4) The
consent of the legal representative shall be required for the young worker or for the employment-related

the validity of a declaration by a worker who is partially restricted in a case group which is intended to conclude an employment contract,
amended, terminated or committed.
(5) A legal representative shall make a legal declaration on behalf of the incapacitated person.
15. Formal constraint

§ 22. (1) The legal declaration shall be formally issued, unless otherwise provided by the employment regulations or the agreement of the parties.
it can be done without limitation. At the request of the employee, the employer must put his legal statement in writing even if it is
otherwise optional.
*
(2) The
legal declaration shall be deemed to be in writing,

(a) if it is communicated unchanged in order to recall the information contained in the legal declaration, the identity of the declarant and the
in an electronic document identifying the date of the legal declaration (hereinafter referred to as "electronic
document) will take place;
b) in* Section 9 (2), Section 10 (5), Section 11 (5), Section 11 / A. § (1), § 93 (4), a
Section 97 (4), Section 108 (1), Section 110 (5) and (6), Section 138 (4) and Section 193 (2)
in certain cases, even if it is published in the manner customary and generally known locally.
(3) The agreement, if it had to be written, amended or terminated, may only be in writing.
(4) A legal declaration made in violation of a formal constraint shall be invalid, unless otherwise provided by this Act. Invalidity
its legal consequence shall not apply if the declaration of rights has been executed of the mutual will of the parties.
(5) In the case specified in this Act, the employer shall substantiate its unilateral legal declaration in writing and
and if the limitation period is shorter than the limitation period, the employee shall be trained in its validity. It's about the deadline
in the event of failure to educate, the claim cannot be enforced after six months.
(6) A* written declaration of rights of a person who is unable or unwilling to write shall be valid if it is notarised or
contained in a private document of probative value,
(a) in which the signature or signature of the declarant is certified by a court or notary,
(b) on which a lawyer certifies, by countersignature or by the signature of two witnesses, that the declarant has signed a document not written by him, or
signed it, or
(c) has recognized the signature or signature in the document as his own signature or signature.
*
(7) In
the case of an illiterate person or a person who does not understand the language in which the document containing his written declaration

the condition of the validity of the written Letter of Rights is that it should be clear from the document itself that its content has been disclosed to the witnesses.
one of them or the certifying person has read and explained it to the declaring party.
§ 23. (1) The employer is obliged to ensure that the agreement is recorded in writing and to provide a copy of it to the employee.
2. The agreement shall indicate the names of the parties and the details relevant to the implementation of the agreement.
16. Disclaimer

§ 24. (1) A* written declaration of rights shall be deemed to have been communicated if it is handed over to the addressee or another person entitled to receive it,
or the electronic document becomes available to them, as well as the legal statement specified in Section 22 (2) ( b)
if it is published locally in a customary and generally known manner. The electronic document becomes accessible when
when the consignee or another person entitled to receive it has the opportunity to acquaint himself with its contents. Communication then
shall also apply if the consignee or another person entitled to take over refuses or deliberately prevents receipt.
(2) In addition to the provisions of subsection (1), a return receipt with a special service in accordance with the legislation on postal services
a statement of rights delivered by registered mail,
(a) if the consignee or another person entitled to receive has refused to accept the consignment or the contact details notified by the consignee
delivery to the addressee failed due to the recipient's unknownness or removal, on the day the service was attempted,
(b) in other cases, on the fifth working day following the date of the unsuccessful attempt to serve and the date on which the notice was placed
shall be deemed to have been delivered.
(3) In* connection with a legal declaration in respect of which a court proceeding is subject under this Act, the
against a regulated fiction of service at the same time as the
within fifteen days of becoming aware of it, but no later than three months after the
objection to service in court. An objection to service is otherwise subject to the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure
properly applied. In the case of a decision upholding an objection to service, the time limit for initiating legal proceedings
shall be deemed to be retained.
(4) In the event of a dispute, the burden of proving that the communication was duly effected shall lie with the party making the declaration.
17. Calculation of time limit and duration

§ 25. (1) The provisions of subsections (2) - (6) shall apply to the calculation of the term if the rule concerning employment or the parties
agreement provides for a time limit for making a legal declaration or proving other conduct.
(2) A day, unless otherwise provided by the employment regulations, shall be understood as a calendar day.
(3) The calculation of the time limit shall begin on the day following the measure (event) giving rise to the beginning of the time limit.
4. The time limit laid down in weeks shall expire on the day which, by its designation, corresponds to the starting day. You're in months
the date of expiry of the time limit laid down in years shall be the day which, by its number, corresponds to the starting day, if that day
is missing in the month, the last day of the month.
(5) The time limit expires at the end of the last day. The time limit shall expire at the end of the next working day in accordance with the general rules, if any
last day according to the general schedule is a weekly rest or public holiday.
(6) Unless otherwise provided by this Act, the time limit shall be deemed to have been observed if, by the end of the expiry date, the
a statement of rights is communicated or other conduct is certified by that date.
(7) Failure to comply with the time limit may be excused if the employment rule laying down the time limit expressly so provides.
allows.
(8) The statement of rights, other conduct without delay, if necessary, shall be the costs not otherwise borne by the debtor.
shall be made or certified in advance if the employment rule for the declaration of rights or other
obliges the party to certify the conduct without delay.
§ 26 A period of time not specified as a time limit specified in the employment regulations or in the agreement of the parties
Paragraphs (4) - (8) of Section 25 shall not apply to the calculation of such period, the calendar shall prevail in the calculation of such period.
ARC. Chapter
Invalidity
18. Nullity
*
§ 27. (1) An
agreement which conflicts with a rule concerning employment or a rule concerning employment is void.

was created by circumvention or is obviously contrary to good morals.
2. A sham agreement shall be void and, if it disguises another agreement, it shall be judged on the basis of the disguised agreement.
3. A null and void agreement shall be null and void unless the rules governing the employment relationship which provide for it are different
has a legal effect. The nullity can be invoked by the interested party without a time limit, the nullity of the agreement will be detected ex officio by the court.
19. The right to challenge
*
§ 28. (1)
An agreement may be challenged if, at the time of its conclusion, the party was in error with regard to any material circumstance,

provided that the error was caused or recognized by the other party. The agreement may be challenged by either party at the time of the conclusion of the contract
were, in material circumstances, in the same erroneous assumption. An essential circumstance is the error if its
the party would have entered into the contract with no or other content.
(2) A contract may not be challenged by a person who may have recognized his mistake or assumed the risk of a mistake.
3. An agreement concluded as a result of deception may be challenged if it is misled or intentionally misused by the other party.
he is wrong.
4. An agreement may be challenged by an unlawful threat to the conclusion of the agreement by the other party.
5. The rules set out in paragraphs 3 and 4 shall apply where the fraud or unlawful threat is attributable to a third party.
and the other party knew or should have known about it.
6. The validity of this Agreement shall not be affected by confidentiality or disguised reasons of a Party.
(7) The time limit for an appeal shall be thirty days, starting from the recognition of the error or the cessation of the unlawful threat. THE
the limitation period is duly governed by the rules on limitation, provided that after six months the right of appeal
practicable.
8. The statement of opposition shall be notified in writing to the other party within the time limit laid down in paragraph 7.
(9) The successfully challenged agreement is invalid.
20. Legal consequences of invalidity

§ 29. (1) The rights and obligations arising from a legal relationship established on the basis of an invalid agreement shall be deemed to be:
they would exist under a valid agreement. The legal relationship established on the basis of an invalid agreement - if this law is different
the employer shall immediately and with immediate effect, provided that the cause of invalidity is
not eliminated.
(2) The employer shall pay the employee the absence pay for the period of time that he would have received if the employer had terminated the employment,
in addition, the rules on severance pay should be applied accordingly if the employment contract is due to a reason on the part of the employer.

invalid and shall be terminated pursuant to paragraph 1.
3. If any part of this Agreement is void, the employment rule shall apply instead, unless the parties
without an invalid part they would not have agreed.
(4) If a unilateral legal declaration is invalid, no rights and obligations arise from this legal declaration.
(5) In case of invalidity of the legal declaration of termination of employment - the successful completion of the employer's own legal declaration
82-84. § shall be applied accordingly.
*
§ 30 The
rules of this Act shall apply to compensation for damage resulting from the invalidity of the agreement.

21. Application of civil law rules

§ 31. In* other respects, unless otherwise provided by this Act, the Civil Code shall apply to the declaration of rights. 6: 4. § and 6: 5. §, 6: 8. §, 6:11. §, 6:13. §, 6: 15-17. §, 6:26.
§ and 6:27. §, 6:42. §, 6: 46-56. §, 6:62. §, 6:63. § (1) - (3), 6: 64-70. §, 6:73. §, 6:77. § and 6:78. §, 6:80. § and 6:81. §, 6:86. § and 6:87. §, 6: 102.
§, 6: 107. §, 6: 116-119. §, 6: 193-201. §, 6: 203-207. §, 6: 587. § its rules must be properly applied.

SECOND PART
THE EMPLOYMENT

Chapter V.
Subjects of employment
§ 32 The subjects of the employment relationship are the employer and the employee.
§ 33 An employer is a legal person who employs an employee on the basis of an employment contract.
§ 34. (1) An employee is a natural person who performs work on the basis of an employment contract.
(2) An employee may be a person who has reached the age of sixteen. In contrast, an employee may be - during school holidays - a
a student who has reached the age of fifteen and is pursuing full-time studies.
(3)

*

Based on prior notification to the guardianship authority at least 15 days prior to employment in the legislation

also a person under the age of sixteen within the framework of a specific cultural, artistic, sports or advertising activity
employable.
22. Unless otherwise agreed

§ 35. A 32-34. It is not possible to deviate from the provisions of §.
VI. Chapter
Change in the identity of the employer
§ 36. (1) At the time of the takeover of the economic entity (organized group of material or non-material resources) based on a legal transaction
the rights and obligations arising from the existing employment relationship are transferred from the transferor to the receiving employer.
*
(2) In
winding-up proceedings

a) to (1)
b) in Section 37,
c) in Section 38 (1),
d) 39-40. §-in,
e) in Section 66 (3),
f) in* Section 228 (5),
g) in Section 229 (4), and
h) in Section 282
not applicable.
*
3. The
provisions of paragraph 2 shall apply to the institutional system which enhances the security of certain participants in the financial intermediation system.

in the procedure of sale of property specified in the law on the development of
for the purposes of segregation.
§ 37. Prior to the transfer, the transferring employer shall inform the receiving employer of the
employment rights and rights arising from non - compete agreements and study contracts; and
obligations. Failure to provide information to the receiving employer does not enforce claims arising from these legal relationships
touch.
§ 38. (1) The receiving employer is obliged to provide the employer's identification data in writing within fifteen days after the transfer.
to inform the employee about the change in the person of the employer, as well as specified in Section 46 (1)
changes in working conditions.
(2) If, in the absence of the number of employees specified in Section 236 (1), the transferring employer has a works council
does not work and no representative has been elected, the transferor or, with the agreement of the employers, the transferee
the employer must inform the workers concerned in writing no later than 15 days before the transfer;

*

(a) the date of the transfer or the planned date,
b) the reason for the transfer,
(c) the legal, economic and social consequences for the worker; and
(d) the measure envisaged for the worker.
§ 39. The transferor and the receiving employer shall be jointly and severally liable for any employee claim due before the transfer if the
employee shall assert his claim within one year after the transfer.
Section 40 (1) The provisions of Section 70 and Section 77 shall apply mutatis mutandis if the employee
termination on the grounds that, as a result of a change in the identity of the employer, the
would be disproportionately detrimental or impossible for the maintenance of the employment relationship as a result of a material and adverse change
would become.
(2) The employee is obliged to terminate the dismissal pursuant to subsection (1) by applying the rules contained in subsection (2) of section 67.
justify.
3. The employee shall have the right to terminate the service in accordance with paragraph 1 after the date of the change in the identity of the employer.
*

you can practice within thirty days.

23. Unless otherwise agreed

§ 41 A 36-40. §, the collective agreement may deviate in favor of the employee.
VII. Chapter
Establishment of employment
24. The employment contract

§ 42. (1) The employment relationship is established by an employment contract.
(2) Under an employment contract
a) the employee is obliged to perform work under the direction of the employer,
(b) the employer is obliged to employ the employee and pay wages.
§ 43. (1) Unless otherwise provided by law, the employment contract - other than the provisions of Part Two, and for employment
for the benefit of the worker.
(2) The derogation shall be assessed by comparing the related provisions.
*
3. The
agreement of the parties on the rights and obligations arising from the employment relationship

shall apply with the derogation provided for in paragraph 4.
*
(4) An
agreement pursuant to subsection (3) shall be made in writing if a provision relating to an employment relationship is provided for.

§ 44 The employment contract must be in writing. Failure to write in writing shall invalidate the employment contract only
within thirty days of taking up employment.
*
24 / A. Special
conditions for the establishment of an employment relationship

*
44 / A. § (1)
An employer who educates, supervises, cares for or treats a person under the age of eighteen

may not enter into an employment relationship with a person who
(a) in the criminal record
(aa) manslaughter in force until 30 June 2013 [Section IV of the Penal Code 1978 Act (hereinafter: Act IV of 1978).
Section 166 (2) ( i ) of the Act of 1978], participation in suicide [ Act of 1978. évi IV. Section 168 (2) of the Act], personal liberty
violation [1978. évi IV. Section 175 (3) ( e) of the Act ], trafficking in human beings [ Section 1978 of the Act of 1978]. évi IV. Act 175 / B. § (2) a) and (5)
change of family status [1978. évi IV. Section 193 (2) ( b) of the Act ], endangering a minor [ Act 1978 évi IV. law
Section 195 (1) - (3)], forced sexual intercourse [1978. évi IV. Section 197 (2) ( a) and (3) of the Act], violence against pubic sex
[1978. évi IV. Section 198 (2) ( a) and (3) of the Act], mutilation (Section 201-202 / A of Act IV of 1978), with prohibited pornographic recording
abuse (Section 204 of Act IV of 1978), promotion of business-like lust [1978. évi IV. Section 205 (3) ( a) of the Act ], abuse
with drugs [1978. évi IV. Act 282 / B. § (1), (2) a) and c) , 282 / B. § (5) and (7) a) ],
*
ab) prohibited
recruitment [Section 146 (3) of Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code (hereinafter: the Criminal Code], murder [Criminal Code.

Section 160 (2) ( i) ], participation in suicide [Btk. § 162 (2)], prohibited use of the human body [Btk. Section 175 (3)
paragraph a) ], drug trafficking [Btk. § 177 (1) a) and b) ], possession of drugs [Btk. § 179 paragraph (1) a) point
and (2)], pathological addiction (Section 181 of the Criminal Code), abuse of a performance enhancing drug [Criminal Code. Section 185 (3) and (5)], kidnapping
[Btk. Section 190 (2) ( a) and (3) ( a) ], trafficking in human beings and forced labor [Btk. Section 192 (5) ( a) and (6)
paragraph a) Point], forced labor [is needed to combat the exploitation of some victims of human trafficking
Until the entry into force of Act V of 2020 on the amendment of laws, the Criminal Code was in force. Section 193 (2) ( c) ], personal leave
violation of [Criminal Code]. Section 194 (2) ( a) and (3)], sexual coercion [Btk. Section 196 (2) ( a) and (3)],
sexual violence [Btk. Section 197 (2), (3) a) and (4)], sexual abuse (Section 198 of the Criminal Code), fencing [Cr. Section 200 (2)
and paragraph 4 ( a) ], promotion of prostitution [Btk. Section 201 (1) ( c) and (2)], child prostitution
(Section 203 of the Criminal Code), child pornography (Section 204 of the Criminal Code), humiliation [Criminal Code. Section 205 (2)], endangering a minor (Article 208 of the Criminal Code).
§), child labor (§ 209 of the Criminal Code), violation of family status [Criminal Code. Section 213 (2) ( b) ] due to the commission of a criminal offense,
(b) *is the subject of criminal proceedings for an offense set forth in subparagraph (a) ;
c) the Criminal Code. Is subject to a ban on occupation pursuant to Section 52 (3), or
d) to a) is under involuntary treatment for offenses specified in committing.
(2) A* person against whom the provisions of paragraph (1) ( a) apply shall not be employed
(a) has been sentenced to imprisonment for an intentional criminal offense,
(aa) for imprisonment of less than five years, for eight years from the commencement of the release,
(ab) in the case of imprisonment for a term of five years or more, for a period of ten years from the commencement of the release;
(b) for an intentional criminal offense, a community service or a fine has been imposed for a period of three years from the date on which the exemption is granted;
(c) has been sentenced to imprisonment for an intentional criminal offense, five years after the release
years.
3. The fact that a person wishing to take up an employment relationship fulfills the conditions set out in paragraphs 1 to 2 shall be
(a) before the employment relationship is established, or
(b) at the written request of the employer during the employment relationship, within 15 working days of the call, if within that period:
is not possible within the employee due to a reason outside the employee, immediately after the reason ceases to exist
certified by an official certificate.
4. If the employee proves that he meets the conditions set out in paragraphs 1 to 2, the employer shall
the administrative service fee paid to the employee for the procedure for issuing an official certificate issued by a body
reimburse.
(5) If specified in paragraphs (1) to (2)
(a) the worker is unable to comply with the conditions with an official certificate issued by the criminal record body;
prove or
b) the reason for exclusion is otherwise known to the employer,
Section 29 (1) shall apply accordingly.
6. The employer shall manage it in order to verify compliance with the conditions set out in paragraphs 1 to 2
a) the person intending to establish the employment relationship,
(b) the employee
personal data contained in an official certificate issued by a criminal record body.
(7) The personal data obtained on the basis of the provisions of subsections (1) - (3) shall be communicated by the employer to the
until the date of the decision or, in the case of the establishment of an employment relationship, until its termination or termination.
25. Content of the employment contract

§ 45. (1) In the employment contract, the parties must agree on the basic salary and job of the employee.
(2) The duration of the employment relationship shall be specified in the employment contract. Failing this, the employment relationship is established for an indefinite period.
(3) The employee's place of work shall be specified in the employment contract. Failing this, the place of employment shall be deemed to be the place where
*

where he does his work as usual.

(4) Unless otherwise agreed, the employment relationship shall be established for full-time full-time employment.
5. The parties may stipulate in the employment contract a probationary period of up to three months from the beginning of the employment relationship. At this
in the event of a shorter probationary period, the parties may extend the probationary period not more than once. Duration of the probationary period a
may not exceed three months in the event of an extension.
26. Obligation of the employer to provide written information

§ 46. (1) The employer shall inform the employee in writing no later than within fifteen days from the beginning of the employment relationship.
a) daily working time,
b) wages and other benefits in addition to the basic salary,
c) the method of accounting for the salary, the frequency of payment of the salary, the date of payment,
d) the tasks belonging to the position,
(e) *the extent of the leave, the method of calculation and the amount of the leave; and
(f) the rules for determining the period of notice applicable to the employer and the employee; and
(g) whether the employer is covered by a collective agreement; and
(h) the person exercising the employer's right.
2. The information provided for in points ( a) to (c) and (e) to (f) of paragraph 1 with reference to the provision of the employment rule
can also be specified.
(3) If the employment relationship is terminated before the expiry of fifteen days, the employer shall fulfill the obligation set forth in subsection (1) in accordance with Section 80 (2).
on the date specified in paragraph 1.
4. A change in the name of the employer, the relevant data and the provisions of paragraph 1
shall be notified in writing within fifteen days of the change.
5. The employer shall not be obliged to provide information , except for paragraph 1 ( h) , if, under the employment contract:
(a) the duration of the employment is one month, or
(b) working time does not exceed eight hours per week.
§ 47. In the case of work abroad for more than fifteen days - in addition to the provisions of § 46 - the employee no later than seven days before the departure abroad - must be informed in writing
Page 2

a) the place and duration of the work abroad,
b) benefits in cash and in kind,
(c) the currency of the remuneration and other benefits; and
(d) the rules governing return.
27. Commencement of employment

§ 48. The date of commencement of the employment relationship shall be specified in the employment contract. Failing this, the beginning of the employment relationship is a
the day following the conclusion of the employment contract.
§ 49. (1) In the period between the conclusion of the employment contract and the date of commencement of the employment relationship, the parties may not certify any
conduct which would frustrate the establishment of the employment relationship.
2. During the period specified in paragraph 1, either party may withdraw from the employment contract if the conclusion of the employment contract
there has been a material change in his circumstances which would make it impossible or disproportionate to
would be prejudicial.

*

28. Different agreement
*
§ 50. (1) Agreement
of the parties

a) a 42-44. §-in,
b) a 44 / A. §-in,
c) in Section 45 (1)
may not deviate from the provisions of
*
(2) Collective
agreement

a) a 42-44. §-in,
b) a 44 / A. §-in,
c) in Section 45 (1) - (4)
may not deviate from the provisions of
(3) Collective agreement in accordance with Articles 46-47. May deviate from the provisions of § only for the benefit of the employee.
*
(4) Pursuant
to the provision of a collective agreement, the probationary period shall not exceed six months.

VIII. Chapter
Fulfillment of the employment contract
29. Basic obligations

§ 51. (1) The employer is obliged to employ the employee in accordance with the employment contract and the rules applicable to the employment relationship,
and, unless otherwise agreed by the parties, to provide the necessary conditions for work.
(2) The employer shall reimburse the employee for the costs reasonably incurred in the performance of the employment relationship.
*
(3) An
employee may be employed only for work which, in view of his or her physical condition, development and state of health,

it must not have adverse consequences. The employer shall, in view of the change in the employee 's state of health, a
working conditions, the working time schedule shall be amended accordingly, taking into account the provisions of Section 6.
(4) The employer shall ensure the requirements for work that does not endanger health and is safe. Get to work
before and at regular intervals during the employment relationship,
aptitude test.
(5) In the employment of a person with a disability, care shall be taken to ensure reasonable accommodation.
(6) The Government shall be authorized to establish in a decree the employee's expenses related to the employment relationship.
rules for reimbursement.
Section 52 (1) The employee is obliged
a) be able to appear at work at the place and time specified by the employer,
b) be available to the employer during his working hours, for the purpose of work, in a condition capable of work,
c) his work in person, with the expertise and diligence normally required, the rules and regulations applicable to his work,
carried out in accordance with instructions and customs,
d) to behave in a manner consistent with the confidence necessary for the performance of his duties,
e) cooperate with its staff.
(2) The employee has paid the employment of a third party without the prior consent of the employer
in respect of its activities.
3. A worker's right to pay under an employment contract or employment rule may not be reduced
whereas the worker has received the remuneration provided for in paragraph 2 with the prior consent of the employer.
(4) Remuneration as defined in paragraph 2 shall be deemed to be any service of property value provided by a third party a
in addition to the service to which the employer is entitled.
30. Employment other than an employment contract

§ 53. (1) The employer is entitled to temporarily employ the employee in a job, workplace or other place other than the employment contract.
to be employed by an employer.

*

*
2. The
duration of employment under paragraph 1 shall be a total of forty-four working days per calendar year, or

it may not exceed three hundred and fifty-two hours. This shall be applied proportionately if the employment relationship began during the year for a fixed period
or was created for full-time or part-time work other than normal. On the expected duration of employment other than an employment contract a
the worker must be informed.

*

(3) An employee may not be required to work in another location without his or her consent
(a) from the time of pregnancy to the age of three,
(b) his or her child up to the age of sixteen if he or she is raising his or her child alone; and
(c) in the case of long - term personal care of a relative, and if
(d) the rehabilitation expert body has established at least 50 per cent damage to health.
(4) With regard to the application of subsection (3) c) , subsection 131 (2) shall apply accordingly.
(5) In the case of employment pursuant to subsection (1), the employee shall be required for the position performed, but at least in accordance with the
entitled to a basic salary.
31. Refusal to comply with the instruction

§ 54. (1) The employee is obliged to refuse to comply with the instruction if its execution affects the health of another person or the environment.
would be directly and seriously endangered.
(2) An employee may refuse to comply with an instruction if its execution violates an employment rule or
would directly and seriously endanger the life, physical integrity or health of the worker.
(3) The employee is obliged to be available even if the instruction is refused.
(4) The employee may deviate from the instructions of the employer if this is absolutely necessary for the protection of the employer from damage.
and there is no way to notify the employer. Deviations from the instruction must be notified to the employer immediately.
32. Exemption from work obligation

§ 55. (1) The employee is released from the obligation to be available and work
a) incapacity for work,
(b) statutory treatment in a health institution associated with the human reproduction process; and
(c) for the duration of the compulsory medical examination; and
d) for a period of at least four hours required for blood donation,
(e) the breastfeeding mother for one hour twice a day during the first six months of breastfeeding and twice for two hours in the case of twin children, the ninth month
one hour a day until the end of the year, and two hours a day for twin children,
f) for two working days upon the death of a relative,
g) continuing primary school studies, as well as training as agreed by the parties, in the case of further training, in training
time required for participation,
h) for the duration of the voluntary or facility fire service,
(i) at the request of a court or authority or for a period necessary to appear in person at the trial,
*
j) during
the period of preparation for legal adoption - personal encounter with the child to be adopted

for a maximum of ten working days per year,
*
(k) for
periods of absence justified on personal, family or unavoidable grounds for special consideration; and

(l) *for the period specified in the employment regulations.
(2) The employer, if it is justified due to the investigation of the circumstances of the breach of the obligation committed by the employee, the investigation
may, for a period not exceeding thirty days, exempt the worker from
from fulfilling its obligation.
3. In*the case referred to in paragraph 1 ( j) , the worker shall, at a time appropriate to his request,
on the basis of a certificate issued by the organization within ninety days of its issue. About the use a
the employee informs the employer at least five working days in advance.
33. Legal consequences for the employee's fault

§ 56. (1) In the event of a wrongful breach of an obligation arising from an employment relationship, a collective agreement or, if the employer or the
employee is not covered by a collective agreement - an employment contract is proportionate to the seriousness of the breach
legal consequences.
*
(2) As
an adverse legal consequence, only such disadvantage related to the employment relationship and modifying its conditions for a definite period of time

which does not infringe the employee’s right to privacy and human dignity. Determining the financial disadvantage
the total monthly wage of the employee, which is the decisive factor in determining the legal consequence, may not exceed
amount.
(3) In the application of an adverse legal consequence, Section 78 (2) shall be applied accordingly.
(4) An adverse legal consequence may not be established due to a breach of obligations which the employer has caused by the employment relationship.
as a reason for termination.
(5) A measure which has an adverse legal effect shall be recorded in writing and shall state the reasons.
34. Unless otherwise agreed

§ 57. (1) Agreement of the parties or collective agreement
a) in Section 52 (3),
b) in Section 53 (3) - (4),
c) in Section 54 (1),
d) in Section 56 (2) - (5)
may not deviate from the provisions of
(2) A collective agreement may deviate from the provisions of Section 55 (1) only for the benefit of the employee.
IX. Chapter
Amendment of the employment contract
§ 58 The parties may amend the employment contract by mutual agreement. To amend the employment contract
rules should be applied accordingly.
*
§ 59. The
employer shall, in accordance with Articles 127-132. After the termination of the absence specified in §, the employee makes an offer of wages

to amend. In doing so, for employees with the same job as the employee, the employer has meanwhile implemented
should be based on the average annual wage increase. In the absence of such employees, the average annual amount actually realized by the employer
the rate of wage increase is decisive.
*
Section 60 (1)

For an employee if the conditions of employment in his or her job are not in accordance with Section 51 (3)

a job appropriate to his state of health must be offered if, from the time of
- on the basis of a medical opinion on his / her suitability for the job - cannot be employed in his / her job. You have to get out of work
to be saved if it is not possible to employ them properly.
(2) The employee is entitled to a basic salary corresponding to the offered job, which is less than the basic salary according to the employment contract.
not possible. He shall be entitled to a basic salary for the period of dismissal, unless he is not accepted for the post offered without good reason.
§ 61. (1) The employer shall inform the employees by indicating the positions
(a) full-time or part-time,
(b) teleworking; and
(c) in the context of an employment relationship of indefinite duration
employment opportunities.
(2) The employer shall declare the employee's offer to amend the employment contract in writing within fifteen days.
*
(3) The
employer may, at the offer of the employee until the child reaches the age of four - in the case of an employee raising three or more children:

up to the age of six - is obliged to sign an employment contract for part-time work corresponding to half of the total full-time working hours
to modify.
35. Different agreement

§ 62. (1) The agreement or collective agreement of the parties may not deviate from the provisions of § 58.
(2) Collective agreement in accordance with Articles 59-61. May deviate from the provisions of § only for the benefit of the employee.
Chapter X.
Termination and termination of employment
36. Termination of employment

§ 63. (1) The employment relationship is terminated
a) with the death of the employee,
b) the termination of the employer without a legal successor,
c) at the end of the fixed period,
(d) in the case provided for in paragraph 3,

e) in other cases specified by law.
(2) In the event of termination of employment by the employer, the employee shall be entitled to an absence pay for a specified period of time.
if the employment relationship is terminated pursuant to paragraph 1 ( b) or (d) , unless, for the duration of the dismissal, the employee
would not be entitled to wages or otherwise provided by law.
(3) The employment relationship shall be terminated if, pursuant to Section 36 (1), the economic entity is
the receiving employer is not subject to this Act.
4. In the case referred to in paragraph 3, the transferor shall, no later than 15 days before the termination of the employment relationship,
inform the employee in writing of the date or planned date of termination and the reason for termination.
37. Termination of employment

§ 64. (1) The employment relationship may be terminated
a) by mutual agreement,
b) by termination,
(c) with immediate effect.
2. The reason for termination shall be clearly stated in the statement of reasons. The reality and reasonableness of the reason for the revocation
the declarant proves it.
38. Termination

§ 65. (1) Both the employee and the employer may terminate the employment relationship by giving notice.
2. If the parties agree, the employment shall not be terminated for a period not exceeding one year from the beginning of the employment relationship.
can be eliminated.
(3) The employer may not terminate the employment relationship by giving notice
a) pregnancy,
b) maternity leave,
c) unpaid leave for the care of a child (Section 128, Section 130),
(d) the actual voluntary reserve military service; and
(e) no more than six months from the date of commencement of the woman's statutory treatment for human reproduction;
month

*

during its term.
(4) With regard to the application of the protection pursuant to subsection (3), in the case of notification of termination or collective redundancies, Section 75 (1)
The date of communication of the information referred to in paragraph 1 shall apply.
5. An* employee may rely on the circumstance specified in paragraph 3 ( a) and (e) if the employer
informed him. Within fifteen days of the notification of the termination to the employee, the employer shall give notice of the termination in writing.
you can undo it.
*
(6) In
the event of revocation of the termination, subsections (2) - (4) of Section 83 shall apply.

§ 66. (1) The employer is obliged to justify the termination.
(2) Grounds for dismissal due to the employee's conduct in connection with the employment relationship, ability or employer's activities
may be a related reason.
*
(3) Only

a) a change in the identity of the employer,
*
b) termination
of the agreement pursuant to Section 99 (3), Section 109 (2) or Section 135 (3) - (4) by the employee

it may not serve as a ground for dismissal by the employer.
(4) The employer shall terminate the employment relationship of a non-retired employee for an indefinite period of time in accordance with the retirement age governing the employee.
within five years before reaching retirement age, by reason of the employee's
It may be terminated for the reason specified in Section 78 (1).
(5) The employment relationship of an employee specified in subsection (4) with the ability of the employee or the operation of the employer
may be terminated for a related reason if the employer does not have an employee at the workplace pursuant to Section 45 (3)
another vacancy corresponding to the ability, qualification or practice required for the job or the employee
rejects an offer of employment in that position.
(6) In* the event of termination of employment by the mother or the father raising the child alone, the child
until the age of three, paragraphs 4 to 5 shall apply if the worker is paid for the
freedom [128. § (1) and (2)].
(7) The employer shall determine the employment relationship of the employee receiving the rehabilitation benefit or rehabilitation allowance.
may be terminated by reason of his health-related ability if the employee did not
can continue to be employed and cannot offer the worker a health-appropriate job, or
employee does not accept the offered job without good reason.
(8) An employer may terminate a fixed-term employment relationship by giving notice
(a) during the winding-up or bankruptcy proceedings, or
(b) for reasons based on the worker 's ability; or
(c) if the maintenance of the employment relationship becomes impossible due to an unavoidable external cause.
(9) An employer shall not be obliged to terminate an employment relationship of indefinite duration by termination if the employee:
is considered a pensioner.
§ 67. (1) An employee is not obliged to justify the termination of an employment relationship for an indefinite period of time.
(2) The employee shall give reasons for the termination of his or her fixed-term employment relationship. The reason for termination may only be the reason
which would make it impossible for him to maintain the employment relationship or would be disproportionate to his circumstances.
39. The notice period

§ 68. (1) The period of notice shall begin at the earliest on the day following the notification of the notice.
(2) In the event of termination by the employer, the period of notice shall not be earlier than the day following the expiry of the period specified below.
starts:
(a) incapacity for work due to sickness, up to a maximum of one year after the end of sick leave,
b) incapacity to care for a sick child,
(c) unpaid leave for the care of a relative at home.
3. The provisions of paragraph 2 shall apply in the case of collective redundancies where the
certain circumstances existed at the time of the communication of the information pursuant to Section 75 (1).
§ 69. (1) The notice period is thirty days.
(2) In the event of termination by the employer, the period of notice was spent with the employer
(a) five days after three years,
b) fifteen days after five years,
c) twenty days after eight years,
d) twenty-five days after ten years,
e) thirty days after fifteen years,
f) forty days after eighteen years,
(g) sixty days after the end of twenty years
lengthens.
*

3. The parties may agree on a period of notice not exceeding six months, as provided for in paragraphs 1 to 2.
(4) For the purposes of calculating the notice period, the duration specified in Section 77 (2) shall not be taken into account.

(5) In the case of termination of a fixed-term employment relationship by termination, the period of notice shall not exceed the expiry of the fixed-term period.
tart.
§ 70. (1) In the event of termination by the employer, he is obliged to release the employee from work for at least half of the notice period. THE
a fraction day shall be considered as a whole day.
(2) An employee shall be exempted from work in accordance with his or her wishes, in a maximum of two installments.
(3) For the duration of the exemption from work, the employee shall be entitled to an absence allowance, unless there would otherwise be no salary.
entitled.
(4) Wages paid may not be recovered if the employee has been permanently dismissed from work and the wages
the circumstance precluding his payment occurred after his dismissal from work.
*

40. Rules for collective redundancies

§ 71. (1) It is considered a group reduction of the number of employees if the employer has calculated the average statistical number of employees for the six months preceding the decision.
according to
(a) in the case of employment of more than 20 workers and less than 100 workers, at least 10 workers,
(b) in the case of employment of one hundred or more but less than three hundred employees, at least 10 per cent of the employees,
(c) in the case of three hundred or more workers, at least 30 workers
subject to paragraph 3, for a reason related to its operation, within a period of thirty days
eliminate.
2. If the employer has been established for less than half a year, the average statistical number of employees referred to in paragraph 1 shall be
shall be established for a given period.
3. Where an employer has several establishments, the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 shall be established for each establishment by:
that in the case of sites located in the same county (capital), the number of employees must be calculated. The employee
shall be taken into account at the site where the position to be taken when deciding on the collective redundancies is taken.
does work according to.
4. In *the event of a collective redundancy affecting the crew of a seagoing ship, the employer shall give prior notice to the
the competent authority of the State whose flag the ship is flying.
§ 72. (1) The employer is obliged to negotiate with the works council if he plans to implement a collective redundancy.
*

(2) At least seven days before the start of the negotiation, the employer shall inform the works council in writing.
a) the reason for the planned collective redundancies,
(b) affected by the planned redundancies in the breakdown by employment groups, or
c) the number of employees employed during the period specified in Section 71 (1),
d) the planned duration and timing of the implementation of the redundancies,
(e) the selection criteria; and
(f) termination benefits other than those provided for in the Conditions of Employment
condition and extent.
(3) The employer's obligation to negotiate until the conclusion of the agreement, failing which at least after the commencement of the negotiation
it lasts for fifteen days.
(4) The negotiations should cover collective redundancies in order to reach an agreement
a) the possible way and means of avoiding it,
b) principles,
(c) mitigation measures; and
(d) to reduce the number of workers concerned.
(5) The agreement reached during the negotiation shall be in writing and sent to the public employment body.
§ 73. (1) It shall be determined in the decision on the implementation of the collective redundancies
(a) the number of employees affected by the measure, broken down by employment groups; and
(b) the start and end dates or the timetable for the implementation of the collective redundancies.
2. The timing of collective redundancies shall be determined on the basis of thirty-day periods. In this regard, the
the timetable set out in the employer's decision shall be deemed to apply.
(3) The number of employees shall be taken into account together if the employer has applied for the termination of the last employment.
within thirty days of notification of the declaration or conclusion of the agreement.
disclaims or concludes an agreement.
4. For the purposes of paragraph 3, termination of employment
a) termination of the legal statement based on a reason related to the operation of the employer,
(b) an agreement by common agreement initiated by the employer
should be considered.
(5) Termination based on a reason related to the operation of the employer shall be deemed to be termination pursuant to Section 79 (1) ( b) .
an employer's action and, until proven otherwise, termination, if no justification is required under this Act.
§ 74. (1) The employer's intention to make a collective redundancy, as well as the provisions of § 72 (2)
notify the public employment body in writing of the data and circumstances and a copy thereof shall be submitted to the works council.

(2) The decision of the employer regarding the collective redundancies shall be terminated by the public employment body in accordance with Section 79 (1).
at least thirty days before the notification of the Letter of Rights referred to in paragraph 1 (b) . In doing so, the
employee affected by redundancies
a) identification data,
(b) his position; and
(c) his professional qualifications.
§ 75. (1) The decision of the employer regarding the collective redundancies shall be subject to termination or termination by the employee concerned.
It shall notify the Commission in writing at least thirty days before giving notice of immediate termination under paragraph 1 (b) . The termination and
immediate termination may be given thirty days after the notification.
2. The information referred to in paragraph 1 shall also be sent to the works council and to the public employment service.
(3) Termination in violation of paragraph (1) is unlawful.
Section 76 (1) An agreement pursuant to Section 72 (5) may establish the aspects in respect of which the employer
determines the number of employees affected by the termination of employment.
2. An employee may not plead breach of the agreement if the employer's obligation under paragraph 1
did not provide the information necessary to comply with
41. Severance pay

§ 77. (1) An employee is entitled to severance pay if he or she has an employment relationship
a) termination of the employer,
(b) the termination of the employer without successor, or
*
c) of
§ 63 paragraph (1) d) of

terminated on the basis of.
(2) Entitlement to severance pay shall be conditional on the employment relationship being terminated without notice or without successor by the employer.
for the period specified in paragraph 3 at the time of its termination. In terms of entitlement to severance pay
for a continuous period of at least thirty days for which the employee is not
appropriate, except
a) maternity leave and unpaid leave for the purpose of caring for a child (Section 128),
b) three months of unpaid leave for the purpose of actual voluntary reserve military service (Section 132)
not exceeding
duration.

*

(3) Extent of severance pay
a) for at least three years, one month,
b) for at least five years, two months,
c) for at least ten years, three months,
d) for at least fifteen years, four months,
e) for at least twenty years, five months,
(f) six months in the case of at least 25 years
amount of absence fee.
(4) Paragraph 3 shall apply to severance pay
(a) the rate specified in points ( a) to (b) shall be one month,
(b) the rate specified in points (c) to (d) shall be two months,
(c) the rate specified in points (e) to (f) shall be three months
shall be increased by the amount of the severance grant if the employment relationship is as defined in paragraph 1 and the
ceases to exist within five years before reaching retirement age.
(5) No severance pay shall be payable to an employee if
(a) is considered to be a pensioner at the time of the notification of termination or the termination of the employer without a successor, or
(b) the reason for the dismissal is the employee's conduct in relation to the employment relationship or his ability for non-health reasons.
42. Immediate termination

§ 78. (1) The employer or the employee may terminate the employment relationship with immediate effect if the other party
(a) willfully or through gross negligence materially breaches a material obligation arising out of the employment relationship, or
(b) otherwise engages in conduct which makes it impossible to maintain the employment relationship.
2. The right to terminate immediately shall be exercised within fifteen days of becoming aware of the grounds on which it is based, up to a maximum of:
however, within one year of the occurrence of the cause, in the case of a criminal offense, it may be exercised until the expiration of the criminal record.
The date of knowledge, if the body is entitled to exercise the right of immediate termination, shall be deemed to be when the
the body, as the body exercising the employer's authority, shall be informed of the reason for the immediate termination.
(3) In the event of immediate termination of the employee, the employer shall comply with the provisions of Section 70 (3) and Section 77.
properly applied.

*

§ 79. (1) It may be terminated with immediate effect without giving reasons
(a) the party is employed during the probationary period,
(b) the employer has a fixed-term employment relationship.
2. In the event of termination under paragraph 1 ( b) , the employee shall be entitled to twelve months or, if the remaining
time for an absence fee of less than one year for the remaining period.
43. Procedure in case of termination of employment (termination)

§ 80. (1) Upon termination (termination) of the employee's employment, he / she is obliged to transfer his / her job in the prescribed order and
account with your employer. The employer is obliged to provide the conditions for job transfer and settlement.
2. On* termination of employment with notice, at the latest from the last day of employment, otherwise at the latest from the
on the fifth working day after the termination of employment, the employee shall be paid his / her salary and other emoluments,
and the certificates required by the employment regulations and other legislation must be issued.
§ 81. (1) At the request of the employee, if the employment relationship has lasted for at least one year, upon termination of the employment relationship
(upon termination) or no later than one year thereafter, provide a written assessment of the employee’s work.
(2) The employee may request the court to annul or amend the untrue findings of assessment.
44. The legal consequence of the unlawful termination of employment

§ 82. (1) The employer is obliged to compensate the damage caused in connection with the unlawful termination of the employment relationship.
2. Compensation claimed for loss of earnings shall not exceed twelve months' leave.
the amount of the fee.
(3) In addition to the provisions of subsection (1), an employee is entitled to the amount of severance pay if his employment
(a) has not been unlawfully terminated by notice, or
b) upon termination of his employment , he did not receive severance pay pursuant to Section 77 (5) ( b) .
(4) Instead of the provisions of subsections (1) and (2), the employee may demand a notice period applicable in the event of dismissal by the employer.
an amount corresponding to the absence fee.
*
§ 83. (1)
At the request of the employee, the court shall restore the employment relationship if

a) termination of employment as a requirement of equal treatment,
b) Section 65 (3),
c) has violated Section 273 (1),
d) the employee was an employee representative at the time of termination of employment,
(e) the employee has successfully terminated his employment by mutual agreement or has his own legal declaration to that effect;
attacked.
2. With regard to entitlement to time spent in employment after the reinstatement of the employment relationship, the
the period between the termination (termination) of employment and its restoration shall be considered as time spent in employment.
(3) The employee's arrears of wages, other remuneration and damage in excess thereof shall be compensated. As arrears of wages a
the employee's absence fee shall be taken into account.
(4) In calculating the amount of arrears of wages and other emoluments, they shall be deducted,
(a) which the employee has sought or could reasonably have sought in the particular situation; and
(b) severance pay paid on termination of employment.
§ 84. (1) If an employee has terminated his or her employment relationship unlawfully, he or she is obliged to
to pay an amount equal to the absence fee for the period of notice.
(2) If an employee terminates his or her fixed-term employment relationship unlawfully, the remaining period of the fixed-term employment,
but is required to pay an amount equal to a maximum of three months' absence.
(3) The employer may also demand compensation for damage exceeding the amount specified in subsection (1) or (2). These together
they may not exceed the amount of the employee's twelve-month absence pay.
4. The rules on unlawful termination of employment shall apply mutatis mutandis if the employee's job is not
hand over okay.
45. Unless otherwise agreed
*
§ 85. (1) Agreement
of the parties or collective agreement

a) in Section 63 (1),
b) in Section 64,
c) in Section 82 (1)
may not deviate from the provisions of
*
(2) Collective
agreement

a) in Section 63 (2) - (3),
b) 65-68. §-in,
c) 71-76. §-in,
d) in Section 78,
e) in Section 81,
f) in Section 83
may deviate only from the provisions of this Regulation for the benefit of the employee.
(3) A collective agreement may also establish a longer notice period than that provided for in Section 69 (1).
XI. Chapter *
Working and rest time
46. ​Concepts

§ 86. (1) Working time: the time from the beginning to the end of the time prescribed for work, as well as the time related to work
duration of preparatory and final activities.
(2) Preparatory or finalizing activity: the performance of all tasks that are customary in connection with the employee's job.
and regularly, without special instructions.
(3) Not working time
(a) - except in the case of on - call time - a break between work, and
(b) from the place of residence or stay of the worker to the place of actual employment and from the place of employment to the place of residence or stay;
duration of travel to the place of residence.
*
§ 87. (1) Working
day: the calendar day or twenty-four hours without interruption, if according to the work schedule the daily

the start and end of working hours may not be scheduled for the same calendar day.
2. The provisions of paragraph 1 shall apply mutatis mutandis to the determination of the weekly rest or public holiday, provided that:
that the period between seven and twenty-two hours shall be regarded as a weekly rest or public holiday.
*
(3) Seven:
the calendar week or one hundred and sixty-eight hours without interruption, if the daily working hours according to the schedule are

the beginning and end may not be scheduled for the same calendar day.
§ 88. (1) Daily working hours: specified by the parties or the rule concerning the employment relationship
(a) full - time working hours, or
(b) part - time work.
(2) Daily working time by schedule: normal working time assigned to the working day.
(3) Scheduled weekly working time: normal working time assigned to the week.
§ 89. Night work: work performed between twenty-two and six hours.
§ 90. Activities of the employer
(a) without interruption, if for a period not exceeding six hours per calendar day or
for a reason specified in this Regulation, during the period specified therein, and
(aa) is intended to provide a service meeting a public social need, or
(ab) cannot be pursued otherwise economically or as intended due to objective circumstances arising from the production technology,
(b) more than one shift, if the duration of the work is eighty hours per week,
(c) seasonal, if it is linked to a period or time of the year, irrespective of the organization of work.
§ 91. The job is of a standby nature if
(a) by reason of the nature of his duties, the worker, on the basis of a longer period, in at least one third of his normal working hours
is available to the employer without work, or
(b) the work, in particular in the light of the nature of the job and the working conditions,
significantly lower use than in general.
47. Daily working hours

§ 92. (1) The total daily working time is eight hours a day (general full daily working time).

*

2. The total daily working time may, by agreement of the parties, be increased to a maximum of twelve hours a day if the worker:

*

a) performs a standby job,
(b) a relative of the employer or owner (longer total daily working time).
3. For the purposes of paragraph 2, the owner shall be considered to be a member of the company if the decisions concerning the company
has more than twenty-five percent of the votes cast.
(4) An employment rule or an agreement between the parties shall provide for full-time working shorter than the general full-time working time.
can also determine.
(5) The parties may agree on shorter daily working hours (part-time) than the total daily working hours applicable to the given job.
48. The working time framework

§ 93. (1) The employer may also determine the working time to be performed by the employee within the framework of working time.
2. The working time to be completed in the working time framework shall be based on the duration of the working time frame, the daily working time and the general working schedule.
shall be determined by taking into account In doing so, the public holiday on the working day according to the general working schedule shall be disregarded
to leave.
3. When determining working time in accordance with paragraph 2, the duration of the absence shall be disregarded or
shall be taken into account in the daily working time according to the relevant schedule. In the absence of a work schedule, the duration of absence is daily
shall be disregarded or taken into account in the amount of working time.
(4) The start and end dates of the working time frame shall be specified and published in writing.
§ 94. (1) The duration of the working time frame shall not exceed four months or sixteen weeks.
(2) The working time frame shall not exceed six months or twenty-six weeks
a) without interruption,
(b) multi - shift, and
c) in the context of seasonal activity,
(d) of a standby nature; and
e) in the position specified in Section 135 (4)
in the case of an employed worker.
*
3. The
duration of the working time, if justified by objective or technical or organizational reasons, a collective agreement

not more than thirty-six months.
(4) The termination or expiration of the collective agreement shall not affect employment on the basis of the working time already ordered.
49. Procedure in the event of early termination of employment

§ 95. (1) Upon termination of employment, the employee's wages shall be paid in accordance with the general work schedule, daily working hours and
should be accounted for on the basis of working time.*
2. The rules on extraordinary working time shall apply mutatis mutandis if the employment relationship takes place before the end of the working time period.
a) the termination of the employer without a legal successor,
b) at the end of the fixed period,
c) by immediate termination of the employer pursuant to Section 79 (1),
d) by reasoned termination of the employer for reasons related to the operation,
e) with the immediate termination of the employee, with the exception of Section 79 (1) ( a)
terminated and the employee exceeds the working hours determined on the basis of the general work schedule and daily working hours
worked.

3. The rules on downtime shall apply mutatis mutandis if the employment relationship before the end of the working time frame
a) the termination of the employer without a legal successor,
b) at the end of the fixed period,
c) by immediate termination of the employer pursuant to Section 79 (1),
d) by reasoned termination of the employer for reasons related to the operation,
Page 3

e) with the immediate termination of the employee, with the exception of Section 79 (1) ( a)
terminated and the employee at a working time determined on the basis of the general work schedule as well as the daily working hours
worked less.

Ask Opten experts
help COVID19
for impact analysis!
Sectoral impact analysis and partner body
data supplement 2021

4. The rules on claims arising from the payment of advances shall apply mutatis mutandis if the employment relationship is
before expiration
a) by dismissing the employee,
b) by terminating the employee with immediate effect pursuant to Section 79 (1) ( a) ,
c) by immediate termination of the employer pursuant to Section 78 (1),
d) the employer's conduct in relation to the employee's employment,
(e) by reason of his ability to perform for reasons other than health
ceases to exist and the employee received a wage higher than the wage due to the working hours of the post.
*
(5) The
provisions of paragraphs 1 to 4 shall also apply in the absence of a working time limit if the employment relationship is terminated during a month.

50. Rules for the organization of working time

§ 96. (1) The rules of work schedule (work schedule) shall be established by the employer.
*
(2) The
employer shall grant the employee the right to schedule working hours, taking into account the independent organization of work.

you can pass it in writing (casual work schedule). The non-compulsory nature of the work schedule is not affected if the employee performs part of the job duties
due to their specific nature, at a specific time or period.
(3) In case of non-binding work schedule
(a) Articles 93 to 112. § as well
b) paragraph 134 (1) a) b) point
with the exception of this paragraph, shall not apply.
(4) In the case of employment pursuant to Section 53, the work schedule of the place of work shall govern the employee.
§ 97. (1) The employer shall determine the working time taking into account the requirement of healthy and safe work and the nature of the work.
divides.
*
(2) General
work schedule: the employer divides the working time into five days a week, Monday to Friday.
*
(3) Working
time may be divided unequally if a working time frame or accounting period is applied. Unequal working time

position if the employer
a) working time from daily working time,
b) the weekly rest day from Section 105 (1),
c) the weekly rest period from Section 106 (1)
divides differently.
*
(4) The
employer shall change the working schedule for at least one week before the start of the daily working time according to the schedule.
*

one hundred and sixty-eight hours in advance. In the absence of communication, the last working schedule shall prevail.
*
(5) The
employer shall, in the event of unforeseen circumstances in his management or operation,

at least ninety-six hours before the start of the daily working hours. The employer reported
you can also change the work schedule at the written request of the employee.

*

§ 98. (1) In the absence of a working time frame, working time may also be divided so that the employee's daily working time and general work schedule
weekly working time determined by the employer for a longer period, starting from the week in question, as determined by the employer.
(settlement period).
*
(2) With
regard to the settlement period, Section 93 (2) - (4), Section 94 and Section 95 shall apply accordingly.

(3)

*

*
§ 99. (1)
The daily working hours of an employee according to their position - with the exception of part-time work - may not be less than four hours.
*

(2) Employee by position

(a) its daily working time does not exceed twelve hours,
(b) working hours not exceeding forty-eight hours
may.
(3) In* the case of an employee employed pursuant to Section 92 (2), on the basis of a written agreement of the parties, the employee
according to schedule*
(a) its daily working time does not exceed 24 hours,
(b) its weekly working time does not exceed seventy-two hours
may. The agreement shall be concluded by the employee on the last day of the calendar month or, in the case of a working time limit, on the last day of the working time period.
may terminate it within a period of fifteen days. An employee shall not be disadvantaged if he or she does not consent to be bound by this paragraph
*

conclusion of the agreement or termination of the agreement.

(4) The employee's daily or weekly working hours shall not exceed the hours specified in subsections (2) - (3) by more than one hour.
may exceed if the start of winter time falls on a working time according to the working schedule.
*

(5) Employee by position

a) his / her daily working hours as defined in Section 107 a) ,
b) his weekly working hours as defined in Section 107
the duration of extraordinary working hours shall be taken into account.
(6) The total duration of on-call time shall be included in the employee's daily working hours according to his / her duties, if the duration of work is not
measurable. *
*
(7) In
the case of unequal working hours, the duration of the weekly working hours according to the schedule

a) during the period determined in accordance with Section 94 (1) and (2), or
(b) where this is justified by objective or technical or organizational reasons, as provided for in a collective agreement,
in twelve months
should be taken into account on average within.
(8) In the case of an employer applying a work schedule determined pursuant to Section 102 (5) - in the absence of a working time limit - on Saturday
Paragraphs 2 ( b) and 3 ( b) shall not apply during the calendar week to which the
§ 100. The employer may, by agreement of the parties, divide the daily working time into a maximum of two installments (split daily
working hours). At least two hours of rest must be provided between scheduled daily working hours.
51. Scheduling of working time on Sundays or public holidays

Section 101* (1) Normal working hours on Sundays
a) by an employer or a job that is still active on that day due to its purpose,
b) seasonal,
c) without interruption,
d) in the framework of multi-shift activities,
e) in a standby job,
f) part-time only on Saturdays and Sundays,
(g) for the provision of a service meeting a public social need or abroad, due to the nature of the service, on that day
in case of necessary work,
(h) while working abroad; and
(i) a service provider subject to commercial activity covered by the Trade Act, and
an employer engaged in commercial tourism services
can be allocated to an employed employee.
(2) Paragraph (1) a) point in terms of § 102 (3) shall be governed accordingly.
(3)

*

*
§ 102. (1) Public
holidays: January 1, March 15, Good Friday, Easter Monday, May 1, Pentecost Monday, August 20, October 23,

November 1 and December 25-26.
(2) Ordinary working hours on a public holiday may be divided in the case specified in Section 101 (1) a) -c), g) -h) .
(3) An employer or a job shall be deemed to be working due to its purpose on a public holiday if:
(a) locally established or generally accepted conditions directly linked to the public holiday for the use of the activity;
on the basis of a demand arising from a social custom, or
(b) the prevention or remedying of an accident, elemental disaster, serious injury or danger to health or the environment, and
for the protection of property.
(4) The scheduling rules for public holidays shall apply mutatis mutandis if the public holiday falls on a Sunday,
and for Easter and Pentecost.
5. The Minister responsible for employment policy shall be empowered, no later than 31 October of the year preceding the year in question, to:
changes in the working hours of employees in general working hours due to public holidays on an annual basis
*

Regulation. In doing so, Sunday cannot be declared a business day and the change must fall on the same calendar month.
52. A break from work

§ 103. (1) For the employee, if the duration of the daily working hours according to the position or the extraordinary working hours according to § 107 a)
(a) exceeds six hours, twenty minutes,
(b) exceeds nine hours, a further twenty-five
minutes of work breaks must be provided.
(2) The duration of extraordinary working hours pursuant to Section 107 a) shall be included in the daily working hours according to the schedule .
3. An agreement or collective agreement between the parties may provide for a break of not more than sixty minutes between employees.
(4) A break between work shall be granted by interrupting work.
(5) A break between work shall be taken after a minimum of three hours and a maximum of six hours of work.
(6) The employer is entitled to issue the break between several installments. In that case, it may derogate from paragraph 5, but
the installment issued within the period referred to in paragraph 5 shall be at least twenty minutes long.
53. Daily rest period
*
§ 104. (1)
There shall be a continuous rest period of at least eleven hours between the end of the daily work and the start of the next working day (the
*

hereinafter referred to as ‘daily rest period’).
(2) The daily rest period shall be at least eight hours
a) during part-time work,
b) without interruption,
(c) multi - shift or
(d) in the context of seasonal activity
in the case of an employed worker.

3. The daily rest period, if it falls at the beginning of summer time, shall be at least ten days and, for the purposes of paragraph 2, at least seven days.
hours.
4. Where paragraph 2 or 3 applies, the combined duration of two consecutive daily rest periods shall be at least
twenty-two hours.
(5) No rest period shall be granted after standby if the employee has not performed work.
54. The weekly rest day
*
§ 105. (1)
Two rest days (weekly rest days) shall be assigned per week. Weekly rest days can be divided unequally.

(2) In case of unequal working hours, at least one weekly rest day shall be allocated after six consecutive working days.
(3) In case of unequal working hours
a) without interruption,
b) multi-shift,
(c) seasonal activity
At least one weekly rest day per month must be allocated to a worker employed under
(4) At least one weekly rest day per month, with the exception of Section 101 (1) ( f) , shall be scheduled for Sunday.
55. Weekly rest period

§ 106. (1) Instead of the weekly rest days, the employee shall be entitled to at least forty-eight hours a week without interruption.
rest time is due.
(2) The weekly rest period for an employee - with the exception of Section 101 (1) ( f) - shall be taken at least once a month on a Sunday.
*

be assigned.

3. In the event of unequal working time arrangements, instead of the weekly rest period provided for in paragraph 1 and the provisions of paragraph 2,
an interruption of at least forty hours per week, including one calendar day,
weekly rest periods can be provided. The employee must, on average, at least weekly for the working time frame or accounting period
forty-eight hours per week of rest shall be provided.
56. Extraordinary working hours

§ 107. Extraordinary working hours
a) different from the working hours,
b) outside working hours,
(c) if the accounting period is applied, in excess of the underlying weekly working time
working time, also
(d) the duration of the duty.
§ 108. (1) Extraordinary working hours shall be ordered in writing at the request of the employee.
(2) The ordering of extraordinary working hours shall not be restricted in the event of an accident, elemental disaster, serious injury, danger to health or the environment.
*

to prevent and eliminate an immediate and serious danger.
(3) Extraordinary working hours on public holidays

(a) for a worker who may still be employed during normal working hours on that day, or
(b) in the case provided for in paragraph 2
can be ordered.
*
*
§ 109. (1)
Two hundred and fifty hours of extraordinary working hours may be ordered per calendar year.

(2) On the basis of a written agreement between the employee and the employer, in addition to the provisions of subsection (1), per calendar year
up to one hundred and fifty hours of extraordinary working time may be ordered (voluntary overtime). The employee has an agreement for the calendar year
you can cancel by the end.
Paragraphs 1 to 2 shall apply proportionately if:
a) the employment relationship began during the year,
(b) for a definite period or
(c) was created on a part-time basis.
57. On-call duty and preparedness

§ 110. (1) An employee may be required to be available outside the daily working hours according to the position.

*

(2) Availability of more than four hours
a) continuous provision of a service meeting a social public need,
(b) the prevention, remedying of an accident, elemental disaster, serious injury, danger to health or the environment; and

*

(c) maintaining the safe, proper use of the technology
can be ordered.
(3) The employee is obliged to maintain his / her condition for work during the period of availability and according to the instructions of the employer.
to work.
(4) The employer may determine the place of availability (duty) for the employee, otherwise the place of residence shall be
determined by the employee in such a way that he is immediately available (standby) if instructed by the employer.
(5) The provisions of Section 108 (1) shall apply mutatis mutandis to the order of availability.
6. The period of availability shall be announced at least one week in advance, one month in advance. Hence the employer - Section 97 (5)
*

may differ from that laid down in

§ 111. The duration of on-call time shall not exceed twenty-four hours, during which the normal or regular duty on the day of commencement of on-call time
the duration of the extraordinary working hours ordered shall be taken into account.
§ 112. (1) The monthly duration of standby shall not exceed one hundred and sixty-eight hours, which in the case of application of a working time frame on average
should be taken into account.
(2) Standby may be ordered for an employee for the duration of a weekly rest day (weekly rest period) up to four times a month.
58. Special provisions for each group of workers

§ 113. (1) The rules concerning working and rest time shall be applied with the exceptions set out in paragraphs (2) - (4).
(a) from the determination of the worker's pregnancy until the child reaches the age of three,
(b) in the case of a worker raising a child alone, up to the age of three years,
(c) in the event of a risk to health as defined in the employment rules.
In the case provided for in paragraph 1
a) unequal working time arrangements may be applied only with the employee's consent,
(b) weekly rest days may not be divided unequally,
(c) no extraordinary working hours or on-call time may be ordered.
3. A worker as defined in points ( a) to (b) of paragraph 1 shall not be required to work at night.
4. In the case specified in paragraph 1 ( c) , the employee's daily working hours during night work shall be
it may not exceed eight hours.
(5) A worker raising a child alone may, from the age of three to four years, have extraordinary working hours or
readiness - with the exception of the provisions of Section 108 (2) - may be ordered only with its consent.
§ 114. (1) Night work and extraordinary working hours may not be ordered for a young employee.
(2) The daily working time of a young worker may not exceed eight hours and work in several employment relationships
working time must be calculated.
(3) For the young worker
(a) a maximum of one week's working time may be ordered,
(b) in the case of daily working time in excess of four and a half hours, at least thirty minutes in
in the case of daily working time, a break of at least forty-five minutes,
(c) a daily rest period of at least twelve hours shall be provided.
*
(4) In
the case of a young worker, the weekly rest day and the weekly rest period may not be divided equally.

59. Freedom

§ 115. (1) An employee is entitled to leave on the basis of the time spent at work in each calendar year, which consists of basic and additional leave.
2. For the purposes of paragraph 1, time spent at work shall be regarded as working time
(a) exemption from the obligation to work on the basis of working hours,
b) freedom,
c) maternity leave,
d) the first six months of unpaid leave for the purpose of caring for a child (Section 128),
*
e) incapacity
for work,

(f) the actual voluntary reserve military service does not exceed three months,
*
g) exemption
from work to § 55 paragraph (1) b) -l) as defined in

tartama.
§ 116 The amount of the basic leave is twenty working days.
Section 117 (1) To the employee
(a) from the age of twenty-five, one,
b) two from the age of twenty-eight,
c) from the age of thirty-three, three,
d) from the age of thirty-three, four,
e) from the age of thirty-five, five,
f) from the age of thirty-seven,
g) seven years from the age of thirty-nine,
h) eight from the age of forty-one,
(i) nine years of age,
j) from the age of forty-five to ten
working day with additional leave.
2. The longer period of additional leave shall accrue to the worker for the first time in the year in which the
age.
§ 118. (1) An employee younger than sixteen years of age
a) two for one child,
b) four for two children,
(c) a total of seven for more than two children
working day with additional leave.
2. The supplementary leave provided for in paragraph 1 shall be increased by two working days per disabled child if the employee's child is disabled.
3. For the purpose of entitlement to additional leave, the child shall first be born in the year of birth and last in that year.
to be taken into account in which he reaches the age of sixteen.
(4) In the case of the birth of the father's child, no later than the end of the second month following the birth, five, in the case of the birth of twin children, seven
working days are subject to additional leave, which must be granted at the time requested. Leave is granted even if the child is stillborn
or die.
§ 119. (1) A young worker shall be entitled to five working days of additional leave per year, most recently in the year in which the eighteenth
turns his age.
(2) Workers working permanently underground or in a workplace exposed to ionizing radiation for at least three hours a day
the employee is entitled to five working days of additional leave per year.
*
§ 120. The
employee, if
*
a) with
altered working capacity,

(b) is entitled to a disability allowance, or
(c) is entitled to a personal allowance for the blind
there is five working days of additional leave per year.
Section 121 *(1) For an employee, if his employment began or terminated during the year, with the exception of Section 118 (4), the
proportionate part of the leave.
(2) A fraction day reaching half a day shall be considered a full working day.
60. Issuance of leave

§ 122. (1) Leave shall be granted by the employer after a preliminary hearing of the employee.
*
2. The
employer shall take seven working days off each year, except for the first three months of employment, in not more than two installments.

at the time appropriate to the employee's request. In doing so, Section 121 shall apply accordingly. The employee has to do this
at least fifteen days before the start of the leave.
*
3. Unless
otherwise agreed, leave shall be granted in such a way that the worker:

be released from the obligation to work and be available for fourteen consecutive days. In this regard - as freedom
beyond the issued day - the weekly rest day (weekly rest period), the public holiday and the unequal working time schedule
may be taken into account.
4. The date on which the leave is granted shall be communicated to the worker not later than 15 days before the start of the leave.

*

(5) Leave may not be redeemed, except as provided in Section 125.
§ 123. (1) Leave shall be granted in the year in which it is due.
2. Leave, if the employment relationship began on or after 1 October, shall be taken by the employer in March of the year following the due date.
You can issue it until 31.
3. Leave may not be granted if, for reasons attributable to the worker, as provided for in paragraph 1, the reason shall be:
shall be issued within sixty days of its termination.
4. Leave shall be deemed to have been granted in the year in which it is due if its exercise begins in the year in which it is due and the
the part of the leave issued the following year shall not exceed five working days.
(5) The employer has an exceptionally important economic interest or a reason that directly and seriously affects its operation
(a) change the date of issue of the leave,
(b) the worker may interrupt the leave which he has already begun,
(c) in the case of a collective agreement, may grant one quarter of the leave by 31 March of the year following the due date at the latest.
*
(6) The
employer - on the basis of the agreement of the parties concluded for a calendar year - shall take the leave pursuant to § 117 in the year following the year of due date.

issue by the end.
7. Damages and costs incurred by a worker in connection with a change in the date of issue or interruption shall be
employer is obliged to reimburse. In the case referred to in paragraph 5 ( b) , from the place of residence during the leave to the place of work and
time spent on return travel and work does not count towards leave.
*
§ 124. (1)
Leave shall be granted for working days according to the working hours.

2. In the case of unequal working time arrangements, every day of the week shall be regarded as a working day during the period of leave, except for working time.
weekly rest day and public holiday according to the schedule.
3. By way of derogation from paragraph 2, in the event of unequal working time arrangements, leave may be granted in a given calendar year in such a way that:
an employee is released from the obligation of availability and work for the same period as the working schedule.
(4) In the case of subsections (1) and (2), the leave shall be equal to the duration of the exemption from work in the case of subsection (3).
should be recorded in hours.
5. In the absence of a working schedule, leave shall be granted in accordance with the general working hours and daily working hours, and
shall be recorded in accordance with paragraph 4.
§ 125 Upon termination of employment, if the employer has not granted proportional leave, it shall be redeemed.
61. Sick leave

§ 126. (1) The employer shall provide the employee with fifteen working days per calendar year for the duration of incapacity for work due to illness.
issues sick leave.
2. By* way of derogation from paragraph 1, sick leave shall not give rise to an accident at work under social security rules and
incapacity for work due to an occupational disease and incapacity for work due to endangered pregnancy.
(3) In the case of an employment relationship beginning during the year, the employee is entitled to a proportionate share of sick leave.
*
(4) The
provisions of Section 124 shall apply to the issuance of sick leave. When applying Section 124 (3), if a

the time eligible for sick leave is shorter than the daily working time according to the schedule, the daily working time according to the full schedule
should be accounted for as sick leave.
(5) With regard to sick leave, Section 121 (2) shall apply mutatis mutandis.
62. Maternity leave, unpaid leave
*
§ 127. (1) The
mother is entitled to 24 consecutive weeks of maternity leave, of which she is obliged to take two weeks.
*
2. Maternity
leave shall also be granted to a parent who is liable to be enforced in court for the child's state of health or death.

on the basis of a judgment or an enforceable guardianship decision.
3. Unless otherwise agreed, maternity leave shall be granted no more than four weeks before the expected date of confinement.
essen.
(4) If the unused part of the maternity leave is taken if the child is cared for in an institution reserved for the care of premature infants, the childbirth
may be used until one year after the child has been discharged from the institution.
(5) The duration of maternity leave shall be the time spent at work, except for entitlement specifically related to work.
considered.
§ 128

*

1. A worker shall be entitled to unpaid leave to care for a child until the child reaches the age of three

entitled, which must be issued at the time requested by the employee.
2. A worker shall, from the date on which the child is placed in the care of an adopted child for the purpose of caring for his or her adopted child:
three years of unpaid leave in the case of a child over three years of age
shall be issued at a time appropriate to your request.
*
(3) The
employee shall comply with the provisions of Act LXXXIII of 1997 on Compulsory Health Insurance Benefits. Act 42 / G. § childcare fee

is entitled to unpaid leave for the duration of the
Section 129 (1) A 127-128. § is terminated
a) in the case of the stillbirth of a child,
b) if the child dies, on the fifteenth day after the death,
c) if the child has been placed with temporary effect, in temporary or permanent care, in accordance with the provisions of a separate legal act,
and was placed in a residential social institution for more than thirty days the day after the child was placed.
2. In the case referred to in paragraph 1, the period of leave after childbirth may not be less than six weeks.
§ 130. In* addition to the provisions of § 128 (1) and (2), the employee shall be paid without pay for the personal care of the child.
leave is granted until the child reaches the age of ten during the period of payment of childcare allowance.
§ 131. (1) For the purpose of long-term personal care of the employee's relative, presumably exceeding thirty days, the care
unpaid leave for a maximum of two years.
(2) Long-term care and its justification shall be certified by the attending physician of the person in need of care.
§ 132. An employee shall be entitled to unpaid leave for the duration of the actual voluntary reserve military service.
§ 133. (1) An employee shall notify the use of unpaid leave in writing at least fifteen days in advance.
2. Unpaid leave shall be taken at the date specified by the worker, but not earlier than the date on which the leave is terminated.
shall expire on the thirtieth day following the date of notification of the disclaimer.
(3) The provisions of paragraphs (1) - (2) concerning time limits shall not apply to unpaid leave pursuant to Section 132.
63. Recording of working and rest time
*
§ 134. (1)
It is registered by the employer

a) normal and extraordinary working hours,
b) preparedness,
c) freedom,
*
d) extraordinary
working time performed on the basis of an agreement pursuant to Section 109 (2) and Section 135 (3),

duration.
2. It shall be possible to keep up-to-date records of normal and extraordinary working hours and standby times.
both start and end dates.
(3) Paragraph (1) a) register in point - Notwithstanding paragraph (2) - communicated in writing to the working hours Months
at the end of the year and by updating the change.
*
(4) Recorded
by the employer

a) Section 92 (2),
b) Section 99 (3),
c) Section 109 (2),
d) Section 135 (3) - (4)
agreements in accordance with
64. Different agreement
*
*
§ 135. (1)
Agreement
of the parties or collective agreement

a) in Section 87,
b) in Section 96 (2),
c) in Section 122 (5),
d) in Section 126 (4),
e) in Section 127 (1) - (2) and (4),
f) in Section 134
may not deviate from the provisions of
*
(2) Collective
agreement

(a) in 86,
b) 88-93. §-in,
c) in Section 95,
d) in Section 96 (3),
e) in Section 97 (1),
f) in Section 99,
g) a 101-108. §-in,
h) in Section 109 (2) - (3),
i) in Section 111,
j) 113-121. §-in,
k) in Section 122 (3),
l) in Section 123 (6),
m) in Section 124,
n) in Section 125,
o) in Section 126 (1) - (3) and (5),
p) in Section 127 (5),
r) 128-133. §-in
s) in the second indent of Section 135 (3)
may deviate only from the provisions of this Regulation for the benefit of the employee.
*
(3) On
the basis of the provision of a collective agreement, a maximum of three hundred hours of extraordinary working time per year may be ordered. Beyond this, the

up to one hundred hours of extraordinary working time per calendar year may be ordered by written agreement between the employer and the employee
(voluntary overtime). The employee may terminate the agreement by the end of the calendar year.
(4) A written agreement of the parties from the provisions of Section 99 (2), a collective agreement pursuant to Articles 101-109. §
(a) in civil aviation, cabin crew, aircraft maintenance and ground handling of air passengers and vehicles,
and contributing to or directly supporting the provision of air navigation services,
b) a passenger traveling in domestic and international road passenger transport and freight transport,
(c) in the case of road transport, local scheduled services and long-distance journeys not exceeding 50 kilometers
scheduled passenger services and uninterrupted services,
(d) in the field of passenger transport by rail and the carriage of goods by rail or ensuring uninterrupted transport,
(e) in port
may differ for an employed worker.
The agreement referred to in paragraph 4 shall be subject to the condition that:
a) the working time according to the schedule may not exceed the period prescribed in Section 99 (2) by more than twelve hours,
(b) the agreement shall be concluded by the employee on the last day of the calendar month or, if a working time limit is ordered, on the last day of the working time period;
you may terminate it with a period of fifteen days.
(6) A collective agreement may establish split working hours in the case of an employee employed pursuant to subsection (4).
XII. Chapter
Remuneration for work
65. The basic salary

Section 136* (1) The basic wage shall be at least the wage pursuant to Section 153 (1).
(2) The basic salary shall be determined in terms of time.
*
(3) In
calculating the part of the monthly basic salary for a specified period, the general work schedule governing the monthly basic salary shall apply.

shall be multiplied by the number of hours to be completed under the general working hours for that period.
§ 137. (1) The employer may also determine the wage as performance pay or by combining time and performance pay.
(2) Performance pay is the wage which the employee receives on the basis of a performance requirement determined in advance exclusively for him
deserves it.
(3) Wages may be determined only in the form of performance pay only in the case of an agreement included in the employment contract. This
appropriate in the case of remuneration determined by combining time and performance pay, if the time pay does not reach the basic pay
amount.
§ 138. (1) In case of application of performance pay, the employer shall establish a performance requirement, which shall be
based on a procedure based on measurement and calculation, covering a hundred hours of the requirement during normal working hours.
to examine the percentage of compliance.
(2) Establishment of a performance requirement or groups of employees subject to the same performance requirement
In determining the conditions of employment, account shall be taken of the conditions within the employer 's sphere of activity, in particular employment,
work organization and technology.
3. In the event of a dispute concerning the establishment of a performance requirement, the employer shall prove that his conduct did not infringe
the provisions of paragraphs 1 to 2.
(4) The performance requirement and the performance pay factor shall be communicated to the employee in writing prior to their application.
(5)

*

The wage factor for a full-time employee shall be determined by: a

100% of the performance requirement and full-time employment of at least
reach the level of wages pursuant to Section 153 (1).
(6) In the case of an employee who is paid exclusively for performance pay, the establishment of a guaranteed wage of at least half of the basic wage shall also be mandatory.
66. The wage supplement

Section 139 (1) The wage supplement shall be due to the employee in addition to his or her normal working hours.
*
(2) Unless
otherwise agreed, the basis for calculating the wage supplement shall be the basic hourly wage of the employee.
*
(3) When
determining the basis for calculating the wage supplement, the amount of the monthly basic salary - by way of derogation from Section 136 (3) -

(a) one hundred and seventy-four hours in the case of general full-time working hours,
(b) in the case of part-time or part-time full-time work, in proportion to one hundred and seventy-four hours
to be shared.
*
§ 140. (1)
In the case of working on a Sunday, fifty percent wage supplement (Sunday supplement) is payable,

a) if the employee to work in the normal working time exclusively to § 101 paragraph (1) d) , e) and i) as defined in
subject to conditions, and
(b) extraordinary working hours
*
(ba) an
employee as defined in point ( a) ,

bb) if the employee cannot be obliged to work during normal working hours pursuant to Section 101 (1).
(2) An employee shall be entitled to one hundred per cent wage supplement in the case of work on a public holiday.
3. The wage supplement referred to in paragraph 2 shall be payable on the day of Easter or Pentecost or on a public holiday on Sunday.
in case of work.
*
§ 141. (1)
If the date of the beginning of the daily working time according to the position changes regularly, the eighteen and six

Thirty per cent of the wage supplement (shift allowance) is payable in the case of work during the period between hours.

*

2. For the purposes of paragraph 1, a change shall be considered to be regular if the beginning of the daily working time on a monthly basis
at least one third of the working days and at least between the earliest and the latest
there is a four hour difference.
§ 142. The employee - with the exception of the employee entitled to the shift allowance - in the case of night work, if its duration is one
hours, there is a fifteen percent wage supplement.
*
§ 143. (1)
An employee shall be entitled to the remuneration pursuant to subsections (2) - (5) in addition to his or her normal working hours.

(2) An employee shall be entitled to a fifty percent wage supplement or, in accordance with an employment rule or by agreement of the parties,
free time
(a) extraordinary working time in excess of the daily working time according to the working time schedule,
(b) in addition to working time, or
(c) in addition to the accounting period
in the case of work performed.
3. Leisure time may not be less than the duration of the extraordinary working hours ordered or the work performed and the basic salary shall be proportional to this.
part of the act.
(4) In the case of work during extraordinary working hours ordered for a weekly rest day (weekly rest period) according to the working time schedule
one hundred percent wage supplement. The rate of the wage supplement is fifty percent if the employer provides another weekly rest day (weekly rest period).
(5) In the case of extraordinary working time ordered on a public holiday, the employee shall be
is entitled to a wage supplement.
6. The time off or the weekly rest period (weekly rest period) referred to in paragraph 4 shall be taken no later than the extraordinary working hours ordered.
unequal working time, at the latest in the month following the
issued by the end of the accounting period. By contrast, in the case of work outside working hours, the free time shall be at the latest
issued by the end of the working time frame.
7. By agreement between the Parties, time off shall be granted no later than the thirty-first day of December of the year following the year in question.
§ 144. (1) Twenty percent wage supplement is payable in case of standby and forty percent in case of on-call duty.
(2) In the case of work, wage supplement in accordance with Articles 139-143. §.
(3) In the case of on-call time, if the duration of the work cannot be measured, - contrary to the provisions of subsections (1) - (2) - fifty percent wage supplement
acts.
*
Section 145 (1) The parties shall comply with Articles 140-142. They may also set a basic salary, which shall include the wage supplement
specified in

(2) The parties to the employment contract
a) instead of a wage supplement,
*

(b) in the case of on-call time or on-call duty, a monthly flat-rate allowance including remuneration and allowances.
*
(3) Paragraph
136 (3) shall be applied accordingly when determining the proportional part of the supplementary lump sum.

67. Remuneration in the absence of work

§ 146 (1) An employee who fails to comply with the employment obligation of the employer during the working hours according to the position
(downtime) - except for an unavoidable external reason - is entitled to a basic salary.
(2) An employee, if he is exempted from work with the consent of the employer, for the lost working time according to their agreement
*
is entitled to remuneration.

(3) The employee is entitled to an absence fee
a) the duration of the leave,
b) in* the case specified in Section 55 (1) ( c) - (g) and ( j) and Section 55 (2),
c) in the case specified in Section 55 (1) ( i) , if he is heard as a witness,
(d) in the case of hourly or performance-based pay, the daily working time if the public holiday falls on a working day in accordance with the general working hours
reduces the working time to be performed,
e) if a rule of employment prescribes the payment of wages without work without specifying the amount thereof.
4. By* way of derogation from paragraph 3 ( d) , if the employee is incapacitated for work on a public holiday, the
percent. You are not entitled to an absence allowance if you receive sickness or accident sickness benefits due to your incapacity for work.
*
(5) Seventy
per cent of the absence pay shall be payable for the duration of sick leave.

§ 147

*

In addition to the remuneration specified in Section 146 (1), the employee is also entitled to a wage supplement if his / her working hours are

would have been entitled to a wage supplement.
Page 4

68. Calculation of the absence fee
*
§ 148. (1)
The absence fee

*

a) the basic salary valid at the time of its due date (Section 136), a flat-rate supplement (Section 145),
(b ) paid for the last six months (reference period) before the due date
ba) performance pay (Section 150),
bb) wage supplement (Section 151)
shall be determined taking into account the
(2) Due date
a) the starting date of the absence,
(b) in respect of severance pay
(ba) the date of notification of the employer's dismissal,
bb) in the case of Section 77 (1) ( b) and (c) , the date of termination of employment, or
(c) in the case of a finding of liability for damages, the date on which the damage occurred, if the employment relationship was previously terminated,
date of termination of employment.
3. The remuneration provided for in paragraph 1 ( a) shall, if the amount changes during the period of absence,
the modified amount shall be taken into account in calculating the period of absence.
(4) When determining the absence fee, the amounts referred to in paragraph 1 shall be determined in accordance with Articles 149 to 151. § - together
taking into account.
*
Section 149
(1) In the case of a monthly wage, when determining the part of the absence fee pursuant to Section 148 (1) a) in Section 136 (3)
*

shall apply.

(2) The part of the absence fee pursuant to Section 148 (1) a) by paying the monthly or hourly wage and the flat-rate allowance for the duration of the absence
can also be met and accounted for.
§ 150. (1) When determining the absence fee, the performance pay paid in accordance with the provisions of § 137 (3) shall be taken into account.
2. Performance pay shall be taken into account in proportion to the relevant period, irrespective of the date of payment.
*
(3) In
the case of performance pay, the basic salary shall be disregarded in the calculation of the absence fee.

4. The calculation of the hourly rate of absence shall take into account the
the amount of performance pay per working time shall be divided by the amount of performance pay during normal working hours and performance pay during the relevant period;
with the number of hours awarded (divisor).
(5) In* determining the absence fee, in the case of a salary determined by combining time and performance pay, the part of the time pay shall be
Shall be taken into account with the appropriate application of Section 148 (1) ( a) .
*
§ 151. (1)
When determining the absence fee, the Sunday allowance, the shift allowance, the night allowance and the allowance provided for in § 144 (1)

the wage supplement shall be taken into account in accordance with paragraphs 2 to 5.

*

2. The Sunday allowance shall be taken into account for the calculation of the absence allowance if the employee during the relevant period is at least
*

on one-third of Sundays he worked during his working hours.

3. Shift and night pay shall be taken into account in calculating the absence allowance if the worker:
during the relevant period, at least thirty per cent of his working time on a shift basis or at night
work performed during the period of entitlement to the wage*supplement.
(4) The wage supplement paid for the duration of on-call time and on-call time shall be taken into account in the calculation of the absence fee if the employer:
assigned to the employee on average on-call duty or standby time of at least ninety-six hours per month during the relevant period
el.

*

5. The wage supplement shall be taken into account in calculating the one-hour absence fee in such a way that the wage allowance paid for the relevant period
shall be divided by the number of hours worked during the reference period during the reference period (divisor number).
*

Section 152 (1) When calculating the absence fee, if no salary has been paid in the relevant period, the basic salary shall be taken into account.
(2) In the case of employment of less than six months, the reference period for calculating the absence pay shall be the calendar months or months.
should be taken into account. In the absence of a full calendar month, the basic salary or the monthly flat rate shall be taken into account.
69. The mandatory minimum wage, the guaranteed minimum wage

Section 153* (1) The Government is authorized to

*

(a) the mandatory minimum wage; and
(b) the guaranteed minimum wage
*

after consultation of the National Economic and Social Council.
(2)

*

The Government has a mandatory minimum wage and a guaranteed minimum wage for different groups of workers

you can determine.
3. In*determining the amount and scope of the mandatory minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage, account shall be taken of:
requirements of the job, the characteristics of the national labor market, the situation of the
labor market characteristics of certain sectors of the economy and certain geographical areas.
*
(4) The
amount of the mandatory minimum wage and the guaranteed minimum wage shall be reviewed every calendar year.

*

(5) The Government is authorized to maintain the net value of wages below HUF 300,000.
the expected rate of salary increase, the level of fringe benefits that may be taken into account in this context, and the rate of salary increase
after consulting the National Economic and Social Council,
*

Regulation.

70. Wage protection

§ 154. (1) Wages shall be set in HUF unless they work abroad or unless otherwise provided by law.
and pay.
(2) Wages may not be paid in any other form intended to replace a voucher or means of payment.
§ 155. (1) Unless otherwise agreed, the wages due to the employee shall be paid retrospectively, at least once a month.
to account for.
(2) Written information on the settlement of wages paid shall be given by the tenth day of the month following the month in question.
3. The information referred to in paragraph 2 must be such as to enable the employee to verify the accuracy of the accounts, the title of the deductions and the
and can check the amount.
*
(4) An
employee, if due to a reason that occurs after the settlement of wages for the relevant month, the change in the settlement

necessary to amend the payroll statement for the relevant month at the latest when the next month's payroll account is settled
be informed. The wage difference must be paid at the same time as the next monthly wage. The employer pays the extra payment
in accordance with the rules applicable to a claim arising from an advance.
Section *156 (1) Unequal working hours and
(a) in the case of monthly remuneration, the worker shall receive the basic monthly salary, whatever the extent of the hours worked;
(b) in the case of hourly-rate pay, unless otherwise agreed, the employer shall determine the employee's pay in that month;
accounts for and pays on the basis of the number of working days according to the general working hours and the daily working hours.
(2) At the end of the working time frame or the accounting period, the employee's wages shall be determined in accordance with the general work schedule and daily working hours,
and accounted for on the basis of hours worked.
(3) After the expiry of the working time frame or the accounting period, if the employee, at the wage accounted for in accordance with paragraph 2,
received a lower wage, the difference will be paid to him in the next month’s wage.
4. The rules applicable to claims for advances shall apply mutatis mutandis if the employee is subject to the
received a wage higher than the wage accounted for in accordance with
§ 157. (1) Wages shall be paid by the tenth day of the month following the relevant month.
(2) In the case of an employee who is paid exclusively for performance pay, if the remuneration to which he is entitled, or part thereof,
result can only be determined after a period of more than one month, the wage must be paid at the corresponding time. The basic salary
An advance equal to half of the amount shall be paid at least monthly.
*
§ 158. (1) Wages
shall be paid in cash or by transfer to a payment account specified by the employee.

(2)

*

In the case of payment of wages by transfer to a pay account, the employer must proceed in such a way that the employee

have your salary on the pay day.
*
(3) Payment
of wages and salaries - excluding at a payment service provider not established in Hungary or with a branch

transfer to a managed payment account - it must not incur any cost to the employee.
4. Wages shall be paid to the employee or his agent, unless the employee is the subject of a judicial or regulatory action.
decision.
§ 159. (1) In the case of payment of wages in cash, unless otherwise agreed, the provisions of paragraphs (2) - (6) shall apply.
derogation shall apply.
(2) If the pay day falls on a weekly rest day (weekly rest period) or on a public holiday, no later than the preceding
to be paid on a working day.
(3) Wages shall be paid on the working day at the last place of employment before payment of wages or at the expense of the employer
shall be sent to his place of employment if the employee is absent from his place of work for a legitimate reason on the day of payment of wages.
(4) Payment shall be made on the working day before the start of the leave
(a) is due on the day of pay for the period of leave; and
(b) *remuneration for the period of leave taken.
(5) The employer is obliged to send the wage to the address provided by the employee if the employment relationship takes place before the pay day.
ceased. The cost of posting is borne by the employer.
(6) Wages shall be paid during working hours at the employee's place of work or at the employer's premises. Nightclub wages
it can only be paid to those who work there.
§ 160 of*the Civil Code. 6:47. § interest is payable by agreement of the parties.
§ 161. (1) Deduction from wages is based on legislation or - up to the non-deductible part of wages - enforceable decision
place.
(2) The employer may deduct the claim from the wage
(a) on the basis of the employee 's contribution, up to the non - deductible component, or
(b) if it arises from the advance payment.
3. Deductions for the benefit of the employer, his representative or an intermediary in return for:
the employee to establish or maintain an employment relationship.
*
§ 162. There
is no place for offsetting against non-deductible wages.

§ 163. (1) An employee may not waive his or her claim for wages by a unilateral legal declaration.
*
(2) Assignment
is appropriate in the case of a claim for money. The non-deductible part of the salary cannot be assigned.

(3) A* debt assumption is appropriate in the case of a pecuniary claim. Employee debt cannot be assumed by the employee.
§ 164. Wages paid without a legal basis may be recovered beyond sixty days if the employee is found to be unfounded.
he had to recognize it or it was caused by himself.
71. Different agreement

§ 165 (1) Agreement of the parties or collective agreement
a) in* Section 136 (1) and (2),
b) in Section 137 (3),
c) in Section 138 (1) - (5),
d) in Section 139 (1),
e) in Section 154,
f) in Section 159 (5) - (6),
g) a 161-163. §-in
may not deviate from the provisions of
*
(2) Collective
agreement

a) in Section 136 (3),
b) in Section 138 (6),
c) in Section 160,
d) in Section 164
may deviate only from the provisions of this Regulation for the benefit of the employee.
*
(3) In
the case of the application of Section 94 (3), a different agreement with an hourly-paid employee pursuant to Section 156 (1) ( b) shall only apply.

may be concluded in accordance with the provisions of a collective agreement.
XIII. Chapter
Liability of the employer
72. Liability for damage caused

§ 166 (1) The employer is obliged to compensate the employee for the damage caused in connection with the employment relationship.
(2) He shall be released from liability if he proves that:
(a) the damage was caused by a circumstance outside its control which it did not have to take into account and could not be expected to
avoid the occurrence of the circumstance or remedy the damage, or
(b) the damage was caused solely by the unavoidable conduct of the injured party.
(3) In the case of employment of an employee with another employer pursuant to the provisions of Section 53, the employers shall jointly and severally
they answer.
§ 167. (1) The employer is obliged to compensate the employee in full. There is no need to compensate for the damage in connection with which
proves that its occurrence was not foreseeable at the time of the injury.
2. The part of the damage which has been caused by the employee's wrongful conduct or which has resulted from:
the employee has not fulfilled his obligation to compensate.
(3) The court may partially exempt the employer from compensation on the basis of circumstances deserving of special consideration. During this
in particular, it assesses the financial situation of the parties, the gravity of the infringement and the consequences of the payment of damages.
§ 168. (1) The employer shall be appointed in accordance with Articles 166-167. §, the employee is responsible for the objects and things brought into the workplace by the employee
for damages.
(2) The employer may require that items brought into the workplace be placed in a custody or that the entry be reported. To go to work
or items not required for work may be introduced only with the permission of the employer. In case of violation of these rules, the employer
he is liable for the damage caused only in case of intentional damage.
73. Extent and method of compensation

§ 169 (1) In determining the arrears of income within the scope of employment, the arrears of wages and the regular benefit thereof
the monetary value to which the employee is entitled under the employment relationship in addition to wages, provided that it is

regularly before the occurrence of the damage.
(2) Other regular, legally acquired income lost as a result of an injury shall be considered as income lost out of employment.
to be reimbursed.
(3) Compensation shall also be paid for damage which, despite the worker's significant incapacity as a result of the injury,
with work performance.
4. The value of benefits which are intended only for work and shall not be reimbursed, and
received as reimbursement.
§ 170. (1) The value of benefits in kind and the amount of material damage shall be the consumer price valid at the time of determining the compensation.
shall be determined on the basis of
(2) The amount of material damage shall be calculated taking into account obsolescence. Damage is the cost of repairs if a
damage to property can be repaired without depreciation.
§ 171. (1) The employer is also obliged to compensate the employee's relative for the damage incurred in connection with the damage.
2. In addition to the provisions of paragraph 1, a dependent relative who, in the event of death, dies in connection with the damage
you may also claim maintenance in lieu of an amount equal to your needs - actual or expected wages,
income at pre-injury level.
*
§ 172. (1)
It shall be deducted in calculating the amount of compensation

(a) benefits provided by social security or voluntary mutual funds,
(b) which the right holder has sought or could reasonably have sought in the particular situation,
c) which the right holder has obtained by utilizing the damaged thing,
(d) to which he is entitled as a result of expenses saved as a result of the damage.
(2) In determining the income on which the compensation is based, the income - the beneficiary in accordance with the social security rules
shall be taken into account in the amount less the withholding tax.
§ 173. (1) An annuity may also be established as compensation. An annuity is usually set if the compensation is for the employee or
serves to maintain or supplement the maintenance of a dependent entitled to maintenance against him.
2. The employer shall be required to pay general compensation equal to the total material compensation of the injured party if the
the extent of all or part of the damage cannot be precisely calculated. General compensation can also be determined as an annuity.
§ 174. (1) In the case of compensation provided on the basis of the injured party, the employer or liability insurance, the insurer, if the determination of the compensation
after a material change in circumstances, he may request an amendment to the compensation determined.
2. The amount of compensation awarded to a young worker at the age of eighteen years or after
one year after the completion of his studies in order to
compensation shall be determined according to the change in his ability to work or his qualifications.
(3) In determining the amount of the change in wages on the basis of which the compensation is changed, the employer shall take into account the
employees in the same job as the injured party
the rate of the average annual wage change is decisive. In the absence of employees holding the same position, the amendment
the average annual wage change at the organizational unit shall be taken into account as the basis.
(4) In the event of the termination of an organizational unit pursuant to subsection (3), the employer shall have the same
employees in the position and, in the absence of such employees, the average annual earnings actually achieved by the employer
the rate of wage change is decisive.
§ 175. (1) It shall be considered independent from the point of view of limitation
a) income foregone and sick pay,
b) loss of income due to loss of income and injury,
(c) income foregone and invalidity pension, accident invalidity pension, invalidity benefit or rehabilitation benefit
claim for reimbursement of the difference.
(2) The limitation period if several separate separate claims for damages are due at several and different times in connection with the damage
shall be calculated separately from the time each claim becomes due.
3. The limitation period shall be as set out in paragraph 1
a) from the date of the first payment of sickness benefit,
(b) from the time when the loss of capacity for work due to the injury led to the first impairment of health
loss of income,
(c) from the date of payment of the invalidity pension, accidental invalidity pension, invalidity benefit or rehabilitation benefit
begins.
§ 176. (1) The employer and the insurer shall, as necessary, provide the employee or his / her relative with
you can request a certificate of your income and income conditions every year.
(2) The employer shall notify the injured party within fifteen days if there has been a change in wages on the basis of which the compensation has been changed.
74. Application of civil law rules
*
§ 177. In
order to compensate for the damage, the Civil Code 6: 518-534. § shall apply.

75. Different agreement

§ 178. A collective agreement may deviate from the provisions of this chapter only for the benefit of the employee.
XIV. Chapter
Employee liability
*

76. General rules of liability

§ 179. (1) The employee is obliged to compensate the damage caused by the breach of his / her obligation arising from the employment relationship, if not
acted as would normally be expected in a given situation.
(2) The existence of the conditions referred to in paragraph 1, the damage and the causal link shall be proved by the employer.
(3) The amount of compensation may not exceed the amount of the employee's four-month absence fee. Intentional or grossly negligent
in the event of damage, full damage must be compensated.
(4) There shall be no need to compensate for damage which was not foreseeable at the time of the damage or which was caused by the employer.
caused by his misconduct or as a result of the employer's failure to comply with his obligation to pay compensation.
(5) The provision contained in Section 177 shall apply to compensation for damage.
77. Preservation responsibility

§ 180. (1) The employee is obliged to compensate for the damage if the obligation to return or take over the settlement has been handed over for safekeeping.
in the case of a defect in something which he is constantly in custody, use or handle exclusively.
(2) He shall be released from liability if he proves that the deficiency was caused by an unavoidable cause.
(3) The employee shall be obliged to compensate the damage pursuant to subsection (1) if the thing is signed on the basis of a list or a receipt.
certified. When transferring a thing to several employees for safekeeping, transfer the inventory or receipt to all
must be signed by the receiving worker. The employee may authorize the transferee to take over the thing in his place and on his behalf.
4. A cashier, treasurer or custodian shall be charged without a list or acknowledgment in accordance with paragraph 3.
responsibility for the money, securities and other valuables it manages.
5. The employer shall prove the existence of the conditions set out in paragraphs 1 and 3 and the damage.
(6) If the damage caused by damage to the thing transferred for safekeeping has occurred, the employee shall be released from liability if he proves that
he acted as would normally be expected in a given situation.
78. Joint responsibility of several employees

§ 181. (1) The employees shall bear the damage in proportion to their guilt, if this cannot be established, in proportion to their involvement.
2. Damage shall be borne in equal shares by the employees if the degree of fault or interference cannot be established.
(3) Employees shall be liable for the shortfall in a thing transferred to several employees for safekeeping in proportion to their wages.
(4) A joint and several obligation is appropriate if the damage was caused intentionally by several persons.
79. Liability for lack of inventory

§ 182. (1) The employee shall be liable for the lack of inventory regardless of the fault of the employee.
(2) Liability for lack of inventory
a) concluding an inventory responsibility agreement for the inventory period,
b) regular transfer and receipt of inventory,
c) the determination of the inventory shortage on the basis of the inventory taking of the entire inventory carried out in accordance with the inventory system,
and
(d) work at the place of work for at least half of the inventory period.
(3) If the inventory is also managed by an employee who is not responsible for the lack of inventory, a further condition of liability is that the person responsible for the lack of inventory
employee consents in writing to employment in that job or workplace.
§ 183. (1) Lack of inventory in material and goods regularly delivered and received for sale, distribution or handling (inventory stock)
natural amount of loss and loss of treatment (hereinafter together:
distribution loss).
(2) The inventory period is the period between two consecutive inventories.
§ 184. (1) The inventory responsibility agreement shall be in writing.
2. The agreement shall specify the scope of the inventory for which the employee is responsible.
(3) A group inventory responsibility agreement may also be entered into if the inventory is managed by several employees. The agreement should
also determine the jobs that should be inventoried when there is a change in occupancy.
(4) The inventory responsibility agreement shall be terminated if, due to a change in the employee's job, the inventory is no longer available.
handles.
(5) The employee may terminate the inventory liability agreement in writing without giving reasons by the last day of the inventory period. Group
in the case of an inventory liability agreement, the termination shall terminate the
agreement.
Section 185 (1) Established by the employer
(a) the range of materials and articles for which the nature, size, storage or storage conditions of the material
with regard to marketing losses,
b) the eligible amount of the distribution loss,
c) the manner and rules of transfer and receipt of the inventory,
d) the procedure for establishing the inventory shortage or inventory liability,
(e) the employer's obligations to keep inventories safe.
2. The employee shall be informed of the conditions determined in accordance with paragraph 1 by the conclusion of an inventory responsibility agreement or
shall be notified in writing before the start of the inventory period.
(3) In the case of inventory, the employee or, in the case of impediment, his representative, in the case of group inventory responsibility in the rules of procedure
the presence of specific workers should be allowed. The employer, if the employee is not represented, is the one
appoint a non-interested representative with expertise in the profession.
(4) The employee shall be informed of the inventory settlement and the result thereof. The employee may comment during the procedure, a
the employee must be heard, unless he or she did not appear despite being duly notified.
§ 186. (1) An employee who permanently manages the inventory stock alone - unless otherwise provided in the inventory responsibility agreement is responsible for the full amount of the inventory shortage.
(2) The employee shall be liable up to the amount of the absence fee for a maximum of six months, if the inventory stock is also covered by the employee who is not responsible for the lack of inventory.
handles.
(3) In the case of a group inventory liability agreement, the amount of compensation shall not exceed the amount of the employees who have entered into the agreement.
the total amount of the six-month absence fee. A group inventory responsibility agreement can define the responsibilities of employees
but there is no need to establish joint and several liability. Employees are liable in proportion to their absence pay if
the group inventory responsibility agreement does not settle the division of responsibilities.
§ 187 In determining the extent of liability or compensation, all the circumstances of the case shall be taken into account, in particular
those which affect the responsibility of the worker or which may have affected safe and proper handling, including
the fulfillment of the employer's obligations regarding safe custody, as well as the duration of any absence of the employee.
§ 188

*

The employer's claim for compensation for the lack of inventory shall be forfeited within sixty days of the completion of the inventory.

within the time limit. In the case of criminal proceedings, this time limit is thirty days and the court is final to the end of the criminal proceedings
the prosecution or the investigating authority may not be challenged
shall begin on the day following the notification of its decision to terminate.
80. Employee security

§ 189. (1) On the basis of a written agreement of the parties, the employee shall provide a guarantee to the employer if
(a) in the course of his duties, receives money, other value or other remuneration from another employee or third party,
performs a transfer, or
b) to a) set out the performance of checks directly above.
(2) The amount of the security may not exceed the amount of the employee's basic monthly salary. Due to the increase in the basic salary, the employer
it may not require the amount of the security to be replenished.
3. The employer shall lodge the security with the credit institution of his choice no later than the working day following its receipt, or
placed in a separate account with a financial undertaking for that purpose.
(4) The employer shall immediately repay the amount of the collateral increased by the central bank base rate to the employee if
(a) a change in his job, the condition laid down in paragraph 1, or
(b) his employment relationship
cease.
(5) The security may be used only to satisfy a claim for compensation in accordance with the rules on deduction from wages.
81. Reduction of compensation

§ 190 The court may partially exempt the employee from compensation on the basis of circumstances worthy of extraordinary consideration. Of this
In particular, it assesses the financial situation of the parties, the gravity of the infringement and the consequences of the payment of damages.
82. Different agreement

§ 191. (1) From the provisions of this chapter, except for the extent of liability for compensation for lack of inventory, a collective agreement shall apply only to
may deviate in favor of the employee.
(2) Pursuant to the provision of a collective agreement, in the event of negligent damage, the amount of compensation shall not exceed eight months.
the amount of your absence fee.
XV. Chapter
Special rules for certain types of employment
83. Fixed-term employment

§ 192. (1) The duration of a fixed-term employment relationship shall be determined on a calendar basis or in another suitable manner. The employment relationship
the date of termination may not depend solely on the will of the party if the parties have not determined the duration of the employment on a calendar basis. This
in the latter case, the employer shall inform the employee of the expected duration of the employment relationship.
2. The duration of a fixed-term employment relationship shall not exceed five years, including extended and previous fixed-term employment.
the duration of another fixed-term employment relationship established within six months of the termination of the employment contract.
(3) If an official permit is required for the establishment of an employment relationship, the employment relationship shall not exceed the duration specified in the permit.
can be established. In case of extension of the permit, the duration of the new fixed-term employment relationship is the previously established employment relationship
together with its duration - may exceed five years.
*
(4) Extension
of a fixed-term employment relationship or six months after the termination of a fixed-term employment relationship

re-establishment within the employer is possible only if there is a legitimate interest of the employer. The agreement cannot be directed at the employee
to the detriment of its legitimate interests.
84. Work on call

§ 193. (1) An employee employed part-time for a maximum of six hours a day shall be appointed to his / her job on the basis of an employment contract.
fulfills its work obligation in accordance with the due date of the tasks In this case, the duration of the working time frame is four
months.
(2) The employer must notify the employee of the date of the work at least three days in advance.
85. Job sharing

§ 194. (1) The employer and several employees in the joint performance of tasks belonging to one job in the employment contract
they may agree. In the event of an employee being impeded, another employee entering into a contract is obliged to leave the employment relationship
obligations arising from
2. The rules on casual working shall apply mutatis mutandis to the organization of working time.
(3) Unless otherwise agreed, employees shall be paid equal pay.
(4) Employment shall be terminated if the number of employees decreases per capita. In this case, the employer is obliged to pay as much time
to pay the employee the severance pay that would have been payable in the event of dismissal by the employer;
severance pay rules.
86. Employment relationship established by several employers

§ 195. (1) Several employers and employees may agree in the performance of tasks belonging to one job in the employment contract.
(2) The employment contract shall specify which employer fulfills the obligation to pay wages.
(3) Employers shall be jointly and severally liable for the employee's labor law needs.
(4) Unless otherwise agreed, the employment relationship shall be terminated by the declaration of rights of any employer or employee.
(5) The employment relationship shall be terminated for the reason specified in Section 63 (1) ( b) if the number of employers decreases.
87. Teleworking
*
Section 196 (1)

Teleworking is a regular activity carried out in a place separate from the employer 's premises which
*

by computer means and the results are transmitted electronically.

(2) The employment contract shall stipulate the employment of the employee in the framework of teleworking.
(3) In addition to the provisions of Section 46, the employer shall inform the employee
a) control by the employer,
(b) rules on restrictions on the use of a computerized or electronic device; and
(c) the department to which the employee's work relates.
4. The employer shall provide the teleworker with all information which he may provide to another worker.
provides.
(5) The employer shall ensure that the employee can enter his territory and maintain contact with another employee.
§ 197. (1) The employer's right to instruct - unless otherwise agreed - tasks to be performed exclusively by the employee
covers.
(2)

*

(3)

*

(4) Unless otherwise agreed, the employer shall determine the method of inspection and the property used as the place of work.
the shortest period between its notification and its commencement. The inspection must not mean a
disproportionate burden on the employee and on any other person using the property where the work is performed.
(5) Unless otherwise agreed, the employee's work schedule is not binding.
88. Employee employment

Section 198 (1) An employee employment relationship may be established for work that can be performed independently, for which the parties pay only
in the form of a performance fee (Section 137 (3)).
(2) The employment contract shall specify the activity performed by the employee, the place of work, the method of reimbursement
and extent.
(3) Workplace is the employee's place of residence or other place determined by the parties.
§ 199. (1) The employer's right to instruct - unless otherwise agreed - the technique to be applied by the employee and the work to be performed
to determine how.
(2) Unless otherwise agreed, the employee shall perform his or her duties with his or her own means.
(3) Unless otherwise agreed, the employer shall determine the method of inspection and the property used as the place of work.
the shortest period between its notification and its commencement. The inspection must not mean a
disproportionate burden on the employee and on any other person using the property where the work is performed.
(4) Unless otherwise agreed, the work schedule of the employee shall not be binding.
§ 200. (1) The employee shall be reimbursed for the costs he / she has actually incurred during the work, or if the
no actual cost can be determined, a flat rate must be paid to the employee.
(2) There shall be no remuneration or reimbursement of costs if the performance does not comply with the prescribed requirement for reasons attributable to the employee.
There is a reduction in pay and reimbursement if the employer can use all or part of the results of the work.
89. Employment relationship for simplified employment or casual work

§ 201. (1) The employer and employee specified by law are intended for simplified employment or casual work
may establish an employment relationship. An employment contract for simplified employment or casual work is invalid if it
there is an employment relationship between the parties at the time of its conclusion.
2. The parties shall not enter into an employment contract with a view to establishing an employment relationship for the purpose of simplified employment or casual work.
may be modified.
§ 202. (1) The provisions of § 44 shall not apply to an employment contract. The parties shall conclude an employment contract in
may also be concluded using an employment contract.
(2) The employment relationship is established by fulfilling the notification obligation specified by law.
Section *203 (1) For employment
a) in Section 49 (2),
b) in Section 53,
c) in Section 56,
d) in Section 59,
e) in Section 61,
f) in Section 81,
g) in Section 97 (4) and (5),
h) in Section 101,
i) a 122-124. §-in,
j) 126-133. §-in,
k) in Section 192 (4), and
l) a 208-211. §-in
not applicable.
(2) Upon termination of employment, the certificates specified in Section 80 need not be issued.
(3) Daily working time may be divided unequally, even in the absence of a working time frame or accounting period.
(4) The provisions of Section 134 and Section 155 (2) shall not apply if the parties, by applying the model employment contract
have concluded a contract of employment for simplified employment or casual work.
90. Employment relationship with a publicly owned employer

§ 204

*

(1)

*

A publicly owned employer is a public foundation as well as a business company in which the state is local

local government, national self-government, local government association, regional development council, budgetary body or public foundation
has a majority influence, calculated individually or in combination.
(2) Majority influence is a relationship in which the legal person with influence has more than fifty votes
directly or through another legal entity (intermediate company) with voting rights in the legal entity
through - has. In determining indirect disposition, another legal entity with voting rights in the legal entity
the share of the voting power of the person (intermediate company) shall be multiplied by the number of voting rights in the intermediate company, or
voting rights in companies. If the proportion of votes in the intermediate company exceeds fifty per cent,
then it must be considered as a whole. If the influential person has more than one indirect ownership
in a legal person, the degree of non-majority indirect influence does not add to the degree of other non-majority indirect influence.
*
§ 205. (1)
Collective agreement or agreement of the parties

a) the period of notice in Section 69 (1) - (2) and (4) - (5), and
b) severance pay in § 77
may not depart from the rules laid down in

*

(2) In an employment relationship with a publicly owned employer
a) Section 69 (3) shall not apply,

*

b) no derogation from Section 86 (3) may be made.
(3) In an employment relationship with a publicly owned employer, a full-time equivalent of less than the normal total daily working time
working time may not be prescribed, except in order to exclude health or safety hazards.
§ 206. A*XIX-XXI. The provisions of this Chapter may not be derogated from.
§ 207. (1) The person exercising ownership rights is entitled to determine the positions in which only in § 208 (2)
employment contract.
(2) A performance requirement for a senior employee pursuant to the provisions of Section 208, as well as the related performance requirement
performance pay or other benefit may be determined by the owner exercising the ownership rights.
(3) A non-compete agreement with a senior employee in accordance with the provisions of Section 208 shall be concluded with the employee exercising the ownership rights.
may be concluded for a period not exceeding one year. The proprietor can define the job for which he is
non-compete agreement and may impose additional conditions.
4. The consideration under a non-compete agreement shall not exceed the duration of the agreement for the same period of absence.
fifty percent of the fee.
(5) Unless otherwise provided by law, the person exercising ownership rights may exercise the right specified in subsections (1) - (4).
you can also authorize another person (body, body).
91. A senior employee

§ 208. (1) A senior employee is the manager of the employer, as well as those under his direct control and - in part or in full another employee entitled to replace (hereinafter together: manager).
*
(2) An
employment contract may provide for the application of the provisions applicable to the manager if the employee is employed by the employer.

positions of high importance or high confidence and the basic salary reaches the
wages [153. § (1) a) ] seven times.
§ 209

*

(1)

*

The employment contract of the driver shall be subject to the provisions of Part Two of this Act - in paragraphs (2) and (3).

with a specific exception.
*
(2) Driver's
employment contract

a) in* Section 55 (1) ( b) , (c) , (e) and ( j) ,
b) in Section 65 (3) ( a) , (b) and (e) ,
c) in Section 113 (3), and
d) in § 127 and § 128
may not deviate from the provisions of
(3) The driver is not covered by the collective agreement.
(4) The driver's work schedule is unconstrained.
(5) In the event of negligent damage, the driver shall be liable for the total damage.
(6) In the event of the unlawful termination of the employment of a manager, - contrary to the provisions of Section 84 (1) and (2) - twelve months
must pay an amount equal to the absence fee.
§ 210. (1) In case of termination by the employer
a) Section 65 (3) ( c) ,
b) Section 66 (1) - (6) and
c) Section 68 (2) shall not apply.
(2) The right to terminate immediately with effect against the driver within three years of the occurrence of the ground on which it is based,
in the case of a criminal offense, may be exercised until the expiration of the criminal record.
(3) The remuneration due to the manager in view of the termination of employment shall be equal to the absence pay of the employer for a maximum of six months.
to pay the amount when it is due, if the notice of termination is given in bankruptcy or liquidation proceedings
took place after the start of the The excess amount upon completion or termination of the bankruptcy proceedings or liquidation
shall be paid at the end of the procedure.
§ 211. (1) The manager may not establish a legal relationship for further work.
(2) The driver
(a) may not acquire a holding other than an acquisition of shares in a public limited-liability company which is the same as that of his employer;
or in another economic activity which also carries out a similar activity or has a regular economic relationship with the employer,
(b) may not conclude a transaction falling within his employer 's name in his own name or on his behalf; and
(c) must declare if a member of his relative pursues the same or similar activities as his employer or
a company with a regular economic relationship with an employer or an employment relationship as a manager
established with an employer who also carries out such activities.

92. An incapacitated worker
*
§ 212. (1) The
incapacitated or partially incapacitated in the case group related to the employment relationship

an employee may establish an employment relationship only for a job which, due to his / her state of health, he / she is able to permanently and continuously
to supply.
Page 5

(2) The job title of the employee shall be defined by a detailed description of the tasks related to it. For the employee
medical aptitude test covers the performance of detailed job duties.
3. The work of the worker must be monitored continuously and in such a way as to ensure healthy and safe working conditions.
ensure that it is maintained.
*
(4) The
provisions applicable to the young worker shall be governed by the provisions on compensation or damages

shall not be obliged to pay.
93. Different agreement

§ 213. Agreement of the parties or collective agreement
a) in Section 192,
b) in Section 195 (2) - (3) and (5),
c) in Section 196,
d)

*

e) in Section 198,
f) 200-207. §-in,
g) in Section 212
may not deviate from the provisions of
XVI. Chapter*
Special rules for temporary agency work
94. Concepts

Section 214. (1) For the purposes of this Act
(a) temporary agency work: the activity in which a lender is employed by a lender for the purpose of hiring
temporarily transfers an employee to the borrower for work for remuneration (loan),
(b) lender: an employer who, under the direction of the borrower, employs an employee who is employed by him for the purpose of hiring
temporary assignment to the borrower for work,
(c) " borrower" means the employer under whose control the worker is temporarily employed;
(d) temporary agency worker: an employee employed by the lender for the purpose of temporary agency, against whom:
during the lease, the employer's rights are shared between the lender and the borrower (employee),
(e) " rental" means the work carried out by an employee for a borrower.
2. The duration of the lease shall not exceed five years, including the termination of the extended or previous lease.
within six months, regardless of whether the loan is with the same or another lender
*

implemented on the basis of an agreement reached.
§ 215. (1) It* may be a lender

(a) an undertaking established in an EEA State which may, under the law applicable to it, engage in temporary agency work, or
(b) a domestic limited liability company or, in the case of a non-member
in the case of an employee, a cooperative,
which meets the conditions laid down in this Act or other legislation and has been registered by the public employment service.
(2) In the event of the removal of the lender from the register, the legal consequences of the invalidity of the employment contract shall be determined.
apply.
Section 216* (1) An employee may not be hired
(a) in the case provided for by the employment rule,
b) to replace a worker involved in a strike,
c) in excess of the duration specified in Section 214 (2).
(2) The borrower may not oblige the employee to work for another employer.
(3) An agreement which:
(a) imposes a prohibition or restriction on the employment of the borrower after the termination or termination of the employment relationship;
live,
(b) under which the employee is required to pay remuneration to the lender for the loan or the legal relationship with the borrower;
for establishment.
(4) To the Borrower
(a) the number and conditions of employment of temporary agency workers,
(b) vacancies
it must inform the works council at least every six months and keep the employees informed.
95. Legal relationship between lender and borrower
*
§ 217. (1) The
agreement between the lender and the borrower contains the essential conditions of the loan, the employer's authority

exercise sharing. The right to terminate the employment relationship can only be exercised by the lender. The agreement must be in writing
Reserve. The agreement between the lender and the borrower is void if
(a) the lender or the borrower's owner is, in whole or in part, the same,
(b) at least one of the two employers owns the other employer in some proportion, or
(c) the two employers are related by virtue of their ownership of a third body.
2. The lender and the borrower may agree that the non-wage benefit shall be paid directly by the employee to the
from the borrower.
(3) The borrower shall inform the lender in writing
a) the relevant rules of procedure,
b) the person exercising the employer's right,
c) the manner and deadline of the communication of the data on the basis of which the remuneration is paid,
(d) the condition of suitability for the work to be performed; and
(e) any circumstances relevant to the employment of the worker.
(4) Unless otherwise agreed, the lender shall bear the costs referred to in Section 51 (2), in particular
the employee's travel expenses and the fee for the aptitude test required for the job. The lender at the request of the borrower
at the latest until the employee takes up employment
(a) in accordance with the legislation laying down the tax regime, the data relating to the employer and the person employed by the payer,
notification to the State Tax Authority of the commencement of an insurance relationship, and
(b) a copy of the document certifying its registration as a lender under a separate law
to pass.
5. Unless otherwise agreed, the Borrower shall, no later than the fifth day of the month following the month in question,
provide the lender with all the information necessary for the payment of wages and
necessary for the fulfillment of the declaration, data provision and payment obligation imposed on the employer. The borrower in the last job
within three working days of the day spent working, provide the necessary information to the lender if the employment
in the meantime it ceases to exist.
96. Temporary employment relationship

§ 218. (1) It shall be agreed in the employment contract that the employment contract is concluded for the purpose of rental, and it shall be
determine the nature of the work and the basic wage.
(2) Upon concluding the employment contract, the lender shall, in addition to the provisions of Section 46, inform the employee of the registration
number.
(3) The lender shall inform the employee in writing no later than before the hire
a) the identification data of the borrower,
b) the beginning of the lease,
c) the place of work,
d) the work schedule of the borrower,
e) on the part of the borrower exercising the employer's right,
(f) conditions of access to employment, accommodation and meals.
(4) During the term of the rental
a) the employee's occupational safety and health,
b) with the provisions of Section 51 (1) and (3) - (5), and
(c) working time and rest periods, with a record of them
the rights and obligations of the employer in relation to
97. The requirement of equal treatment

§ 219. (1) During the term of the lease, the employee shall be provided with the employees employed by the borrower.
basic working and employment conditions.
2. The basic working and employment conditions referred to in paragraph 1 shall in particular:
(a) pregnant and lactating women; and
b) the protection of young workers,
(c) the amount and protection of wages and other allowances,
(d) provisions on the requirement of equal treatment.
*
(3) Provisions
concerning the amount of wages and other benefits and the requirement of equal treatment with the borrower

shall apply from the one hundred and eighty - fourth day of employment to the worker who:
(a) has a permanent employment relationship with the lender for the purpose of temporary employment and
receive remuneration even in the absence of employment,
(b) Article CXXIII of 2004. to an employee who is permanently absent from the labor market as defined in Section 1 (2) (1) of Act
it counts as,
(c) a company or non-profit organization majority-owned by a local government, or a registered
works for a non-profit organization in the framework of temporary employment.
4. For the purposes of paragraph 3, in the case of re-lending to the same borrower, the
The provisions of Section 214 (2) shall apply accordingly.
98. Termination of employment

Section 220 (1) For the purposes of Section 66 (2), the termination of the lease shall be deemed to be a reason related to the operation of the lender.
*
(2) The
notice period is fifteen days.

3. In the event of termination of the lender, unless otherwise agreed, the employee shall be released from the
from his obligation to work.
(4) An employee may terminate the employment relationship with immediate effect even if the provisions of Section 78 (1)
breach of duty or conduct is certified by the borrower.
(5) The borrower shall notify the lender of the employee's breach of obligations within five working days of becoming aware of it.
inform in writing. The term specified in Section 78 (2) begins with the communication of the information.
(6) The employee shall notify the lender of the legal declaration of termination of employment.
99. Liability for damages

§ 221. (1) In *the event of damage to the employee or violation of the right to privacy, the borrower shall
in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
2. Subject to the agreement of the lender and the borrower, in the case referred to in paragraph 1, compensation for damage to the employee
civil law rules of liability apply.
3. For the purposes of the civil law rules on the liability of an employee for damage to an employee, the employer, the lender and the
unless otherwise agreed by the Borrower, the Borrower shall be deemed to be.
*
(4) The
borrower and the lender shall be liable for any damage or violation of the rights of the employee caused by the employee during the rental.

jointly and severally liable.
100. Different agreement
*
§ 222. (1)
Agreement or collective agreement of the parties

a) a 214-216. §-in,
b) in Section 217 (1),
c) with § 218 (1) - paragraph (2) and (4) a) and b) of
may not deviate from the provisions of
(2) Collective agreement
a) in Section 218 (3),
b) in Section 220 (2) - (3),
c) of § 219 paragraph (2) a) and b) of
may deviate only from the provisions of this Regulation for the benefit of the employee.
(3) In the case of temporary agency work
a) in Section 69 (1) - (2) and (4),
b) 193-195. §-in,
(c) 198-200. §-in,
d) in Section 212
cannot be applied.
(4) In the case of temporary employment, Articles 71 to 76. § provisions shall not apply.
(5) In the case of an employment relationship for hire or reward, Section 77 (2) shall apply with the exception that the right to severance pay
the duration of the employment during the last lease shall be taken into account in determining entitlement.
XVII. Chapter*
223-226. §

*

101.

§ 227

*

*

XVIII. Chapter
Certain employment agreements
102. The non-compete agreement

§ 228. (1) Based on the agreement of the parties, the employee may not certify for a maximum of two years after the termination of the employment relationship.
conduct which would harm or jeopardize the legitimate economic interests of his employer.
(2) The employer shall pay an appropriate consideration for the fulfillment of the obligation under paragraph (1). The amount of consideration
particular account shall be taken of the extent to which the agreement impedes the worker,
primarily in terms of qualifications and practice - in establishing a new employment relationship. The consideration is a
for the duration of the agreement may not be less than one third of the basic salary for the same period.
*
(3) The
non-compete agreement must be in writing.

(4) If* the employee terminates his employment pursuant to Section 78 (1), he may withdraw from the agreement.
(5) In* the event of a change in the identity of the employer, the rights and obligations arising from the agreement shall be the transferee
they transfer to an employer.
*
(6) In
case of stipulation of a penalty, the Civil Code. 6: 186-189. § is applicable.

103. The study contract

§ 229. (1) In*the study contract, the employer undertakes to provide support during the studies, and the employee to
undertakes to pursue the agreed studies and is proportionate to the level of support after obtaining the qualification
does not terminate his employment by dismissal for a period of up to five years. When calculating the time spent in employment unless otherwise agreed - Section 115 (2) shall apply mutatis mutandis.
(2) No study contract can be concluded
(a) to provide benefits under the employment rule, and if
(b) the employee was required by the employer to carry out the studies.
(3) The study contract must be in writing.
(4) In the event of a change in the identity of the employer, the rights and obligations arising from the study contract shall be borne by the transferee.
they transfer to an employer.
(5) The employee shall be released from his / her obligation arising from the study contract if the employer commits a material breach of contract.
(6) The employer may withdraw from the study contract and recover the support provided if the employee
breach of contract. It is also considered a breach of contract if the reason for termination of employment is the employee
employment behavior. The obligation to reimburse is proportionate if the employee is for the duration stipulated in the contract
it does not download only part of it.
7. A study contract may be terminated by a party with immediate effect if there is a material change in its circumstances which
would make it impossible or disproportionately prejudicial to fulfill the obligation. In the event of termination of the employee, the employer shall:
may recover the aid granted. The employer may claim the benefit proportionately if the employee is in the contract
downloaded only part of the stipulated duration. In the event of termination by the employer, the aid cannot be recovered.
*
(8) In
case of stipulation of a penalty, the Civil Code. 6: 186-189. § is applicable.
*
229 / A. § (1)
Agreement or collective agreement of the parties

a) in Section 228 (3),
b) in Section 229 (3)
may not deviate from the provisions of
(2) Collective agreement
a) in Section 228 (2),
b) in Section 229 (1)
may deviate only from the provisions of this Regulation for the benefit of the employee.

THIRD PART
LABOR RELATIONS

XIX. Chapter
General provisions
§ 230. This law regulates the protection of the social and economic interests of employees and the maintenance of peace at work
the system of relations between the trade union, the works council and the employers or their interest representation organizations. In this context, the
freedom of association, employee participation in shaping working conditions, defines the order of collective bargaining
or a procedure for the prevention and resolution of labor conflicts.
§ 231. (1) Employees or employers have the right to - in accordance with the conditions specified by law - economic and social
in order to promote and protect their interests, without any discrimination, an interest representation organization together with others
organization of their choice, subject solely to the rules of that organization, or
stay away from organizations.
2. Interest representation organizations shall have the right to form or join associations, including international ones
alliances as well.
(3) Employees have the right to form a trade union with their employer. The trade union may operate bodies with the employer,
it may involve its members in their operation.
§ 232. The employer, the works council and the trade union are obliged to inform each other in writing of the person entitled to represent them and the
the identity of the official.
Section 233 (1) For the purposes of this Part
(a) information: the provision of statutory information relating to the employment relationship or employment relationship,
in a way that allows them to get to know, examine and form an opinion on it,
b) consultation: exchange of views, dialogue between the employer and the works council or the trade union.
2. Consultations with a view to reaching an agreement in accordance with the objective set out in the initiative shall be conducted in such a way as to:
be insured
(a) adequate representation of the parties,
b) direct, personal exchange of views,
(c) the substantive hearing.
3. During the ongoing consultation, but unless otherwise agreed for a longer period, no more than
for seven days from the date of the initiative, the employer may not implement the planned measure. In the absence of an agreement a
employer shall complete the consultation at the end of the period.
§ 234. (1) The employer is not obliged to provide information or hold a consultation if it is a fact, information, solution or data
which could jeopardize the legitimate economic interests or the functioning of the employer.
(2) A person acting on behalf of or for the benefit of a works council or a trade union may disclose a fact, information, solution or data
which is intended to be treated as strictly confidential or business secret in order to protect the legitimate economic interests or the operation of the employer
may not be disclosed in any way and for the purposes set out in this Act
you may not use it in any way outside of your reach.
(3)

*

A person acting on behalf of or for the benefit of a works council or a trade union has become aware of it in the course of his or her activities

information may be provided only without jeopardizing the legitimate economic interests of the employer or infringing the rights of the individual
to the public.
XX. Chapter
The works council
104. General rules

§ 235. (1) The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the co-operation of the employer and the employees and to the participation in the decisions of the employer.
apply.
2. With regard to the employee rights provided for in this Chapter, employees shall be appointed by the works commissioner, the works council, the central
council and a group-level works council.
§ 236. (1) Employees at the employer or at the employer's independent premises or departments (hereinafter: premises), if the
the average number of employees in the six months preceding the formation of the electoral commission exceeds fifteen,
trustee, if it exceeds fifty, a works council shall be elected.
(2) The employer's premises shall be deemed to be independent if its manager is competent in respect of certain participation rights of the works council.
has.
3. The works council shall be elected for a term of five years.
(4) Reasonable costs related to the election and operation of the works council shall be borne by the employer.
Section 237 (1) Number of members of the works council, if the number of employees pursuant to Section 236 (1)
a) does not exceed one hundred, three,
b) does not exceed three hundred, five,
c) does not exceed five hundred persons, seven,
d) does not exceed one thousand persons, nine,
e) does not exceed two thousand people, eleven,
f) exceeds two thousand persons, thirteen.
2. A new member of the works council shall be elected if the number of employees and members of the works council is at least six months
does not comply with paragraph 1 due to an increase in the number of employees.
§ 238. (1) An employee with legal capacity who, with the exception of the newly formed employer, has at least six
has been employed by the employer for one month and works at the site.
(2) A person may not be elected a member of the works council
a) exercises the right of employer,
b) a relative of the driver,
(c) a member of the election committee.
*
(3) For
the purposes of subsection (2), the establishment, modification and termination of an employment relationship shall be deemed to be an employer's right.

§ 239. Employee employed by the employer and working at the given site for the election of a member of the works council
entitled.
105. Election of the Works Council

§ 240. (1) The preparation and conduct of the election, as well as the establishment of the detailed rules of the election procedure
committee.
2. The selection board shall be elected by the works council from among the employees entitled to vote, no later than sixty days after the election.
create before. The electoral commission shall have at least three members.
(3) A member of the selection board who is a member of the works council may not be a member.
4. In the absence of a works council, the selection board shall be set up by the employees.
(5) A member of the election committee shall be released from his / her work obligation for the duration of his / her activity. Absence for this time
is entitled to a fee.
§ 241. The list of employees entitled to vote and the number of employees to be elected shall be established by the election committee and the election
at least fifty days in advance. The necessary data for the election committee at the request of the employer within five days
enter.
§ 242. (1) A candidate may be nominated by at least ten per cent of the employees entitled to vote or fifty employees entitled to vote or
a trade union represented at the employer.
2. The election committee shall register and publish the candidate at least thirty days before the election.
3. The list of candidates shall be published by the Electoral Committee at least five days before the election.
(4) The nomination of candidates shall be effective if the number of candidates reaches the number of members to be elected to the works council. In case of unsuccessful candidate nomination
the nomination period shall be extended by a maximum of fifteen days.
§ 243. (1) The members of the works council shall be elected by secret and direct vote.
(2) An employee entitled to vote shall have one vote.
(3) Voting may not exceed the number of candidates specified in Section 237 (1).
§ 244. (1) The result of the election shall be established by the election committee.
2. The election committee shall draw up minutes. This should include in particular
a) the number of eligible voters,
b) the number of participants in the vote,
c) the number of valid and invalid votes cast,
d) the number of votes cast for each candidate,
e) the names of the elected works council members and alternates,
(f) any dispute over the election and the decision thereon.
3. The election report shall be published by the election commission without delay.
(4) The term of office of the works council shall begin on the working day following the publication of the election minutes.
§ 245. A vote is invalid if
(a) was not given in the prescribed manner,
(b) it is not possible to establish to whom the vote was cast,
(c) votes have been cast for more than the number of members eligible for election.
§ 246. (1) The elected members of the works council - in the number specified in § 237 (1) - shall be those who
most of the valid votes cast, but at least thirty per cent of the votes cast. In the event of a tie, a
longer employment with the employer should be taken into account.
2. An alternate member of the works council shall be one who has obtained at least twenty percent of the valid votes cast.
§ 247. (1) An election is valid if more than half of those entitled to vote have participated. From this point of view - provided that the
did not take part in the election - the eligible employee who was at the time of the election should not be taken into account
a) an incapacitated patient,
(b) is on unpaid leave.
(2) In the event of an invalid election, the election shall be repeated within ninety days. Not to hold a new election within thirty days
may.
(3) A repeated election shall be valid if more than one third of those entitled to vote have participated in it. Become a works council member
the candidate shall be deemed to be elected if he has the highest number of valid votes cast but at least thirty votes cast;
acquired a percentage. If the re-election is invalid, another works council election may take place after one year at the earliest
to keep.
§ 248. (1) The election shall be ineffective if the candidates have not received the submitted number in the number specified in § 237 (1).

thirty percent of the votes.
2. Candidates who obtain thirty per cent of the votes cast shall be deemed to be elected members of the works council. For the remaining places
a new election must be held within thirty days. New candidates may be nominated for a new election for the fifteen days prior to the election.
(3) A repeated election shall be valid if more than one third of those entitled to vote have participated in it. Become a works council member
the candidates shall be deemed to be elected if they have the highest number of valid votes cast, but at least the number of votes cast;
thirty percent were acquired.
(4) An alternate member of the works council who has obtained at least fifteen per cent of the validly cast votes shall be considered.
(5) If the re-election is invalid, a new election of the works council may be held after one year at the earliest.
§ 249. (1) The employee, the employer, as well as the trade union represented at the employer with the nomination, the election
may apply to a court in accordance with the provisions of Section 289 in connection with the execution or determination of its result.
(2) The court shall annul the result of the election if it finds a material violation of the rules of procedure. It has to be important
to consider the irregularity which affected the outcome of the election. This circumstance must be probable in the application.
106. Central and group level works council

§ 250. (1) Works councils may establish a central works council.
2. The works councils shall delegate a representative from among their members to the central works council. The Central Works Council has fifteen members
can not exceed.
(3) The rules applicable to the works council shall otherwise apply to the central works council.
§ 251. (1) The central works councils or, in the absence thereof, the works councils at the recognized or actual group of companies
level council.
(2) A representative shall be delegated to the works council by the central works councils or the members of the works councils. Number of members of the works council
it may not exceed fifteen.
The rules on cooperation shall apply to decisions on employees within a group of companies and shall be subject to the following rules:
determined by the group-level works council.
(4) The rules applicable to the works council shall otherwise apply to the works council at the level of the group of companies.
107. Termination of the works council

§ 252. The works council shall be dissolved if
a) the employer ceases to exist without a successor,
b) the condition specified in Section 236 (2) is terminated,
c) his term of office has expired,
d) resigns,
e) is recalled,
f) the number of its members has decreased by more than one third,
(g) the number of employees has fallen below 50 or by at least two-thirds,
(h) the court annuls the result of the election; and
i) in other cases specified by law.
§ 253. (1) A vote shall be held on the recall of the works council if at least thirty percent of the employees entitled to vote for it
in writing. A vote is valid if more than half of the employees entitled to this election have participated. To call back a
more than two-thirds of the valid votes cast are required.
2. A recall request may not be made again within one year.
3. The rules governing his election shall apply mutatis mutandis to the recall of the works council.
§ 254. In the event of termination of the works council due to the reason specified in § 252 b) -c) and f) -g) , the mandate of the new works council
but for a maximum of three months from the date of termination.
108. Termination of the term of office of a member of the works council

§ 255. The term of office of a member of the works council is terminated
a) upon the fulfillment of the condition set forth in Section 238 (1), or
b) upon termination of the works council,
c) upon fulfillment of the condition set forth in Section 238 (2),
d) by resignation,
e) by recall.
§ 256. (1) A vote shall be held on the recall of a member of the works council if this is done by at least thirty employees entitled to vote.
percent shall propose it in writing. A vote is valid if more than half of the employees entitled to this election have participated. THE
recall requires more than two-thirds of the valid votes cast.
2. A recall request may not be made again within one year.
3. The rules governing his election shall apply mutatis mutandis to the recall of a member of the works council.
§ 257. In the event of termination of the term of office of a member of the works council, the number corresponding to the number of votes obtained shall be paid to the works council.
an alternate shall be called in that order.
109. Mergers and divisions of entities and changes in the identity of the employer

§ 258. (1) In the case of a merger of economic units, if there is a works council in each unit, within three months after the merger
a new works council is elected within.
2. In the case of a merger of undertakings, where only one undertaking has a works council, the agency shall not be represented.
shall be represented within three months by the election of a member of the works council.
3. In the event of a spin-off of an undertaking, the new undertakings shall, within three months of the spin-off,
they choose.
4. Paragraphs 1 to 3 shall apply where a grouping of undertakings or the separation of an undertaking
due to a change in the identity of the employer.
110. Operation of the works council

§ 259. (1) The works council shall meet within fifteen days after its election, and shall elect a chairman from among its members at its first meeting.
(2) A member may attend a meeting of the works council only in person.
(3) The rules of operation of the works council shall be established by its rules of procedure.
§ 260. (1) In order to perform his / her duties, the chairman of the works council shall have fifteen monthly working hours and his / her members
is entitled to a working time allowance equal to ten per cent of his working time. The use of the working time discount - unforeseen,
except in cases of intolerance and in duly justified cases, at least five days in advance.
(2) An absence fee shall be payable for the duration of the working time allowance.
*
(3) The
consent of the works council shall be required for the termination of the employment of the chairman of the works council by termination by the employer.

or a measure taken by the employer pursuant to Section 53 concerning the chairman of the works council. The defense is the chairman of the works council
for a term of office and six months after the end of his term of office, provided that he has been in office for at least twelve months.
loaded.

*

4. The works council's position on the employer's measure pursuant to paragraph 3 shall be set out in writing by the employer.
within eight days of receipt of the information. If the works council does not agree with the planned measure, the
the information shall include the reasons for the disagreement. If the works council does not deliver an opinion within the above deadline,
employer shall be deemed to agree to the proposed measure.
(5) The provisions of subsections (3) - (4) shall not apply if the employee is entitled to protection pursuant to section 273.
§ 261. The employer shall ensure, in the manner specified in the works agreement, the possibility that the works council a
publish information on its activities.
111. Functions and powers of the works council

§ 262. (1) The task of the works council is to monitor the observance of the rules concerning employment.
(2) In order to perform the task of the works council, it is entitled to request information and initiate a hearing stating the reason,
which cannot be rejected by the employer.
*
(3) The
employer shall inform the works council every six months

(a) questions concerning its economic situation,
(b) changes in wages, liquidity related to the payment of wages, characteristics of employment, use of working time,
characteristics of working conditions,
(c) the number of employees employed by the employer and the job title.
4. The works council shall inform the employees of its activities every six months.
§ 263. The employer and the works council shall jointly decide on the use of funds for welfare purposes.
§ 264. (1) At least fifteen days before the employer's decision, the works council shall seek the opinion of a larger group of employees.
draft employer measures and regulations concerning
2. For the purposes of paragraph 1, an employer shall in particular be considered to be a measure
a) reorganization and transformation of the employer, transformation of an organizational unit into an independent organization,
b) production, investment program, introduction of new technology, modernization of the existing one,
c) the processing and protection of personal data concerning the employee,
d) the use of a technical means of controlling the worker,
(e) accidents at work and occupational diseases aimed at creating healthy and safe working conditions;
a measure to prevent
f) introduction and modification of the new work organization method and the performance requirement,
g) training plans,
h) use of employment aid,
(i) measures for the rehabilitation of disabled workers or workers with reduced working capacity
draft,
j) definition of the work schedule,
k) definition of the principles of remuneration,
l) environmental protection measure related to the operation of the employer,
m) a measure aimed at maintaining the requirement of equal treatment and ensuring equal opportunities,
n) reconciling family life and work,
(o) any other measure specified in the employment regulations.
§ 265. (1) In the event of a change in the identity of the employer, the transferring and receiving employers shall
inform the works council of the change within fifteen days
(a) its date or planned date,
b) the reason,
(c) the legal, economic and social consequences for workers.
2. On the date specified in paragraph 1, the transferor and the transferee employer shall enter into negotiations with a view to concluding an agreement.
initiate with the works council on the planned measures affecting employees.
3. The hearing shall cover the principles of the measures, the means, means and means of avoiding adverse effects.
mitigation measures.
4. The transferor and the transferee employer shall comply with the obligation to provide information and negotiate even if the employer is personally
the decision justifying the change was made by the organization or person controlling the employer. The employer cannot rely on it
that it has failed to fulfill its obligation to provide information and negotiate because the inspection body or person has
failed to inform the employer.
§ 266. The works council is obliged to act impartially in connection with a strike organized by the employer, it may not organize a strike, the
you cannot support or prevent a strike. The term of office of a member of the works council involved in a strike for the duration of the strike
pauses.
112. The operating agreement

§ 267. (1) The employer and the works council shall, in order to implement the provisions of this chapter and to promote their co-operation,
may conclude an agreement.
(2) The works agreement may be concluded for a definite term, but not longer than the term of office of the works council.
3. The operating agreement may be terminated with three months' notice.
(4) The works agreement shall be terminated upon the termination of the works council.
*
(5) The
operating agreement

a) in Section 233,
b) in Section 236 (4),
c) a 238-249. §-in,
d) 252-255. §-in,
e) in Section 259,
f) in Section 261,
g) a 266-268. §-in
may not deviate from the provisions of
(6) The operating agreement is governed by Articles 262 to 265. § may not be restricted.
§ 268. (1) The operating agreement - the XII. Except as provided in chapter - adjust the § 277 paragraph (1) a) point
contained. The condition for concluding an agreement with this content is that the employer does not belong to a collective agreement concluded by him
or the employer does not have a trade union entitled to conclude a collective agreement.
2. Scope of the rules of the operating agreement pursuant to paragraph 1
(a) the entry into force of a collective agreement concluded by the employer, or
(b) by notifying the employer of the trade union's right to bargain collectively
cease.
(3) In the case specified in paragraph (2) ( b) and in Article 252 ( b) to (g) , the rules of the
shall apply for a period of six months from the date of termination.
(4) To the operating agreement
a) in Section 277 (2) - (5),
b) in Section 278,
c) in Section 279 (3) - (4),
d) in Section 280,
e) in Section 282
shall be applied accordingly.
113. The operating agent

§ 269. (1) The rules applicable to the works council shall be applied to the plant agent, with the exception of the provisions of § 268.
apply.
(2) The provisions of Section 260 (3) - (4) shall apply with the exception that the right of the works council is
exercised by a community of workers.
XXI. Chapter
The union
Page 6

§ 270. (1) The rights granted to a trade union in this Act belong to the trade union represented at the employer.
me.
(2) For the purposes of this Act
(a) " trade union" means any organization of workers the primary purpose of which is to provide employment for workers
promoting and protecting the interests of
(b) a trade union represented by the employer which, in accordance with its statutes, has a body authorized to represent it by the employer
operates or has an official.
§ 271. (1) The employer may not demand that the employee declare that he or she belongs to a trade union.
2. The employment of a worker may not be made conditional on his membership of a trade union or the termination of his previous employment.
membership of a trade union or undertakes to join a trade union designated by the employer.
(3) It shall be prohibited to terminate the employment of an employee or to
differentiate the employee in another way.
(4) Entitlements or benefits may not be made conditional on membership of or absence from a trade union.
§ 272. (1) A trade union is entitled to enter into a collective agreement in accordance with the rules specified in this Act.
2. A trade union shall have the right to involve employees in matters relating to industrial relations or employment.
to inform.
3. The employer shall, in consultation with the trade union, ensure that the trade union
publish information with your employer.
(4) The trade union shall ask the employer regarding the economic and social interests of the employees in connection with the employment relationship.
request information.
(5) The trade union is entitled to express its opinion on the employer's measure (decision) or its draft with the employer.
to initiate a consultation in this context.
(6) The right of a trade union to bring financial, social,
and represent them in relation to their rights and obligations concerning their living and working conditions.
(7) A trade union has the right, by proxy, to protect its economic and social interests by a court, authority and
to represent before other bodies.
8. The trade union shall have the right, in agreement with the employer, to
use the employer's premises for advocacy purposes.
(9) The employer may not demand consideration for the deduction of the trade union membership fee and its transfer to the trade union.
*
§ 273. (1)
The consent of the direct higher trade union body is required - the trade union elected in accordance with paragraph (3).

termination of the employment relationship of an employee (hereinafter referred to as an “official”) by the employer
and the measure taken by the employer pursuant to Section 53 concerning an official.

*

2. The protection provided for in paragraph 1 shall be vested in the official for the duration of his term of office and for six months thereafter,
*

provided that he has held office for at least twelve months.

(3) The trade union shall be one of the officials employed at an independent premises in accordance with the provisions of Section 236 (2), if the
the average statistical number of employees on the first day of the calendar year, calculated for the previous calendar year
a) does not exceed five hundred persons, one person,
b) more than five hundred persons but not more than one thousand persons, two persons,
c) exceeds one thousand persons but does not exceed two thousand persons, three persons,
d) exceeds two thousand persons but does not exceed four thousand persons, four persons,
e) exceeds four thousand persons, five persons
you can mark.
4. In addition to the official referred to in paragraph 3, the employer shall enjoy the protection provided for in paragraph 1.
an official nominated by the highest statutory body of the trade union represented.
(5) The trade union shall then be entitled to appoint another official instead of the official designated in accordance with paragraphs (3) to (4).
indicate if the official's employment or trade union position has ceased.
6. The position of the trade union in relation to the employer's measure pursuant to paragraph 1 shall be set out in writing by the employer.
within eight days of receipt of the information. For information, if the union with the planned action
disagree, the reasons for disagreement. If the union does not communicate its opinion within the above deadline, it must do so
considered to agree with the proposed measure.
§ 274. (1) In*order to perform his or her trade union interest representation activities, the employee is entitled to a working time discount,
and the employee designated in accordance with Section 273 (3) - (4) is released from his obligation to work with the employer
for the duration of the consultation.
2. All working time allowances which may be taken in accordance with paragraph 1 per calendar year shall be available to the employer.
one hour per month for every two union members. The working time discount is available to the union on 1 January
*
shall be determined on the basis of

(3) The working time allowance may be taken by an employee designated by the trade union. The union shall inform the employer a
at least five days, except in unforeseeable, non-deferred and highly justified cases
must notify earlier.
(4) The working time discount can be used until the end of the current year. The working time discount cannot be redeemed.
(5) Absence pay shall be paid for the duration of the working time allowance and the consultation with the employer.
§ 275. A non-employed person acting on behalf of a trade union, if the trade union has an agreement with the employer
has an employed member, he may enter the territory of the employer. During entry and stay at the employer
the rules governing its operation must be complied with.
XXII. Chapter
The collective agreement
114. Conclusion and content of the collective agreement
*
§ 276. (1)
It may enter into a collective agreement

(a) the employer, the employer's representative body on behalf of the members, and
(b) the trade union or trade union federation.
(2) A trade union has the right to enter into a collective agreement if the number of its members employed by the employer reaches
a) employed by the employer,
(b) in the case of a collective agreement concluded by an employers' representative organization, covered by the collective agreement
ten percent of the workforce.

*

(3) A trade union federation is entitled to conclude a collective agreement if at least one of the representatives represented at the employer
*
its member organization meets the condition set out in paragraph 2 and is authorized to do so by its member organizations.

4. The trade unions entitled to conclude a collective agreement pursuant to paragraph 2 may conclude the collective agreement jointly.
(5) The employer may enter into a collective agreement. If the collective agreement is concluded by several employers, is it a collective agreement
the employer may conclude a collective agreement with effect from it. A collective agreement concluded by several employers
contract shall be deemed to have a broader scope for the purposes of Section 277 (4).
6. For the purposes of paragraph 2, the average number of employees for the six months preceding the conclusion of the contract shall be:
based on.
(7) The negotiation of an offer to conclude a collective agreement may not be rejected.
8. A trade union (trade union federation) which, after the conclusion of a collective agreement, complies with the
right to initiate an amendment to the collective agreement and, at the negotiation of the amendment,
with the right of consultation.
§ 277. (1) It may be regulated by a collective agreement
(a) a right or obligation arising out of or in connection with an employment relationship,
b) the parties by concluding, fulfilling, terminating the collective agreement, exercising their rights, fulfilling their obligations
behavior.
(2) Unless otherwise provided, a collective agreement may deviate from the provisions of Parts Two and Three.
(3) Collective agreement
a) the XIX. Chapter XX and Chapter XX. may not derogate from the provisions of Chapter
b) 271-272. § may not be restricted.
(4) A collective agreement with a narrower scope may deviate from the general one, unless otherwise provided, only for the benefit of the employee.
(5) The derogation in favor of the employee shall be assessed by comparing the related provisions.
§ 278. The collective agreement must be in writing.
115. Scope of the collective agreement
*
§ 279. (1)
The scope of a collective agreement extends to the employer who

(a) has concluded a collective agreement, or
(b) a member of a collecting society.
(2) The provisions of the collective agreement regulating the relationship between the parties shall apply to the parties to the collective agreement.
(3) The provisions of the collective agreement concerning employment shall apply to all persons who have an employment relationship with the employer
employee.
(4) In the case of an employment relationship established by several employers, unless otherwise agreed, the employee shall be subject to the provisions of Section 195 (2).
covered by a collective agreement concluded by an employer under
(5) The collective agreement shall enter into force upon promulgation.
116. Termination of the collective agreement

§ 280. (1) A collective agreement may be terminated with three months' notice. Collective agreements concluded by several unions
any trade union has the right to terminate.
(2) The right of termination may not be exercised within six months from the conclusion of the collective agreement.
(3) A fixed-term collective agreement shall terminate upon the expiry of the fixed-term contract.
§ 281. (1)* An employer, an employer interest representation organization or a trade union (trade union association) without a legal successor
the collective agreement ceases to be valid.
(2) In the case of a collective agreement concluded by several employers or several employers' representative organizations, the collective agreement
it shall cease to have effect only in respect of the employer or the employer's representative body which has ceased to exist without a legal successor.
(3) In the case of a collective agreement concluded by several trade unions, the collective agreement shall have no legal successor of all trade unions
shall cease to have effect.
(4) A collective agreement shall cease to be valid if the trade union (trade union association) concluding the collective agreement complies with Section 276 (2) - (3).
is not entitled to conclude a collective agreement.
(5) Paragraph (4) shall apply in the case of a collective agreement concluded by several trade unions if, pursuant to Section 276 (2):
none of the unions is entitled to conclude a collective agreement.
117. Change in the identity of the employer

§ 282. (1) In*the event of a change in the identity of the employer, the receiving employer shall
must maintain the working conditions laid down in a collective agreement in force for one year from the date of takeover.
2. The obligation set out in paragraph 1 shall not be imposed on the employer if the collective agreement is in force for a period following the date of acceptance.
terminates earlier than one year or the employment relationship is covered by a collective agreement on the date following the transfer.
118. Different agreement and authorization

§ 283. From the provisions of this chapter
a) in Section 279 (4),
b) in Section 280 (1) and (3)
may not be derogated from.
§ 284. The Minister responsible for employment policy is authorized to lay down in a decree the terms of the collective agreement.
rules for the notification and registration of the conclusion of

PART FOUR
THE LABOR DISCUSSION

XXIII. Chapter
Enforcement of labor law claims
§ 285. (1) The employee and the employer shall, as a result of the employment relationship or this Act, the trade union, the works council
you can enforce your claim arising from law or a collective agreement or a plant agreement in court.
2. By* way of derogation from paragraph 1, the employer shall impose on the employee a minimum and
wages [153. § (1) a) ] may also enforce a claim not exceeding three times the amount by means of a demand for payment. THE
a request for payment must be made in writing.
(3) A claim against a decision made at the discretion of the employer may be enforced if the employer
infringed the rules governing the decision-making process.
(4) Pursuant to the provisions of Section 295, the employee's claim for the duration of employment in Hungary may also be submitted to a Hungarian court.
you can enforce.
§ 286. (1) An employment law claim expires within three years.
*
(2) Caused
by a crime

(a) damages, or
(b) to pay personal injury damages
demand for five years; if the limitation period for criminal liability is longer, it shall lapse during the corresponding period.
(3) The limitation period of a claim shall be taken into account ex officio.
(4) The rules of civil law shall otherwise apply to the limitation period, provided that the claim of the employee
The limitation period may not be shortened by the parties.
§ 287. (1) The statement of claim shall be submitted within thirty days of the publication of the employer's legal declaration.
a) by unilateral amendment of the employment contract,
b) the unlawfulness of the termination of employment,
(c) the legal consequences of the employee's failure to fulfill his obligations,

*

(d) the demand for payment, and
e) with the provisions of Section 81 (2)
to enforce a related claim.
*
(2) The
employee

a) by giving notice pursuant to Section 40, or
b) by immediate termination pursuant to Section 78
related claim can be enforced within the limitation period.
3. In*the event of a challenge to an agreement or a unilateral declaration of termination of employment, the application shall be
within thirty days of the finding that the appeal is ineffective. The attack is ineffective,
if the other party does not reply within 15 days of its communication or does not accept it.
4. The time-limit for lodging an application shall be deemed to have been observed if the application is lodged no later than the last day of the period.
was mailed on. You can use the certificate validating the claim if you fail to meet the deadline set for the submission of the application. The need
cannot be validated after six months.
5. Except as provided in points ( c) to (d) of paragraph 1, the lodging of an application shall not have suspensory effect.
§ 288. The time limits provided for in § 287 shall not be affected if the collective agreement or the agreement of the parties in order to resolve the dispute
order conciliation.
§ 289. (1) The employer, the works council or the trade union due to a violation of the rule concerning information or consultation
you can go to court within five days.
*
(2) The
court shall decide within fifteen days in civil non-litigation proceedings. Against the court's decision within five days of notification

there is an appeal within. The appellate court will rule within fifteen days.
§ 290. The different rules for enforcing a claim based on a title specified in a collective agreement are set out in the collective agreement
you can specify.
XXIV. Chapter
The collective labor dispute
§ 291. (1) The conciliation committee for the resolution of disputes between the employer and the works council or the trade union
hereinafter referred to as "the Committee"). The works agreement or the collective agreement may also provide for the establishment of a standing committee.
2. The committee shall consist of an equal number of members and an independent chairman, delegated by the employer and the works council or the trade union.
§ 292. (1) The chairman is obliged to continuously consult the members delegated by the two parties, the position of the members and the result of the consultation shall be
summary in writing at the end of the conciliation.
2. Reasonable expenses incurred in connection with the committee proceedings shall be borne by the employer.
§ 293. (1) The employer and the works council or the trade union may agree in advance in writing that the decision of the committee
they submit to themselves. In this case, the decision of the committee is binding. In the event of a tie, the chairman shall have the casting vote.
(2) An arbitrator shall decide in a dispute arising in connection with the provisions of Section 236 (4) and Section 263. Its decision is binding on the parties. THE
in the absence of agreement between the parties, the arbitrator shall be chosen by lot from among the candidates of the parties.
3. During the proceedings of the committee or the arbitrator, the parties may not engage in any conduct that is prejudicial to the agreement or the arbitrator.
would frustrate the implementation of the decision.

PART FIVE
FINAL PROVISIONS
Section 294.* (1) For the purposes of this Act
(a) young worker: a worker under the age of eighteen,
*
(b) relative:
the spouse, the direct relative, the adopted child, the stepfather and the foster child, the adoptive parent, the

stepfather and foster parent and brother, partner, spouse of a direct relative, direct relative and brother of the spouse, and
brother's spouse
(c) child: a child brought up or cared for in his or her own household in accordance with the rules on family support; disabled
child: a child in respect of whom a higher amount of family allowance under the Family Support Act has been paid
to establish
(d) compulsory medical examination: a medical examination attended by an employee in accordance with the provisions of the Employment Regulations
including the medical examination required in view of the pregnancy,
*
e) employee
representative: a member of the works council, the works representative, a trade union official pursuant to Section 273 (3) - (4),

an employee representative of the company's supervisory board,
(f) employment relationship: employment relationship, membership of a cooperative with an obligation to work,
and a contract of agency for the purpose of performing the activities of a senior executive or supervisory board of the company
legal relationship and sole proprietorship,
(g) a retired worker who:
(ga) has reached the retirement age and has the length of service required for the old-age pension (old-age pension
permission),
(gb) receives a retirement pension before reaching the retirement age,
gc) old-age benefits paid on the basis of a government decree on benefits paid by the Hungarian Public Foundation for Creative Arts,
receive an invalidity pension (pension),
*
gd) receives
a church or denominational pension from an ecclesiastical legal person,

ge) receives an old-age or incapacity benefit,
(gf) receives an increased amount of old - age or incapacity benefit, or
(gg) receive invalidity benefits,
(h) parent:
(ha) the blood and adoptive parents and the cohabiting spouse,
(hb) a person who wishes to adopt a child living in his or her own household and the procedure for doing so is already under way,
hc) the guardian,
hd) foster parent and surrogate parent,
(i) single worker: a person raising a child in his or her own household and unmarried, unmarried, widowed, divorced, separated from his or her spouse
lives separately and has no partner,
j)

*

non-deductible part of wages: the balance after deductions that can be made under the law on judicial enforcement

wage share,
*
(k) worker
with three or more children: who, under the Family Allowance Act, is a parent of at least three

with regard to the child
(ka) is* entitled to family allowances and childcare allowance or childcare allowance, childcare allowance
has received or is receiving, or
(kb) has received or is receiving child-raising allowance,
(l) *person with a disability: on the basis of a valid qualification issued by the rehabilitation authority or its predecessors
la) whose state of health is 60 per cent or less according to the complex qualification of the rehabilitation authority,
(lb) who has at least 40% damage to health, an expert opinion, a resolution of the competent authority, an official
during the period of validity of the certificate, certification,
(lc) whose incapacity for work is between 50 and 100 per cent during the period of validity of the relevant expert opinion, or
(ld) receive invalidity benefits.
2. A worker shall receive benefits under paragraph 1 ( g) ( gb) or ( gc) if the benefit is legally enforceable.
found.
§ 295. (1)* If the foreign employer - on the basis of an agreement concluded with a third party - the employee in the territory of Hungary
employed in an employment relationship which, pursuant to Section 3 (2), is not covered by this Act, the provisions of Section (4)
with the exception of employment
(a) the length of the longest working time or the shortest rest period,
b) the minimum amount of paid annual leave,
*
c) the
amount of remuneration generally applicable at the place of work,

(d) temporary agency work in accordance with Articles 214 to 222. §,
e) occupational safety and health conditions,
(f) conditions of employment for pregnant women and women with young children, and young workers; and
g) the requirement of equal treatment,
*
h) the
conditions of accommodation provided to the employee by the employer,
*
i) incurred
during the posting of a worker temporarily employed in the territory of Hungary or in the territory of Hungary

travel, subsistence and accommodation in the event of a stay to a place of work other than the usual place of work.
the amount of allowances or reimbursements paid for expenses
the rules of Hungarian law shall apply, including those contained in a collective agreement extended to employment
their provisions.

*

2. Paragraph 1 shall also apply where the employment is provided by a foreign employer or by an employer
takes place at its Hungarian site, which belongs to the same group of companies as the foreign employer.
*
(3) For
the purposes of point ( c) of paragraph 1 , Articles 136 to 153 shall apply to the remuneration generally applicable at the place of employment. §-in

defined remuneration. Contributions to supplementary occupational pension schemes do not have to be included in remuneration,
and remuneration paid to the employee that does not form the basis of personal income tax.
*
4. With
regard to the conditions set out in paragraph 1, a sectoral or sub-sectoral collective agreement

shall apply.
(5) If* the duration of the posting pursuant to subsection (1) exceeds twelve months, the provisions of this Act shall apply to the employment relationship - the
Except as provided in paragraph 7, shall apply mutatis mutandis.
*
6. The
period referred to in paragraph 5 shall be extended by a further six months for the employment supervision of the foreign employer.

in the case of a reasoned notification to the competent authority.
*
(7) For
postings exceeding twelve months

a) a VII. chapter,
(b) Chapter X,
c) Section 228, and
(d) provisions for supplementary occupational pension schemes
not applicable.
(8)

*

If the foreign employer is another person performing the task at the given workplace in the territory of Hungary

(posting), the duration of the posting shall be the aggregate of the workers covered by the posting.
the duration of the secondment. In order to determine the task performed at a given workplace, the nature of the service to be provided,
the task to be performed and the place of work must be taken into account.
(9)

*

The provisions of paragraphs 1 to 4 shall not apply if, with regard to the conditions set out in paragraph 1:

the law otherwise governing the employment relationship is more favorable to the employee.
Section 296 (1) The provisions of Section 295 shall not apply to an employer's seagoing vessel engaged in commercial shipping activities.
with regard to its staff.
*
(2) The
employee posted by the service provider performing the first assembly or installation of the goods under the contract, the paid

with regard to the minimum amount of annual leave and the amount of the minimum wage, Section 295 (1) shall not apply.
b) -c) , if the duration of the work in Hungary does not exceed eight days, unless § 295
*

The activity specified in paragraph 4 shall be carried out.

*
§ 297. (1)
Prior *to the conclusion of a contract for the provision of services, the right holder is obliged to inform the foreign

on the working conditions governing the employer pursuant to the provisions of Section 295. If the lender pursuant to Section 215 (1) ( a)
the employee is temporarily transferred to work in the territory of Hungary within the framework of temporary employment, the borrower is obliged
inform the lender of the applicable terms and conditions of employment in terms of working conditions and remuneration. The information
in the event of failure to do so, the entitled person, as full guarantor, shall be liable for the employee's claims specified in Section 295.
(2) If the rightholder knew or ought reasonably to have known that the foreign employer’s wage and contribution
during the employment of the employee, the foreigner is jointly and severally liable with the foreign employer
for the payment of wages and contributions payable by the employer.
(3) In order to be able to verify the provisions of Section 295, the right holder is obliged to ensure that the posted person:
workers
(a) his contract of employment or other equivalent document,
(b) timesheets; and
(c) a paper or electronic copy of the payroll documents
at the place of employment for the entire period of secondment and at the employer's registered office for 3 years after its completion, or
be accessible and verifiable at the site.
*
(4) The
foreign employer shall be responsible for liaising with the employment supervisory authority acting as the designated authority and for

designate the person responsible for sending and receiving the documents referred to in paragraph 1. The foreign employer about the person of the agent,
and shall immediately inform the employment supervisory authority of any change in the identity of the trustee.
5. If the foreign employer is not the same as the agent referred to in subsection (4), he / she shall appoint a contact person through whom:
the social partners may contact the service provider for the purpose of collective bargaining during the provision of the service.
(6) If the person appointed pursuant to subsection (5) is not permanently resident in Hungary, only such person may be appointed
as a trustee who is available upon reasonable and reasoned request.
*
§ 298. (1)
This Act, with the exception of paragraph (2), shall enter into force on 1 July 2012.

(2) This Act
a) Section 53,
b) 115-131. §-the,
c) Section 133,
d) 148-152. §-the
It will enter into force on 1 January 2013.
(3) The amending and transitional provisions related to this Act shall be provided for in a separate Act, in accordance with which this Act shall be complied with.
apply the provisions of

*

(4) Taking into account sectoral and professional peculiarities, the law may deviate from the provisions of this law.
(5)

*

The Government is authorized to carry out the temporary employment activity, the temporary employment

the minimum rental fee to be paid to the lender, the conditions and detailed rules for the registration of the lender,
and the conditions imposed on non-profit borrowers, the services to be provided to borrowers and the
rules on certain terms and conditions of employment established by them in a regulation,
requires the existence of property security.
(6) The Minister responsible for foreign policy shall be authorized to regulate in detail the
special rules on the employment abroad of long-term staff employed by public administrations,
and temporary staff employed on a temporary basis abroad by central administration
the amount of the daily subsistence allowance and the rules for its payment.

*

*
(7) The
Government shall be authorized to establish by decree the additional leave to be granted to the abbot in the event of the birth of a child.
*

and the reimbursement of expenses related to additional leave.
*
(8) Short
description of this Act applicable in other legislation: Mt.

§ 299. This Act serves to comply with the following legal acts of the European Union:
(a) Council Directive 91/383 / EEC of 25 June 1991 on fixed-term work and temporary agency work
supplementing the measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health of workers at work,
(b) Council Directive 91/533 / EEC of 14 October 1991 on the protection of employees against the
obligation to provide information on the conditions
(c) Council Directive 92/85 / EEC of 19 October 1992 on the protection of pregnant workers and workers who have recently given birth or are breastfeeding
on the introduction of measures to encourage improvements in the safety and health of workers at work (Tenth individual Directive within the meaning of Article 16 (1) of Directive 89/391 / EEC)
pursuant to paragraph 1),
(d) Council Directive 94/33 / EC of 22 June 1994 on the protection of young people at work,
(e) Council Directive 2010/18 / EU of 8 March 2010 on parental leave granted by BUSINESSEUROPE, UEAPME, CEEP and the ETUC
on the implementation of the revised Framework Agreement and repealing Directive 96/34 / EC,
(f) Directive 96/71 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1996 concerning the protection of employees in the framework of the provision of services
posting,
(g) Council Directive 97/81 / EC of 15 December 1997 concerning part-time work concluded by UNICE, CEEP and the ETUC
framework agreement,
(h) Council Directive 98/59 / EC of 20 July 1998 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to collective redundancies,
(i) Council Directive 1999/70 / EC of 28 June 1999 on the conclusion of fixed-term work contracts concluded by the ETUC, UNICE and CEEP
framework agreement,
(j) Council Directive 2001/23 / EC of 12 March 2001 on the transfer of employees' rights in respect of undertakings, businesses or parts of undertakings
approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the protection of
(k) Directive 2002/14 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2002 on the information and
establishing a general framework for consultation with them,
(l) Directive 2003/88 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 November 2003 concerning certain aspects of the organization of working time,
(m) Directive 2008/104 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 November 2008 on certain rules on temporary agency work,
*
(n) Directive
2014/67 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the provision of services to workers

enforcement of Directive 96/71 / EC on the posting of workers in the framework of the internal market information system
amending Regulation (EU) No 1024/2012 on cooperation (the IMI Regulation),
*
(o) Directive
2015/1794 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 October 2015 amending Directives 2008/94 / EC, 2009/38 / EC and 2002/14 / EC

Parliament and of the Council and Council Directives 98/59 / EC and 2001/23 / EC as regards seafarers
amending
p)

*

Directive 2014/59 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on credit institutions and investment firms

establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of waste and amending Council Directives 82/891 / EEC, 2001/24 / EC, 2002/47 / EC, 2004/25 / EC,
Directives 2005/56 / EC, 2007/36 / EC, 2011/35 / EU, 2012/30 / EU and 2013/36 / EU and Directives 1093/2010 / EU and 648/2012 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council
and of the Council amending
*
(q) Directive
(EU) 2018/957 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 June 2018 on the provision of services to workers

amending Directive 96/71 / EC on the posting of workers in the
300. § A*10-11. § and 11 / A. § on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and
European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
lays down the provisions necessary for the implementation of a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council (General Data Protection Regulation).

Related: Smart Document
Back to top

About Wolters Kluwer

Informations

Our pages

Company history

F.A.Q

Wolters Kluwer

Our core values

Privacy Policy

Legal library

Sales representatives

Media offer

Trainings

Customer service

Cookie settings

Tax Online

Follow us

Legal world

Because it's important to make the right decision!

Contact Cookie Management Information

Imprint

© Wolters Kluwer

