Page 1

Registry No. DL- 33004/99

REGD. No. DL-33004/99

CG-DL-A-23072020-220661
xxxGIDHxxx

CG-DL-E-23072020-220661
xxxGIDExxx
ordinary
EXTRAORDINARY
PART II —SECTION 3—EP-SECTION (i )
PART II—Section 3—Sub-section (i)
published by authority
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY
No. 358]

New Delhi, Jupiter, July 23, 2020 /Shred 1, 1942

No. 358]

NEW DELHI, THURSDAY, JULY 23, 2020/SHRAVANA 1, 1942

Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution
(Consumer Affairs Department)

notification
New Delhi, July 23 , 2020
G.S.J. 462(e).—Central Government, of section 101 of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019 (35 of 2019)
In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (zg) of sub-section (1), makes the following rules, namely1. Short title and commencement.—(1) These rules may be called the Consumer Protection (e-Commerce) Rules, 2020.
(2) They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.
2. To be extended and to come into force.—(1) By notification by the Central Government expressly otherwise

Provided that, thereupon, these rules shall apply to:
(a) all goods and services brought into or sold over a digital or electronic network, including digital products;
(b) all models of e-commerce including marketplace and Tajika models of e-commerce;
(c) multi-system single brand retailers and single brand retailers in single or multiple forms
including all retail sales on e-commerce; And
3261 GI/2020

(1)

Page 2
2

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY

[P ART II—S EC . 3(i)]

(d) All kinds of unfair trade practices in all models of e-commerce.
Provided that these rules shall be made by any natural person, which is done on a regular or well-planned basis.
any business or commercial activity carried out in a personal capacity by
Not applicable in case of activities.
(2)) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), these rules shall not be applicable to any e-commerce entity which is not established in India.
but which systematically establishes goods or services to consumers in India, shall apply.
Definitions -

3.

(1) In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,
(a) “Act” means the Consumer Protection Act, 2019 (35 of 2019);
(b) “e-commerce entity” means a person engaged in the conduct of electronic business in digital or
owns, operates or manages an electronic facility or platform but
This includes a seller who sells his goods or services on a marketplace e-commerce entity
offers for sale;
(c) “complaint” includes any e-grievance in relation to the contravention of the Act and the rules made thereunder.
Any complaint made to the state unit is included;
(d) “GSTIN” as in the Central Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 (12 of 2017)
Goods and Services Tax Identification Number means;
(e)

“information” shall have the same meaning assigned to it in section 2 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000)
given in clause (v) of sub-section (1);

(f) “table e-commerce entity” means such e-commerce entity which is responsible for the supply of goods or services;
holds ownership of the table and the sale of such goods or services directly to the consumer
and includes single brand retailer and multi-system single brand retailer
will be;
(g) “marketplace e-commerce entity” means an e-commerce entity that is established between the Buyer and the Seller;
Any information technology over a digital or electronic network to facilitate transactions
the platform provides;
(h) “PAN” means a permanent account as provided in section 139A of the Income-tax Act, 1961 (43 of 1961)
The number is a ghost;
(i) “Platform” shall mean any website or any part thereof and purposes including mobile purposes;
means any online interface in the form of software;
(j) the establishment of “categorization” through a marketplace e-commerce entity, as such entity
the goods or services offered, arranged, disclosed, whether by,
any technical means have been used to organize or disclose
means relative similarity or coherence;
(k)

“Seller” means the seller of any product as defined under clause (37) of section 2 of the Act.
means and includes any service provider;

(l) “user” means a person who has access to any computer resource of an e-commerce entity;
accesses or obtains its service.

Page 3
Gazette of India : Ordinary

[Part II—Section 3(i)]

3

(2) Words and expressions used herein and not defined, but not defined in the Act or Information Technology
Act, 2000 (21 of 2000) or the rules made thereunder, shall have the meanings which are
These are in the Acts or Rules.
Duties of E-State Units –

4.

(1) An e-commerce entity:
(a) under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)
Any company incorporated or subject to clause (42) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18 of 2013)
owned or controlled by a foreign company incorporated or any person outside India
Any office, branch or agency located in India, such as the Foreign Exchange Management Act, 1999
provided in sub-section (iii) of clause (v) of section 2 (42 of 1999); And
(b) to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Act or the rules made thereunder,
to the nodal contact person or an alternate senior designated official who is a resident of India
People will do
(2) Each e-commerce entity shall have on its platform the following information in a clear and accessible manner, which shall be
be physically displayed, made available to the users, namely:(a) the official name of the e-commerce entity;
(b) the main geographical addresses of its headquarters and all branches;
(c) the name and details of its website; And
(d) Contact details like e-mail address of the complaints officer along with the consumer service, facts,
Telephone and mobile no.
(3) Any e-commerce entity in the course of doing business on its platform or otherwise may have
Will not act
(4) Each e-state entity having regard to the number of complaints received by that entity from India ordinarily
and put in place an adequate grievance redressal mechanism for consumer grievance redressal
shall appoint a grievance officer and place on its platform the name, contact details and designation of such officer
will display.
(5) Every e-state entity shall ensure that the complaints officer referred to in sub-rule (4)
The consumer shall within forty-eight hours of the receipt of the complaint and the
shall decide the complaint within a period of one month from the date.
(6) Where an e-commerce entity sets up for the sale of any imported goods or services, it
The importer from whom it has purchased such goods or services or is a seller on their platform
the name and details of the
(7) Each e-commerce entity shall participate in the process of convergence of the National Consumer Helpline of the Central Government.
Will try to become a partner in the best possible way.
(8) If an e-commerce entity purchases for any reason after the consumer confirms the purchase
unilaterally cancel the order, will not levy cancellation charges for cancellation of the order by them
Unless similar charges are also borne by the e-commerce entity.
(9) each e-commerce entity for the purchase of any goods or services installed on its platform
Consent of the consumer shall be recorded in writing only where such consent is obtained through a clear and affirmative action

Page 4
4

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY

[P ART II—S EC . 3(i)]

is expressed to, and any such entity shall, including the pre-designated checkboxes, express such consent
Will not write
(10) All payments in respect of approved refund requests of each e-commerce entity consumer
by the Reserve Bank of India and any other competent authority under any other law for the time being in force
The device shall be effective within such time as may be prescribed or subject to the applicable methods.
(11) Any e-commerce entity:
(a) fluctuate in any such manner in the price of the goods or services installed on its Platform;
which will not impose any unfair price on the consumers in relation to the prevailing market conditions.
Undue advantage to be obtained by imposing, the essential nature of the article or service, any
the ordinary circumstance in which the service has been established, and any other relevant consideration
in determining whether the price charged is reasonable;
(b) not discriminate between consumers of the same class or make arbitrary classification of consumers, thereby
Their rights under the Act should be apportioned.
Marketplace Responsibilities of e-commerce entities —

5.

(1) Any marketplace e-commerce entity, which is governed by section 79 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000)
requires the benefit of exemption from obligations subject to sub-section (1) of the Information Technology (Intermediate
Compliance with sub-section (2) and sub-section (3) of this section including the provisions of the Guidelines) Rules, 2011
Will do
(2) Every marketplace e-commerce entity is required to ensure this through a letter from the seller.
ensure that the description, images and other material relating to the goods or services on their Platform is accurate and
This content is consistent with the performance, nature, quality, purpose and other general specifications of the service.
(3) Every marketplace e-commerce entity shall be in a clear and accessible manner at an appropriate place on its platform.
Make available the following information, which is specifically displayed to its users:
(K)

Details of sellers setting up goods and services in which their business is registered
whether or not, the name, their geographic address, the number of the consumer service center, the rating of this seller or its
about other overall feedback, and any other information that consumers may receive at the pre-purchase stage
necessary to enable informed decision making.
But any marketplace e-commerce entity, any item or service by a consumer on its platform
Upon any request made in writing after the purchase of
Headquarters of this seller and the main branches of all the branches in respect of the consumer has made the purchase.
Geographical address, the name and details of its website, its e-mail address and effective dispute resolution
information, including any other information necessary for the seller to contact
Will make

(b)

One ticket number for each complaint lodged, through which the consumer complaint status
can detect;

(c)

Product Returns, Money Refunds, Birthplaces, Warranties and Guarantees, Delivery and Delivery, Payment
information regarding methods and grievance redressal mechanism and such other information which the consumer
be required to take a informed decision;

Page 5
Gazette of India : Ordinary

[Part II—Section 3(i)]

(d)

5

Available payment methods, Security of these payment methods, Any fees or charges payable by users,
Procedure for registering regular payment subject to modes, refund option, if any,
information regarding and contact information with the relevant payment service provider;

(e)

all information furnished to it by the Sellers under sub-rule (5) of rule 6; And

(f)

Key parameters that are used to rank items or vendors on its platform singly or collectively.
What is very important in public determination is to be explained and formatted in clear and understandable language in a simple and understandable way.
Describing the relative importance of these parameters through publicly available statements:

(4) Each marketplace e-commerce entity shall generally display its relationship with the seller on its platform.
any discriminatory representation in the terms and conditions of the conqueror, which he may refer to as things of the same class or
Provides, or may provide, services or between vendors.
(5) Every marketplace e-commerce entity shall deal with all sellers who repeatedly sell goods or services which
The Copyright Act, 1957 (14 of 1957), the Trade Marks Act, 1999 (47 of 1999) or
Deleted under the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000) or formerly
Access is prohibited, while facilitating the determination of the relevant
Will make reasonable efforts to maintain a record of the information.

Provided that in pursuance of this sub-rule, such purchaser may be made through its platform by any such e-commerce entity.
It will not be expected to terminate access, but it may do so on a voluntary basis.
6. Duties of Sellers on a Marketplace – (1) Goods or services through a Marketplace e-commerce entity

Any Seller who establishes the E-commerce entity's platform or otherwise during the installation of
Will not adopt any unfair business practices.
(2) No seller shall in an unreasonable manner represent himself as a consumer and shall not be liable to any articles or
shall not misrepresent the services or goods or qualities or characteristics of the service.
(3) A seller establishing goods or services through a marketplace e-commerce entity, if
the goods or services are not of such characteristics or qualities as declared or as agreed, or if such goods
Purchased or agreed to be purchased if the delivery is delayed by the time mentioned above
shall not refuse to withdraw goods, or to withdraw or discontinue services, or the consideration, if paid
shall not be liable to refund the same if:
Provided that in case of delayed delivery, if the delay in such delivery was due to compulsion, it shall be subThe rule will not apply.
(4)

Any seller establishing goods or services through a marketplace e-commerce entity:
(a) with the e-commerce entity concerned in order to make or solicit such sale or installation
Prejaljakhat will sanjarda;
(b) shall appoint a Grievance Officer for redressal of consumer complaints and ensure that
that the Grievance Officer shall acknowledge within forty eight hours of the receipt of any consumer complaint.
and revise the complaint within a period of one month from the date of receipt of the complaint.
will do;
(c) ensure that advertisements for the sale of goods or services are
are commensurate with social specifics, accessibility and use circumstances;

Page 6
6

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY

[P ART II—S EC . 3(i)]

(d) to the e-commerce unit with its regional name, its headquarter and the main geographic locations of all the branches.
Address, your website name and details, your e-mail address, customer service center details like
Facts, Telephone and Mobile numbers and your GSTIN and PAN details, where applicable,
Will make available.
(5) Any seller establishing goods or services through a marketplace e-commerce entity shall be e-commerceThe following information to be displayed on the Platform of the State Unit
will provide to:
(a) all contact information required by the district to be disclosed;
(b) its aggregate price in single digits for an item or service along with all mandatory and
Strategist charges such as delivery charges, postage and management charges, transportation charges and applicable taxes,
Descriptive price of the material service showing, if applicable;
(c) all mandates and information provided by applicable regulations and offer for sale
the date of expiry of the use of the article being used, where applicable;
(d) all relevant particulars in respect of the goods and services offered by the Seller for sale
Including the country of production, which is an informed decision to the consumer at the pre-purchase stage.
are necessary to enable taking;
(e) of the Grievance Officer for redressal of consumer complaint or for reporting of any other matter.
name and contact number, and designation;
(f) the name and details of the importer and the authenticity and correctness of the imported products
guarantees;
(g) the return in a clear and accessible manner including information regarding the cost of shipping,
accurate information regarding refunds and refunds of expenses;
(h) the relevant details relating to the delivery and delivery of such goods or services; And
(i) any relevant guarantees or guarantees applicable to such goods or services.
7. Duties and Responsibilities of Tajika E-Commerce Unit :-

(1) Each table e-commerce entity shall provide the following information in a clear and accessible manner, which shall enable its users to
shall be displayed strictly, shall provide:
(a) Refund, Refund, Birth, Warranty and Guarantee, Delivery and Delivery, Methods of Payment and
Correct information regarding the grievance redressal mechanism and such other information that the consumer
be required to take a informed decision;
(b) all mandates and information required by the applicable methods;
(c) the payment methods available, the security of these payment methods, any fees or charges payable by the Users,
Procedure for registering regular payment under these modes, refund option, if
information regarding, if any, and contact information with the relevant payment service provider;
(d) all contact information required by the district to be disclosed;
(e) its aggregate price in single digits for any item of service along with all mandatory and
Strategist charges such as delivery charges, postage and handling charges, transportation charges and applicable taxes,
Descriptive price of the material service showing, if applicable; And

Page 7
Gazette of India : Ordinary

[Part II—Section 3(i)]

7

(f) a ticket number for each complaint lodged through which the consumer can make the complaint.
can detect intuitively;
(2) No table e-commerce entity shall improperly represent itself as a consumer
and shall not misrepresent the qualities or characteristics of any goods or services or goods or services.
(3) Every table of e-commerce entity shall ensure that the advertisements of sale of goods or services are
conform to the physical characteristics, accessibility and use circumstances of the goods or services;
(4) Any provisional e-commerce entity if the goods or services are of the characteristics or qualities as declared or agreed
or if the delivery of such articles is delayed beyond the time mentioned in the
to withdraw goods purchased or approved for purchase, or to withdraw or discontinue services
shall not refuse or refuse to refund the consideration, if paid:
Provided that in case of delayed delivery, if the delay in such delivery was due to compulsion, it shall be subThe rule will not apply.
(5) Any existing e-commerce entity which, without regard to the authenticity of the goods or services sold by it,
expressly or expressly endorses or warrants that such goods or services
shall bear due liability in any proceeding with respect to the authenticity of such goods or services.
8.

:-

, 2019

35)

I

[F.No. J-10/3/2018-CPU]
Jamat Mehta, Joint Secretary

MINISTRY OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS, FOOD AND PUBLIC DISTRIBUTION
(Department of Consumer Affairs)
NOTIFICATION
New Delhi, 23rd July, 2020
GSR 462(E) . — In exercise of the powers conferred by sub-clause (zg) of sub-section (1) of section 101
of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019 (35 of 2019), the Central Government hereby makes the following rules,
namely:1.

(2)

Short title and commencement. — (1) These rules may be called the Consumer Protection (E-Commerce)
Rules, 2020.
They shall come into force on the date of their publication in the Official Gazette.

2.
Scope and Applicability. – (1) Save as otherwise expressly provided by the Central Government by
notification, these rules shall apply to:
(a) all goods and services bought or sold over digital or electronic network including digital products;
(b) all models of e-commerce, including marketplace and inventory models of e-commerce;
(c) all e-commerce retail, including multi-channel single brand retailers and single brand retailers in single or
multiple formats; and
(d) all forms of unfair trade practices across all models of e-commerce:
Provided that these rules shall not apply to any activity of a natural person carried out in a personal
capacity not being part of any professional or commercial activity undertaken on a regular or systematic basis.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-rule (1), these rules shall apply to an e-commerce entity which is not
established in India, but systematically offers goods or services to consumers in India.
3.

Definitions. — ( 1) In these rules unless the context otherwise requires, —
(a) " Act" means the Consumer Protection Act, 2019 (35 of 2019);

Page 8
8

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY

[P ART II—S EC . 3(i)]

(b) “e-commerce entity” means any person who owns, operates or manages a digital or electronic facility
or platform for electronic commerce, but does not include a seller offering his goods or services for
sale on a marketplace e-commerce entity;
(c) “grievance” includes any complaints to an e-commerce entity regarding violations of the
provisions of the Act and the rules made thereunder;
(d) “GSTIN” means the Goods and Services Tax Identification Number as under the Central Goods and
Services Tax Act, 2017 (12 of 2017);
(e) “information” shall have the same meaning as to it clause (v) of sub-section (1) of section 2 of the
Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000);
(Fa) "inventory e-commerce entity ‖ Means An e-commerce entity which owns the inventory of goods or
services and sells such goods or services directly to the consumers and shall include single brand
retailers and multi-channel single brand retailers;
(g) “marketplace e-commerce entity” means an e-commerce entity which provides an information
technology platform on a digital or electronic network to facilitate transactions between buyers and
sellers;
(h) - Gage "means Permanent Account Number as under section 139A of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (43
of 1961);
(i) “platform” means an online interface in the form of any software including a website or a part
thereof and applications including mobile applications;
(j) “ranking” means the relative prominence or relevance given to the goods or services offered
through a marketplace e-commerce entity as presented, organized or communicated by such entity,
irrespective of the technological means used for such presentation, organization or communication;
(a) - Seller "means the product seller as defined in clause (37) of section 2 of the Act and shall include
any service provider;
(l) “user” means any person who accesses or avails any computer resource of an e-commerce entity.
(2) The words and expressions used herein and not defined, but defined in the Act or in the Information
Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000) or the rules made thereunder shall have the same meaning as respectively
assigned to them in those Acts or rules.
4.

Duties of e-commerce entities. --(1) An e-commerce entity shall:
(a) be a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956 (1 of 1956) or the Companies Act, 2013 (18
of 2013) or a foreign company covered under clause (42) of section 2 of the Companies Act, 2013 (18
of 2013) or an office, branch or agency outside India owned or controlled by a person resident in India
as provided in sub-clause (iii) of clause (v) of section 2 of the Foreign Exchange Management Act,
1999 (42 of 1999); and
(a) appoint a nodal person of contact or an alternate senior designated functionary who is resident in India,
to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Act or the rules made thereunder.
(2) Every e-commerce entity shall provide the following information in a clear and accessible manner on its
platform, displayed prominently to its users, namely:-(a) the legal name of the e-commerce entity;
(b) the principal geographic address of its headquarters and all branches;
(c) the name and details of its website; and
(d) contact details like e-mail address, fax, landline and mobile numbers of customer care as well as of
grievance officer.
(3)

No e-commerce entity shall adopt any unfair trade practice, whether in the course of business on its
platform or otherwise.

(4)

Every e-commerce entity shall establish an adequate grievance redressal mechanism having regard to
the number of grievances ordinarily received by such entity from India, and shall appoint a grievance
officer for consumer grievance redressal, and shall display the name, contact details, and designation of
such officer on its platform.

Page 9
Gazette of India : Ordinary

[Part II—Section 3(i)]

9

(5)

Every e-commerce entity shall ensure that the grievance officer referred to in sub-rule (4) acknowledges
the receipt of any consumer complaint within forty-eight hours and redresses the complaint within one
month from the date of receipt of the complaint.

(6)

Where an e-commerce entity offers imported goods or services for sale, it shall mention the name and
details of any importer from whom it has purchased such goods or services, or who may be a seller on
its platform.

(7)

Every e-commerce entity shall endeavour on a best effort basis to become a partner in the convergence
process of the National Consumer Helpline of the Central Government.

(8)

No e-commerce entity shall impose cancellation charges on consumers canceling after confirming
purchase unless similar charges are also borne by the e- commerce entity, if they cancel the purchase
order unilaterally for any reason.

(9)

Every e-commerce entity shall only record the consent of a consumer for the purchase of any good or
service offered on its platform where such consent is expressed through an explicit and affirmative
action, and no such entity shall record such consent automatically, including in the form of pre-ticked
checkboxes.

(10) Every e-commerce entity shall effect all payments towards accepted refund requests of the consumers
as prescribed by the Reserve Bank of India or any other competent authority under any law for the time
being in force, within a reasonable period of time, or as prescribed under applicable laws.
(11) No e-commerce entity shall-(a) manipulate the price of the goods or services offered on its platform in such a manner as to gain
unreasonable profit by imposing on consumers any unjustified price having regard to the
prevailing market conditions, the essential nature of the good or service, any extraordinary
circumstances under which the good or service is offered, and any other relevant consideration in
determining whether the price charged is justified;
(b) discriminate between consumers of the same class or make any arbitrary classification of
consumers affecting their rights under the Act.
5. Liabilities of marketplace e-commerce entities. – (1) A marketplace e-commerce entity which seeks to avail the
exemption from liability under sub-section (1) of section 79 of the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000)
shall comply with sub-sections (2) and (3) of that section, including the provisions of the Information Technology
(Intermediary Guidelines) Rules, 2011.
(2) Every marketplace e-commerce entity shall require sellers through an undertaking to ensure that descriptions,
images, and other content pertaining to goods or services on their platform is accurate and corresponds directly
with the appearance, nature, quality, purpose and other general features of such good or service.
(3) Every marketplace e-commerce entity shall provide the following information in a clear and accessible manner,
displayed prominently to its users at the appropriate place on its platform:
(a) details about the sellers offering goods and services, including the name of their business, whether registered
or not, their geographic address,customer care number, any rating or other aggregated feedback about such
seller, and any other information necessary for enabling consumers to make informed decisions at the prepurchase stage:
Provided that a marketplace e-commerce entity shall, on a request in writing made by a consumer
after the purchase of any goods or services on its platform by such consumer, provide him with information
regarding the seller from which such consumer has made such purchase, including the principal geographic
address of its headquarters and all branches, name and details of its website, its email address and any other
information necessary for communication with the seller for effective dispute resolution;
(b) a ticket number for each complaint lodged through which the consumer can track the status of the complaint;
(c) information relating to return, refund, exchange, warranty and guarantee, delivery and shipment, modes of
payment, and grievance redressal mechanism, and any other similar information which may be required by
consumers to make informed decisions;
(d) information on available payment methods, the security of those payment methods, any fees or charges
payable by users, the procedure to cancel regular payments under those methods, charge-back options, if
any, and the contact information of the relevant payment service provider;
(e) all information provided to it by sellers under sub-rule (5) of rule 6; and

Page 10
10

THE GAZETTE OF INDIA : EXTRAORDINARY

[P ART II—S EC . 3(i)]

(f) an explanation of the main parameters which, individually or collectively, are most significant in
determining the ranking of goods or sellers on its platform and the relative importance of those main
parameters through an easily and publicly available description drafted in plain and intelligible language.
(4) Every marketplace e-commerce entity shall include in its terms and conditions generally governing its
relationship with sellers on its platform, a description of any differentiated treatment which it gives or might give
between goods or services or sellers of the same category.
(5) Every marketplace e-commerce entity shall take reasonable efforts to maintain a record of relevant information
allowing for the identification of all sellers who have repeatedly offered goods or services that have previously
has been removed or access to which has previously been disabled under the Copyright Act, 1957 (14 of 1957), the
Trade Marks Act, 1999 (47 of 1999) or the Information Technology Act, 2000 (21 of 2000):
Provided that no such e-commerce entity shall be required to terminate the access of such seller to its
platform pursuant to this sub-rule but may do so on a voluntary basis.
6. Duties of sellers on marketplace. – (1) No seller offering goods or services through a marketplace e-commerce
The entity shall adopt any unfair trade practice whether in the course of the offer on the e-commerce entity's platform or
otherwise.
(2) No such seller shall falsely represent itself as a consumer and post reviews about goods or services or
misrepresent the quality or the features of any goods or services.
(3) No seller offering goods or services through a marketplace e-commerce entity shall refuse to take back goods,
or withdraw or discontinue services purchased or agreed to be purchased, or refuse to refund consideration, if
paid, if such goods or services are defective, deficient or spurious, or if the goods or services are not of the
characteristics or features as advertised or as agreed to, or if such goods or services are delivered late from the
stated delivery schedule:
Provided that in the case of late delivery, this sub-rule shall not be applied if such late delivery was due to
force majeure.
(4) Any seller offering goods or services through a marketplace e-commerce entity shall:
(a) have a prior written contract with the respective e-commerce entity in order to undertake or solicit
such sale or offer;

(5)

(b)

appoint a grievance officer for consumer grievance redressal and ensure that the grievance officer
acknowledges the receipt of any consumer complaint within forty-eight hours and redresses the
complaint within one month from the date of receipt of the complaint;

(c)

ensure that the advertisements for marketing of goods or services are consistent with the actual
characteristics, access and usage conditions of such goods or services.

(d)

provide to the e-commerce entity its legal name, principal geographic address of its headquarters
and all branches, the name and details of its website, its e-mail address, customer care contact
details such as fax, landline, and mobile numbers and where applicable, its GSTIN and PAN
details.

Any seller offering goods or services through a marketplace e-commerce entity shall provide the
The following information to the e-commerce entity to be displayed on its platform or website:
(a) all contractual information required to be disclosed by law;
(b)

total price in single figure of any good or service, along with the breakup price for the good or service
service, showing all the compulsory and voluntary charges such as delivery charges, postage and
handling charges, conveyance charges and the applicable tax, as applicable;

(c)

all mandatory notices and information provided by applicable laws, and the expiry date of the
good being offered for sale, where applicable;

(d)

all relevant details about the goods and services offered for sale by the seller including country of
origin which are necessary for enabling the consumer to make an informed decision at the prepurchase stage;

(e)

the name and contact numbers, and designation of the grievance officer for consumer grievance
redressal or for reporting any other matter;

(f)

name and details of importer, and guarantees related to the authenticity or genuineness of the
imported products;

Page 11
[Part II—Section 3(i)]
(g)

Gazette of India : Ordinary

11

accurate information related to terms of exchange, returns, and refund including information
related to costs of return shipping in a clear and accessible manner;

(h) relevant details related to delivery and shipment of such goods or services; and
(i) any relevant guarantees or warranties applicable to such goods or services.
7.

Duties and liabilities of inventory e-commerce entities:(1) Every inventory e-commerce entity shall provide the following information in a clear and accessible
manner, displayed prominently to its users:
(a) accurate information related to return, refund, exchange, warranty and guarantee, delivery and
shipment, cost of return shipping, mode of payments, grievance redressal mechanism, and any
other similar information which may be required by consumers to make informed decisions;
(b) all mandatory notices and information required by applicable laws;
(c) information on available payment methods, the security of those payment methods, the procedure
to cancel regular payments under those methods, any fees or charges payable by users, charge
back options, if any, and the contact information of the relevant payment service provider;
(d) all contractual information required to be disclosed by law;
(e) total price in single figure of any good or service along with the breakup price for the good or
service, showing all the compulsory and voluntary charges, such as delivery charges, postage and
handling charges, conveyance charges and the applicable tax; and
(f)

a ticket number for each complaint lodged, through which the consumer can track the status of
their complaint.

(2)

No inventory e-commerce entity shall falsely represent itself as a consumer and post reviews about
goods and services or misrepresent the quality or the features of any goods or services.

(3)

Every inventory e-commerce entity shall ensure that the advertisements for marketing of goods or
services are consistent with the actual characteristics, access and usage conditions of such goods or
services;

(4)

No inventory e-commerce entity shall refuse to take back goods, or withdraw or discontinue services
purchased or agreed to be purchased, or refuse to refund consideration, if paid, if such goods or services
are defective, deficient spurious, or if the goods or services are not of the characteristics or features as
advertised or as agreed to, or if such goods or services are delivered late from the stated delivery
schedule:
Provided that in the case of late delivery, this sub rule shall not apply if such late delivery was due to
force majeure.

(5)

Any inventory e-commerce entity which explicitly or implicitly vouches for the authenticity of the goods
or services sold by it, or guarantees that such goods or services are authentic, shall bear appropriate
liability in any action related to the authenticity of such good or service.

8. Contravention of rules . — The provisions of the Consumer Protection Act, 2019 (35 of 2019) shall apply for any
violation of the provisions of these rules.
[F. No. J-10/3/2018-CPU]
AMIT MEHTA, Jt. Secy.

Uploaded by Dte. of Printing at Government of India Press, Ring Road, Mayapuri, New Delhi-110064
and Published by the Controller of Publications, Delhi-110054.

MANOJ
KUMAR VERMA

Digitally signed by
MANOJ KUMAR VERMA
Date: 2020.07.23
22:00:30 +05'30'

