Page 1

{ip

COPY

PRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

LAWS OF THE REPUBLIC INDONESIA
NUMBER 19 YEAR 2016
ABOUT
CHANGES TO LAW
NUMBER I1 YEAR 2OO8
ABOUT INFORMATION AND ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

BY THE GRACE OF GOD ALMIGHTY
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,

Considering :

a. that to ensure recognition and respect serta

on the rights and freedoms of others and to fulfill
fair demands in accordance with considerations

security and public order in a

society democratic is necessary to change
against Law No. 11 Year 200g concerning

Information and Electronic Transactions to be realized

justice, public order , and legal certainty ;

b. that based on the considerations as

referred to in letter a, it is necessary to establish a Law
Law regarding amendments to Law Number

11 of 2008 concerning Information and Transactions

Electronic;

In view of : 1. Article 5 paragraph (l), Article

20, article 25A, article 2gD paragraph (1),
Article 28E paragraph (21, Article 28E paragraph (3), Article
28F, chapter
28G paragraph (1), article28J paragraph (2), and article 33 paragraph (2)
The Constitution of the Republic of Indonesia Year
1945;

2. Law Number l l Year of 200g of Information.

and Electronic Transactions (State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia)
Indonesia Year 2O08 Number Sg, Supplementary Sheet
State of the Republic of Indonesia Number 4g43);

With

Page 2

q,D
IDENT PRESS

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-2By Mutual Agreement
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVE OF INDONESIA REPUBLIC

and
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

DECIDING:

To stipulate : LAW ON THE AMENDMENT TO THE Law

LAW NUMBER 11 YEAR 2OO8 CONCERNING INFORMATION
AND ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS,

Article I

Several provisions in Law Number l1 Year

2008 concerning Information and Electronic Transactions (Gazette
State of the Republic of Indonesia Year 2008 Number 58, Supplement

State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia Number 4843) amended
as follows:

1. Between number 6 and number 7 Article 1 is inserted 1 (one)
number, namely number 6a so that Article 1 reads as

following:
Article I

In this Law what is meant by:

1. Electronic Information is one or a group of
electronic data, including but not limited to

text, sound, pictures, maps, designs, photographs,
electronic data interchange (EDI), electronic mail
(electronic mail, telegram, telex, telecopy or
like, letters, signs, numbers, Access Codes , symbols,

or treated perforations that have meaning

or can be understood by people who are able
understand it.

2, Electronic Transactions are legal acts that

performed by using a computer, network
Computers, and/or other electronic media .

3. Technology .

Page 3

IDENT PRESS

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-33.

Information Technology is a technique for

collect, prepare, store,
process, publish, analyze,
and/or disseminate information.

4.

Electronic Document is any Information
Electronically created, transmitted, transmitted,
received, or stored in analogue,
digital, electromagnetic, optical, or similar,

that can be seen, displayed, and/or heard
through a Computer or Electronic System , including

but not limited to text, sound, images,
maps, designs, photographs or the like, letters, signs,
numbers, Access Codes, symbols or perforations that
has meaning or meaning or can be understood by
someone who can understand it.
5.

Electronic System is a series of devices and
electronic procedures that serve to prepare,
collect,

process,

analyze,

save, display, announce,

transmit, and/or disseminate Information
Electronic.
6.

Electronic System Operation is

utilization of the Electronic System by the operator
state, person, business entity, and/ or society.
6a.

Electronic System Operator is any

People, state administrators , business entities, and

community that provides, manages,

and/ or operate the Electronic System, either
are individually or jointly

to Electronic System users for

his own needs and/or the needs of others.

7. Electronic System Network is the connection

two or more Electronic Systems , which are
closed or open.

8. Electronic Agent is a device of a System
Electronics are made to perform a

action against an Electronic Information
particular in automated held by
Person.

9. Certificate .

Page 4

PRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-49.

Electronic Certificate is a certificate that is
electronics containing Electronic Signatures

and identity that show the status of the subject
the law of the parties in Electronic Transactions that

issued by the Certification Operator
Electronic.
10.

Electronic Certification Operator is an agency
law that functions as a worthy party

trust, which provides and audit
Electronic Certificate.
11.

Reliability Certification Agency is an institution
independent formed by professionals who

recognized, ratified, and supervised by the Government
with the authority to audit and issue
certificate of reliability in Electronic Transactions.
12.

An Electronic Signature is a signature that

composed on Electronic Information are attached,
associated with or related to Electronic Information
others that are used as verification tools and

authentication.

13. Marker Hand is the subject of law which
being associated or linked with the Signs Hand
Electronic.
14.

A computer is a tool for processing data
electronic, magnetic, optical, or other systems that
carry out the functions of logic, arithmetic, and
storage.

15.

Access is the activity of interacting with
Stand- alone Electronic System or in

network.
16.

Access Codes are numbers, letters, symbols, characters

the other or a combination in between, which
is the key to be able to access the computer
and/ or other Electronic Systems .

t7.

Electronic Contract is an agreement of the parties
which is made through the System Electronics.

18.

The sender is a legal subject who sends
Electronic Information and/ or Electronic Documents .

19. Receiver .

Page 5

FRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-519. Recipient is a legal subject who receives
Electronic Information and/or Electronic Documents
from the Sender.

20. Domain Name is the provider's internet address
state, person, business entity, and/or society,

which can be used to communicate via

Internet, which is in the form of a code or array of characters

which is unique to show the location
certain on the internet.

21. People are individuals, both citizens
Indonesian state, residents countries foreign, as well as
legal entity .

22. Business Entity is an individual company or
Companies alliance, both the entities
law and that no entity law.

23. Government is the Minister or other official
which is appointed by the President.
2.

The provisions of Article 5 remain with the change in explanation
paragraph (1) and paragraph (2) so that the explanation of Article 5 becomes
as stipulated in the explanation of article after
article of this Act .

3.

The provisions of Article 26 plus 3 (three) paragraphs, namely paragraph (3),

paragraph (4), and paragraph (5) so that Article 26 reads as
following:

Article 26

(l)

Unless specified other by the rules regulations
invitation, use of any information through
electronic media that involves the data private
someone must be done with the consent of People
are concerned.

(21

Every person whose rights are violated as
referred to in paragraph (1) may file a lawsuit

on losses are incurred by
this law .

(3) Every.

Page 6

IDENT PRESS

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-6(3) Every Electronic System Operator must
delete Electronic Information and/or
Document Electronics that are not relevant are
The under its control on request People who
concerned by court order.

(41 Every Electronic System Operator must
provide information deletion mechanism

Electronic and/ or Electronic Documents that
is no longer relevant in accordance with the provisions
laws and regulations.

(5) Provisions regarding governance. how to delete
Electronic Information and/or Electronic Documents
as referred to in paragraph (3) and paragraph (41
regulated in government regulations .
4.

The provisions of Article 27 remain with the change in explanation
paragraph (1), paragraph (3), and paragraph (4) so that the explanation of Article

27 to be as specified in the explanation
article by article of this Law .
5.

The provisions of paragraph (3) and paragraph (4) of Article 31 are amended so that
Article 31 reads as follows:
Article 3 1

(l) Any person knowingly and without rights or
against the law of interception or

wiretapping of Electronic Information and/or

Electronic Documents in a Computer
and/or certain Electronic Systems belonging to People
other.

(21 Everyone knowingly and without rights or
against legal interception on

transmission of Electronic Information and/or Documents
Electronics are not to be public from, to, and in
in a Computer and/or Electronic System

particular belonging to people other, both are not
cause change anything else and that
cause changes, disappearances,

and/or termination of Electronic Information
and / or Electronic Documents which are being
transmitted.

(3) Provisions .

Page 7

PRESIDENT
REPU BLIK INDONESIA

-7 -

(3) The provisions as referred to in paragraph (l) and
sure (21 does not apply to interception or
wiretaps were carried out in order
law enforcement at the request of the police,

prosecutors, or other institutions that
its powers are determined by law.
law.

(41 provision more about the procedures interception
as referred to in paragraph (3) is regulated by

Constitution.

6. Between paragraph (2) and paragraph (3) Article 4O is inserted 2 (two)
paragraphs, namely paragraphs (2al and paragraph (2b); the provisions of paragraph (6)
Article 40 amended; as well as the explanation of paragraph (1)
4Oarticle
amended so that Article 4O reads as follows:
Article 40

(1) The government facilitates the use of Technology
Information and Electronic Transactions in accordance with
provisions of laws and regulations.

(21 The government protects the public interest from

any kind of disturbance as a result

misuse of Electronic Information and Transactions

Electronics that disturb public order ,
in accordance with the provisions of the legislation
invitation.
(2a) The government is obliged to take precautions
Information dissemination and use
Electronic and/ or Electronic Documents that

has a prohibited load in accordance with

provisions of laws and regulations.
(2b) In

carrying out prevention, how?
referred to in paragraph (2a), the Government is authorized

terminate access and/or

instruct the System Operator
Electronics to terminate access
on Electronic Information and/ or Documents
Electronics that have a charge that violates
law.
(3) Government

Page 8

,l't*?' *\'

g.*)
-r,,$r><€
PRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-8(3) The government shall determine the agency or institution that
have . Data Electronic positioned are mandatory
protected.

(4) The agency or institution as referred to in
paragraph (3) must make Electronic Documents dal
record

spare

the electronics

and

connect it to a specific data center for
data security interests .

(5) Other agencies or institutions other than those stipulated in paragraph
(3) create a Document Electronic and record Parts
the electronics meet the protection requirements
the data it has.

(6) Provisions more about the role of government
as referred to in paragraph (1), paragraph (21, paragraph
(2a1, paragraph (2b), and paragraph (3) are regulated in the regulations
government.

7. The provisions of paragraph (2), paragraph (3), paragraph (5), paragraph (6), paragraph (71,
and paragraph (8) of Article 43 amended; in the paragraph (7) and paragraph
(8) Article 43 is inserted 1 (one) paragraph, namely paragraph (7a); and

article 43
the explanation of paragraph (1) Article 43 is amended so that
reads as follows:
Article 43

(1) In addition to Investigator Officer Police State Republic
Indonesia, Servants of State slanted particular in

Government environment whose scope of duties and
responsibility he replied in the field of Technology Information
and Electronic Transactions are given special authority
as an investigator as referred to in
Law on Penal criminal
to conduct investigations offense criminal in

the field of Technology Information and Transactions
Electronic.

12) Investigations in the field of Information Technology and
Electronic Transactions as referred to in

paragraph (1) is carried out with due observance of
protection of privacy, confidentiality,

the smooth running of public services , and the integrity or
data integrity in accordance with regulatory provisions
legislation.

(3) Search .

Page 9

PRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-9(3)

Search and/ or confiscation of the System

Electronics related to alleged acts

crime in the field of Information Technology and Transactions
Electronics are carried out in accordance with the provisions

law shows criminal.
(4)

In conducting a search and/or

confiscation as referred to in paragraph (3),
investigators are obliged to maintain the interests of
public service .
(s)

Investigators Pegawai Negeri Civil as
referred to in paragraph (1) has the authority to:

a. receive reports or complaints from
someone about the existence of a crime in

field. Information Technology and Transaction
Electronic;

b. call any person or other party

to be heard and examined as a suspect
or witnesses in connection with an allegation
criminal acts in the field of Information Technology
and Electronic Transactions ;

c. carry out checks on the truth
statements or information with respect to
criminal acts in

the field of Information Technology

and Electronic Transactions ;

d. perform checks against the People

and/or Business Entities that are reasonably suspect
commit crimes in

the field of Technology

Electronic Information and Transactions ;

e. perform checks against the tool
and / or means are associated with

activities Technology Information which allegedly
used to commit criminal acts in
the field of Technology Information and Transactions
Electronic;

f. conduct a search of the premises
certain allegedly used as a place

to commit criminal acts in the field of
Information Technology and Electronic Transactions;
g. To do

Page 10

PRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-10

g. carry out the sealing and confiscation of
tools and/or facilities for Technology activities
The information which was allegedly used in
deviate from the provisions of the regulations
legislation;

h. create a data and/or system
Electronics are related follow- criminal in the field
Information Technology and Electronic Transactions
so do not be accessible;

i. ask for information that is contained in the
Electronic systems or information that
generated by the Electronic System to
j.

Organizers Electronic Systems are related
with criminal acts in the field of Technology
Electronic Information and Transactions ;
ask for expert help as needed in

k.

(6)

investigation of criminal acts in the field of
Information Technology and Electronic Transactions ;
and/or
hold cessation investigations follow
criminal law in the field of Information Technology and
Electronic Transactions in accordance with the provisions
law shows criminal.

Arrest and detention of perpetrators
criminal acts in the field of Information Technology and

Electronic Transactions are carried out in accordance with
provisions of criminal procedural law
(7)

Investigators Officials Employees of State Civil as

referred to in paragraph (l) in implementing

his job is to notify the start of the investigation
to the Public Prosecutor through the Official Investigator
State Police of the Republic of Indonesia.
(7a)

In the event that the investigation has been completed, the Investigator
Servants Civil as intended

in paragraph (1) submit the results of the investigation
to the Public Prosecutor through the Official Investigator
State Police of the Republic of Indonesia.
(8)

In order to uncover criminal acts Information
Electronics and Electronic Transactions , investigators can
cooperate with investigators from other countries to

share information and evidence
provisions of laws and regulations.

in accordance with
8. Terms .

Page 11

PRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

- 11

8. The provisions of Article 45 are amended as well as between Articleand45
Article 46 is inserted 2 (two) articles, namely Article 45A
Article 45B so that it reads as follows:

and

Article 45

Everyone who with intentionally and without right
distribute and/or transmit
and / or made to the inaccessibility of information

(1)

Electronic and/or Electronic Documents that
has a charge that violates decency
as referred to in Article 27 paragraph (ll
sentenced to a maximum imprisonment of 6
(six) years and / or a fine of many
IDR 1.000.000.000,00 (one billion

rupiah).

Everyone who with intentionally and without right
distribute and/or transmit
and / or made to the inaccessibility of information

(21

Electronic and/or Electronic Documents that

have a gambling charge as dimaLsud
in Article 27 paragraph (2) shall be punished with a criminal
imprisonment for a maximum of 6 (six) years and/or a fine
most lots 1,000,000,000.00 (one billion
rupiah).

Everyone who with intentionally and without right
distribute and/or transmit
and / or made to the inaccessibility of information

(3)

Electronic and/or Electronic Documents that
has charge humiliation and / or contamination
good name as referred to in Article 27
paragraph (3) shall be punished with criminal jail most old

4 (four) years and / or a fine of most lots

IDR 750,000,000.00 (seven hundred and fifty million

rupiah).

Everyone who with intentionally and without right
distribute and/or transmit
and / or made to the inaccessibility of information

(4)

Electronic and/ or Electronic Documents that

have extortion charges and/or

threats as referred to in Article
27 paragraph (4) shall be punished by criminal imprisonment most
long 6 (six) years and / or a fine of most lots
IDR 1.000.000.000,00 (one billion rupiah).
(5) Terms

Page 12

PRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

_t2
The provisions as referred to in paragraph (3)

(s)

is a complaint offense .
Article 45A

Everyone who with intentionally and without right

(1)

spread false and misleading news
result in consumer losses in
Electronic Transactions as referred to in

Article 28 paragraph (1) shall be punished by criminal imprisonment
a maximum of 6 (six) years and/or a maximum fine of
a lot of Rp . 1,000. 000,000.00 (one billion rupiah).

Everyone who with intentionally and without right

(21

disseminate information which is intended to
cause a sense of hatred or hostility
certain individuals and/or community groups

based on ethnicity, religion, race, and

between groups (SARA) as referred to in

Article 28 paragraph (21 shall be punished by criminal imprisonment
a maximum of 6 (six) years and/ or a maximum fine of
a lot of Rp. 1, 000.O00. 0000.00 (one billion rupiah).
chapter 458

Any person who deliberately and without rights
sending Electronic Information and/or Documents

Electronics that contain threats of violence or
scare intended as a personal
as referred to in Article 29 shall be punished with

imprisonment for a maximum of 4 (four) years and/ or
a maximum fine of Rp. 750,000,000.00 (seven hundred five
tens of millions of rupiah).

Article II

This Law shall come into force on the date of its promulgation.

So that

Page 13

IDENT PRESS

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-13

For everyone to know, command
the promulgation of this Law with its placement
in the State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia.

Legalized in Jakarta
on November 25 , 2016
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,

signed
JOKO WIDODO

Promulgated in Jakarta
on tan[gal November 25 , 2016
MINISTER OF LAW AND HAKASASI HUMAN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,

signed
YASONNA H. LAOLY

STATE GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA YEAR 2016 NUMBER 251

Copies match the original
MINISTRY OF STATE SECRETARIAT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

Deputy for Economic Affairs,
<um and Legislation,

Djaman

Page 14

qD
FRESIDENT

]

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

EXPLANATION
ON

LAWS OF THE REPUBLIC INDONESIA
NUMBER 19 YEAR 2016
ABOUT
CHANGES TO LAW
NUMBER 11 YEAR 2OO8
ABOUT INFORMATION AND ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

I. GENERAL
That the independence of states of mind and freedom found

and the right to obtain information through the use and utilization

Technology Information and communication ditqiukan to advance

general welfare , and educate the nation's life as well as

provide a sense of security, justice, and legal certainty for users and

Electronic System Operator .
In the life of society, nation and state, rights and
freedom through the use and utilization of Information Technology
This is done taking into account the restrictions set
by law solely for the purpose to ensure
recognition and respect for the rights and freedoms of others and
to meet the demands of the fair in accordance with considerations of morality,
religious values , security, and public order in a society
democratic.

Law Number 11 of 2008 concerning Information and
Electronic Transactions (UU ITE) is the first law in the field of
Information Technology and Electronic Transactions as products of legislation that
very necessary and has become a pioneer who laid the basis
regulation in the field of utilization of Information and Transaction Technology
Electronic. However, in reality, the implementation journey of
The ITE Law has problems.

First, to the Act have been proposed several times
judicial review in the Constitutional Court with the Constitutional Court Decision
Number 50 / PUU-VI
/ 2008, Number 2 I PUU -VII
I 2009, Number S / PUU-UII / 20 I O,
and Number 20IPUU-X.IV /2016.

Based on

Page 15

IDEI PRESS {

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-2Based on the Constitutional Court Decision Number SO/PUU-VII2OOS
and Number 2/PUU-VII|2OO9, criminal acts of humiliation and pollution
good name in the field of Electronic Information and Electronic Transactions
not merely as a general crime , but as an offense
complaint. The affirmation of the complaint offense is intended to be in line with the
the principle of legal certainty and a sense of community justice.
Based on the Constitutional Court Decision Number s/PUU-Vfil I 2OLO,

The Constitutional Court is of the opinion that the activities and authorities
wiretapping is a very sensitive matter because on the one hand
is a limitation of human rights, but on the other hand it has aspects
legal interests . Therefore , the setting (regutation) regarding

the legality of wiretapping should be formed and formulated in precise accordance
with the Constitution of the State of the Republic of Indonesia Year 1945. In
In addition, the Court is of the opinion that because wiretapping is a
violation of human rights as affirmed in Article
28J paragraph (2) of the Constitution of the State of the Republic of Indonesia Year 1945,

very reasonable and it is appropriate if

the state wants to deviate from the rights

the privacy of the citizen of that country, the state must deviate from it in
in the form of laws and not in the form of government regulations .

In addition, based on the Constitutional Court Decision No
20lPUU-xrv l2oL6, the Constitutional Court is of the opinion that for
prevent the occurrence of different interpretations of Article 5 paragraph (1) and
paragraph (21 of the ITE Law, the Court affirms that every interception must be
carried out legally, especially in the context of law enforcement . By
because of that, the Court in the verdict add words or
the phrase "in particular" to the phrase " Electronic Information and/or Documents
Electronic". So that there is no interpretation that the decision will be
narrowing the meaning or meanings are contained in the Article 5 paragraph (1) and
paragraph (2) of the ITE Law, to provide legal certainty of the existence of information
Electronic and / or documents electronically as a means of evidence needs to be confirmed
back in the Elucidation of Article 5 of the ITE Law.
Second, provisions regarding searches, confiscations, arrests,
and detention as regulated in the ITE Law poses problems for
investigators for criminal acts in the field of Information Technology and Transactions
Electronics are so fast and perpetrators can easily obscure
crime or evidence of a crime.

Third . .

Page 16

IDENT PRESS

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-3Third, the virtuality characteristics of cyberspace allow content
illegal activities such as Information and/or Electronic Documents that have
which violate decency, gambling, insult or defamation
good, extortion and/ or threats, spreading false news and
misleading , resulting in consumer losses in Transactions
Electronics, as well as acts of spreading hatred or hostility
based on ethnicity, religion, race, and class, and sending threats

violence or scare intended as private can

accessed, distributed, transmitted, copied, stored for
disseminated back from where any and anytime. In order

protect the public interest from any kind of disturbance as a result
misuse of Electronic Information and Electronic Transactions , it is necessary
affirmation of the Government's role in preventing the dissemination of illegal content

by taking action to cut off access to Information
Electronic and / or Electronic Documents which have a charge that

violate the law in order to be inaccessible from Indonesian jurisdiction and
necessary powers for investigators to request information that is
contained in the Electronic System Operator for the benefit of

law enforcement of criminal acts in the field of Information Technology and
Electronic Transactions .

Fourth, the use of any information through the media or system
Electronics concerning a person's personal data must be carried out on

Those agreements are concerned. For that,

a guarantee is needed
fulfillment protection themselves personally to require each

Electronic System Operator to delete Electronic Information
and / or electronic documents that are not relevant are located at the bottom
control on demand People are concerned by
court ruling .

Based on these considerations , the need to establish Law
Law on Amendments to Law Number 1l Year 2008
on Information and Electronic Transactions which confirms return
provisions for the existence of Electronic Information and/or Electronic Documents
in the Elucidation of Article 5, adding provisions on the obligation to write off
Information Electronic and / or electronic documents that are not relevant
in Article 26, amending the provisions of Article 31 paragraph (41 regarding
delegating the preparation of interception procedures into negotiations,
add the role of government in doing the prevention of dissemination
and the use of Electronic Information and/or Electronic Documents that

has a charge which is prohibited under Article 40, to change some

provisions regarding investigations related to alleged criminal acts
in the field of Information Technology and Electronic Transactions and Article 43, and ,
add to the explanation of Article 27 paragraph (1), paragraph (3), and paragraph (4) to make it more
in harmony with the system of law of criminal material are arranged in Indonesia.

II, ARTICLE. . .

Page 17

IDENT PRESS

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-4-

II. CHAPTER BY ARTICLE
Article I

Number 1
Article 1
Quite clear.

Figure2
Article 5

Paragraph (1)

That the existence of Electronic Information and/ or
Electronic documents are binding and recognized as tools
valid evidence to provide legal certainty
on the Operation of Electronic Systems and
Electronic Transactions , especially in verification and
things are related to the actions of law that
carried out through the Electronic System .
Paragraph (2)

Especially for Electronic Information and/or Documents

Electronic in the form of interception or wiretapping results
or recording which is a part of
wiretapping must be done in order to enforce
law at the request of the police, prosecutors,
and/ or

other institutions whose authority

determined by law.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (4)

letters
Letters that according to the law must be made
writing includes but is not limited to letters

precious, letter valuable, and letters that
used in the process of enforcement of law event
civil, criminal, and state administration .

letter b
Quite clear.

Number 3

Page 18

IDENT PRESS

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-5Number 3
Article 26

Paragraph (l)
In the use of Information Technology , protection

personal data is a part of the right

private (piuacg nqfus). Personal rights contain
meaning as follows:

a. Right to personal is basically ` right to enjoy
private life and free from all kinds
interference.

b. Right

to private is the right to be

communicate with others without action
spy on.

c. Right to private is the right to supervise access
information about personal life and data
someone.

Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (4)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (s)
Quite clear.
Number 4

Article 27
Paragraph (1)

What is meant by "discussing" is
transmit and/or disseminate Information
Electronic and/ or Electronic Documents to
many People or various parties through the System
Electronic.

What is meant by "transmit" is
sending Electronic Information and/ or Documents
Electronics aimed at one party to another
through Electronic Systems .

Which is meant by "making can be accessed"
are all actions other than distributing
and transmits through the Electronic System which
cause Electronic Information and/or Documents
Electronics can be known by other parties or the public.
Paragraph (2)

Page 19

IDENT PRESS

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-6Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)

The provisions in this paragraph refer to the provisions of
pollution of the name either and / or slander regulated
in the Book of the Law Law of Penal (Penal Code).
Paragraph (4)

The provisions in this paragraph refer to the provisions of
extortion and/ or threats as regulated in
The Book of the Law Law Penal (Penal Code).
Number 5
Article 31

Paragraph (r)

What is meant by "interception or wiretapping"
are activities for listening, recording,
deflect, alter, hinder, and/or

record the transmission of Electronic Information and/or
Electronic Documents that are not public, either
using a communication cable network or

wireless network, such as electromagnetic radiation or
radio frequency.
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (4)
Quite clear.
Number 6
Article 40

Paragraph (1)

Facilitate the use of Information Technology , including
governance governance of Technology Information and Electronic Transactions

the safe, ethical, intelligent, creative, productive, and

innovative. This provision includes facilitating
the wider community , government agencies , and actors
business in developing products and services
Information and communication technology .
Paragraph (2)

Page 20

PRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-7 Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2a)

Quite clear.
Paragraph (2b)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (a)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (s)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (6)
Quite clear.
Number 7
Article 43

Paragraph (l)

What is meant by "Officials Employees Civil

certain "is Officials Employees of State Civil
ministry which organizes the affairs
government in

the field of communication and informatics

who have met the requirements based on
provisions of laws and regulations.
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (s)
Quite clear.
Verse (41

Quite clear.
Paragraph (5)

letter a
Quite clear.

letter b
Quite clear.

letter c
Quite clear.

Letter d .

Page 21

PRESIDENT

REPU BLIK INDONESIA

-8letterd
Quite clear.

letter e
Quite clear.

letter f

Quite clear.

letter g
Quite clear.

letter h
Quite clear.

Letter i
Quite clear.

letterj

What is meant by "expert" is someone

who have special expertise in the field of Technology
Information that can be accounted for

in academic as well as practical about

his knowledge.

letter k
Quite clear.
Paragraph (6)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (7)
Quite clear.
Verse (7a)

Quite clear.

Paragraph (8)
Quite clear.
Number 8
Article 45

Quite clear.
Article 45A

Quite clear.
Article 45El

The provisions in this Article are also included in it

harassment in

the world of cyber (cgber bullyingl that

contain elements

of threats of violence or intimidation
scare and resulted in violent physical, psychological,
and/or material loss .

SUPPLEMENT TO STATE GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA NUMBER 5952

