Page 1

LAWS OF THE REPUBLIC INDONESIA
NUMBER 14 YEAR 2008
ABOUT
PUBLIC INFORMATION DISCLOSURE
BY THE GRACE OF GOD ALMIGHTY
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,
Considering:

a. that information is a basic need of every
people for personal and environmental development
social and is an important part of
National defence;
b. that the right to obtain information is a human right
people and the disclosure of public information is
one of the important characteristics of a democratic country that
respect
high
sovereignty
people
realizing good state administration;

for

c. that public information disclosure is a
means of optimizing public oversight
to the administration of the state and public bodies
others and everything that results in
public interest;
d. that the management of public information is wrong
an effort to develop the community
information;
e. that based on the considerations as
referred to in letter a, letter b, letter c, and letter d,
need
shape
Constitution
Public Information Disclosure;
Remember:

about

Article 20, Article 21, Article 28 F, and Article 28 J of the Law
the 1945 Constitution of the Republic of Indonesia;
By Mutual Agreement
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVE OF INDONESIA REPUBLIC
and
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
DECIDING:

To enact : LAW CONCERNING DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION
PUBLIC.

PIG …

Page 2

-2PIG
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
article 1
In this Law what is meant by:
1. Information is a description, statement, idea,
and signs that contain value, meaning, and
messages, both data, facts and explanations
can be seen, heard, and read presented
in various packages and formats according to
development of information and communication technology
electronically or non-electronically.
2. Public Information is information generated,
stored, managed, sent, and/or received by
a public body related to
organizers and administration of the state and/or
organizers and administration of public bodies
others in accordance with this Law as well as
other information related to interests
public.
3. Public Agency is an executive, legislative,
judiciary, and other bodies whose functions and duties
principally related to the administration of the state,
which part or all of the funds are sourced from
State Revenue and Expenditure Budget and/or
Regional Revenue and Expenditure Budget, or
non-governmental organizations in whole or in part
All funds are sourced from the Budget
State Revenue and Expenditure and/or Budget
Regional Income and Expenditures, donations
community, and/or abroad.
4. The Information Commission is an independent institution that
function to carry out this Law and
implementing regulations, establishing guidelines
technical standards of public information services and
resolve public information disputes through
mediation and/or non-litigation adjudication.
5. Public Information Dispute is a dispute which
occurs between public bodies and users of information
public relating to the right to obtain and
use information based on legislation
invitation.
6. Mediation…

Page 3

-36. Mediation is the settlement of information disputes
between the parties through the help of a mediator
information commission.
7. Adjudication is a dispute resolution process
public information between the parties decided by
information commission.
8. Public Official is a person who is appointed and
assigned to occupy a position or position
certain public bodies.
9. The Information Management and Documentation Officer is
official in charge of
storage,
documentation,
and/or information services in public bodies.

provision,

10. Persons are individuals, groups of people,
legal entity, or public body as
referred to in this Law.
11. Public Information Users are people who
use public information as regulated
in this Law.
12. Applicant for Public Information is a citizen
and/or Indonesian legal entity that submits
public information requests as regulated
in this Law.

CHAPTER II
PRINCIPLES AND OBJECTIVES
Part One
Principle
Section 2
(1) Every Public Information is open and can be
accessed by every Public Information User.
(2) The exempted Public Information is strict and
limited.
(3) Every Public Information must be available every time
Applicants for Public Information quickly and accurately
time, low cost, and simple way.
(4) Information…

Page 4

-4(4) The exempted Public Information is confidential
in accordance with the law, propriety, and
public interest is based on testing
about the consequences that arise when a
information is provided to the public as well as after
carefully considered that closing
Public Information can protect the interests of
larger than opening it or vice versa.

The second part
Destination
Article 3
This law aims to:
a. guarantee the right of citizens to know
public policy-making plans, programs
public policies, and decision-making processes
public, as well as the reasons for making a decision
public;
b. encourage community participation in the process
public policy making;
c. increase the active role of the community in
public policy making and agency management
Good public;
d. realizing good state administration, namely:
transparent, effective and efficient, accountable and
can be accounted for;
e. knowing
reason
affect the livelihood of many people;

Policy

public

that

f. develop knowledge and educate
the life of the nation; and/or
g. improve management and information services in
Public Agency environment to produce services
quality information.

CHAPTER III …

Page 5

-5CHAPTER III
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF APPLICANTS AND INFORMATION USERS
PUBLIC AND RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF PUBLIC AGENCY
Part One
Rights of Public Information Applicants Informasi
Article 4
(1) Everyone has the right to obtain Public Information
in accordance with the provisions of this Law.
(2) Everyone has the right to:
a. view and know Public Information;
b. attend public gatherings that are open to
public to obtain Public Information;
c. obtain a copy of Public Information through
application in accordance with this Law;
and/or
d. disseminating Public Information in accordance with
legislation.
(3) Every Public Information Applicant has the right to file
request for Public Information with reasons
the request.
(4) Every Public Information Applicant has the right to submit
a lawsuit to the court if in obtaining
Public Information gets blocked or fails
in accordance with the provisions of this Law.
The second part
Obligations of Public Information Users
Article 5
(1) Users of Public Information are required to use
Public Information in accordance with regulatory provisions
legislation.
(2) Users of Public Information are required to include
the source from which it obtains Public Information,
good for self-interest
as well as for publication purposes in accordance with
the provisions of the legislation.
Part Three…

Page 6

-6Part Three
Public Agency Rights
Article 6
(1) Public Agency has the right to refuse to provide information
which are excluded in accordance with the provisions of the regulations
legislation.
(2) Public Agency has the right to refuse to provide Information
Public if it does not comply with the provisions
legislation.
(3) Public Information that cannot be provided by
Public Agency, as referred to in paragraph (1)
is:
a. information that can harm the state;
b. information related to interests
business protection from business competition is not
healthy;
c. information relating to personal rights;
d. information relating to job secrets;
and/or
e. The requested Public Information has not been mastered or
documented.
Part Four
Obligations of Public Bodies
Article 7
(1) Public Agency is obliged to provide, provide
and/or publish Public Information located
under its authority to the Information Applicant
Public, in addition to the information excluded according to
under the condition.
(2) Public Agency is obliged to provide Public Information
which is accurate, true, and not misleading.
(3) To carry out the obligations as kewajiban
referred to in paragraph (2), the Public Agency must
build and develop information systems
and documentation to manage Public Information
properly and efficiently so that it can be accessed by
easy.

(4) Body …

Page 7

-7(4) Public Agency is obliged to make careful consideration
written every policy taken for
fulfill the rights of every Person to Public Information.
(5) The considerations as referred to in paragraph (4)
including political, economic,
social, cultural, and/or defense and security
country.
(6) In order to fulfill the obligations as
referred to in paragraph (1) to paragraph (4)
The public can take advantage of the facilities and/or media
electronic and non-electronic.
Article 8
Obligations of Public Bodies relating to archives
and documentation of Public Information is carried out
based on statutory regulations.
CHAPTER IV
INFORMATION THAT MUST BE PROVIDED AND DISCLOSED
Part One
Information that Must be Provided and Announced Periodically
Article 9
(1) Every Public Agency is obliged to publish Information
Public regularly.
(2) Public Information as referred to in paragraph (1)
include:
a. information related to Public Agency;
b. information regarding the activities and performance of the Agency
Relevant public;
c. information regarding financial statements; and/or
d. other information regulated in the regulations
legislation.
(3) Obligation to provide and convey Information
Public as referred to in paragraph (2)
conducted at least once every 6 (six) months.
(4) Obligation to disseminate Public Information
as referred to in paragraph (1), submitted
in a way that is easily accessible to the public
and in easy-to-understand language.

(5) Ways…

Page 8

-8(5) The methods as referred to in paragraph (4)
further determined by the Managing Officer
Information and Documentation in related Public Agencies.
(6) Further provisions regarding the obligations of the Agency
The public provides and conveys Information
Public periodically as referred to in
paragraph (1), paragraph (2), and paragraph (3) are regulated by Instructions
Technical Information Commission.
The second part
Information that Must Be Announced Immediately
Article 10
(1) Public Agency is obliged to announce
immediately an information that can threaten one's life
people's lives and public order.
(2) Obligation to disseminate Public Information
as referred to in paragraph (1) is submitted
in a way that is easily accessible to the public
and in easy-to-understand language.
Part Three
Information that must be available at all times
Article 11
(1) Public Agency is obliged to provide Public Information
any time which includes:
a. a list of all Public Information that is in
under his control, excluding information
which are excluded;
b. result
decision
Body
Public
the considerations;
c. all existing policies and documents
supporters;
d. the project work plan includes
the estimated annual expenditure of the Public Agency;
e. Public Agency agreements with third parties;
f. information and policies submitted by officials
The public in a meeting that is open to
general;
g. working procedures for Public Agency employees who
relating to community services; and/or
h. report…

Page 9

-9h. reports on information access services
Public as regulated by law
this.
(2) Public Information that has been declared open to
community based on the objection mechanism
and/or dispute resolution as
referred to in Article 48, Article 49, and Article 50
declared as Public Information that can be
accessed by Public Information Users.
(3) Further provisions regarding procedures
implementation of the obligations of the Public Agency to provide
Public Information that can be accessed by Users
Public Information as referred to in paragraph
(1) and (2) are regulated by the Commission's Technical Instructions
Information.
Article 12
Every year the Public Agency is obliged to announce its services
information, which includes:
a.

the number of requests for information received;

b.

the time required by the Public Agency in
fulfill any requests for information;

c.

number of grants and refusals
information; and/or

d.

reasons for refusing a request for information.
Article 13

(1) To realize fast, precise, and efficient service
simple every Public Agency:
a. appoint an Information Management Officer and
Documentation; and
b. create and develop a supply system
information services quickly, easily, and fairly
according to service standard technical instructions
Public Information that applies nationally.
(2) Information Management and Documentation Officer
as referred to in paragraph (1) letter a is assisted
by functional officials.
Article 14 …

Page 10

- 10 Article 14
Public Information that must be provided by Business Entities
State-owned, Regional-Owned Enterprises and/or entities
other businesses owned by the state in the Law
These laws are:
a. name and place of domicile, intent and purpose
as well as the type of business activity, period of establishment,
and capital, as stated in the
articles of Association;
b. full names of shareholders, members of the board of directors, and
members of the company's board of commissioners;
c. annual report, financial report, balance sheet report
profit and loss, and social responsibility reports
audited companies;
d. results of assessments by external auditors, institutions
credit rating and other rating agencies;
e. system and allocation of member remuneration funds
commissioners/supervisory boards and directors;
f. mechanism for determining directors and commissioners/boards
supervisor;
g. legal cases based on the Act
open as Public Information;
h. guidelines for implementing good corporate governance
whether based on the principles of transparency,
accountability, responsibility, independence, and
fairness;
i. announcement of issuance of debt securities;
j. replacement of the accountant who audits the company;
k. changes in the company's fiscal year;
l. government assignment activities and/or obligations
public services or subsidies;
m. mechanism for the procurement of goods and services; and/or
n. other information specified by law
relating to State-Owned Enterprises/
Regional owned enterprises.
Article 15
Public Information that must be provided by political parties
in this Law are:
a. principles and goals;

b. programs…

Page 11

and

- 11 b. general programs and activities of political parties;
c. name, address and management structure and
the changes;
d. management and use of funds sourced
from the State Revenue and Expenditure Budget
and/or Regional Revenue and Expenditure Budget;
e. party decision-making mechanisms;
f. party decisions derived from the results
congress/congress and/or decisions
others according to the articles of association and budget
the party household is open to the public; and/or
g. other information stipulated by law
related to political parties.
Article 16
Public Information that organizations must provide
non-government in this Law are:
a. principles and goals;
b. organizational programs and activities;
c. name, address, management structure, and
the changes;
d. management and use of funds sourced
from the State Revenue and Expenditure Budget
and/or Regional Revenue and Expenditure Budget,
community donations, and/or external sources
country;
e. organizational decision-making mechanisms;
f. organizational decisions; and/or
g. other information stipulated by regulations
legislation.
CHAPTER V
EXCLUDED INFORMATION
Article 17
Every Public Agency is obliged to open access for every
Public Information Applicants to obtain Information
Public, except:
a. Public Information which, when opened and provided,
to Public Information Applicants can hinder
law enforcement process, namely information that can:

1. hinder…

Page 12

- 12 1. hinder the process of investigation and investigation
a crime;
2. disclose the identity of informants, reporters, witnesses,
and/or victims who are aware of the
criminal;
3. disclose criminal intelligence data and
plans related to
prevention and treatment of all forms
transnational crime;
4. endanger safety and life
law enforcers and/or their families; and/or
5. jeopardize the safety of equipment, facilities,
and/or law enforcement infrastructure.
b. Public Information which, when opened and provided,
to Public Information Applicants can interfere with
protection of property rights
intellectual property and protection from business competition
not healthy;
c. Public Information which, when opened and provided,
to
Applicant
Information
endanger national defense and security,
that is:

Public

could

1. information about strategy, intelligence, operations, tactics
and techniques related to the maintenance of
national defense and security system, including
planning, implementation and termination stages
or evaluation in relation to threats from
domestic and foreign;
2. documents containing strategy, intelligence,
operations, techniques and tactics relating to
maintenance of defense and security systems
country which includes the planning stage,
implementation and termination or evaluation;
3. amount, composition, disposition, or dislocation
strength and ability to maintain
national defense and security system and
its development plan;
4. pictures and data about the situation and circumstances
military bases and/or installations;

5. data…

Page 13

- 13 5. Estimated data on military and defense capabilities
other countries are limited to all actions
and/or indication of the country that can be
endanger the sovereignty of the Unitary State
Republic of Indonesia and/or related data
military cooperation with other countries
agreed upon in the agreement as
secret or very secret;
6. the country's coding system; and/or
7. State intelligence system.
d. Public Information which, when opened and provided,
to
Applicant
Information
disclose Indonesia's natural wealth;

Public

could

e. Public Information which, when opened and provided,
to Public Information Applicants, can be detrimental
national economic resilience:
1. initial plan of buying and selling currency
national or foreign, shares and vital assets owned
country;
2. the initial plan for changes in exchange rates, interest rates,
and operating models of financial institutions;
3. initial plan to change bank interest rates,
government loans, changes in taxes, rates, or
other state/regional income;
4. initial plan of sale or purchase of land or
property;
5. initial foreign investment plan;
6. process and results of banking supervision, insurance,
or other financial institutions; and/or
7. Matters related to the printing process
money.
f. Public Information which, when opened and provided,
to Public Information Applicants, can be detrimental
foreign relations interests:
1. position, bargaining power and strategies that will and have been
taken by the state in relation to
international negotiations;
2. diplomatic correspondence between countries;
3. communication and coding system that
used in a relationship
international; and/or

4. protection…

Page 14

- 14 4. infrastructure protection and security
Indonesia's strategic overseas.
g. Public Information which, when opened, can
disclose the contents of an authentic deed that is personal
and the last will or will of a person;
h. Public Information which, when opened and provided,
Public Information Applicants may disclose
personal secret, namely:
1. history and condition of family members;
2. history, condition and treatment, medication
a person's physical and psychological health;
3. financial condition, assets, income, and accounts
someone's bank;
4. results
evaluation
in connection
capabilities, intellect, and recommendations
one's abilities; and/or

with

5. records concerning the person's personal
related to the activities of the educational unit
formal and non-formal education units.
i. memorandums or letters between public bodies
or within a Public Agency, which by their nature
kept confidential except for the decision of the Information Commission
or court;
j. information that should not be disclosed based on
Constitution.
Article 18
(1) Not included in the category of information that
excluded are the following information:
a. the decision of the judiciary;
b. decrees, decrees, regulations, circulars,
or other forms of policy, whether they are not
applies binding or binding into
or outside as well as institutional considerations
law enforcer;
c. a warrant for the termination of the investigation or
prosecution;
d. enforcement agency annual expenditure plan
law;
e. annual financial reports of enforcement agencies
law;
f. report…

Page 15

- 15 f. report on refund of corruption proceeds;
and/or
g. other information as referred to in Article
11 paragraph (2).
(2) Excluding excluded information
as referred to in Article 17 letter g and
letter h, among others if:
a. the party whose secret was revealed gave

written consent; and/or
b. disclosure relating to one's position

in public positions.
(3) In the interest of examining criminal cases
in court, the Chief of the Indonesian National Police,
Attorney General, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, Chair of the Commission
Corruption Eradication, and/or Institutional Leaders
Other Law Enforcement Countries granted
authority by law can open
excluded information as intended
in Article 17 letter a, letter b, letter c, letter d,
letter e, letter f, letter i, and letter j.
(4) Disclosure of exempted information as
referred to in paragraph (3) is carried out by means of
submit a request for permission to the President.
(5) Request for permit as referred to in paragraph (3)
and paragraph (4) for the purpose of examining the case
civil law relating to finance or
state property in court, permission request
filed by the Attorney General as a state attorney
to the President.
(6) The written permission as referred to in paragraph (3), paragraph
(4), and paragraph (5) is given by the President to the Head of
Indonesian National Police, Attorney General, Chairperson
Corruption Eradication Commission, Institutional Leader
Other Law Enforcement Countries, or Chairman
Supreme Court.
(7) Taking into account the interests of defense
and national security and public interest,
The President may refuse requests for information
excluded as referred to in paragraph (3),
paragraph (4), and paragraph (5).
Article 19 …

Page 16

- 16 Article 19
Information Management and Documentation Officer in each
Public bodies are required to conduct tests on
the consequences as referred to in Article 17
carefully and thoroughly before
states certain Public Information is excluded for
accessible to everyone.
Article 20
(1) Exceptions

as referred to in Article 17
letter a, letter b, letter c, letter d, letter e, and letter
f is not permanent.

(2) Further

provisions regarding the time period
exceptions are regulated by Government Regulation.

CHAPTER VI
MECHANISM OF OBTAINING INFORMATION
Article 21
Mechanisms for obtaining Public Information
based on the principle of fast, on time, and cost
light.
Article 22
(1) Every Public Information Applicant may file
requests to obtain Public Information
to the relevant Public Agency in writing or not
written.
(2) Public Agency must record the name and address
Public Information Applicant, subject and format
information and how to deliver the information
requested by the Public Information Applicant.
(3) The Public Agency concerned is required to record
Public Information requests submitted online
Unwritten.
(4) The relevant Public Agency is required to provide proof
reception
Request
Information
as referred to in paragraph (1) and paragraph (3)
in the form of a registration number at the time of request
be accepted.

Public

(5) In…

Page 17

- 17 (5) In the event that the request is submitted directly
or by e-mail, registration number
given upon receipt of the request.
(6) In the event that the request is submitted by letter,
delivery registration number can be provided
concurrently with the delivery of information.
(7) No later than 10 (ten) working days after
receipt of the request, the Public Agency which
concerned must submit notification
written containing:
a. the requested information is below
mastery or not;
b. Public Agency must notify Public Agency
who controls the requested information if
the requested information is not below
control and the Public Agency that receives
request to know the existence of information
requested;
c. acceptance or rejection of requests with
the reasons listed as intended
in Article 17;
d. in the event that the request is accepted in full or
part of the information material that will be
given;
e. in the event that a document contains material
which are excluded as referred to in
Article 17, then the information that is excluded
can be blackened with a reason
and the material;
f. the means of conveying and formatting the information that will
given; and/or
g. fees and methods of payment to obtain
requested information.
(8) Body
Public
that
concerned
extend
time
for
notification as referred to in paragraph (7),
no later than the next 7 (seven) working days with
give reasons in writing.

could
send

(9) Further provisions regarding the procedure for request
Information to Public Bodies is regulated by the Commission
Information.
CHAPTER VII…

Page 18

- 18 CHAPTER VII
INFORMATION COMMISSION
Part One
Function
Article 23
The Information Commission is an independent institution that functions
enforce this law and regulations
implementation establishes standard technical guidelines petunjuk
Public Information services and resolving Disputes
Public Information through Mediation and/or Adjudication
non-litigation.
The second part
Position
Article 24
(1) The Information Commission shall consist of the Central Information Commission,
Provincial Information Commission, and if required Commission
District/city information.
(2) The Central Information Commission is domiciled in the capital city
Country.
(3) The provincial Information Commission is domiciled in the capital city
province and district/city Information Commission
domiciled in the district/city capital.
Part Three
Arrangement
Article 25
(1) The members of the Central Information Commission are 7 (seven)
people who reflect elements of the government and
community elements.
(2) Member of the provincial Information Commission and/or Commission
District/city information is 5 (five) people
reflecting elements of government and elements of
Public.
(3) The Information Commission is led by a chairman
concurrently a member and accompanied by a
vice chairman and member.

(4) Chief …

Page 19

- 19 (4) The chairperson and deputy chairperson are elected from and by the
member of the Information Commission.
(5) The election as referred to in paragraph (4)
carried out in consultation with all members
Information Commission and if not achieved
agreement is voted on.
Part Four
Duty
Article 26
(1) The Information Commission is in charge of:
a. receive,
check,
and
Information Dispute settlement request
Public through Mediation and/or Adjudication
non-litigation submitted by each applicant
Information
Public
based on
as referred to in the Act
this;
b. set

Policy

general

cut off

reason

service

Public Information; and
c. establish implementation instructions and instructions
technical.
(2) The Central Information Commission is in charge of:
a. determine the procedure for implementing the settlement
disputes through Mediation and/or Adjudication
non-litigation;
b. receive, examine, and decide on Disputes
Public Information in the area during the Commission
Provincial Information and/or Information Commission
regencies/cities have not yet been established; and
c. provide a report on the implementation
duties under this Act
to the President and the House of Representatives
Republic of Indonesia once a year or at any time
time if requested.
(3) Provincial Information Commission and/or Information Commission
districts/cities are in charge of receiving, inspecting, and
decide on Public Information Disputes in the regions
through Mediation and/or non-litigation Adjudication.

Part Five…

Page 20

- 20 Part Five
Authority

Article 27
(1) In carrying out its duties, the Information Commission
have the authority:
a. summon and/or bring together the parties
the disputing;
b. request relevant notes or materials that
owned by the relevant Public Agency for
take
decision
resolve Public Information Disputes;

in

c. ask for information or present an official
Public Agency or related parties as
witnesses in the settlement of Information Disputes
Public;
d. take an oath every witness heard
his statement in the non-litigation Adjudication
settlement of Public Information Disputes; and
e. create a code of ethics that is announced to
public so that people can judge
Information Commission performance.
(2) The authority of the Central Information Commission includes
authority to settle Public Information Disputes
relating to central public bodies and agencies
Provincial level public and/or Public Agency
district/city level as long as the Information Commission is in
province or district/city Information Commission
is not yet formed.
(3) The authority of the provincial Information Commission includes
authority to settle disputes concerning
Provincial level public agency concerned.
(4) Authority of the Regency/City Information Commission
includes the authority to settle disputes which
concerning district/city-level public bodies
concerned

Sixth Part…

Page 21

- 21 Part Six
Accountability
Article 28
(1) The Central Information Commission is responsible to
President and submit a report on
implementation of its functions, duties, and authorities to
House of Representative of Indonesia Republic.
(2) The provincial Information Commission is responsible to
governor and submit a report on

effort

implementation of its functions, duties, and authorities to
Regional House of Representatives of the province which
concerned.
(3) The district/city Information Commission is responsible
to the regent/mayor and submit a report
regarding the implementation of its functions, duties, and authorities
to the District/Regency Regional House of Representatives
the city in question.
(4) The full report of the Information Commission as follows
referred to in paragraph (1), paragraph (2), and paragraph (3) are
open to the public.
Seventh Part
Secretariat and Management of the Information Commission
Article 29
(1) Administrative, financial and governance support
The Information Commission is carried out by the secretariat
commission.
(2) The Secretariat of the Information Commission is carried out by
Government.
(3) The Secretariat of the Central Information Commission is led by
secretary appointed by the Minister in charge of
and its authority in the field of communication and
informatics based on the recommendation of the Information Commission.
(4) The secretariat of the provincial Information Commission is implemented
by officials whose duties and authorities are in the field of
communication and information at the provincial level that
concerned.
(5) Secretariat…

Page 22

- 22 (5) Regency/city Information Commission Secretariat
carried out by officials who have the duty and
authority in the field of communication and information in
district/city level concerned.
(6) The Central Information Commission's budget is charged to
State Revenue and Expenditure Budget, budget
Provincial Information Commission and/or Information Commission
district/city
charged
on
Budget
Provincial and/or Regional Revenue and Expenditure
Regional Revenue and Expenditure Budget
the district/city concerned.
Part Eight
Appointment and Dismissal
Article 30
(1) Terms
rapture
member
Commission
Information:
a. Indonesian citizens;
b. have integrity and be blameless;
c. never been convicted for committing an act
criminal offense punishable by 5 (five)
years or more;
d. have knowledge and understanding in the field of
Public Information disclosure as part of
human rights and public policy;
e. have experience in Agency activities
Public;
f. willing to relinquish his membership and position
in a Public Agency when appointed as
member of the Information Commission;
g. willing to work full time;
h. at least 35 (thirty five) years old;
and
i. healthy mind and body.
(2) Recruitment of candidate members of the Information Commission
implemented by the Government in an open, honest,
and objective.
(3) The list of candidates for members of the Information Commission is obligatory
announced to the public.
(4) Everyone has the right to submit opinions and
evaluation of prospective members of the Information Commission
as referred to in paragraph (3) accompanied by:
reason.
Article 31 …

Page 23

- 23 Article 31
(1) Candidates for members of the Central Information Commission results
recruitment as referred to in Article 30
paragraph (2) is submitted to the House of Representatives
Republic of Indonesia by the President a total of 21 (two
twenty one) candidates.
(2) The House of Representatives of the Republic of Indonesia elects
member of the Central Information Commission through due diligence
and eligibility.
(3) Members of the Central Information Commission who have been elected by
House of Representative of Indonesia Republic
subsequently determined by the President.

Article 32
(1) Candidates for members of the provincial Information Commission and/or
District/city Information Commission recruitment results
as referred to in Article 30 paragraph (2)
submitted to the Regional House of Representatives
province and/or Regional People's Representative Council
district/city
by
governor
and/or
regent/mayor at least 10 (ten) people
candidates and a maximum of 15 (fifteen) candidates.
(2) Provincial and/or Regional House of Representatives
districts/cities elect members of the Information Commission
province and/or district/city Information Commission
through a fit and proper test.
(3) Member of the provincial Information Commission and/or Commission
Information on districts/cities that have been selected by
Provincial and/or Regional House of Representatives
District/city Regional House of Representatives
further determined by the governor and/or
regent/mayor.

Article 33
Members of the Information Commission are appointed for a term of 4
(four) years and can be reappointed for one
next period.

Article 34 …

Page 24

- 24 Article 34
(1) Dismissal of members of the Information Commission is carried out
based on the decision of the Information Commission in accordance
with its level and proposed to the President
to the Central Information Commission, to the governor
to the provincial Information Commission, and to
regent/mayor
for
Commission
Information
district/city to be determined.
(2) Members of the Information Commission quit or
dismissed because:
a. die;
b. his term of office has expired;
c. resign;
d. sentenced to a court decision that has been
permanent legal force with a criminal threat
a minimum of 5 (five) years in prison;
e. mental and physical illness and/or other causes that
resulting in the person concerned unable to
carry out duties for 1 (one) year in a row;
or
f. commit a disgraceful act and/or violate
code of ethics, the decision of which is determined by the Commission
Information.
(3) Dismissal as referred to in paragraph (1)
determined by Presidential Decree for the Commission
Central Information, governor's decision for the Commission
Information
province,
and/or
regent/mayor
for
Commission
district/city.

decision
Information

(4) Interim change of members of the Information Commission
carried out by the President after consulting with
leader of the House of Representatives of the Republic
Indonesia for the Central Information Commission, by
governor after consulting with the leadership
Provincial Regional People's Representative Council for
Provincial Information Commission, and by the regent/mayor
after consulting with the board of directors
Regional Representatives of the Regency/City for
District/city Information Commission.

(5) Members…

Page 25

- 25 (5) Interim replacement Information Committee member
taken from the next order based on the test results
the feasibility and propriety that has been carried out
as the basis for the appointment of members of the Commission
Information for the period in question.
CHAPTER VIII
OBJECTIONS AND DISPUTE SETTLEMENT
THROUGH THE INFORMATION COMMISSION
Part One
Objection
Article 35
(1) Every Public Information Applicant may file
objection in writing to the official's superior
Information Manager and Documentation based on
following reasons:
a. refusal of requests for information based on
the reason for the exception as intended
in Article 17;
b. not
provided
information
as referred to in Article 9;
c. not responding to requests for information;
d. Request
information
responded
as requested;
e. non-fulfillment of requests for information;
f. imposition of unreasonable fees; and/or
g. delivery of information that exceeds the time
regulated in this Law.

periodically

not

(2) The reasons as referred to in paragraph (1) letter b
up to the letter g can be solved by
deliberation by both parties.
Article 36
(1) Objection filed by Public Information Applicant
not later than 30 (thirty)
working days after finding the reasons as
referred to in Article 35 paragraph (1).
(2) The official's superiors as referred to in Article
35 paragraph (1) provides responses to objections
submitted by the Public Information Applicant in
no later than 30 (thirty) working days
from the receipt of the written objection.

(3) Reason…

Page 26

- 26 (3) Written reasons are included with the response if
the official's superior as referred to in Article
35 paragraph (1) strengthens the decision made by
his subordinates.

The second part
Dispute Resolution Through the Information Commission
Article 37
(1) Efforts to resolve Public Information Disputes
submitted to the Central Information Commission and/or
Provincial Information Commission and/or Information Commission
regencies/cities in accordance with their authority
if the response from the superior of the Information Management Officer
and Documentation in the objection process is not
satisfy the Public Information Applicant.
(2) Efforts to resolve Public Information Disputes
submitted no later than 14 (fourteen)
working days after receipt of a written response from
the official's superior as referred to in Article
36 paragraph (2).
Article 38
(1) Central Information Commission and provincial Information Commission
and/or the district/city Information Commission must Komisi
start
strive
solution
Dispute
Public Information through Mediation and/or Adjudication
non-litigation no later than 14 (fourteen) working days
after receiving a request for dispute resolution
Public Information.
(2) The dispute resolution process as referred to
in paragraph (1) at the latest it can be completed within
100 (one hundred) working days.
Article 39
The decision of the Information Commission stemming from the agreement
through Mediation is final and binding.

CHAPTER IX…

Page 27

- 27 CHAPTER IX
COMMISSION PROCEDURE LAW
Part One
Mediation
Article 40
(1) Settlement of disputes through Mediation is
choice of the parties and is voluntary.
(2) Dispute settlement through Mediation can only be
carried out on the subject matter
in Article 35 paragraph (1) letter b, letter c, letter d,
letter e, letter f, and letter g.
(3) Agreement of the parties in the Mediation process
set forth in the form of a Commission Mediation decision
Information.
Article 41
In the Mediation process members of the Information Commission play a role
as a mediator.
The second part
Adjudication
Article 42
Settlement of Public Information Disputes through Adjudication
Non-litigation by the Information Commission can only be taken
if the Mediation effort is declared unsuccessful
written by one or the parties to the dispute,
or one or the parties to the dispute are interesting
away from negotiations.
Article 43
(1) Session of the Information Commission that examines and
decide the case of at least 3 (three) members
commission or more and must be an odd amount.
(2) The Information Commission session is open to
general.

(3) In…

Page 28

- 28 (3) In the case of examinations related to
documents
that
exceptions as referred to in Article 17,
the trial hearing is closed.

including

in

(4) Members of the Information Commission are obligated to maintain confidentiality
documents as referred to in paragraph (3).
Part Three
Examination
Article 44
(1) In the event that the Information Commission accepts the application
Settlement of Public Information Disputes, Commission
Information provides a copy of the application
to the respondent.
(2) The respondent party as referred to in paragraph (1)
is the head of a Public Agency or related official
the designated person whose statement was heard in
inspection process.
(3) In the event that the respondent party as referred to in
in paragraph (2), the Information Commission may decide to
hear the information orally or
written.
(4) The Applicant for Public Information and the Respondent may
represent to his representative who specifically
empowered for it.
Part Four
Proof
Article 45
(1) The

Public Agency must prove the following:
support their opinion if they say no
can provide information with reasons
as referred to in Article 17 and Article 35
paragraph (1) letter a.

(2) The

Public Agency must convey the reasons that
support his attitude if the Information Applicant
The public submits a settlement request
Public Information Dispute as regulated in
Article 35 paragraph (1) letter b to letter g.

Part Five…

Page 29

- 29 Part Five
Information Commission Decision
Article 46
(1) Decision of the Information Commission regarding the granting or
denial of access to all or part
the requested information contains one of the commands
below this:
a. cancel the decision of the superior of the Public Agency and
decide to give part or
all information requested by the Applicant
Public Information in accordance with the Commission's decision
Information; or
b. confirm the decision of the superior of the Managing Officer Pejabat
Information and Documentation for not
provide the requested information partially or
entirely as referred to in Article 17.
(2) Decision of the Information Commission on the subject of the objection
as referred to in Article 35 paragraph (1) letter
b to the letter g, containing one of
the command below:
a. ordered the Information Management Officer and
Documentation to carry out their obligations
as specified in the Law
this;
b. ordered the Public Agency to fulfill
its obligations within the period of granting
information as regulated in the Law
Invite this; or
c. confirming the consideration of the superiors of the Public Agency
or decide on search fees
and/or duplication of information.
(3) The decision of the Information Commission is pronounced in the session
open to the public, except for decisions that
regarding excluded information.
(4) The Information Commission is obliged to provide a copy of
decision on the parties to the dispute.
(5) If there is a commission member who in deciding
a matter has a different opinion from
decisions taken, opinions of commission members
is attached to the decision and becomes
an integral part of the decision.

CHAPTER X…

Page 30

- 30 CHAPTER X
CLAIMS TO COURT AND CASATION
Part One
Lawsuit to Court
Article 47
(1) The filing of a lawsuit is carried out through the administrative court
state business if the person being sued is a
State public.
(2) The filing of a lawsuit is made through the court
country if the person being sued is a Public Body
other than the state Public Agency as intended
in paragraph (1).
Article 48
(1) The filing of a lawsuit as referred to in
Article 47 paragraph (1) and paragraph (2) can only be reached
if one or the parties to the dispute
in writing stating that they do not accept the decision
Adjudication from the Information Commission no later than 14
(fourteen) working days after the decision is received
that.
(2) As far as exempt information is concerned,
hearings at the Information Commission and in courts are
closed.
Article 49
(1) The decision of the state administrative court or
district court in dispute resolution
Public Information about giving or refusing
access to all or part of the information
prompted to contain one of the following commands:
a. cancel
decision
and/or instruct the Public Agency to:

Commission

Information

1. provide some or all of the information
requested by the Information Applicant
Public; or
2. refuse to give part or all of it
information requested by the Applicant
Public Information.
b. strengthen…

Page 31

- 31 b. strengthen the decision of the Information Commission and/or
instructs Public Bodies:
1. provide some or all of the information
requested by the Public Information Applicant;
or
2. refuse to give part or all of it
information requested by the Applicant
Public Information.
(2) The decision of the state administrative court or
district court in dispute resolution
Information
Public
about
as referred to in Article 35 paragraph (1) letter
b to the letter g contains one of the commands
following:

tree

a. ordered the Information Management Officer and
Documentation to carry out their obligations
as specified in the Law
this and/or ordered to fulfill
the period of providing information as
regulated in this Law;
b. reject the application of the Public Information Applicant;
or
c. determine the cost of copying information.
b. State administrative court or district court
provide a copy of the decision to the parties

mind

who are in dispute.

The second part
Cassation
Article 50
Parties who do not accept the decision of the administrative court
state enterprises or district courts may file
appeal to the Supreme Court no later than
14 (fourteen) days from the receipt of the decision
state administrative court or district court.

CHAPTER XI…

Page 32

- 32 CHAPTER XI
CRIMINAL PROVISIONS
Article 51
Everyone who intentionally uses
Public Information is unlawfully punished with
imprisonment for a maximum of 1 (one) year and/or
a maximum fine of Rp. 5,000,000.00 (five million
rupiah).
Article 52
Public Agency which intentionally does not provide,
does not provide, and/or does not publish Information
Public in the form of Public Information on a regular basis, Information
Public that must be announced immediately,
Public Information that must be available at all times, and/or
Public Information that must be provided on the basis of
requests in accordance with this Law, and
causing harm to other people is subject to a criminal
imprisonment for a maximum of 1 (one) year and/or criminal
a maximum fine of Rp. 5,000,000.00 (five million rupiah).
Article 53
Everyone who intentionally and against the law
destroy, damage, and/or eliminate
Public Information documents in any form of media
protected by the state and/or related to
public interest shall be punished with imprisonment
a maximum of 2 (two) years and/or a maximum fine of
10,000,000.00 (ten million rupiah).
Article 54
(1) Any person who knowingly and without rights
access
and/or
get
give
information
that
as regulated in Article 17 letter a, letter b,
letter d, letter f, letter g, letter h, letter i, and letter j
sentenced to a maximum imprisonment of 2 (two)
years and a maximum fine
IDR 10,000,000.00 (ten million rupiah).

and/or
excluded

(2) Every…

Page 33

- 33 (2) Any person who knowingly and without rights
access
and/or
get
and/or
give
information
that
excluded
as regulated in Article 17 letter c and letter
e, shall be sentenced to a maximum imprisonment of 3 (three)
years and a maximum fine
IDR 20,000,000.00 (twenty million rupiah).
Article 55
Everyone who intentionally creates Information
False or misleading public and
causing harm to another person shall be punished with
imprisonment for a maximum of 1 (one) year and/or a fine
a maximum of Rp.5,000,000.00 (five million rupiah).
Article 56
Every violation that is subject to criminal sanctions in
this law and is also threatened with sanctions
criminal offenses in other laws of a special nature,
what applies are criminal sanctions from the Act
the more particular.
Article 57
Criminal charges under this Law
constitutes a complaint offense and is submitted through the court
general.
CHAPTER XII
OTHER PROVISIONS
Article 58
Further provisions regarding payment procedures
compensation by state public bodies is regulated by
Government regulations.
CHAPTER XIII
TRANSITIONAL TERMS
Article 59
The Central Information Commission should have been established at least
no later than 1 (one) year from the promulgation of the Law
Invite this.

Article 60 …

Page 34

- 34 Article 60
The provincial Information Commission should have been established at least
no later than 2 (two) years from the promulgation of the Law
Invite this.

Article 61
At the time of enactment of this Law, the Agency for
The public must carry out their obligations based on
Constitution.

Article 62
Government regulations have to be enacted since
the enactment of this Law.

CHAPTER XIV
CLOSING
Article 63
At the time of enactment of this Act, all
laws and regulations relating to
the acquisition of existing information remains valid
as long as it does not conflict and has not been replaced
based on this Law.
Article 64
(1) This Law shall come into force for 2 (two) years
from the date of promulgation.
(2) Preparation and stipulation of Government Regulations,
technical instructions, socialization, facilities and infrastructure,
as well as other matters related to preparation
the implementation of this law must be completed
no later than 2 (two) years since this Law
invited.
So that …

Page 35

- 35 For everyone to know, command
invitation
Constitution
this
its placement in the State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia
Indonesia.

with

Authorized in
on April 30, 2008
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,

DR. H. SUSILO BAMBANG YUDHOYONO

Promulgated in
on April 30, 2008
MINISTER OF LAW AND HUMAN RIGHTS
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,

ANDI MATTALATTA

STATE GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA YEAR 2008 NUMBER 61

Page 36

EXPLANATION
ON
LAWS OF THE REPUBLIC INDONESIA
NUMBER 14 YEAR 2008
ABOUT
PUBLIC INFORMATION DISCLOSURE

I. GENERAL
In the Constitution of the Republic of Indonesia Year
1945 Article 28 F states that every person has the right to
communicate and obtain information to develop
personal and social environment, and has the right to seek,
obtain, possess and store Information by
using all available channels. To give
guarantee for everyone in obtaining Information, it is necessary
a law is established that regulates transparency
Public Information. This maximum function is required, considering the rights
to obtain information is a human right as
one of the manifestations of the life of the nation and the state
democratic.
One of the important elements in realizing the implementation of
an open state is the right of the public to obtain information
in accordance with statutory regulations. Right to Information
becomes very important because the more open the implementation
state to be monitored by the public, the administration of the state is increasingly
can be accounted for. Everyone's right to obtain
Information is also relevant to improve the quality of engagement
community in the public decision-making process. Participation
or community involvement doesn't mean much without guarantee
public information disclosure.
Existence of Law on Public Information Disclosure
very important as a legal basis relating to (1)
the right of every Person to obtain Information; (2) Entity's obligations
The public provides and serves requests for information online
fast, timely, low cost / proportionate, and simple way;
(3) exceptions are strict and limited; (4) Entity's obligations
Public to fix the documentation and service system
Information.
Every…

Page 37

-2Every Public Agency has an obligation to open access
on Public Information relating to the said Public Agency
for the wider community. Scope of Public Bodies in Laws
This law covers the executive, judicial, legislative, as well as
other state administrators who receive funds from the Budget
State Revenue and Expenditure (APBN)/Budget of Revenue and
Regional Expenditures (APBD) and includes organizations
non-government organizations, whether legal entities or not
legal entities, such as non-governmental organizations,
associations, and other organizations that manage or
using funds partly or wholly sourced from
APBN/APBD, public donations, and/or abroad. Through
mechanism and implementation of the principle of openness, will be created
good governance and community participation
transparency and high accountability as one of the prerequisites
to create true democracy.
By opening public access to information, it is hoped that
Public bodies are motivated to be responsible and oriented
to the best public service. Thus, thing
it can accelerate the realization of an open government that
is a strategic effort to prevent the practice of corruption, collusion, and
nepotism (KKN), and the creation of good governance (good
governance) .

II. CHAPTER BY ARTICLE
article 1
Quite clear.
Section 2
Paragraph (1)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)
What is meant by "on time" is the fulfillment of
upon request. Information is carried out in accordance with
terms
Constitution
this
implementation.

and

rules

“The way…

Page 38

-3“Simple method” means the requested information can be
easily accessible in terms of procedures and easy too
to understand.
“Minor fees” are fees charged
proportionally based on standard costs in general.
Paragraph (4)
What is meant by "consequences arising" are
consequences that harm the interests of
protected under this Law if a
Information opened. Categorized Information
open or closed must be based on interests
public. If the greater public interest can
protected by closing an Information, Information
must be kept secret or closed and/or
otherwise.
Article 3
Quite clear.
Article 4
Quite clear.
Article 5
Quite clear.
Article 6
Paragraph (1)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)
letter a
What is meant by "danger to the state"
is a danger to the sovereignty of the state, the integrity of
the territory of the Unitary State of the Republic of Indonesia, and
safety of the nation from threats and disturbances
to the integrity of the nation and state. Furthermore
regarding Information that is harmful to the country
determined by the Information Commission.
letter b…

Page 39

-4letter b
What is meant by "business competition does not"
healthy” is competition between business actors in
carry out production and/or marketing activities
goods and/or services carried out by means of
dishonest, against the law, or hinder
business competition. More about Information
Unfair business competition is determined by the Commission
Information.
letter c
Quite clear.
letter d
What is meant by “secret of office” is
secrets relating to duties in a position
Public Agency or other state duties that
determined based on the laws and regulations
invitation.
letter e
What is meant by "Public Information that"
requested has not been mastered or documented”
is a Public Agency that has not actually mastered
and/or documenting Public Information
meant.
Article 7
Quite clear.
Article 8
Quite clear.
Article 9
Paragraph (1)
What is meant by "periodically" is regularly,
regularly and for a certain period of time.
Paragraph (2)
letter a
What is meant by "Relevant Information"
with a Public Agency” is Information that
concerning the existence, management, purpose and
objectives, scope of activities, and other information
which is Public Information in accordance with
statutory provisions
letter b…

Page 40

-5letter b
What is meant by the performance of a Public Agency is the condition
The relevant Public Agency covering the results
and achievements achieved and their work ability.
letter c
Quite clear.
letter d
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (4)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (5)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (6)
Quite clear.
Article 10
Paragraph (1)
What is meant by "immediately" is spontaneous, in
at that moment.
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Article 11
Quite clear.
Article 12
Quite clear.
Article 13
Quite clear.
Article 14
letter a
Quite clear.

letter b…

Page 41

-6letter b
Quite clear.
letter c
Quite clear.
letter d
Quite clear.
letter e
Quite clear.
letter f
Quite clear.
letter g
Quite clear.
letter h
What is meant by:
1. “transparency”
is
carry out the decision-making process and
openness in presenting material information
and relevant to the company;

openness

in

2. "Independence" is a condition in which
the company is managed professionally without conflict
interests and influence/pressure from which party
which is not in accordance with the laws and regulations
invitation and sound corporate principles;
3. “Accountability” is the clarity of function, implementation,
and accountability of corporate organs so that
the management of the company is carried out effectively;
4. “responsibility” is conformity within
management
company
sound corporate laws and principles;

to

5. “fairness” is justice and equality within
Fulfill
rights
holder
(stakeholders) arising under the agreement and
legislation.
Letter i
Quite clear.

rules

interest

letter j…

Page 42

-7letter j
Quite clear.
letter k
Quite clear.
Letter l
Quite clear.
letter m
Quite clear.
letter n
What is meant by "relevant laws"
with state-owned enterprises / state-owned enterprises
region” is Law Number 19 of 2003
concerning State-Owned Enterprises, Law No
40 of 2007 concerning Limited Liability Companies, as well as the Law
Laws that regulate the business activity sector of business entities
state-owned/regional-owned enterprises that are generally accepted
for all business actors in the business activity sector
that.
Article 15
letter a
Quite clear.
letter b
Quite clear.
letter c
Quite clear.
letter d
Quite clear.
letter e
Quite clear.
letter f
Quite clear.

letter g…

Page 43

-8letter g
What is meant by "relevant laws"
with political parties” is the Law on Parties
Political.
Article 16
What is meant by “non-governmental organization” is
organizations, both legal and non-incorporated
law covering associations, non-governmental organizations
community, non-governmental business entities that partially or
All funds are sourced from the APBN/APBD, donations
community, and/or abroad.
Article 17
letter a
Quite clear.
letter b
Quite clear.
letter c
Number 1
What is meant by "Relevant Information"
with the national defense and security system”
is Information about:
1. defense infrastructure at vulnerability: system
communication
strategic
defense,
defense strategic support, guiding center,
and control of military operations;

system

2. military operations degree on operations planning
military, command and control of military operations,
the operational capability of the military units deployed,
military operation tactical mission, operation tactical title
military, stages and timing of operations tactical degree
military, military title vulnerability points, and
capabilities, vulnerabilities, locations, and analysis
the physical and moral condition of the enemy;
3 weapon systems on technical specifications
military weaponry operations, performance and
operational technical capability of weaponry equipment
military, military weapon system vulnerability,
and
design
Wake up
and
prototype
military weapons;
Number 2…

Page 44

-9Number 2
Quite clear.
Number 3
Quite clear.
Number 4
Quite clear.
Number 5
Quite clear.
Number 6
What is meant by "state coding system"
is everything related to
security of state secret information which includes
data and information about password and net materials
used, methods and application techniques
ciphers, their usage activities, and
searching and stripping party coded information
other which includes data and material information password
used, search and analysis activities,
source of coded information, as well as the results of analysis and
implementing password personnel.
Number 7
What is meant by "state intelligence system"
is a system that regulates body activities
intelligence tailored to each strata
each to be more directed and coordinated
effective, efficient, synergistic, and professional in
anticipate the various forms and properties of potential
threats or opportunities that exist so that the results
analysis accurately, quickly, objectively, and
relevant to support and succeed
national policies and strategies.
letter d
Quite clear.
letter e
Quite clear.
letter f
Quite clear.
The letter g…

Page 45

- 10 letter g
Quite clear.
letter h
Quite clear.
Letter i
“Undisclosed memorandum” is a memorandum
or inter-Public Agency or intra-Agency letters
Public which by their nature is not provided for
parties other than Public Bodies who are conducting
relationship with the said Public Agency and if
opened can seriously harm the drafting process
policies, which can:
1. reduce freedom, courage, and honesty
in proposal submissions, communications, or exchanges
ideas regarding the process of taking
decision;
2. hinder the success of the policy because of
premature disclosure;
3. interfere with success in a negotiation process
to be or are being done.
letter j
Quite clear.
Article 18
Quite clear.
Article 19
Quite clear.
Article 20
Quite clear.
Article 21
Quite clear.
Article 22
Quite clear.
Article 23 …

Page 46

- 11 Article 23
What is meant by "independent" is independent in
carry out the authority and duties and functions including dan
in deciding Public Information Disputes on the basis of
in this Law, justice, public interest, and
interests of the Unitary State of the Republic of Indonesia.
What is meant by “non-litigation adjudication” is the settlement
Adjudication disputes out of court whose decisions have
equivalent to a court decision.
Article 24
Quite clear.
Article 25
Quite clear.
Article 26
Paragraph (1)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)
letter a
What is meant by "implementation procedure"
dispute resolution” is a procedure in
in the field of dispute resolution Information carried out
by the Information Commission.
letter b
Quite clear.
letter c
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Article 27
Paragraph (1)
letter a
Quite clear.
letter b
Quite clear.
Letter c…

Page 47

- 12 letter c
Quite clear.
letter d
Quite clear.
letter e
What is meant by "code of ethics" is a guideline
behavior that binds each member of the Commission
Information, the determination of which is carried out by the Commission
Center Information.
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (4)
Quite clear.
Article 28
Quite clear.
Article 29
Paragraph (1)
“Secretary executive officer” is an official
structural government agencies whose duties and functions are
the field of communication and informatics in accordance with
legislation.
Paragraph (2)
What is meant by "government" is the minister who
have duties and functions in the field of communication and
informatics.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (4)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (5)
Quite clear.

Paragraph (6) …

Page 48

- 13 Paragraph (6)
Quite clear.
Article 30
Paragraph (1)
letter a
Quite clear.
letter b
Quite clear.
letter c
Quite clear.
letter d
Quite clear.
letter e
Quite clear.
letter f
Quite clear.
letter g
Quite clear.
letter h
Quite clear.
Letter i
"Healthy mind and body" proven by letter
information from the official health testing team
set by the government.
What is meant by “open” is that
Information for each stage of the recruitment process must be
announced to the public.
What is meant by “honest” is that the process
recruitment is fair and non-discriminatory
based on this Law.
What is meant by "objective" is that the process
recruitment should be based on criteria that
regulated by this Law.
Paragraph (2) …

Page 49

- 14 Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (4)
Quite clear.
Article 31
Quite clear.
Article 32
Quite clear.
Article 33
Quite clear.
Article 34
Paragraph (1)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)
letter a
Quite clear.
letter b
Quite clear.
letter c
Quite clear.
letter d
Quite clear.
letter e
Quite clear.
letter f
What is meant by "disgraceful act" is
defame the dignity and reputation and/or
reduce the independence and credibility of the Commission
Information.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (4) …

Page 50

- 15 Paragraph (4)
What is meant by "intertime replacement of members"
Information Commission” is the appointment of members of the Commission
New information to replace members of the Commission
Information that has been stopped or dismissed
as referred to in Article 35 paragraph (1) before the
his term ends.
Paragraph (5)
Quite clear.
Article 35
Paragraph (1)
Submission of objection in writing to the official's superior
Information and Documentation Manager at least
contains the name and/or agency from which the information user originates,
reason for objecting, purpose of using
Information, and the case of the position of the request for the Information in question.
What is meant by "superior of Information Management Officer"
and Documentation” means an official who is a superior
directly the official concerned and/or the supervisor of the
the immediate supervisor of the official concerned.
letter a
Quite clear.
letter b
Quite clear.
letter c
What is meant by "responded" is a response
from the Public Agency in accordance with the provisions of the service
which has been regulated in the technical service manual
Public Information.
letter d
Quite clear.
letter e
Quite clear.
letter f
Quite clear.

The letter g…

Page 51

- 16 letter g
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Article 36
Quite clear.
Article 37
Paragraph (1)
Efforts to resolve Public Information Disputes through
Information Commission can only be submitted after going through
the process of objecting to the superior of the Information Management Officer
and Documentation.
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Article 38
Quite clear.
Article 39
Quite clear.
Article 40
Quite clear.
Article 41
Quite clear.
Article 42
Quite clear.
Article 43
Quite clear.
Article 44
Quite clear.
Article 45
Quite clear.
Article 46
Quite clear.
Article 47 …

Page 52

- 17 Article 47
Paragraph (1)
Lawsuits against State Public Bodies related to
the policies of state administrative officials are carried out by
Court
System
Effort
Country
its authority based on the Law concerning
State Administrative Court.

corresponding with

Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Article 48
Quite clear.
Article 49
Quite clear.
Article 50
Quite clear.
Article 51
The sanctions in this provision include any
individual, group of people, legal entity, or Entity
Public as referred to in this Law.
Article 52
Which can be subject to criminal sanctions for criminal acts
committed by the corporation is imposed on:
a. legal entity, company, association, or foundation;
b. those who give orders to commit criminal acts or
who acts as a leader in carrying out actions
criminal; or
c. both.
Article 53
The sanctions in this provision include any
individual or group of people or legal entity
or Public Agency as referred to in the Law
Invite this.

Article 54 …

Page 53

- 18 Article 54
Paragraph (1)
The sanctions in this provision include any
individual or group of persons or entities
law or Public Agency as referred to in
this law.
Paragraph (2)
The sanctions in this provision include any
individual or group of persons or entities
law or Public Agency as referred to in
this law.
Article 55
The sanctions in this provision include any
individual or group of people or legal entity
or Public Agency as referred to in the Law
Invite this.
Article 56
Quite clear.
Article 57
Quite clear.
Article 58
Quite clear.
Article 59
Quite clear.
Article 60
Quite clear.
Article 61
Quite clear.
Article 62
Quite clear.
Article 63
Quite clear.
Article 64
Quite clear.

SUPPLEMENT TO STATE GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA NUMBER 4846


