Page 1

Page 2
-2-

Organizational Arrangement and Work Procedures of the Ministry
Communication and Information Technology;
d. that

based on

consideration

as

referred to in letter a, letter b, and letter c, it is necessary
stipulate the Regulation of the Minister of Communications and
Information about Organization

and

System

Work

Ministry of Communication and Informatics

Remember

: 1. Law Number 36 Year 1999 concerning
Telecommunications (State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia
1999 Number 154, Supplement to the State Gazette
Republic of Indonesia Number 3881);
2. Law Number 32 of 2002 concerning
Broadcasting (State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia Year
2002 Number 139, Supplement to the State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia
Indonesia Number 4252);
3. Law Number 17 of 2003 concerning
State Finance (State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia
2003 Number 47, Supplement to the State Gazette
Republic of Indonesia Number 4286);
4. Law Number 1 of 2004 concerning
State Treasury (State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia)
Indonesia Year 2004 Number 5, Supplement to the Gazette
Republic of Indonesia Number 4355);
5. Law Number 11 of 2008 concerning Information
and Electronic Transactions (State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia)
Indonesia Year 2008 Number 58, Supplement to the Gazette
Republic of Indonesia Number 4843);
6. Law Number 14 of 2008 concerning
Public Information Disclosure (State Gazette
Republic of Indonesia Year 2008 Number 61, Supplement
State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia Number 4846);
7. Law Number 39 of 2008 concerning
Ministry of State (State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia
Indonesia Year 2008 Number 166, Supplement to the Gazette
Republic of Indonesia Number 4916);

Page 3
-3-

8. Law Number 23 of 2014 concerning
Regional Government (State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia
Indonesia Year 2014 Number 244, Supplementary Gazette
Republic of Indonesia Number 5587) as
has been amended several times, most recently by Law
Law Number 9 of 2015 concerning the Second Amendment
Based on Law Number 23 of 2014 concerning
Regional Government (State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia
Indonesia Year 2015 Number 58, Supplement to the Gazette
Republic of Indonesia Number 5679);
9. Presidential Regulation Number 7 of 2015 concerning
Organization of State Ministries (State Gazette
Republic of Indonesia Year 2015 Number 8);
10. Presidential Regulation Number 54 of 2015 concerning
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology (Gazette
Republic of Indonesia Year 2015 Number 54);

DECIDING:
To stipulate : REGULATION OF THE MINISTER OF COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION
ABOUT MINISTRY ORGANIZATION AND WORKING PROCEDURES
COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION.

PIG
POSITION, DUTIES, AND FUNCTIONS

article 1
(1) The Ministry of Communication and Information Technology is in
under and responsible to the President.
(2) The Ministry of Communications and Information Technology is led by
Minister.

Section 2
The Ministry of Communication and Information Technology has the task of
carry out government affairs in the field of
communication and informatics to assist the President in
run the government of the country.

Page 4
-4-

Article 3
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 2, Ministry of Communication and Information
perform functions:
a. formulation and determination of policies in the field of
management of postal resources and equipment and
informatics, postal and informatics management,
informatics application management, management
public information and communications;
b. implementation of policies in the field of resource management
power

and

device

post

and

informatics,

post and information technology administration, management
informatics applications, information management and
public communications;
c. implementation of technical guidance and supervision of
implementation of the management of postal resources and equipment
and informatics, postal and informatics administration,
informatics application management, management
public information and communications;
d. implementation of research and development of resources
human in the field of communication and informatics;
e. implementation of substantive support to
all organizational elements within the Ministry
Communication and Information Technology;
f.

coaching and providing administrative support in
environment of the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology;

g. management of state property/wealth that becomes
responsibility of the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology;
and
h. supervision of the implementation of tasks in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.

CHAPTER II
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE

Article 4
The Ministry of Communication and Information Technology consists of:

Page 5
-5-

a. General Secretariat;
b. Directorate General of Postal Resources and Equipment and
Informatics;
c. Directorate General of Post and Information Technology Administration;
d. Directorate General of Informatics Applications;
e. Directorate General of Information and Public Communication;
f.

Inspectorate General;

g. Research and Development Agency for Resources
Human;
h. Legal Expert Staff;
i. Expert Staff for Social, Economic, and Cultural Affairs;
j. Expert Staff for Communication and Mass Media; and
k. Technology Expert Staff.

CHAPTER III
SECRETARIAT GENERAL

Part One
Position, Duties, and Functions

Article 5
(1) The Secretariat General is under and responsible for
answer to the Minister.
(2) The Secretariat General is headed by the Secretary General.

Article 6
The Secretariat General has the task of organizing
coordination of the implementation of tasks as well as coaching and
providing administrative support to all units
organizations within the Ministry of Communications and
informatics.

Article 7
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 6, the Secretariat General carries out the following functions:
a. coordination of activities of the Ministry of Communications and
Informatics;

Page 6
-6-

b. coordination and preparation of plans, programs, and
budget of the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology;
c. coaching and providing administrative support
including administration, staffing, finance,
housekeeping, cooperation, community relations,
archives, and documentation of the Ministry of Communications and
Informatics;
d. fostering and structuring the organization and management;
e. coordination and preparation of laws and regulations
invitation and implementation of legal advocacy;
f.

management of state property/wealth and services
procurement of government goods/services; and

g. implementation of other functions assigned by the Minister.

The second part
Organization structure

Article 8
The Secretariat General consists of:
a. Planning Bureau;
b. Bureau of Personnel and Organization;
c. Financial Bureau;
d. Legal Bureau;
e. General Bureau; and
f.

Public Relations Bureau.

Part Three
planning Bureau

Article 9
The Planning Bureau has the task of carrying out coordination
and preparation of program plans, budgets and collaborations,
as well as evaluation and preparation of reports in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.

Page 7
-7-

Article 10
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 9, Planning Bureau carries out the functions of:
a. preparation of coordination and preparation of plans and
program;
b. preparation of coordination and budgeting;
c. preparation of coordination and preparation of plans and
cross-sectoral and regional cooperation programs;
d. preparation of coordination, monitoring, evaluation, and
preparation of ministry reports; and
e. the implementation of the bureau's administrative and household affairs.

Article 11
Planning Bureau consists of:
a. Plans and Programs Section;
b. Budget Preparation Section;
c. Section of Cross-Sectoral and Regional Cooperation; and
d. Evaluation and Reporting Section.

Article 12
The Planning and Program Section has a duty
carry out the preparation of coordination and preparation
work plans and programs within the Ministry
Communication and Informatics.

Article 13
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 12, Plans and Programs Section organizes
function:
a. preparation of coordination materials and preparation of plans
and the work program of the ministry of resources and
postal and information technology equipment and postal administration
and informatics;
b. preparation of coordination materials and preparation of plans
and the work program of the ministry of application sector
informatics and public information and communication; and

Page 8
-8-

c. preparation of coordination materials and preparation of plans
and the work program of the ministry of research and
human resource development, administration
governance, and supervision.

Article 14
The Plans and Programs section consists of:
a. Postal Resources and Equipment Program Subsection and Program
Informatics and Implementation of Post and Information Technology;
b. Informatics and Information Application Program Subsection
and Public Communications; and
c. Research and Development Program Subsection
Human Resources, Government Administration, and
Supervision.

Article 15
(1) Subdivision of Postal Resources and Equipment Program and
Informatics and Post and Information Technology
have the task of preparing materials
coordination and preparation of plans and programs
ministry of postal resources and equipment sector and
informatics and post and informatics administration in
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology.
(2) Informatics and Information Application Program Subsection
and Public Communications has the task of carrying out
preparation of coordination materials and preparation of plans
and the ministry's program of the information technology application sector and
information and public communication in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.
(3) Research and Development Program Subdivision
Human Resources, Government Administration, and
Supervision has the task of preparing
materials for coordination and preparation of plans and programs
ministry of research and development sector
human resources, government administration, and
supervision within the Ministry of Communications and
informatics.

Page 9
-9-

Article 16
Part

Compilation

Budget

have

Duty

carry out the preparation of coordination and preparation
budget within the Ministry of Communications and
informatics.

Article 17
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 16, Budget Preparation Section organizes
function:
a. preparation of coordination materials and budget preparation
ministry of postal resources and equipment sector and
informatics and post and information technology administration;
b. preparation of coordination materials and budget preparation
ministry of information and information application sector
and public communications; and
c. preparation of coordination materials and budget preparation
ministry of research and development sector
human resources, government administration, and
supervision.

Article 18
The Budgeting Section consists of:
a. Postal Resources and Equipment Budget Subsection
and Informatics and Postal Administration and
Informatics;
b. Informatics and Information Application Budget Subsection
and Public Communications; and
c. Research and Development Budget Subsection
Human Resources, Government Administration, and
Supervision.

Article 19
(1) Subsection of Postal Resources and Equipment Budget
and Informatics and Postal Administration and
Informatics has the task of preparing
material for coordination and preparation of the ministry's budget

Page 10
- 10 -

the post and information technology resource and equipment sector,
and implementation of post and information technology in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.
(2) Informatics and Information Application Budget Subsection
and Public Communications has the task of carrying out
preparation of coordination materials and budget preparation
ministry of information and information application sector
and public communication within the Ministry
Communication and Informatics.
(3) Research and Development Budget Subdivision
Human Resources, Government Administration, and
Supervision has the task of preparing
material for coordination and preparation of the ministry's budget
resource research and development sector
human resources, government administration, and supervision in
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology.

Article 20
The Section for Cross-Sectoral and Regional Cooperation has
the task of carrying out the preparation of coordination and preparation
cross-sectoral and regional cooperation program plans, as well as
administrative and household affairs bureau.

Article 21
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 20, Section of Cross-Sectoral and Regional Cooperation
perform functions:
a. preparation of coordination materials and preparation of plans
cross-sectoral cooperation program;
b. preparation of coordination materials and preparation of plans
cross-regional cooperation program; and
c. the implementation of the bureau's administrative and household affairs.

Article 22
The Section of Cross-Sectoral and Regional Cooperation consists of:
a. Subsection of Cross-Sectoral Cooperation;
b. Sub-Division of Cross-Regional Cooperation; and

Page 11
- 11 -

c. Bureau Administration Subdivision.

Article 23
(1) The Sub-Sectoral Cooperation Subdivision has the following tasks:
carry out the preparation of materials for coordination and preparation
cross-sectoral cooperation program plan in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.
(2) The Sub-Division of Cross-Regional Cooperation has duties
carry out the preparation of materials for coordination and preparation
cross-regional cooperation program plan in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.
(3) The Bureau of Administration Subdivision has the task of carrying out
management of state property, personnel affairs
and archives, and bureau housekeeping.

Article 24
The Evaluation and Reporting Section has the task
carry out the preparation of coordination, monitoring, evaluation,
and preparation of ministry reports.

Article 25
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 24, Evaluation and Reporting Section organizes
function:
a. preparation of materials for coordination, monitoring, evaluation, and
preparation of resource and equipment sector reports
post and informatics and post and postal administration
informatics;
b. preparation of materials for coordination, monitoring, evaluation, and
preparation of reports on the informatics application sector and
public information and communications; and
c. preparation of materials for coordination, monitoring, evaluation, and
composing

report

sector

human resource development, administration
governance, and supervision.

Page 12
- 12 -

Article 26
The Evaluation and Reporting Section consists of:

research

and

a. Subsection Evaluation and Reporting of Resources and Sumber
Postal and Informatics Equipment and Postal Administration
and Informatics;
b. Informatics Application Evaluation and Reporting Subsection
and Public Information and Communication; and
c. Research Evaluation and Reporting Subsection and
Human Resource Development, Administration
Governance, and Supervision.

Article 27
(1) Sub-Section Evaluation and Reporting of Resources and
Postal and Informatics Equipment and Postal Administration
and Informatics has the task of preparing
materials for coordination, monitoring, evaluation, and preparation
report on postal resources and equipment sector and
informatics, and the administration of post and informatics in
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology.
(2) Informatics Application Evaluation and Reporting Subsection
and Public Information and Communication has a duty
carry out the preparation of materials for coordination, monitoring,
evaluation, and preparation of application sector reports
informatics and information and public communication in
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology.
(3) Research Evaluation and Reporting Subdivision and
Human Resource Development, Administration
Government and Supervision have duties
carry out the preparation of materials for coordination, monitoring,
evaluation, and preparation of research sector reports and laporan
human resource development, administration
governance, and supervision in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.

Page 13
- 13 -

Part Four
Bureau of Personnel and Organization

Article 28
The Bureau of Personnel and Organization has the duty
carry out coordination and system planning
human resource management of the apparatus, as well as
organization and management within the Ministry
Communication and Informatics.

Article 29
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 28, Bureau of Personnel and Organizations
function:
a. preparation of coordination of the preparation of analysis, evaluation,
organizational arrangement and management;
b. implementation of the preparation of requirements, procurement, and
employee development;
c. management of data, information, and personnel archives;
d. preparation of coordination for the preparation of field regulations
staffing and organization;
e. implementation

administration

staffing

and

employee welfare;
f.

administrative management of functional positions;

g. preparation of coordination of the implementation of bureaucratic reform
Ministry; and
h. the implementation of the bureau's administrative and household affairs.

Article 30
The Bureau of Personnel and Organization consists of:
a. Organization and Administration Section;
b. Employee Planning and Development Section;
c. Employee Performance Development Section; and
d. Transfer and Employee Welfare Section.

Page 14
- 14 -

Article 31
The Organization and Administration Section has the task of
carry out the preparation of the coordination of the preparation of the analysis,
evaluation, organizational structure and management, and reform
bureaucracy within the ministry, as well as administrative affairs
and household bureau.

Article 32
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 31, Organizational and Management Section
perform functions:
a. preparation of coordination materials for the preparation of analysis
position, workload analysis, competency standards
position, and job evaluation, as well as structuring,
monitoring and evaluation of the organization;
b. preparation of materials for coordination of analysis, monitoring and
evaluation of systems, procedures, organizational culture and governance
work relationship;
c. preparation of materials for coordination of bureaucratic reform; and
d. the implementation of the bureau's administrative and household affairs.

Article 33
The Organization and Management Section consists of:
a. Organizational Subdivision;
b. Management Subdivision; and
c. Bureau Administration Subdivision.

Article 34
(1) Organizational Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of coordination materials for the preparation of analysis
position, workload analysis, competency standards
position, and job evaluation, as well as structuring,
monitoring, and evaluating organizations in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.
(2) Subsection

Management

have

Duty

carry out the preparation of materials for coordination, analysis,
monitoring and evaluation of systems, procedures, culture

Page 15
- 15 -

organization and work relations, as well as reform
bureaucracy within the Ministry of Communications and
informatics.
(3) The Bureau of Administration Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and budgets, management
state property, civil service and archival affairs,
and housekeeping bureau.

Article 35
The Planning and Employee Development Section has
the task of carrying out the preparation of requirements, procurement and
employee development, as well as data, information and
personnel archives within the Ministry of Communications and
informatics.

Article 36
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 35, Employee Planning and Development Section
perform functions:
a. preparation of materials for the preparation of formations, procurement,
arrangement and distribution, employee career patterns, and
filling in positions, as well as administrative matters
appointment to senior leadership positions,
administrators, and supervisors;
b. preparation of employee competency development materials,
analysis of education and training needs,
recommendations for scholarships, study assignments and permits
study, as well as facilitating the implementation of official examinations and examinations
promotion of diploma adjustment; and
c. management of data, information and personnel archives.

Article 37
The Planning and Employee Development Section consists of:
a. Employee Planning Subdivision;
b. Employee Development Subdivision; and
c. Subdivision of Personnel Data and Information.

Page 16
- 16 -

Article 38
(1) The Employee Planning Subdivision has duties
carry out the preparation of materials for the preparation of the formation,
procurement, arrangement and distribution, employee career patterns,
and filling in positions, as well as administrative matters
appointment to senior leadership positions,
administrators, and supervisors within the Ministry
Communication and Informatics.
(2) The Employee Development Subdivision has duties
prepare competency development materials
employees, recommendations for scholarships, study assignments
and study permits, as well as facilitating the implementation of official examinations
and diploma adjustment promotion exams at
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology.
(3) The Subdivision of Personnel Data and Information has
the task of managing data, information and archives
employees within the Ministry of Communications and
informatics.

Article 39
The Employee Performance Development Section has the task of carrying out
preparation of coordination for the preparation of field regulations
personnel and organization, as well as administrative management
functional positions within the Ministry of Communications
and Informatics.

Article 40
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 39, the Division of Employee Performance Development organizes
function:
a. preparation of assessment materials, monitoring and evaluation of building
performance, awarding, and implementing culture
work;
b. preparation of coordination materials for preparation and/or revision
regulations in the field of employment and organization,
personnel problem solving, administration

Page 17
- 17 -

imposition of disciplinary penalties, as well as employee code of ethics;
and
c. administrative management of functional positions.

Article 41
The Employee Performance Development Section consists of:
a. Employee Performance Subdivision;
b. Employee Discipline Subdivision; and
c. Functional Position Subdivision.

Article 42
(1) The Employee Performance Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of assessment materials, monitoring and evaluation of building
performance, awarding, and implementing culture
work in the Ministry of Communications and
informatics.
(2) The Employee Discipline Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of coordination materials for preparation and/or revision
regulations in the field of employment and organization,
personnel problem solving, administration
imposition of disciplinary penalties, as well as the code of ethics for employees in
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology.
(3) Functional Position Subdivision has duties
carry out the preparation of coordination materials for the assessment of numbers
credit, and coordination with the office building agency
functional within the Ministry of Communications and
informatics.

Article 43
The Division of Transfer and Employee Welfare has duties
carry out personnel and welfare administration
employees within the Ministry of Communications and
informatics.

Page 18
- 18 -

Article 44
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 43, Section of Transfer and Employee Welfare
perform functions:
a. implementation of administrative matters regarding the appointment of employees,
appointments in functional and implementing positions,
promotion, promotion, release
temporarily from office, reappointment in
position, dismissal from office, transfer,
promotion, and dismissal of employees; and
b. implementation of employee welfare affairs.

Article 45
The Division of Transfer and Employee Welfare consists of:
a. Mutation Subsection; and
b. Employee Welfare Subdivision.

Article 46
(1) The Mutation Subdivision has the task of carrying out
implementation of administrative matters regarding the appointment of employees,
appointments in functional and implementing positions,
promotion, promotion, release
temporarily from office, reappointment in
position, dismissal from office, transfer,
promotion, and dismissal of employees in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.
(2) Employee Welfare Subdivision has duties mempunyai
carry out employee welfare affairs in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.

Part Five
Financial Bureau

Article 47
The Finance Bureau has the task of carrying out the management of
finance and administration of state property in
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology.

Page 19
- 19 -

Article 48
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 47, the Finance Bureau carries out the functions of:
a. budget execution, monitoring, and evaluation
budget execution;
b. implementation of treasury and administration
non-tax state revenue, as well as settlement
state losses;
c. implementation of budget accountability verification
and accounting, as well as the preparation of financial statements;
d. implementation of the administration of state property; and
e. the implementation of the bureau's administrative and household affairs.

Article 49
The Finance Bureau consists of:
a. Budget Implementation Section;
b. Treasury and State Revenue Section
Tax;
c. Verification and Accounting Section; and
d. State Property Administration Section.

Article 50
Part

Implementation

Budget

have

Duty

carry out budget execution, monitoring, and
evaluation of budget implementation within the Ministry
Communication and Informatics.

Article 51
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 50, the Budget Execution Section organizes
function:
a. preparation of budget implementation data in the environment
Directorate General of Postal Equipment Resources and
Informatics, Directorate General of Postal Administration
and Informatics, and the Inspectorate General;
b preparation of budget implementation data in the environment
Secretariat General, Directorate General of Applications

Page 20
- 20 -

Informatics, Directorate General of Information and
Public Communications, Research and Development Agency
Human Resources; and
c implementation of monitoring and evaluation of implementation
budget.

Article 52
The Budget Execution Section consists of:
a. Subsection of Budget Implementation I;
b. Subsection of Budget Implementation II; and
c. Monitoring and Evaluation Subsection.

Article 53
(1) Subdivision of Budget Implementation I has duties
carry out the preparation of data on the implementation of the budget in
environment of the Directorate General of Device Resources
Post

and

informatics,

Directorate

General

Implementation of Post and Information Technology, and Inspectorate
General.
(2) Subdivision of Budget Implementation II has duties
carry out the preparation of data on the implementation of the budget in
Environment Secretariat General, Directorate General
Informatics Applications, Directorate General of Information and Information Technology
Public Communications, and Research Agency and
Human Resource Development.
(3) Monitoring and Evaluation Subdivision has duties
carry out the preparation of data on the implementation of monitoring and
evaluation of budget implementation in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.

Article 54
Treasury and Non-Tax State Revenue Section
have

Duty

doing

treasury,

administration of non-tax state revenues, and
settlement of state losses within the Ministry
Communication and Informatics, as well as shopping management
General Secretariat employee.

Page 21
- 21 -

Article 55
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 54, Treasury and State Revenue Section
Non-Tax performs the following functions:
a treasury implementation and settlement of losses
country;
b the implementation of state revenue administration is not
tax; and
c. implementation

administration

shopping

employee

ministry and secretariat personnel expenditure management
General.

Article 56
Treasury and Non-Tax State Revenue Section
consists of:
a Treasury Subdivision;
b Sub-Section of Non-Tax State Revenue; and
c Subdivision of Administration of Employee Expenditures.

Article 57
(1) Subsection

Treasury

have

carry out the preparation of financial implementation data
state, treasury officials, as well as the follow-up process
further treasury claims and compensation claims
within the ministry.
(2) The Sub-Section of Non-Tax State Revenue has
the task of conducting data preparation and compilation
non-tax state revenue report in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.
(3) The Employee Expenditure Administration Subdivision has
task of preparing shopping administration data data
ministry employees and personnel expenditure management
General Secretariat.

Article 58
The Verification and Accounting Section has duties
carry out verification of budget accountability and

Page 22
- 22 -

accounting and preparation of financial reports in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.

Article 59
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 58, Verification and Accounting Section organizes
function:
a. implementation of budget accountability verification
expenditure and income;
b. implementation of accounting data processing and
preparation of financial statements; and
c. the implementation of the bureau's administrative and household affairs.

Duty

Article 60
The Verification and Accounting Section consists of:
a. Expenditure and Income Verification Subsection;
b. Accounting Subdivision; and
c. Bureau Administration Subdivision.

Article 61
(1) Expenditure and Income Verification Subsection
have the task of preparing data
implementation of budget accountability verification
ministry expenditures and revenues.
(2) The Accounting Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation and processing of accounting data, as well as
preparation of ministry financial reports.
(3) The Bureau of Administration Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and budgets, affairs
staffing and filing, and bureau housekeeping.

Article 62
The State Property Administration Section has the task of
carry out the administration of state property in
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology.

Page 23
- 23 -

Article 63
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 62, State Property Administration Section
perform functions:
a. implementation

administration

inventory

and

use of state property;
b. implementation of the administration of property deletion
country; and
c. implementation of evaluation and reporting of state property.

Article 64
The State Property Administration Section consists of:
a. Subsection of Inventory and Use of Property Sub
Country;
b. Subsection on the Elimination of State Property; and
c. Sub-Section Evaluation and Reporting of State Property.

Article 65
(1) Subsection of Inventory and Use of Property
The state has the task of preparing data
implementation of inventory and use of property
countries within the Ministry of Communications and
informatics.
(2) Subsection on the Elimination of State Property Milik
have the task of preparing data
implementation of the abolition of state property in
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology.
(3) Sub-Section Evaluation and Reporting of State Property
has the task of preparing evaluation data
and reporting of state property in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.

Page 24
- 24 -

Part Six
Legal Bureau

Article 66
The Legal Bureau has the task of carrying out coordination
preparation, review and evaluation of laws and regulations
invitations, as well as providing advocacy and legal assistance in
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology.

Article 67
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 66, the Legal Bureau carries out the following functions:
a. preparation of coordination and preparation, discussion,
harmonization,

and

legislation

counseling

field

rules

communication

and

informatics;
b. preparation of coordination and implementation of the study,
monitoring and evaluation of legal products in the field of
communication and informatics;
c. preparation of coordination and implementation of giving
legal considerations, legal advocacy, review
legal cases, as well as documentation management and
legal information; and
d. the implementation of the bureau's administrative and household affairs.

Article 68
The Legal Bureau consists of:
a. Legislation Section;
b. Legal Product Review and Evaluation Section; and
c. Legal Assistance and Documentation Section.

Article 69
The Legislation Section has the task of
preparation of coordination and preparation, discussion,
harmonization, and counseling of laws and regulations
invitation in the field of communication and informatics in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.

Page 25
- 25 -

Article 70
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 69, Section of Legislation
perform functions:
a. preparation of materials for coordination and preparation,
discussion, harmonization, and counseling
laws and regulations in the field of resources
postal and information technology equipment, as well as research and
development;
b. preparation of materials for coordination and preparation,
discussion, harmonization, and counseling
rules

legislation

in

field

post and informatics administration, as well as information
and public communications; and
c. preparation of materials for coordination and preparation,
discussion, harmonization, and counseling
legislation in the field of application
informatics,

administration

government,

and

supervision.

Article 71
The Legislation Section consists of:
a. Subsection of Legislation I;
b. Subsection of Legislation II; and
c. Subsection of Legislation III.

Article 72
(1) Subsection of Legislation I have
the task of carrying out the preparation of coordination materials and
preparation, discussion, harmonization, and
counseling on laws and regulations in the field of
postal and information technology resources and equipment, as well as
research and development within the Ministry
Communication and Informatics.
(2) Subsection

Rules

Legislation

II

have the task of preparing materials
coordination

and

drafting,

discussion,

Page 26
- 26 -

harmonization,

and

counseling

rules

legislation in the field of postal administration and
informatics, as well as information and public communication in
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology.
(3) Subsection

Rules

Legislation

III

have the task of preparing materials
coordination

and

drafting,

harmonization,

and

discussion,
counseling

rules

legislation in the field of informatics applications,
government administration, and supervision in
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology.

Article 73
The Legal Product Review and Evaluation Section has
the task of carrying out the preparation of coordination and implementation
review, monitoring and evaluation of legal products in the field of
communication and informatics within the Ministry
Communication and Informatics, as well as administrative and financial matters
bureau household.

Article 74
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 73, Section of Review and Evaluation of Legal Products
perform functions:
a. preparation of materials for coordination and implementation
review of legal products in the field of communication and
informatics;
b. preparation of materials for coordination and implementation
monitoring and evaluation of legal products in the field of
communication and informatics; and
c. the implementation of the bureau's administrative and household affairs.

Article 75
The Legal Product Review and Evaluation Section consists of:
a. Legal Product Review Subsection;
b. Legal Product Evaluation Subsection; and
c. Bureau Administration Subdivision.

Page 27
- 27 -

Article 76
(1) The Legal Product Review Subdivision has duties
carry out the preparation of coordination and implementation materials
review of legal products in the field of communication and
informatics within the Ministry of Communications and
informatics.
(2) The Legal Product Evaluation Subdivision has duties
carry out the preparation of coordination and implementation materials
monitoring and evaluation of legal products in the field of
communication and informatics within the Ministry
Communication and Informatics.
(3) The Bureau of Administration Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and budgets, management
state property, civil service and archival affairs,
and housekeeping bureau.

Article 77
The Legal Assistance and Documentation Section has a duty
carry out the preparation of coordination and delivery
legal considerations, legal advocacy, case studies
law, management of legal documentation and information in
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology.

Article 78
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 77, Legal Aid and Documentation Section
perform functions:
a. preparation of coordination materials and implementation of giving
legal considerations and review of legal cases;
b. preparation of coordination materials and implementation of giving
legal advocacy; and
c. preparation of materials for coordination and implementation
management of legal documentation and information.

Article 79
The Legal Assistance and Documentation Section consists of:
a. Legal Consideration Subsection;

Page 28
- 28 -

b. Legal Advocacy Subdivision; and
c. Legal Documentation Subsection.

Article 80
(1) The Legal Consideration Subdivision has duties
carry out the preparation of coordination and implementation materials
providing legal considerations and reviewing cases
law in the context of carrying out the ministry's duties.
(2) The Legal Advocacy Subdivision has duties
carry out the preparation of materials for coordination and distribution
legal advocacy within the Ministry of Communications
and Informatics.
(3) The Legal Documentation Subdivision has duties
preparation of materials for coordination and implementation
management of legal documentation and information in
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology.

Seventh Part
General Bureau

Article 81
The General Bureau has the task of carrying out administrative affairs
business, procurement of goods and services, household and
equipment, as well as correspondence and archives in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.

Article 82
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 81, the General Bureau carries out the following functions:
a. implementation of administrative affairs of leadership, administration
bureau and protocol;
b. implementation of the planning of goods and services,
implementation of the procurement of goods and services, and
monitoring and evaluation of goods and services;
c. implementation of the maintenance of facilities and
infrastructure, internal affairs, and equipment; and
d. implementation of correspondence and archival affairs.

Page 29
- 29 -

Article 83
The General Bureau consists of:
a. Administrative Section of the Ministry;
b. Goods and Services Procurement Section;
c. Household and Equipment Section; and
d. Mailing and Archives Section.

Article 84
The Administrative Section of the Ministry has the task of
carry out administrative affairs of leadership, bureau administration,
and protocols within the Ministry of Communications and
informatics.

Article 85
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 84, Administrative Section of the Ministry organizes
function:
a. the implementation of administrative affairs of the leadership includes:
Minister, Secretary General, Expert Staff, and Special Staff
Minister;
b. implementation of the bureau's administrative affairs; and
c. implementation of protocol and liaison affairs
in the implementation of work meetings, meetings
coordination, and working visits both internally and externally
abroad for the head of the ministry.

Article 86
The Administrative Section of the Ministry consists of:
a. Management Subdivision of Leadership;
b. Bureau Administration Subdivision; and
c. Protocol Subsection.

Article 87
(1) The Management Administration Subdivision has the following duties:
carry out the administrative affairs of the leadership which includes:
Minister, Secretary General, Expert Staff, and Special Staff

Page 30
- 30 -

Minister within the Ministry of Communications and
informatics.
(2) The Bureau of Administration Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and budgets, affairs
personnel and archives, property management
state and domestic bureaus, as well as preparation
Secretariat leadership plan and budget management
General.
(3) The Protocol Subdivision has the task of conducting business
protocol and liaison between state institutions
in the implementation of work meetings, meetings
coordination, and working visits both internally and externally
abroad for the head of the ministry.

Article 88
The Goods and Services Procurement Section has the task of
carry out the management of goods procurement services and
services within the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology.

Article 89
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 88, Goods and Services Procurement Section
perform functions:
a. implementation of inventory of goods and services procurement;
b. implementation of needs analysis, planning, and
procurement of goods and services;
c. implementation of procurement of goods and services;
d. implementation of the management of the procurement of goods and services;
and
e. implementation of monitoring and evaluation of
procurement of goods and services.

Article 90
The Procurement of Goods and Services Section consists of:
a. Subdivision of Goods and Services Planning;
b. Subsection of the Implementation of the Procurement of Goods and Services;
and

Page 31
- 31 -

c. Sub-Section Monitoring and Evaluation of Goods and Services.

Article 91
(1) The Goods and Services Planning Subdivision has
the task of carrying out inventory and analysis affairs
the need for planning the procurement of goods and services in
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology.
(2) Subsection of the Implementation of the Procurement of Goods and Services
has the task of carrying out management and
procurement of goods and services within the Ministry
Communication and Informatics.
(3) Subsection of Monitoring and Evaluation of Goods and Services
have the task of monitoring and evaluating
procurement of goods and services within the Ministry
Communication and Informatics.

Article 92
The Household and Equipment Section has duties
carry out the maintenance of facilities and infrastructure,
affairs within the ministry, as well as secretariat equipment
General.

Article 93
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 92, Household and Equipment Section
perform functions:
a. implementation of maintenance of facilities and infrastructure;
b. implementation of internal affairs services, vehicles,
security, and cleanliness; and
c. implementation of the Secretariat General's equipment.

Article 94
The Household and Equipment Section consists of:
a. Subdivision of Facilities and Infrastructure Maintenance;
b. Internal Affairs Subdivision; and
c. Equipment Subsection.

Page 32
- 32 -

Article 95
(1) Subdivision of Facilities and Infrastructure Maintenance
have the task of carrying out maintenance
facilities and infrastructure within the Ministry
Communication and Informatics.
(2) The Internal Affairs Subdivision has the task of carrying out
internal affairs services, meeting room management,
vehicles, safety, and cleanliness in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.
(3) The Equipment Subdivision has the task of carrying out
inventory, distribution, and preparation affairs
preparation of reports on equipment of the Secretariat General.

Article 96
The Correspondence and Archives section has the task of carrying out
correspondence and archiving affairs in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.

Article 97
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 96, the Correspondence and Archives Section organizes
function:
a. implementation of correspondence affairs;
b. implementation of archive management affairs; and

c. preparation of the preparation of reports on bureau activities.

Article 98
The Mailings and Archives section consists of:
a. Subdivision of Letters and Reporting; and
b. Archive Management Subsection.

Article 99
(1) The Sub-Division of Letters and Reports has the following duties:
carry out the ministry's correspondence and
preparation of the preparation of reports on bureau activities.
(2) The Archives Management Subdivision has duties
perform system operation and development

Page 33
- 33 -

archiving, storage and service of active archives and
inactivity, as well as archive management in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.

Part Eight
Public Relations Bureau

Article 100
The Public Relations Bureau has the task of carrying out
coordination of public relations, information services,
publications, as well as monitoring services for aspirations and complaints
people online , either directly or through the media.

Article 101
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 100, the Bureau of Public Relations organizes
function:
a. setup

coordination

implementation

relationship

community, information services, publications, and
monitoring online aspiration and complaint services
people;
b. implementation of the preparation of programs and activities
public relations, information services and
publication;
c. implementation of evaluation and reporting of implementation
public relations, information services, publications,
as well as monitoring online aspiration and complaint services
people;
d. documentation and library management; and
e. the implementation of the bureau's administrative and household affairs.

Article 102
The Public Relations Bureau consists of:
a. Information Services Division; and
b. Publication Section.

Page 34
- 34 -

Article 103
The Information Services Section has the task of carrying out
information services and monitoring services for aspirations and
online complaint

people in the Ministry

Communication and Informatics.

Article 104
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 103, Information Services Section organizes
function:
a. preparation and implementation of information services to
public through online media ;
b. preparation and implementation of information services to
public through conventional media;
c. implementation

management

documentation

and

library;
d. implementation of monitoring services for aspirations and complaints
people's online ; and
e. the implementation of the bureau's administrative and household affairs.

Article 105
Information Services Section consists of:
a. Online Media Subsection ;
b. Conventional Media Subsection;
c. Documentation and Library Subsection; and
d. Bureau Administration Subdivision.

Article 106
(1) The Online Media Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation, presentation and service of information through
online media and social media within the Ministry
Communication and Informatics.
(2) The Conventional Media Subdivision has duties
carry out the preparation, presentation and service
information through printed media, electronic media and
exhibition at the Ministry of Communications and
informatics.

Page 35
- 35 -

(3) The Documentation and Library Subdivision has
the task of carrying out the implementation of documentation management
and libraries within the Ministry of Communications
and Informatics.
(4) The Bureau of Administration Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and budgets, affairs
staffing and filing, and bureau housekeeping.

Article 107
The Publication Section has the task of carrying out publications
and public relations and communication preparation
various policies within the Ministry of Communications
and Informatics.

Article 108
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 107, Publication Section performs the following functions:
a. implementation of publication and communication affairs between
leadership and mass media;
b. implementation of press coverage, press conferences, interviews, and
press visits;
c. implementation of management, preparation, monitoring, and
preparation of the development of public opinion, as well as analysis
news about the ministry; and
d. implementation of internal and external relations.

Article 109
The Publications section consists of:
a. News Subdivision;
b. Subsection of Public Opinion Management and News Analysis;
and
c. Subsection of Internal and External Relations.

Article 110
(1) The Reporting Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of ministry news publications, press coverage,
and interviews.

Page 36
- 36 -

(2) Subsection of Public Opinion Management and News Analysis
has the task of preparing, monitoring, and
development of public opinion and analysis
news about the ministry.
(3) The Internal and External Relations Subdivision has
the task of preparing press releases, press conferences, and
press visit.

CHAPTER IV
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF RESOURCES AND
POST AND INFORMATION DEVICES

Part One
Position, Duties, and Functions

Article 111
(1) Directorate General of Postal Resources and Equipment and
Informatics is under and responsible
to the Minister.
(2) Directorate General of Postal Resources and Equipment and
Informatics is led by the Director General.

Article 112
Directorate General of Postal Resources and Equipment and
informatics

have

Duty

organize

formulation and implementation of policies in the field of management
radio frequency spectrum and satellite orbit and standardization
postal and informatics equipment.

Article 113
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 112, Directorate General of Resources and Equipment
Post and Information Technology carries out the following functions:
a. formulation of policies in the field of structuring, licensing,
monitoring and evaluation, as well as law enforcement
use of the radio frequency spectrum and satellite orbit,
and standardization of postal and information technology equipment;

Page 37
- 37 -

b. implementation of policies in the field of structuring, licensing,
monitoring and evaluation, as well as law enforcement
use of the radio frequency spectrum and satellite orbit,
and standardization of postal and information technology equipment;
c. preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria in
field

supervision

standardization

device

telecommunication;
d. implementation of providing technical guidance and supervision
in the field of device standardization supervision
telecommunication;
e. implementation of evaluation and reporting in the field of structuring,
licensing, monitoring and evaluation, and enforcement
laws on the use of the radio frequency spectrum and orbit
satellite, as well as standardization of postal equipment and
informatics;
f.

implementation of the administration of the Directorate General of Resources
Postal and Informatics Power and Equipment; and

g. implementation of other functions assigned by the Minister.

The second part
Organization structure

Article 114
Directorate General of Postal Resources and Equipment and
Informatics consists of:
a. Secretariat of the Directorate General;
b. Directorate of Resource Management;
c. Directorate of Resource Operations;
d. Directorate of Postal Resources and Equipment Control
and Informatics; and
e. Directorate of Postal and Information Technology Standardization.

Page 38
- 38 -

Part Three
Secretariat of the Directorate General

Article 115
The Secretariat of the Directorate General has the task of:
carry out management and technical support to
all organizational units within the Directorate General
Postal and Information Technology Resources and Equipment.

Article 116
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 115, Secretariat of the Directorate General of Resources and
Postal and Information Technology Equipment performs the following functions:
a. preparation of program coordination and planning, plans
budget, program and budget control, and
administration of overseas technical assistance, as well as evaluation
and reporting in the field of postal resources and equipment
and informatics;
b. preparation of coordination and implementation of data management
and development of management information systems in
the field of postal and information technology resources and equipment;
c. preparation of coordination and implementation of studies and
legal advocacy, as well as drafting regulations
legislation in the field of resources and
postal and information technology equipment;
d. preparation of coordination and implementation of work administration
the same in the field of postal resources and equipment and
informatics;
e. management of financial affairs within the directorate
general; and
f.

implementation

affairs

administration

staffing,

organization, management, public relations support,
equipment, household, and administration in
directorate general environment.

Article 117
The Secretariat of the Directorate General consists of:

Page 39
- 39 -

a. Program Planning and Reporting Division;
b. Legal and Cooperation Division;
c. Financial department; and
d. General Affairs and Personnel Section.

Article 118
The Program Planning and Reporting Section has
the task of carrying out the preparation of coordination and planning
programs, budget plans, program control and
budget, administration of foreign technical assistance,
data management and information system development, as well as
evaluation and reporting in the field of resources and tools
post and informatics.

Article 119
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 118, Program Planning and Reporting Section
perform functions:
a. preparation of coordination materials and program planning,
work plans and budgets, and aid administration
overseas engineering in the field of resources and devices
post and informatics;
b. preparation of materials for coordination and collection,
processing and presentation of data and information, as well as
operational management information system development sistem
offices within the Directorate General of Resources
Postal and Informatics Power and Equipment; and
c. preparation of program and budget control materials,
evaluation and preparation of reports in the field of resources
and postal and information technology equipment.

Article 120
The Program Planning and Reporting Section consists of:
a. Program Planning and Budget Subdivision;
b. Evaluation and Reporting Subdivision; and
c. Data Management Subsection.

Page 40
- 40 -

Article 121
(1) Program Planning and Budget Subdivision
have the task of preparing materials
program coordination and planning, work plans and
budget, as well as the administration of overseas technical assistance
in the field of postal resources and equipment and
informatics.
(2) Evaluation and Reporting Subdivision has duties
carry out the preparation of program control materials
and budgets, evaluations and annual, periodic reports,
and accountability in the area of resources and tools
post and informatics.
(3) The Data Management Subdivision has duties
manage data and information, as well as
operational management information system development sistem
offices within the Directorate General of Resources
Postal and Informatics Power and Equipment.

Article 122
The Legal and Cooperation Section has a duty
carry out the preparation of coordination, legal studies and
preparation of draft laws and regulations,
providing legal assistance and advocacy, as well as administration
cooperation in the field of postal resources and equipment
informatics.

Article 123
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 122, Legal and Cooperation Section organizes
function:
a. preparation of coordination materials, legal studies,
providing legal assistance and advocacy, documentation
law, as well as analysis and evaluation of laws and regulations
invitation in the field of postal resources and equipment and
informatics;

Page 41
- 41 -

b. preparation of coordination materials, review of preparation
draft laws and regulations in the field of
postal and information technology resources and equipment; and
c. preparation of materials for coordination, administration, and
management of domestic and foreign cooperation in the field of
postal and information technology resources and equipment.

Article 124
The Legal and Cooperation Division consists of:
a. Legal Studies and Assistance Sub-Section;
b. Subsection for Drafting Regulations; and
c. Cooperation Subdivision.

Article 125
(1) The Legal Review and Assistance Subdivision has
the task of carrying out the preparation of coordination materials, studies
laws and regulations, legal advocacy, and analysis
and evaluation of laws and regulations in the field of
postal and information technology resources and equipment.
(2) Subsection

Compilation

design

Rules

design

rules

have the task of preparing materials
coordination,

composing

legislation and legal documentation in the field of
postal and information technology resources and equipment.
(3) The Cooperation Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of administrative coordination materials and
management of domestic and foreign cooperation in the field of
postal and information technology resources and equipment.

Article 126
The Finance Department has the task of carrying out
management of financial affairs within the Directorate
General of Resources and Equipment of Post and Information Technology.

Article 127
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 126, the Finance Division carries out the following functions:

Page 42
- 42 -

a. management of budget execution;
b. implementation

affairs

system

effort

finance,

treasury, and bookkeeping;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of financial statements; and
d. implementation of verification and calculation affairs
budget.

Article 128
The Finance Section consists of:
a. Budget Implementation Subsection;
b. Treasury Subdivision; and
c. Verification subsection.

Article 129
(1) The Budget Execution Subdivision has the following tasks:
manage the implementation of the budget in
environment of the Directorate General of Resources and
Postal and Informatics Equipment.
(2) Subsection
To do

Treasury
affairs

have
system

effort

treasury, and bookkeeping in the neighborhood
Directorate General of Postal Resources and Equipment and
informatics.
(3) The Verification Subdivision has the task of carrying out
verification of budget monitoring and preparation of materials
financial reports within the Directorate General
Postal and Information Technology Resources and Equipment.

Article 130
The General and Personnel Section has the task of
carry out administrative affairs of personnel, organization,
management, equipment, household, administration,
and publication support within the Directorate General
Postal and Information Technology Resources and Equipment.

Duty
finance,

Page 43
- 43 -

Article 131
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 130, General and Personnel Section organizes
function:
a. implementation of personnel administration affairs, evaluation
performance, and organizational structuring in the environment
Directorate General of Postal Resources and Equipment and
Informatics;
b. implementation of equipment and household affairs in
environment of the Directorate General of Resources and
Postal and Information Technology Equipment; and
c. implementation of administrative, secretarial,
management, protocol and publication support
within the Directorate General of Resources and
Postal and Informatics Equipment.

Article 132
General and Personnel Section consists of:
a. Subdivision of Personnel and Organization;
b. Subdivision of Appliances and Households; and
c. Administration Subdivision.

Article 133
(1) The Subdivision of Personnel and Organization has
the task of carrying out personnel administration matters,
performance evaluation, and organizational structuring in the environment
Directorate General of Postal Resources and Equipment and
informatics.
(2) Equipment and Household Subdivision has
the task of carrying out procurement administration affairs,
storage, distribution of equipment, and housing
ladder within the Directorate General of Resources
and Postal and Information Technology Equipment.
(3) The Administration Subdivision has the task of carrying out
administrative, secretarial, management,
as well as publication and documentation support in

Page 44
- 44 -

environment of the Directorate General of Resources and
Postal and Informatics Equipment.

Part Four
Directorate of Resource Management

Article 134
The Directorate of Resource Management has the task of
carry out the formulation and implementation of policies, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of structuring
use of the radio frequency spectrum and satellite orbit.

Article 135
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article

134,

Directorate

Setup

Source

Power

perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation in the field of structuring
allocation of fixed and land mobile service spectrum,
fixed and ground mobile service, orbit management
satellite, radio frequency spectrum economy and orbit
satellites, as well as harmonization of the radio frequency spectrum;
b. preparing the implementation of policies in the field of structuring
allocation of fixed and land mobile service spectrum,
fixed and ground mobile service, orbit management
satellite, radio frequency spectrum economy and orbit
satellites, as well as harmonization of the radio frequency spectrum;
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of structuring
allocation of fixed and land mobile service spectrum,
fixed and ground mobile service, orbit management
satellite, radio frequency spectrum economy and orbit
satellites, as well as harmonization of the radio frequency spectrum; and
d. implementation of administrative and household affairs
Directorate.

Article 136
The Directorate of Resource Management consists of:

Page 45
- 45 -

a. Sub-directorate of Spectrum Allocation Arrangement for Permanent Service
and Ground Moving;
b. Sub-directorate of Non-Service Spectrum Allocation Arrangement
Fixed and Ground Mobile;
c. Sub-directorate of Satellite Orbit Management;
d. Sub-directorate of Radio Frequency Spectrum Economics and
Satellite Orbit;
e. Sub-directorate of Radio Frequency Spectrum Harmonization;
and
f.

Administration Subdivision.

Article 137
Sub-directorate of Spectrum Allocation Arrangement for Permanent Service and
Ground Movement has the task of carrying out the preparation
formulation and implementation of policies, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of spectrum allocation arrangement
fixed and land mobile services.

Article 138
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 137, Sub-directorate of Spectrum Allocation Arrangement of the Service
Fixed and Ground Mobile performs the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
arrangement of radio frequency spectrum allocation for service
fixed and mobile land;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
arrangement of radio frequency spectrum allocation for service
fixed and mobile land; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of structuring
allocation of radio frequency spectrum for the fixed service and
move land.

Article 139
Sub-directorate of Spectrum Allocation Arrangement for Permanent Service and
Ground Moving consists of:
a. Section for the Allocation of Permanent Service Offices; and
b. Section for Arrangement of Land Mobile Service Allocation.

Page 46
- 46 -

Article 140
(1) Section for the Allocation of the Department of Permanent Service has the following duties:
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of structuring frequency spectrum allocation
radio for the permanent service.
(2) Section for Allocation Arrangement of Land Mobile Service has:
the task of carrying out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of structuring frequency spectrum allocation
radio for the land mobile service.

Article 141
Sub-directorate of Spectrum Allocation Arrangement of Fixed Non-Services and
Ground Movement has the task of carrying out the preparation
formulation and implementation of policies, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of spectrum allocation arrangement
non-service fixed and land mobile.

Article 142
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 141, Sub-directorate of Spectrum Allocation Arrangement
Fixed and Land Mobile Non-Services perform the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
arrangement of radio frequency spectrum allocation for service
broadcasting, aviation, maritime, amateur, meteorology,
radio determination, as well as time and frequency standards;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
arrangement of radio frequency spectrum allocation for service
broadcasting, aviation, maritime, amateur, meteorology,
radio determination, as well as time and frequency standards;
and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of structuring
allocation of radio frequency spectrum for the broadcasting service,
aviation, maritime, amateur, meteorology, radio
determination, as well as time and frequency standards.

Page 47
- 47 -

Article 143
Sub-directorate of Spectrum Allocation Arrangement of Fixed Non-Services and
Ground Moving consists of:
a. Section for Allocation of Broadcasting Service; and
b. Section for the Allocation Arrangement of the Aviation, Maritime, and
Amateur.

Article 144
(1) The Broadcasting Service Allocation Arrangement Section has:
the task of carrying out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of structuring frequency spectrum allocation
radio for the broadcasting service.
(2) Section for Allocation Arrangement of Aviation, Maritime, and Offices
Amateurs have the task of preparing materials
formulation and implementation of policies, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of structuring
allocation of radio frequency spectrum for service
aviation, maritime, amateur, meteorology, radio
determination, as well as time and frequency standards.

Article 145
The Sub-Directorate of Satellite Orbit Management has the following duties:
carry out the preparation of the formulation and implementation
policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
satellite orbit management.

Article 146
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 145, Sub-Directorate of Satellite Orbit Management
perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
arrangement of radio frequency spectrum allocation for service
satellite, radio astronomy service, arrangement, registration and
notification of satellite and earth station filings, as well as analysis
satellite technical and satellite filing coordination;

Page 48
- 48 -

b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
arrangement of radio frequency spectrum allocation for service
satellite, radio astronomy service, arrangement, registration and
notification of satellite and earth station filings, as well as analysis
satellite technical and satellite filing coordination; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of structuring
allocation of the radio frequency spectrum to the satellite service,
radio astronomy service, arrangement, registration and
notification of satellite and earth station filings, as well as analysis
satellite technical and satellite filing coordination.

Article 147
The Sub-directorate of Satellite Orbit Management consists of:
a. Section for Allocation Arrangement for Satellite Service and Satellite Filing;
and
b. Satellite Analysis and Coordination Section.

Article 148
(1) Section for Allocation of Satellite Service and Satellite Filing
have the task of preparing materials
formulation and implementation of policies, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of structuring
radio frequency spectrum for the satellite service,
radio astronomy, as well as the arrangement, registration and
notification of satellite and earth station filings.
(2) The Satellite Analysis and Coordination Section has duties
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of satellite technical analysis and coordination
satellite filing.

Article 149
Sub-directorate of Radio Frequency and Orbital Spectrum Economics
Satellite has the task of carrying out the preparation
formulation and implementation of policies, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in spectrum economics
radio frequency and satellite orbit.

Page 49
- 49 -

Article 150
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 149, Sub-Directorate of Radio Frequency Spectrum Economics
and Satellite Orbit performs the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of analysis
techno-economy of the radio frequency spectrum and orbit
satellite, user selection and evaluation, and use
radio frequency band;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
techno-economic analysis of the radio frequency spectrum
and satellite orbits, user selection and evaluation, and
use of radio frequency bands; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of analysis
techno-economy of the radio frequency spectrum and orbit
satellite, user selection and evaluation, and use
radio frequency band.

Article 151
Sub-directorate of Radio Frequency and Orbital Spectrum Economics
Satellites consist of:
a. Industrial Economic Analysis Section; and
b. Section Handling Selection and Evaluation.

Article 152
(1) The Industrial Economic Analysis Section has duties
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of techno-economic analysis of the industry
which uses the radio frequency spectrum and orbit
satellite.
(2) The Selection and Evaluation Handling Section has
the task of carrying out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of handling ribbon user selection
radio frequency, user evaluation, and band usage
radio frequency.

Page 50
- 50 -

Article 153
Sub-directorate of Radio Frequency Spectrum Harmonization
has the task of carrying out the preparation of the formulation and
implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of harmonization of the radio frequency spectrum.

Article 154
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 153, Sub-directorate of Harmonization of Frequency Spectrum
radio performs the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
harmonization of the radio frequency spectrum between institutions and
notification of terrestrial radio frequency spectrum;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
harmonization of the radio frequency spectrum between institutions and
notification of terrestrial radio frequency spectrum; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
harmonization of the radio frequency spectrum between institutions and
terrestrial radio frequency spectrum notification.

Article 155
The Sub-directorate of Harmonization of the Radio Frequency Spectrum consists of:
on:
a. Inter Radio Frequency Spectrum Harmonization Section
Institutions; and
b. Terrestrial Radio Frequency Spectrum Notification Section.

Article 156
(1) Section of the Harmonization of the Inter-Radio Frequency Spectrum
The institution has the task of preparing materials
formulation and implementation of policies, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
harmonization of the radio frequency spectrum between institutions.
(2) Terrestrial Radio Frequency Spectrum Notification Section
have the task of preparing materials
formulation and implementation of policies, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of

Page 51
- 51 -

harmonization in the context of frequency spectrum notification
terrestrial radio.

Article 157
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and budgets, management
state property, civil service and archival affairs,
and housekeeping directorate.

Part Five
Directorate of Resource Operations

Article 158
The Directorate of Resource Operations has the task of
carry out the formulation and implementation of policies, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the service sector
license to use radio frequency spectrum and orbit
satellite.

Article 159
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article

158,

Directorate

Operation

Source

Power

perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation in the service sector
licensing for the use of fixed and mobile service spectrum
land, non-service fixed and land mobile, certification
radio operator, handling of usage rights fee
radio frequency, as well as information consulting management konsultasi
and radio frequency spectrum licensing data;
b. preparation of policy implementation in the service sector
licensing for the use of fixed and mobile service spectrum
land, non-service fixed and land mobile, certification
radio operator, handling of usage rights fee
radio frequency, as well as information consulting management konsultasi
and radio frequency spectrum licensing data;
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
licensing services for the use of fixed service spectrum

Page 52
- 52 -

and land mobile, non-service fixed and land mobile,
radio operator certification, handling fees
use of radio frequencies, as well as consulting management pengelolaan
radio frequency spectrum licensing information and data;
and
d. implementation of the directorate's household administration affairs.

Article 160
The Directorate of Resource Operations consists of:
a. Sub-directorate of Spectrum Services for Permanent Service and
Ground Move;
b. Sub-directorate of Permanent Non-Service Spectrum Services and
Ground Move;
c. Sub-directorate of Radio Operator Certification;
d. Sub-directorate of Handling Usage Rights Fee
Radio Frequency;
e. Sub-directorate of Consultation and Operations Data Source
Power; and
f.

Administration Subdivision.

Article 161
Sub-directorate of Spectrum Services for Fixed and Mobile Services
The land has the task of carrying out the preparation of the formulation
and implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of spectrum licensing services for
fixed service and land mobile service.

Article 162
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 161, Sub-directorate of Spectrum Services for Permanent Service
and Land Mobile performs the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
fixed service radio frequency spectrum licensing services
and land mobile services;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
fixed service radio frequency spectrum licensing services
and land mobile services; and

Page 53
- 53 -

c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
fixed service radio frequency spectrum licensing services
and land mobile services.

Article 163
Sub-directorate of Spectrum Services for Fixed and Mobile Services
Land consists of:
a. Permanent Service Service Section; and
b. Service Section of the Land Mobile Service.

Article 164
(1) The Service Section of the Permanent Service has duties
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of spectrum licensing services
fixed service radio frequency.
(2) The Service Section of the Land Mobile Service has the following duties:
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of spectrum licensing services
land mobile service radio frequency.

Article 165
Sub-directorate of Permanent Non-Service Spectrum Services and
Ground Movement has the task of carrying out the preparation
formulation and implementation of policies, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of spectrum services
non-service fixed and land mobile.

Article 166
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 165, Sub-directorate of Permanent Non-Service Spectrum Services
and Land Mobile performs the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
broadcasting service spectrum licensing,
aviation, maritime, satellite, meteorology, radio
determination, as well as time and frequency standards;

Page 54
- 54 -

b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
broadcasting service spectrum licensing,
aviation, maritime, satellite, meteorology, radio
determination, as well as time and frequency standards; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
broadcasting service spectrum licensing,
aviation, maritime, satellite, meteorology, radio
determination, as well as time and frequency standards.

Article 167
Sub-directorate of Permanent Non-Service Spectrum Services and
Ground Moving consists of:
a. Service Section of the Broadcasting Service; and
b. Service Section of the Aviation, Maritime, and
Satellite.

Article 168
(1) The Service Section of the Broadcasting Service has the task of
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of service spectrum licensing services
broadcasting.
(2) Service Section of the Aviation, Maritime, and Satellite Service
have the task of preparing materials
formulation and implementation of policies, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
aviation service spectrum licensing services,
maritime, satellite, meteorology, radio determination, as well as
standard time and frequency.

Article 169
The Sub-Directorate of Radio Operator Certification has the following duties:
carry out the preparation of the formulation and implementation
policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
radio operator certification.

Page 55
- 55 -

Article 170
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 169, Sub-directorate of Radio Operator Certification
perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
radio amateur license service and inter radio communication
residents, as well as radio operator certification services;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
radio amateur license service and inter radio communication
residents, as well as radio operator certification services; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
radio amateur license service and inter radio communication
residents, as well as radio operator certification services.

Article 171
The Sub-directorate of Radio Operator Certification consists of:
a. Section of Amateur Radio and Radio Communication Services
Between Residents; and
b. Radio Operator Service Section.

Article 172
(1) Section for Amateur Radio and Radio Communication Services
Between Residents has the task of preparing
materials for policy formulation and implementation, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
radio amateur license service and inter radio communication
population.
(2) The Radio Operator Service Section has the task of
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of radio operator certification services.

Article 173
Sub-directorate of Handling of Frequency Usage Rights Fee
Radio has the task of carrying out the preparation
implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and

Page 56
- 56 -

reporting in the field of handling usage rights fees
radio frequency.

Article 174
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 173, Sub-Directorate for Handling Usage Rights Fees
Radio Frequency performs the following functions:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
handling of receivables fees for frequency usage rights
radio, as well as analysis and evaluation of usage rights fees
radio frequency;
b. preparation of materials for technical guidance and supervision in
the field of handling receivables for use rights fees
radio frequency, as well as analysis and evaluation of rights fees
use of radio frequency; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
handling of receivables fees for frequency usage rights
radio, as well as analysis and evaluation of usage rights fees
radio frequency.

Article 175
Sub-directorate of Handling of Frequency Usage Rights Fee
Radio consists of:
a. Section for Handling Accounts Receivable Rights to Use
Radio Frequency; and
b. Section of Analysis and Evaluation of Usage Rights Fees
Radio Frequency.

Article 176
(1) Section for Handling Receivables for Usage Rights Fees
Radio Frequency has the task of preparing
material for implementing policies, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of receivables handling
radio frequency usage rights fee.
(2) Section for Analysis and Evaluation of Usage Rights Fees
Radio Frequency has the task of preparing
material for implementing policies, as well as monitoring,

Page 57
- 57 -

evaluation, and reporting in the field of analysis and evaluation
radio frequency usage rights fee.

Article 177
Sub-directorate of Consultation and Operations Data Resources
has the task of carrying out the preparation for implementation
policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
field consulting and operations data resources.

Article 178
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 177, Sub-directorate of Consultation and Operational Data Source
Power performs functions:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
consultation and information, as well as data management
use of radio frequency spectrum; and
b. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
consultation and information, as well as data management
use of the radio frequency spectrum.

Article 179
Sub-directorate of Consultation and Operations Data Resources
consists of:
a. Consultation and Information Resources Section; and
b. Section of Operations Resource Data Management.
Article 180
(1) The Consultation and Information Resources Section has
the task of carrying out the preparation of implementation materials
policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
spectrum use consulting and information
radio frequency .
(2) Resource Operations Data Management Section
have the task of preparing materials
implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of usage data management
radio frequency spectrum .

Page 58
- 58 -

Article 181
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and budgets, management
state property, civil service and archival affairs,
and housekeeping directorate.

Part Six
Directorate of Control of Postal Resources and Equipment and
informatics

Article 182
Directorate of Control of Postal Resources and Equipment and
Informatics has the task of carrying out the formulation and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
field of monitoring and evaluation, as well as law enforcement
use of the radio frequency spectrum and satellite orbit, and
postal and informatics equipment.

Article 183
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 182, Directorate of Resource Control and
Postal and Information Technology Equipment performs the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation in the field of management
spectrum monitoring system and information system
spectrum management, monitoring and enforcement
radio frequency spectrum and postal equipment and
informatics, as well as information system facilities and infrastructure
radio frequency spectrum management and systems
radio frequency spectrum monitoring and postal equipment
and informatics;
b. preparing the implementation of policies in the field of management
spectrum monitoring system and information system
spectrum management, monitoring and enforcement
radio frequency spectrum and postal equipment and
informatics, as well as information system facilities and infrastructure

Page 59
- 59 -

radio frequency spectrum management and systems
radio frequency spectrum monitoring and postal equipment
and informatics;
c. preparation of the preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria in the field of equipment standardization supervision
telecommunication;
d. implementation and preparation of technical guidance and
supervision in the field of monitoring system management
spectrum, management information system management
spectrum, monitoring and controlling the frequency spectrum
radio and postal and information technology equipment;
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
spectrum monitoring system management, management
spectrum management information system, monitoring and
control of the radio frequency spectrum, as well as postal equipment
and informatics; and
f.

implementation of the directorate's household administration affairs.

Article 184
Directorate of Control of Postal Resources and Equipment and
Informatics consists of:
a. Sub-directorate of Spectrum Monitoring System Management;
b. Sub-directorate of Management Information System Management
Spectrum;
c. Spectrum Monitoring and Control Sub-directorate
Radio Frequency;
d. Sub-directorate of Postal Equipment Monitoring and Control
and Informatics; and
e. Administration Subdivision.

Article 185
Sub-directorate of Spectrum Monitoring System Management
has the task of carrying out the preparation of the formulation and
implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of spectrum monitoring system management.

Page 60
- 60 -

Article 186
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 185, Sub-directorate of Monitoring System Management
Spectrum performs functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
design and maintenance of monitoring systems
spectrum;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
design and maintenance of monitoring systems
spectrum;
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of design
establishing and maintaining a spectrum monitoring system;
and
d. management of facilities and infrastructure in the field of design
establishing and maintaining spectrum monitoring systems.

Article 187
The Sub-directorate of Spectrum Monitoring System Management consists of:
on:
a. Spectrum Monitoring System Design and Development Section; and
b. Spectrum Monitoring System Maintenance Section.

Article 188
(1) Design and Build Section of Spectrum Monitoring System
have the task of preparing materials
formulation and implementation of policies, facilities and
infrastructure, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
spectrum monitoring system design.
(2) Spectrum Monitoring System Maintenance Section
have the task of preparing materials
formulation and implementation of policies, facilities and
infrastructure, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
spectrum monitoring system maintenance.

Article 189
Sub-directorate of Management Information System Management
Spectrum has the task of carrying out the preparation

Page 61
- 61 -

formulation and implementation of policies, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of design and construction
spectrum management information system maintenance.

Article 190
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 189, Sub-directorate of Information System Management
Spectrum Management performs the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
design and maintenance of information systems
spectrum management;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
design and maintenance of information systems
spectrum management;
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of design
build and maintain management information system
spectrum; and
d. management of facilities and infrastructure in the field of design
build and maintain management information system
spectrum.

Article 191
Sub-directorate of Management Information System Management
The spectrum consists of:
a. Management Information System Design Section
Spectrum; and
b. Management Information System Maintenance Section
Spectrum.

Article 192
(1) Section of Management Information System Design
Spectrum has the task of preparing
materials for policy formulation and implementation, facilities
and infrastructure, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of information system design
radio frequency spectrum management.

Page 62
- 62 -

(2) Management Information System Maintenance Section
Spectrum has the task of preparing
materials for policy formulation and implementation, facilities
and infrastructure, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of information system maintenance
radio frequency spectrum management.

Article 193
Sub-directorate of Frequency Spectrum Monitoring and Control
Radio has the task of carrying out the preparation of the formulation
and implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of spectrum monitoring and control
radio frequency.

Article 194
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 193, Sub-directorate of Spectrum Monitoring and Control
Radio Frequency performs the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
monitoring and controlling the radio frequency spectrum,
as well as the development of functional positions in the field of control
radio frequency;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
monitoring and controlling the radio frequency spectrum,
as well as the development of functional positions in the field of control
radio frequency; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
monitoring and controlling the radio frequency spectrum,
as well as the development of functional positions in the field of control
radio frequency.

Article 195
Sub-directorate of Frequency Spectrum Monitoring and Control
Radio consists of:
a. Radio Frequency Spectrum Monitoring Section; and
b. Radio Frequency Spectrum Control Section

Page 63
- 63 -

Article 196
(1) The Radio Frequency Spectrum Monitoring Section has
the task of carrying out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of radio frequency spectrum monitoring,
as well as the development of functional positions in the field of control
radio frequency in the field of frequency spectrum monitoring
radio.
(2) The Radio Frequency Spectrum Control Section has
the task of carrying out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of standard control of postal equipment
and radio frequency spectrum informatics, as well as
development of functional positions in the field of control

radio frequency in the field of frequency spectrum control
radio.

Article 197
Sub-directorate of Monitoring and Control of Postal Equipment and
Informatics has the task of carrying out the preparation
formulation and implementation of policies, formulation of norms,
standards, procedures, and criteria, and providing guidance
technical and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of monitoring and controlling postal equipment
and informatics.

Article 198
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 197, Sub-directorate of Monitoring and Control of Equipment
Post and Information Technology carries out the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
monitoring and control of postal equipment standards and
informatics;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
monitoring and control of postal equipment standards and
informatics;

Page 64
- 64 -

c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the field of standardization supervision
telecommunications equipment;
d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of monitoring and controlling standards
postal and information technology equipment; and
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
monitoring and control of postal equipment standards and
informatics.

Article 199
Sub-directorate of Monitoring and Control of Postal Equipment and
Informatics consists of:
a. Postal and Information Technology Equipment Standard Monitoring Section;
and
b. Section for Standard Control of Post and Information Technology Equipment.

Article 200
(1) Postal and Information Technology Equipment Standard Monitoring Section
have the task of preparing materials
policy formulation and implementation, preparation
norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and giving
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of standard monitoring
postal and informatics equipment.
(2) Section for Standard Control of Post and Information Technology Equipment
have the task of preparing materials
policy formulation and implementation, preparation
norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and giving
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of standard control
postal and informatics equipment.

Article 201
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and budgets, management

Page 65
- 65 -

state property, civil service and archival affairs,
and housekeeping directorate.

Seventh Part
Directorate of Postal and Information Technology Standardization

Article 202
Directorate of Postal and Information Technology Standardization
has the task of carrying out the formulation and
implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of standardization of postal equipment and
informatics.

Article 203
In carrying out the tasks as intended
in Article 202, the Directorate of Standardization of Postal Equipment and
Informatics performs the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation in the field of standardization
radio, postal,
non-radio telecommunications, and information technology,
certification and data on postal, telecommunications and equipment equipment
informatics, as well as service quality and harmonization
device standards;
b. preparation of policy implementation in the field of standards
technical and standardization of devices and systems
radio telecommunications, postal, non-radio telecommunications, and
information technology, certification and postal equipment data,
telecommunications and informatics, as well as service quality
and harmonization of device standards;
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of standards
technical and standardization of radio telecommunications, standards
post and non-radio telecommunications, technology standardization
information, certification and postal equipment data,
telecommunications and informatics, as well as service quality
and harmonization of device standards; and
d. implementation of the directorate's household administration affairs.

Page 66
- 66 -

Article 204
Directorate of Postal and Informatics Standardization, consisting of:
a. Sub-directorate of Radio Telecommunication Standards;
b. Sub-directorate of Post and Non-radio Telecommunication Standards;
c. Sub-directorate of Service Quality and Harmonization
Device Standards;
d. Sub-directorate of Information Technology Standardization;
e. Sub-directorate of Postal Equipment Certification and Data,
Telecommunications, and Informatics; and
f.

Administration Subdivision.

Article 205
The Sub-Directorate of Radio Telecommunication Standards has
the task of carrying out the preparation of the formulation and implementation
policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
the field of technical standards and radio telecommunications standardization.

Article 206
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 205, Sub-Directorate of Radio Telecommunication Standards
perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
technical standards and standardization of equipment and
radio telecommunications infrastructure;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
technical standards and standardization of equipment and
radio telecommunications infrastructure; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of standards
technical and standardization of equipment and infrastructure
radio telecommunications.

Article 207
The Sub-directorate of Radio Telecommunication Standards consists of:
a. Radio Telecommunication Equipment Standard Section; and
b. Radio Telecommunication Infrastructure Standards Section.

Page 67
- 67 -

Article 208
(1) Radio Telecommunication Equipment Standard Section
have the task of preparing materials
formulation and implementation of policies, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of standards
technical and standardization of radio telecommunications equipment.
(2) Radio Telecommunication Infrastructure Standards Section
have the task of preparing materials
formulation and implementation of policies, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of standards
technical and standardization of telecommunications infrastructure
radio.

Article 209
Sub-directorate of Postal and Non-radio Telecommunication Standards
has the task of carrying out the preparation of the formulation and
implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of technical standards and postal standardization and
non-radio telecommunications.

Article 210
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 209, Sub-Directorate of Post and Telecommunication Standards
Nonradio performs the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
technical standards, standardization and postal infrastructure and
non-radio telecommunications;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
technical standards, standardization and postal infrastructure and
non-radio telecommunications; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of standards
technical, standardization and postal infrastructure and
non-radio telecommunications.

Article 211
Sub-directorate of Postal and Non-radio Telecommunication Standards
consists of:

Page 68
- 68 -

a. Postal and Telecommunication Equipment Standards Section
nonradio; and
b. Postal and Telecommunication Infrastructure Standards Section
nonradio.

Article 212
(1) Postal and Telecommunication Equipment Standard Section
Nonradio has the task of preparing materials
formulation and implementation of policies, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of standards
technical and standardization of postal equipment and
non-radio telecommunications.
(2) Postal and Telecommunication Infrastructure Standards Section
Nonradio has the task of preparing materials
formulation and implementation of policies, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of standards
technical,

standardization

infrastructure

post

and

non-radio telecommunications.

Article 213
Sub-directorate of Service Quality and Harmonization of Standards
The device has the task of carrying out the setup
formulation and implementation of policies, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of service quality standards
and harmonization of device standards.

Article 214
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 213, Sub-directorate of Service Quality and Harmonization
The Device Standard performs the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
service quality standards and harmonization of standards
device;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
service quality standards and harmonization of standards
device; and

Page 69
- 69 -

c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of standards
quality of service and harmonization of device standards.

Article 215
Sub-directorate of Service Quality and Harmonization of Standards
The device consists of:
a. Service Quality Standards Section; and
b. Device Standard Harmonization Section.

Article 216
(1) The Service Quality Standards Section has duties
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of service quality standards.
(2) Device Standard Harmonization Section has duties
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of notification formulation, technical standards,
and harmonization of device standards.

Article 217
The Sub-directorate of Information Technology Standardization has
the task of carrying out the preparation of the formulation and implementation
policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
the field of technical standards and information technology standardization.

Article 218
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 217, Sub-directorate of Information Technology Standardization
perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
standard

technical

and

standardization

device,

infrastructure, and technology management and governance
information;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
standard

technical

and

standardization

device,

Page 70
- 70 -

infrastructure, and technology management and governance
information; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of standards
technical and standardization of equipment, infrastructure, and
information technology management and governance.

Article 219
Sub-directorate of Information Technology Standardization consists of:
a. Device and Infrastructure Standardization Section
Information Technology; and
b. Standardization of Management and Governance Section
Information Technology.

Article 220
(1) Section for Standardization of Equipment and Infrastructure
Information Technology has the task of carrying out
preparation of materials for the formulation and implementation
policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
the field of technical standards and standardization of equipment and
information technology infrastructure.
(2) Management and Governance Standardization Section
Information Technology has the task of carrying out
preparation of materials for the formulation and implementation
policies, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
the field of technical standards and management standardization and
information technology governance.

Article 221
Sub-directorate of Postal Equipment Certification and Data,
Telecommunications, and Informatics have duties
carry out the preparation of the formulation and implementation
policy and certification, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of certification and postal equipment data,
telecommunications, and informatics.

Page 71
- 71 -

Article 222
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 221, Sub-directorate of Certification and Postal Equipment Data,
Telecommunications and Information Technology perform the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
certification and management of device data and information
post, telecommunications, and informatics;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
certification and management of device data and information
post, telecommunications, and informatics; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of certification
and management of postal equipment data and information,
telecommunications, and informatics.

Article 223
Sub-directorate of Postal Equipment Certification and Data,
Telecommunications and Information Technology consists of:
a. Section for Certification of Post, Telecommunication, and Equipment Equipment
Informatics; and
b. Section of Data and Information for Postal, Telecommunication,
and Informatics.

Article 224
(1) Section for Certification of Post, Telecommunication, and Equipment Equipment
Informatics has the task of preparing
materials for policy formulation and implementation, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of certification
postal, telecommunications, and information technology equipment.
(2) Section of Data and Information for Postal, Telecommunication,
and Informatics has the task of doing
management of postal equipment certification data and information,
telecommunications, and informatics.

Article 225
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and budgets, management

Page 72
- 72 -

state property, civil service and archival affairs,
and housekeeping directorate.

CHAPTER V
DIRECTORATE GENERAL
ORGANIZATION OF POST AND INFORMATION

Part One
Position, Duties, and Functions

Article 226
(1) Directorate General of Post and Information Technology Administration
under and responsible to the Minister.
(2) Directorate General of Post and Information Technology
led by the Director General.

Article 227
Directorate General of Post and Information Technology
has the task of organizing the formulation and
implementation of policies in the field of postal administration and
informatics.

Article 228
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 227, Directorate General of Postal Administration
Informatics performs the following functions:
a. formulation of policies in the field of service standardization,
licensing services, as well as increasing accessibility,
connectivity,

and

security

infrastructure

telecommunications, infrastructure development and
ecosystem of postal, telecommunications, and
broadcasting;
b. implementation of policies in the field of service standardization,
licensing services and increasing accessibility,
connectivity and security of telecommunications infrastructure,
development

infrastructure

and

ecosystem

postal, telecommunications, and broadcasting operations;

Page 73
- 73 -

c. preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria in
in the field of licensing services and improvement
accessibility, connectivity and infrastructure security
telecommunications, infrastructure development and
ecosystem of postal, telecommunications, and
broadcasting;
d. providing technical guidance and supervision in the field of
licensing services and increasing accessibility,
connectivity and security of telecommunications infrastructure,
development

infrastructure

and

ecosystem

postal, telecommunications, and broadcasting operations;
e. implementation of evaluation and reporting in the field of
postal and information technology administration;
f.

implementation

administration

Directorate

Implementation of Post and Information Technology; and
g. implementation of other functions assigned by the Minister.

The second part
Organization structure

Article 229
Directorate General of Post and Information Technology Administration,
consists of:
a. Secretariat of the Directorate General;
b. Postal Directorate;
c. Directorate of Telecommunications;

General

d. Directorate of Broadcasting;
e. Directorate of Broadband Development; and
f.

Directorate of Postal Control and Information Technology.

Part Three
Secretariat of the Directorate General

Article 230
The Secretariat of the Directorate General has the task of:
carry out management and technical support to

Page 74
- 74 -

all organizational units within the Directorate General
Implementation of Post and Information Technology.

Article 231
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 230, Secretariat of the Directorate General of Operations
Post and Information Technology carries out the following functions:
a. preparation of program coordination and planning, plans
budget, program and budget control, and
administration of overseas technical assistance, as well as evaluation
and reporting in the field of postal administration and
informatics;
b. preparation of coordination and implementation of data management
and development of management information systems in
the field of postal and information technology administration;
c. preparation of coordination and implementation of studies and
legal advocacy, legal documentation, and
drafting legislation
in the field of postal and information technology administration;
d. preparation of coordination and implementation of work administration
the same in the field of postal and information technology administration;
e. management of financial affairs within the Directorate
General of Post and Information Technology Administration; and
f.

implementation

affairs

administration

staffing,

organization, management, public relations support,
equipment, household, and administration in
environment of the Directorate General of Postal Administration and
informatics.

Article 232
The Secretariat of the Directorate General consists of:
a. Program Planning and Reporting Division;
b. Legal and Cooperation Division;
c. Financial department; and
d. General Affairs and Personnel Section.

Page 75
- 75 -

Article 233
The Program Planning and Reporting Section has
the task of carrying out the preparation of coordination and planning
programs, budget plans, program control and
budget, administration of foreign technical assistance,
data management and information system development, as well as
evaluation and reporting in the field of postal administration and
informatics.

Article 234
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 233, Program Planning and Reporting Section
perform functions:
a. preparation of coordination materials and program planning,
work plans and budgets, and aid administration
overseas engineering in the field of postal administration and
informatics;
b. preparation of materials for coordination and collection,
processing and presentation of data and information, as well as
operational management information system development sistem
offices within the Directorate General
Implementation of Post and Information Technology; and
c. preparation of program and budget control materials,
evaluation and preparation of reports in the field of
postal and informatics management.

Article 235
The Program Planning and Reporting Section consists of:
a. Program Planning and Budget Subdivision;
b. Evaluation and Reporting Subdivision; and
c. Data Management Subsection.

Article 236
(1) Program Planning and Budget Subdivision
have the task of preparing materials
program coordination and planning, work plans and

Page 76
- 76 -

budget, as well as the administration of overseas technical assistance
in the field of postal administration and information technology.
(2) Evaluation and Reporting Subdivision has duties
carry out the preparation of program control materials
and budgets, evaluations and annual, periodic reports,
and accountability in the field of postal administration and
informatics.
(3) The Data Management Subdivision has duties
manage data and information, as well as
operational management information system development sistem
offices in the post and post office environment
informatics.

Article 237
The Legal and Cooperation Section has a duty
carry out the preparation of coordination, study and advocacy
law, legal documentation, and drafting
laws and regulations, as well as work administration
the same in the field of postal and information technology administration.

Article 238
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 237, Legal and Cooperation Section organizes
function:
a. preparation of materials for coordination, study and advocacy
law, legal documentation, as well as analysis and evaluation
rules

legislation

in

field

postal and information technology administration;
b. preparation of coordination materials, review of preparation
draft laws and regulations in the field of
postal and information technology administration; and
c. preparation of materials for coordination, administration, management
domestic and foreign cooperation in the field of
postal and information technology administration.

Article 239
The Legal and Cooperation Division consists of:

Page 77
- 77 -

a. Legal Studies and Assistance Sub-Section;
b. Subsection for Drafting Regulations; and
c. Cooperation Subdivision.

Article 240
(1) The Legal Review and Assistance Subdivision has
the task of carrying out the preparation of coordination materials, studies
laws and regulations, legal advocacy, and analysis
and evaluation of laws and regulations in the field of
postal and information technology administration.
(2) Subsection

Compilation

design

Rules

design

rules

have the task of preparing materials
coordination,

composing

legislation and legal documentation in the field of
postal and information technology administration.
(3) The Cooperation Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of administrative coordination materials and
management of domestic and foreign cooperation in the field of
postal and information technology administration.

Article 241
The Finance Department has the task of carrying out
management of financial affairs within the Directorate
General of Post and Information Technology Administration.

Article 242
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 241, The Finance Division carries out the following functions:
a. management of budget execution;
b. implementation

affairs

system

effort

finance,

treasury, and bookkeeping;
c. preparation of the preparation of financial statements; and
d. implementation of verification and calculation affairs
budget.

Article 243
The Finance Section consists of:

Page 78
- 78 -

a. Budget Implementation Subsection;
b. Treasury Subdivision; and
c. Verification subsection.

Article 244
(1) The Budget Execution Subdivision has the following tasks:
manage the implementation of the budget in
environment of the Directorate General of Postal Administration and
informatics.
(2) Subsection

Treasury

To do

affairs

have
system

Duty

effort

finance,

treasury, and bookkeeping in the neighborhood
Directorate General of Post and Service Administration
informatics.
(3) The Verification Subdivision has the task of carrying out
verification of budget monitoring and preparation of materials
preparation of financial reports within the Directorate
General of Post and Information Technology Administration.

Article 245
The General and Personnel Section has the task of
carry out administrative affairs of personnel, organization,
management, equipment, household, administration,
and public relations support within the Directorate General
Implementation of Post and Information Technology.

Article 246
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 245, the General and Personnel Section organizes
function:
a. implementation of personnel administration affairs, evaluation
performance, and organizational structuring in the environment
Directorate General of Post and Service Administration
Informatics;
b. implementation of equipment and household affairs in
environment of the Directorate General of Postal Administration and
Informatics; and

Page 79
- 79 -

c. implementation of administrative, secretarial,
management, as well as support for publications and
documentation within the Directorate General
Implementation of Post and Information Technology.

Article 247
General and Personnel Section consists of:
a. Subdivision of Personnel and Organization;
b. Subdivision of Appliances and Households; and
c. Administration Subdivision.

Article 248
(1) The Subdivision of Personnel and Organization has
the task of carrying out personnel administration matters,
performance evaluation, and organizational structuring in the environment
Directorate General of Post and Service Administration
informatics.
(2) Equipment and Household Subdivision has
the task of carrying out procurement administration affairs,
storage, distribution of equipment, and housing
stairs

in

environment

Directorate

General

Implementation of Post and Information Technology.
(3) The Administration Subdivision has the task of carrying out
administrative, secretarial, management,
as well as publication and documentation support in
environment of the Directorate General of Postal Administration and
informatics.

Part Four
Postal Directorate

Article 249
The Postal Directorate has the task of carrying out the formulation of
and implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
the field of service quality standardization and technical, service

Page 80
- 80 -

permits, improved accessibility and postal connectivity,
and intensification of non-tax state revenues
administration in the field of postal management permits in accordance with
with the provisions of laws and regulations.

Article 250
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 249, the Directorate of Post carries out the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation in the field of standardization
service quality and technical postal administration,
postal licensing services, increasing accessibility and
postal connectivity, postal rates and contributions, and
universal postal service, postage and philately, and
industrial development and postal cooperation, as well as
intensification of non-tax state revenues
administration in the field of postal administration permits
in accordance with the provisions of the legislation
invitation;
b. setup
standardization

implementation

Policy

quality

service

in

field

and

technical

postal administration, postal licensing services,
improvement of postal accessibility and connectivity,
postal rates and contributions, and postal services
universal, stamps and philately, and development
industrial and postal cooperation, as well as intensification
non-tax state revenue administration in
the field of postal administration permits in accordance with
the provisions of the legislation;
c. preparation of the preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria in the field of service quality standardization and
postal administration, postal licensing services,
improvement of postal accessibility and connectivity,
postal rates and contributions, and postal services
universal, stamps and philately, and development
industry and postal cooperation;
d. preparation of providing technical guidance and supervision in super
the field of service quality standardization and technical

Page 81
- 81 -

postal administration, postal licensing services,
improvement of postal accessibility and connectivity,
postal rates and contributions, and postal services
universal, stamps and philately, and development
industry and postal cooperation;
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
standardization

quality

service

and

postal administration, postal licensing services,
improvement of postal accessibility and connectivity,
postal rates and contributions, and postal services
universal, stamps and philately, and development
industry and postal cooperation; and
f.

implementation of administrative and household affairs
Directorate.

Article 251
The Postal Directorate consists of:
a. Sub-directorate of Universal Postal Services;
b. Sub-directorate of Commercial Postal Services;
c. Sub-Directorate of Postal Tariffs;
d. Sub-directorate of Stamps and Philately;
e. Sub-directorate of Industrial Cooperation and Development
Post; and
f.

Administration Subdivision.

Article 252
The Sub-Directorate of Universal Postal Services has the duties
carry out the preparation of the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of standardization
service and technical quality, as well as increased accessibility
and universal postal connectivity.

Page 82
- 82 -

Article 253
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 252, Sub-Directorate of the Universal Postal Service
perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
planning and implementation of quality standardization
service and technical, universal postal service, and
increased accessibility and universal postal connectivity;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
planning and implementation of quality standardization
service and technical, universal postal service, upgrade
universal postal accessibility and connectivity;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in planning and implementation
standardization of service quality and technical, postal service
universal, improved accessibility and postal connectivity
universal;
d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in planning and implementation
standardization of service quality and technical, postal service
universal, improved accessibility and postal connectivity
universal; and
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
planning and implementation of quality standardization
service and technical, universal postal service, upgrade
universal postal accessibility and connectivity.

Article 254
The Universal Postal Service Sub-directorate consists of:
a. Universal Postal Service Planning Section; and
b. Universal Postal Service Implementation Section

Article 255
(1) The Universal Postal Service Planning Section has
the task of carrying out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance

Page 83
- 83 -

and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of service quality standardization planning
and technical, universal postal service, improvement
universal postal accessibility and connectivity.
(2) The Universal Postal Service Application Section has
the task of carrying out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance,
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
the field of implementing service quality standardization and
technical, universal postal service, increased accessibility
and universal postal connectivity.

Article 256
The Sub-Directorate of Commercial Postal Services has the following duties:
carry out the preparation of the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of standardization
service and technical quality, and postal licensing services, as well as
intensification of non-tax state revenue administration
in the field of postal administration permits in accordance with the provisions
legislation.

Article 257
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 256, Sub-Directorate of Commercial Postal Services
perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
standardization of service quality and technical, service
licensing, and data and information management in the field of
implementation of commercial postal services, as well as intensification
non-tax state revenue administration in
the field of postal administration permits in accordance with
the provisions of the legislation;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
standardization of service quality and technical, service

technical

Page 84
- 84 -

licensing, and data and information management
implementation of commercial postal services, as well as intensification
non-tax state revenue administration in
the field of postal administration permits in accordance with
the provisions of the legislation;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the field of service quality standardization and
technical, licensing services, and data management and
information in the field of providing postal services
commercial;
d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision, in the field of service quality standardization and
technical, licensing services, and data management and
information in the field of providing postal services
commercial; and
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
standardization of service quality and technical, service
licensing, and data and information management in the field of
implementation of commercial postal services, as well as intensification
non-tax state revenue administration in
the field of postal administration permits in accordance with
the provisions of the legislation.

Article 258
The Sub-Directorate of Commercial Postal Services consists of:
a. Commercial Postal Service Governance Section; and
b. Commercial Postal Service Data and Information Section.

Article 259
(1) The Commercial Postal Service Governance Section has
the task of carrying out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of service governance, quality standardization
services and technical and licensing services
commercial postal administration.

Page 85
- 85 -

(2) Commercial Postal Service Data and Information Section
have the task of preparing materials
policy formulation and implementation, preparation
norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and giving
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of data management and
commercial postal service information, as well as intensification
non-tax state revenue in the field of permits
postal administration in accordance with the provisions of the regulations
legislation.

Article 260
The Postal Tariff Sub-Directorate has the task of carrying out
preparation of policy formulation and implementation,
preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and
providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of postal rates.

Article 261
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 260, the Sub-Directorate of Postal Tariffs organizes
function:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
rates, and calculating the organizers' contributions kontribusi
post;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
rates, and calculating the organizers' contributions kontribusi
post;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the field of tariffs, and calculations
postal organizer contributions;
d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of tariffs, and calculations
postal organizer contributions; and
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
rates, and calculating the organizers' contributions kontribusi
post;

Page 86
- 86 -

Article 262
The Postal Tariff Sub-directorate consists of:
a. Universal Postal Service Tariff Section; and
b. Commercial Postal Service Tariff Section.

Article 263
(1) The Universal Postal Service Tariff Section has
the task of carrying out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of universal postal service tariffs and
calculation of postal organizer contributions.
(2) The Commercial Postal Service Tariff Section has
the task of carrying out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of commercial postal service tariffs.

Article 264
The Sub-Directorate of Stamps and Philately has the task of
carry out the preparation of the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria
and providing technical guidance and supervision, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of postage and
philately.

Article 265
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article

264,

Subdirectorate

Stamps

and

Philately

perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
postage and philately;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
postage and philately;

Page 87
- 87 -

c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the field of stamps and philately;
d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of stamps and philately; and
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of stamps
and philately.

Article 266
The Sub-directorate of Stamps and Philately consists of:
a. Stamp Section; and
b. Philatelic Section.

Article 267
(1) The Stamp Section has the task of preparing
materials for policy formulation and implementation,
preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and
providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of stamps.
(2) The Philatelic Section has the task of making preparations
materials for policy formulation and implementation,
preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and
providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of philately.

Article 268
Sub-directorate of Postal Industry Cooperation and Development
has the task of preparing the formulation and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
postal industry cooperation and development.

Article 269
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 268, Sub-directorate of Cooperation and Development
The Postal Industry carries out the following functions:

Page 88
- 88 -

a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of work
the same and the development of the postal industry;
b. preparation of material for implementing policies in the field of work
the same and the development of the postal industry;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the field of cooperation and development
postal industry;
d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of cooperation and development
postal industry; and
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of work
the same and the development of the postal industry.

Article 270
Sub-directorate of Postal Industry Cooperation and Development
consists of:
a. Postal Cooperation Section; and
b. Postal Industry Development Section.

Article 271
(1) The Postal Cooperation Section has the task of carrying out
preparation of materials for the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision,
as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
postal cooperation.
(2) The Postal Industry Development Section has duties
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of postal industry development.

Article 272
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and budgets, management

Page 89
- 89 -

state property, personnel affairs, and archives,
and housekeeping directorate.

Part Five
Directorate of Telecommunications

Article 273
The Directorate of Telecommunications has the task of carrying out
formulation and implementation of policies, formulation of norms,
standards, procedures, and criteria, and providing guidance
technical and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of technical standardization and security
implementation of telecommunications and information technology numbering,
as well as licensing services, increasing accessibility and
connectivity

maintenance

telecommunication

and

special telecommunications.

Article 274
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 273, The Directorate of Telecommunications organizes
function:
a. preparation of policy formulation in the field of standardization
technical and security administration of numbering
telecommunications and informatics, licensing services
telecommunication

and

enhancement

telecommunication

accessibility

special,

and

connectivity

telecommunications and special telecommunications, as well as tariffs,
interconnection, and operating climate iklim
telecommunications and special telecommunications;
b. setup

implementation

Policy

in

field

technical standardization and implementation security
telecommunications and informatics numbering, services
telecommunications and special telecommunications licensing,
enhancement

accessibility

and

connectivity

telecommunications and special telecommunications, as well as tariffs,
interconnection, and operating climate iklim
telecommunications and special telecommunications;

Page 90
- 90 -

c. preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria in
the field of technical standardization and security
operation of telecommunications numbering and
informatics, telecommunications licensing services and
special telecommunications, accessibility improvements and
telecommunications connectivity and special telecommunications,
and

rates,

interconnect,

and

climate

effort

telecommunications and telecommunications operations
special;
d. preparation of providing technical guidance and supervision in super
field

standardization

technical

and

security

operation of telecommunications numbering and
informatics, telecommunications licensing services and
special telecommunications, accessibility improvements and
telecommunications connectivity and special telecommunications,
and

rates,

interconnect,

and

climate

effort

telecommunications and telecommunications operations
special;
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
standardization of service and technical quality, as well as
security of telecommunication numbering operation
and informatics, telecommunications licensing services and
special telecommunications, accessibility improvements and
telecommunications connectivity and special telecommunications,
and

rates,

interconnect,

and

climate

effort

telecommunications and telecommunications operations
special; and
f.

implementation of administrative and household affairs
Directorate.

Article 275
The Directorate of Telecommunications consists of:
a. Telecommunication Network Sub-directorate;
b. Sub-directorate of Telecommunication Services;
c. Subdirectorate

Numbering

Telecommunication

and

Informatics;
d. Sub-directorate of Tariff, Interconnection, and Business Climate;

Page 91
- 91 -

e. Sub-directorate of Special Telecommunications and Eligibility
Telecommunications Operations; and
f.

Administration Subdivision.

Article 276
The Sub-Directorate of Telecommunication Networks has the task of:
preparation of policy formulation and implementation,
preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and
providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of technical standards, standards
security of operation, improvement of accessibility and
connectivity, as well as operating licensing services
telecommunications network.

Article 277
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 276, Sub-directorate of Telecommunication Networks
perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
technical standards, operational safety standards,
improved accessibility and connectivity, services
network and network management arrangement
telecommunications, as well as network licensing services
telecommunication;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
technical standards, operational safety standards,
improved accessibility and connectivity, services
network and network management arrangement
telecommunications, as well as network licensing services
telecommunication;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the field of technical standards, safety standards
maintenance,

enhancement

connectivity,

service

accessibility

network

and

and
setting

telecommunications network operation, as well as services
telecommunications network licensing;

Page 92
- 92 -

d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of technical standards, safety standards
maintenance,

enhancement

connectivity,

service

accessibility

network

and

and
setting

telecommunications network operation, as well as services
telecommunications network licensing; and
e. monitoring, evaluation and reporting in the field of standards
technical standards, maintenance safety standards, improvement
accessibility and connectivity, network services and
structuring the operation of telecommunications networks, as well as
telecommunications network licensing services.

Article 278
The Telecommunication Network Sub-directorate consists of:
a. Network Services Section; and
b. Section for Network Administration Arrangement.

Article 279
(1) The Network Services Section has the task of performing
preparation of materials for the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision,
as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
network services and network licensing setup perizinan
telecommunication.
(2) The Network Implementation Arrangement Section has
the task of carrying out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of technical standards, safety standards
maintenance,

enhancement

accessibility

and

connectivity, permission changes and setup
telecommunications network operation.

Page 93
- 93 -

Article 280
The Sub-Directorate of Telecommunication Services has the task of:
preparation of policy formulation and implementation,
preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and
providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of technical standards, standards
security of operation, improvement of accessibility and
connectivity, as well as licensing services for the provision of services
telecommunication.

Article 281
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article

280,

Subdirectorate

Service

Telecommunication

perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
technical standards, operational safety standards,
increased accessibility and connectivity, services
and structuring the operation of telecommunications services, as well as
telecommunications services licensing services;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
technical standards, operational safety standards,
increased accessibility and connectivity, services
and structuring the operation of telecommunications services, as well as
telecommunications services licensing services;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the field of technical standards, safety standards
maintenance,

enhancement

accessibility

and

connectivity, services and management arrangements
telecommunications services, as well as service licensing services layanan
telecommunication;
d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of technical standards, safety standards
maintenance,

enhancement

accessibility

connectivity, services and management arrangements
telecommunications services, as well as service licensing services layanan
telecommunication; and

Page 94
- 94 -

e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of standards
technical standards, maintenance safety standards, improvement
accessibility and connectivity, services and arrangement
the operation of telecommunications services, as well as

and

telecommunications service licensing.

Article 282
The Sub-Directorate of Telecommunication Services consists of:
a. Service Section; and
b. Service Organizing Section.

Article 283
(1) The Service Section has the task of carrying out
preparation of materials for the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision,
as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
services and preparation of service licenses
telecommunication.
(2) The Service Implementation Arrangement Section has the following duties:
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of technical standards, safety standards
maintenance,

enhancement

accessibility

and

connectivity, permission changes and setup
telecommunications service operation.

Article 284
Sub-directorate of Telecommunication and Information Numbering
has the task of carrying out the preparation of the formulation and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
the field of telecommunications and informatics numbering, as well as
determination of telecommunications numbering.

Page 95
- 95 -

Article 285
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 284, Sub-Directorate of Telecommunication Numbering and
Informatics performs the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
telecommunications and informatics numbering, as well as
determination of telecommunications numbering;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
telecommunications and informatics numbering, as well as
determination of telecommunications numbering;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the field of telecommunications numbering and
informatics, as well as stipulation of telecommunications numbering;
d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of telecommunications numbering and
informatics, as well as stipulation of telecommunications numbering;
and
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
telecommunications and informatics numbering, as well as
determination of telecommunications numbering.

Article 286
Sub-directorate of Telecommunication and Information Numbering
consists of:
a. Telecommunications Numbering Section; and
b. Information Numbering Section.

Article 287
(1) The Telecommunications Numbering Section has the task of:
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of telecommunications numbering, as well as the determination of
telecommunications numbering.
(2) The Information Numbering Section has duties
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and

Page 96
- 96 -

implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of numbering informatics.

Article 288
Sub-directorate of Tariff, Interconnection, and Business Climate Iklim
has the task of carrying out the preparation of the formulation and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
in the fields of tariffs, interconnection, and business climate, competition,
business protection and management market review
telecommunication.

Article 289
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 288, Sub-Directorate of Tariffs, Interconnection, and Business Climate
perform functions:
a. preparation of materials for policy formulation in the field of tariffs,
interconnection, and business climate, competition, protection
effort

and

review

market

maintenance

telecommunication;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of tariffs,
interconnection, and business climate, competition, protection
effort

and

review

market

maintenance

telecommunication;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the areas of tariffs, interconnection, and climate
business, competition, business protection and market review
telecommunications operations;
d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the fields of tariffs, interconnection, and business climate,
competition, business protection and market review
telecommunications operations; and
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of tariffs,
interconnection, and business climate, competition, protection

Page 97
- 97 -

effort

and

review

market

maintenance

telecommunication.

Article 290
The Sub-directorate of Tariffs, Interconnections and Business Climate consists of:
a. Tariff and Interconnection Section; and
b. Business Climate Section.

Article 291
(1) The Tariff and Interconnection Section has duties
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of tariffs and telecommunications interconnection.
(2) The Business Climate Section has the task of carrying out
preparation of materials for the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision,
as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
business climate, competition, protection and market review
telecommunications operations.

Article 292
Sub-directorate of Special Telecommunications and Eligibility
Maintenance

Telecommunication

have

Duty

carry out the preparation of the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the service sector
special telecommunications licensing, feasibility of operation,
and application of the latest technologies and services
telecommunications and special telecommunications, as well as
improvement of telecommunication cooperation.

Page 98
- 98 -

Article 293
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 292, Special Telecommunication Sub-Directorate and
Appropriateness

Maintenance

Telecommunication

perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
special telecommunications licensing services, eligibility
implementation, and application of technology, as well as services
latest telecommunications and special telecommunications,
as well as increasing telecommunication cooperation and
special telecommunications;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
special telecommunications licensing services, eligibility
implementation, and application of technology, as well as services
latest telecommunications and special telecommunications,
as well as increasing telecommunication cooperation and
special telecommunications;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the field of telecommunications licensing services
specifically, the feasibility of implementation, and implementation
technology, as well as the latest telecommunications and
special telecommunications, as well as increasing cooperation
telecommunications and special telecommunications;
d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of telecommunications licensing services
specifically, the feasibility of implementation, and implementation
technology, as well as the latest telecommunications and
special telecommunications, as well as increasing cooperation
telecommunications and special telecommunications; and
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the service sector
permission

telecommunication

special,

appropriateness

implementation, and application of technology, as well as services
latest telecommunications and special telecommunications,
as well as increasing telecommunication cooperation and
special telecommunications.

Page 99
- 99 -

Article 294
Sub-directorate of Special Telecommunications and Eligibility
Telecommunications operations consist of:
a. Special Telecommunications Section; and
b. Feasibility Section for Implementation and Implementation
technology.

Article 295
(1) The Special Telecommunications Section has duties
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of special telecommunications licensing services.
(2) Feasibility Section for Implementation and Implementation
Technology has the task of preparing materials
policy formulation and implementation, preparation
norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and giving
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of feasibility
implementation, and application of technology, as well as services
latest telecommunications and special telecommunications, as well as
enhancement

work

same

telecommunication

and

special telecommunications.

Article 296
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and budgets, management
state property, civil service and archival affairs,
and housekeeping directorate.

Part Six
Broadcasting Directorate

Article 297
The Directorate of Broadcasting has the task of carrying out
formulation and implementation of policies, formulation of norms,

Page 100
- 100 -

standards, procedures, and criteria, and providing guidance
technical and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of service quality standards and technical
broadcasting operations, licensing services, improvement
accessibility and connectivity of broadcasting operations,
and intensification of non-tax state revenues in the field of
licensing of broadcasting operations based on the provisions
legislation.

Article 298
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 297, the Directorate of Broadcasting carries out the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation in the field of radio services,
television services, broadcast verification and testing, climate
broadcasting business and technological feasibility, and
management of broadcasting management information systems and
supporting facilities for broadcasting data management, standards
service quality and technical implementation of broadcasting,
licensing services, as well as intensification of revenue
non-tax state in the field of licensing
broadcasting based on the provisions of the legislation
invitation;
b. preparation of policy implementation in the service sector
radio, television services, verification and testing of broadcasts,
broadcasting business climate and technological feasibility, and
management of broadcasting management information systems and
supporting facilities for broadcasting data management, standards
service quality and technical implementation of broadcasting,
licensing services, as well as intensification of revenue
non-tax state in the field of licensing
broadcasting based on the provisions of the legislation
invitation;
c. preparation of the preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria in the field of radio services, television services,
broadcast verification and trial, broadcasting business climate and
technological feasibility, and management of information systems
broadcasting management and supporting facilities

Page 101
- 101 -

broadcasting data management, service quality standards
and technical implementation of broadcasting, and services
licensing of broadcasting operations;
d. preparation of providing technical guidance and supervision in super
radio services, television services, verification and testing
try broadcast, broadcasting business climate and feasibility
technology, and management of management information systems
broadcasting and supporting facilities for data management
broadcasting, service quality standards and technical
broadcasting operations, and licensing services
broadcasting operations;
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the service sector
radio, television services, verification and testing of broadcasts,
broadcasting business climate and technological feasibility, and
management of broadcasting management information systems and
supporting facilities for broadcasting data management, standards
service quality and technical implementation of broadcasting,
and licensing services, as well as intensification of revenue
non-tax state in the field of licensing
broadcasting based on the provisions of the legislation
invitation; and
f.

implementation of administrative and household affairs
Directorate.

Article 299
The Directorate of Broadcasting consists of:
a. Sub-directorate of Radio Services;
b. Sub-directorate of Television Services;
c. Sub-directorate of Broadcast Verification and Trial;
d. Sub-directorate of Broadcasting Business Climate and Feasibility
Technology;
e. Sub-directorate of Management Information System Management
Broadcasting and Data Management Supporting Facilities
Broadcasting; and
f.

Administration Subdivision.

Page 102
- 102 -

Article 300
Subdirectorate

Service

Radio

have

Duty

carry out the preparation of the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
operation of radio broadcasting institutions.

Article 301
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 300, Sub-directorate of Radio Services organizes
function:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
service quality standards and technical implementation
broadcasting, licensing services, accessibility improvements
and connectivity of public broadcasters and institutions
radio community broadcasters, as well as broadcasters
private and foreign radio broadcasting institutions;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
service quality standards and technical implementation
broadcasting, licensing services, accessibility improvements
and connectivity of public broadcasters and institutions
radio community broadcasters, as well as broadcasters
private and foreign radio broadcasting institutions;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the field of service quality standards and
licensing technical, licensing services, improvement
accessibility and connectivity of public broadcasters
and community radio broadcasters, as well as
private broadcasters and foreign radio broadcasting institutions;
d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of service quality standards and technical
maintenance

broadcasting,

service

permits,

increased accessibility and connectivity of institutions
public broadcasters and community broadcasters
radio, as well as private broadcasters and institutions
foreign radio broadcasting; and

Page 103
- 103 -

e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of standards
service quality and technical implementation of broadcasting,
licensing services, accessibility improvements and
connectivity of public broadcasters and institutions
radio community broadcasters, as well as broadcasters
private sector and foreign radio broadcasting institutions.

Article 302
The Sub-directorate of Radio Services consists of:
a. Section of Public Broadcasting Institutions and Broadcasting Institutions
Radio Community; and
b. Section of Private Broadcasting Institutions and Broadcasting Institutions
Foreign Radio.

Article 303
(1) Section of Public Broadcasting Institutions and Broadcasting Institutions
The Radio Community has the task of doing
preparation of materials for the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision,
as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
service quality standards and technical implementation
broadcasting, licensing services, accessibility improvements
and connectivity of public broadcasters and institutions
community radio broadcasting.
(2) Section of Private Broadcasting Institutions and Broadcasting Institutions
Foreign Radio has the task of preparing
materials for policy formulation and implementation,
preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and
providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of standards
service quality and technical implementation of broadcasting,
licensing services, accessibility improvements and
connectivity of private broadcasters and institutions
foreign radio broadcasting.

Page 104
- 104 -

Article 304
Subdirectorate

Service

Television

have

carry out the preparation of the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, as well as providing technical guidance and supervision,
as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
television broadcasting organization.

Article 305
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 304, Sub-directorate of Television Services organizes
function:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
service quality standards and technical implementation
broadcasting, licensing services, accessibility improvements

Duty

and connectivity of public broadcasters, institutions
community broadcasters and broadcasters
subscription television, as well as private broadcasters
and foreign television broadcasting institutions;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
service quality standards and technical implementation
broadcasting, licensing services, accessibility improvements
and connectivity of public broadcasters, institutions
community broadcasters and broadcasters
subscription television, as well as private broadcasters
and foreign television broadcasting institutions;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the field of service quality standards and
technical implementation of broadcasting, licensing services,
increased accessibility and connectivity of institutions
public broadcasters, community broadcasters and
television subscription broadcasting institutions, as well as
private broadcasters and foreign television broadcasters;
d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of service quality standards and technical
maintenance

broadcasting,

service

permits,

increased accessibility and connectivity of institutions

Page 105
- 105 -

public broadcasters, community broadcasters and
television subscription broadcasting institutions, as well as
private broadcasters and foreign television broadcasters;
and
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of standards
service quality and technical implementation of broadcasting,
licensing services, accessibility improvements and
connectivity of public broadcasters, institutions
community broadcasters and broadcasters
subscription television, as well as private broadcasters
and foreign television broadcasters.

Article 306
The Sub-directorate of Television Services consists of:
a. Section of Public Broadcasting Institutions, Broadcasting Institutions
Communities, and Subscription Broadcasting Institutions
Television; and
b. Section of Private Broadcasting Institutions and Broadcasting Institutions
Foreign Television.

Article 307
(1) Section of Public Broadcasting Institutions, Broadcasting Institutions
Communities, and Subscription Broadcasting Institutions
Television has the task of preparing materials
policy formulation and implementation, preparation
norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and giving
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the area of quality standards
services and technical implementation of broadcasting, services
licensing, accessibility and connectivity improvements
public broadcaster, broadcaster
communities, and television subscription broadcasters.
(2) Section of Private Broadcasting Institutions and Broadcasting Institutions
Foreign Television has the task of preparing
materials for policy formulation and implementation,
preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and
providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as

Page 106
- 106 -

monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of standards
service quality and technical implementation of broadcasting,
licensing services, accessibility improvements and
connectivity of private broadcasters and institutions
foreign television broadcasting.

Article 308
The Sub-directorate of Broadcast Verification and Trial has
the task of carrying out the preparation of the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of verification and
broadcast trial evaluation.

Article 309
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 308, Sub-directorate of Broadcast Verification and Trial
perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
service quality standards and technical implementation
broadcasting, as well as the implementation of verification and testing
broadcast radio and television broadcasting services;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
service quality standards and technical implementation
broadcasting, as well as the implementation of verification and testing
broadcast radio and television broadcasting services;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the field of service quality standards and
technical implementation of broadcasting, as well as the implementation of
verification and testing of radio broadcasting service broadcasts and
television;
d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of service quality standards and technical
broadcasting, as well as the implementation of verification
and pilot broadcasting of radio and television broadcasting services; and
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of standards
service quality and technical implementation of broadcasting,

Page 107
- 107 -

as well as the implementation of verification and testing of service broadcasts
radio and television broadcasting.

Article 310
The Sub-directorate of Broadcast Verification and Trial consists of:
a. Radio Broadcast Verification and Trial Section; and
b. Television Broadcast Verification and Test Section.

Article 311
(1) The Radio Broadcasting Verification and Trial Section has
the task of carrying out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of service quality standards and technical
broadcasting, as well as the implementation of verification
and pilot broadcasting of radio broadcasting services.
(2) Television Broadcast Verification and Trial Section has
the task of carrying out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of service quality standards and technical
broadcasting, as well as the implementation of verification
and trial broadcast of television broadcasting services.

Article 312
Sub-directorate of Broadcasting Business Climate and Technological Feasibility
has the task of carrying out the preparation of the formulation and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
broadcasting business climate.

Page 108
- 108 -

Article 313
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 312, Sub-directorate of Broadcasting Business Climate and
Technology Eligibility performs the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the climate sector
broadcasting business and the feasibility of broadcasting technology,
service quality standards and technical implementation
broadcasting, industrial health, business opportunities,
investment, market review, tariff analysis, and climate management
broadcasting operations, as well as the feasibility
latest broadcasting technology, implementation of cooperation and
broadcasting socialization;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the climate sector
broadcasting business and the feasibility of broadcasting technology,
service quality standards and technical implementation
broadcasting, industrial health, business opportunities,
investment, market review, tariff analysis, and climate management
broadcasting operations, as well as the feasibility
latest broadcasting technology, implementation of cooperation and
broadcasting socialization;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the field of broadcasting business climate and
feasibility of broadcasting technology, service quality standards
and technical implementation of broadcasting, health
industry, business opportunity, investment, market review, analysis
tariffs, and structuring the business climate
broadcasting, as well as the feasibility of the latest broadcasting technology,
implementation of cooperation and dissemination of broadcasting;
d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of broadcasting business climate and feasibility
broadcasting technology, service quality standards and technical
broadcasting, industrial health,
business opportunities, investment, market reviews, tariff analysis, and
structuring the business climate of broadcasting operations, and
feasibility of the latest broadcasting technology, implementation
cooperation and dissemination of broadcasting; and

Page 109
- 109 -

e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the climate sector
broadcasting business and the feasibility of broadcasting technology,
service quality standards and technical implementation
broadcasting, industrial health, business opportunities,
investment, market review, tariff analysis, and climate management
broadcasting operations, as well as the feasibility
latest broadcasting technology, implementation of cooperation and
broadcasting socialization.

Article 314
Sub-directorate of Broadcasting Business Climate and Technological Feasibility
consists of:
a. Broadcasting Business Climate Section; and
b. Broadcasting Technology Feasibility Section.

Article 315
(1) The Broadcasting Business Climate Section has duties
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of service quality standards and technical
broadcasting, industrial health,
business opportunities, investment, market review, tariff analysis,
structuring the business climate of broadcasting operations.
(2) The Broadcasting Technology Feasibility Section has duties
carry out the preparation of implementation formulation materials
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision,
as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
service quality standards and technical implementation
broadcasting, the feasibility of the latest broadcasting technology,
implementation of cooperation and socialization of implementation
broadcasting.

Page 110
- 110 -

Article 316
Sub-directorate of Management Information System Management
Broadcasting and Supporting Facilities for Broadcasting Data Management
has the task of carrying out the preparation of the formulation and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, as well as providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
broadcasting management information system management
and supporting facilities for broadcasting data management.

Article 317
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 316, Sub-directorate of Information System Management
Broadcast Management and Management Support Facilities
Broadcast Data performs the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
mapping and changes to implementation data
broadcasting, data management and standard setting
technical management information system management sistem
broadcasting and supporting facilities for data management
broadcasting, as well as intensification of non-state revenue
taxes in the field of licensing for broadcasting operations
in accordance with the provisions of the legislation
invitation;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
mapping and changes to implementation data
broadcasting, data management and standard setting
technical management information system management sistem
broadcasting and supporting facilities for data management
broadcasting, as well as intensification of non-state revenue
taxes in the field of licensing for broadcasting operations
in accordance with the provisions of the legislation
invitation;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the field of mapping and data change
broadcasting operations, data management and
preparation of technical standards for managing information systems

Page 111
- 111 -

broadcasting management and supporting facilities
broadcasting data management;
d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of mapping and data change
broadcasting operations, data management and
preparation of technical standards for managing information systems
broadcasting management and supporting facilities
broadcasting data management; and
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of mapping
and changes in broadcasting operation data,
data management and preparation of technical standards
management of broadcasting management information systems and
supporting facilities for broadcasting data management, as well as
intensification of non-tax state revenues in the field of
licensing of broadcasting operations in accordance with
the provisions of the legislation.

Article 318
Sub-directorate of Management Information System Management
Broadcasting and Supporting Facilities for Broadcasting Data Management
consists of:
a. Management Information System Management Section
Broadcasting; and
b. Section of Supporting Facilities for Broadcasting Data Management.

Article 319
(1) Management Information System Management Section
Broadcasting has the task of making preparations
materials for policy formulation and implementation,
preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and
providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
preparation of technical standards for managing information systems
broadcast management and reception intensification
non-tax state in the field of licensing
broadcasting in accordance with the provisions of the regulations
legislation.

Page 112
- 112 -

(2) Section of Supporting Facilities for Broadcasting Data Management
have the task of preparing materials
policy formulation and implementation, preparation
norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and giving
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of mapping, management
and changes in broadcasting operation data,
broadcasting data security development, drafting
technical standards for data management support facilities
broadcasting.

Article 320
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and budgets, management
state property, personnel affairs, and archives,
and housekeeping directorate.

Seventh Part
Directorate of Broadband Development

Article 321
The Directorate of Broadband Development has the task of
carry out the formulation and implementation of policies,
preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and
providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of accessibility development,
connectivity, and infrastructure development, governance,
as well as the telecommunications operation ecosystem and
broadcasting.

Article 322
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article

321,

Directorate

Development

Broadband

perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation in the field of governance,
infrastructure development and development

Page 113
- 113 -

telecommunications, broadcasting, and special needs, and
broadband ecosystem;
b. preparation of the implementation of policies in the field of governance,
development, and infrastructure development
telecommunications, broadcasting, and special needs, and
broadband ecosystem;
c. preparation of the preparation of norms, standards, procedures and
criteria in the areas of governance, development, and
development of telecommunications infrastructure, broadcasting,
and special needs, as well as the broadband ecosystem;
d. preparation of providing technical guidance and supervision in super
the field of governance, development, and development
telecommunications infrastructure, broadcasting, and utilities
specifically, as well as broadband ecosystems;
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of governance
manage, build and develop infrastructure
telecommunications, broadcasting, and special needs, and
broadband ecosystem; and
f.

implementation of administrative and household affairs
Directorate.

Article 323
The Directorate of Broadband Development consists of:
a. Broadband Governance Sub-directorate;
b. Broadband Telecommunication Infrastructure Sub-directorate;
c. Sub-directorate of Broadband Special Purposes Infrastructure;
d. Sub-directorate of Broadband Broadcasting Infrastructure;
e. Broadband Ecosystem Sub-directorate; and
f.

Administration Subdivision.

Article 324
The Broadband Governance Sub-directorate has the task
carry out the preparation of the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of governance
broadband.

Page 114
- 114 -

Article 325
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article

324,

Subdirectorate

System

manage

Broadband

perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
planning and implementation of broadband governance;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
planning and implementation of broadband governance;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the field of planning and implementation of governance
manage broadband;
d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of planning and implementation of governance
manage broadband; and
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
planning and implementation of broadband governance.

Article 326
The Broadband Governance Sub-directorate consists of:
a. Broadband Governance Planning Section; and
b. Broadband Governance Implementation Section.

Article 327
(1) The Broadband Governance Planning Section has
the task of carrying out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,

procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of broadband governance planning.
(2) The Broadband Governance Implementation Section has duties
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of broadband governance implementation.

Page 115
- 115 -

Article 328
Broadband Telecommunication Infrastructure Sub-directorate
has the task of carrying out the preparation of the formulation and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance and
supervision, planning and implementation of development,
development of accessibility and connectivity, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in infrastructure
broadband telecommunications.

Article 329
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 328, Sub-Directorate of Telecommunication Infrastructure
Broadband performs the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
telecommunication infrastructure planning and evaluation
broadband;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
telecommunication infrastructure planning and evaluation
broadband;
c. preparation of planning and implementation materials
development, accessibility development, and
broadband connectivity ;
d. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in planning and evaluation
broadband telecommunications infrastructure;
e. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in planning and evaluation
broadband telecommunications infrastructure; and
f.

monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
telecommunication infrastructure planning and evaluation
broadband.

Article 330
The Sub-Directorate of Broadband Telecommunication Infrastructure consists of:
on:

Page 116
- 116 -

a. Telecommunication Infrastructure Planning Section
Broadband; and
b. Broadband Telecommunication Infrastructure Evaluation Section.

Article 331
(1) Telecommunication Infrastructure Planning Section
Broadband has the task of preparing materials
policy formulation and implementation, planning
and implementation of development, development
broadband accessibility and connectivity, compiling
norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and giving
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of planning
broadband telecommunications infrastructure.
(2) Evaluation Section for Broadband Telecommunication Infrastructure
have the task of preparing materials
formulation and implementation of policies, planning,
and implementation of development, development
broadband accessibility and connectivity, compiling
norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and giving
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of infrastructure evaluation
broadband telecommunications.

Article 332
Sub-directorate of Broadband Special Purpose Infrastructure
has the task of carrying out the preparation of the formulation and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance and
supervision, planning and implementation of development,
development of accessibility and broadband connectivity, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in infrastructure
broadband special needs.

Page 117
- 117 -

Article 333
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 332, Sub-Directorate of Special Needs Infrastructure
Broadband performs the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
infrastructure planning, development and evaluation
dissemination of information on disaster, emergency, and
broadband disaster management;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
infrastructure planning, development and evaluation
dissemination of information on disaster, emergency, and
broadband disaster management;
c. preparation of planning and implementation materials
development, accessibility development, and
broadband connectivity;
d. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the fields of planning, development, and
evaluation of disaster information dissemination infrastructure,
emergency department, and broadband disaster management;
e. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the areas of planning, development, and
evaluation of disaster information dissemination infrastructure,
emergency department, and broadband disaster management; and
f.

monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
infrastructure planning, development and evaluation
dissemination of information on disaster, emergency, and
broadband disaster management.

Article 334
Sub-directorate of Broadband Special Purpose Infrastructure
consists of:
a. Infrastructure Planning and Development Section
Broadband Special Needs; and
b. Broadband Special Purposes Infrastructure Evaluation Section.

Page 118
- 118 -

Article 335
(1) Infrastructure Planning and Development Section
Special Needs Broadband has a duty
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
policy implementation, planning and implementation
development, accessibility development and
broadband connectivity, setting norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of infrastructure planning and development
broadband special needs.
(2) Evaluation Section for Broadband Special Needs Infrastructure
have the task of preparing materials
policy formulation and implementation, planning
and implementation of development, development
accessibility, and broadband connectivity, compiling
norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and giving
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of infrastructure evaluation
broadband special needs.

Article 336
The Sub-directorate of Broadband Broadcasting Infrastructure has
the task of carrying out the preparation of the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision,
planning and implementation of development, development
accessibility and broadband connectivity, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of broadcasting infrastructure
broadband.

Article 337
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 336, Sub-Directorate of Broadband Broadcasting Infrastructure
perform functions:

Page 119
- 119 -

a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
infrastructure planning, development and evaluation
broadband broadcasting;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
infrastructure planning, development and evaluation
broadband broadcasting;
c. preparation of planning and implementation materials
development, accessibility development, and
broadband connectivity;
d. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and policy criteria in planning,
development, and evaluation of broadcasting infrastructure
broadband;
e. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the areas of planning, development, and
evaluation of broadband broadcasting infrastructure; and
f.

monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
infrastructure planning, development and evaluation
broadband broadcasting.

Article 338
The Sub-directorate of Broadband Broadcasting Infrastructure consists of:
a. Infrastructure Planning and Development Section
Broadband Broadcasting; and
b. Broadband Broadcasting Infrastructure Evaluation Section.

Article 339
(1) Infrastructure Planning and Development Section
Broadband Broadcasting has the task of
preparation of materials for the formulation and implementation
policy, planning and implementation of development,
development of accessibility and broadband connectivity,
preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and
providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
broadcasting infrastructure planning and development
broadband.

Page 120
- 120 -

(2) Evaluation Section for Broadband Broadcasting Infrastructure
have the task of preparing materials
policy formulation and implementation, planning
and implementation of development, development
broadband accessibility and connectivity, compiling
norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and giving
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of infrastructure evaluation
broadband broadcasting.

Article 340
The Broadband Ecosystem Sub-directorate has the task of:
carry out the preparation of the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision,
planning and implementation of development, development
accessibility and broadband connectivity, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of broadband ecosystems.

Article 341
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 340, The Sub-Directorate of Broadband Ecosystems has
function:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
broadband ecosystem planning and evaluation;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
broadband ecosystem planning and evaluation;
c. preparation of planning and implementation materials
development, accessibility development, and
broadband connectivity;
d. preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria in
the field of broadband ecosystem planning and evaluation;
e. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of ecosystem planning and evaluation
broadband; and
f.

monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
broadband ecosystem planning and evaluation.

Page 121
- 121 -

Article 342
The Broadband Ecosystem Sub-directorate consists of:
a. Broadband Ecosystem Planning Section; and
b. Broadband Ecosystem Evaluation Section.

Article 343
(1) The Broadband Ecosystem Planning Section has duties
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
policy implementation, planning and implementation
development,

development

accessibility

and

broadband connectivity, setting norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of broadband ecosystem planning.
(2) The Broadband Ecosystem Evaluation Section has duties
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
policy implementation, planning and implementation
development,

development

accessibility

and

broadband connectivity, setting norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of broadband ecosystem evaluation.

Article 344
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and budgets, management
state property, personnel affairs, and archives
and housekeeping directorate.

Part Eight
Directorate of Postal and Informatics Control

Article 345
The Directorate of Postal and Informatics Control has
the task of carrying out the formulation and implementation of policies,
preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and
providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,

Page 122
- 122 -

evaluation, and reporting in the field of control
postal and information technology administration.

Article 346
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 345, Directorate of Postal and Informatics Control
perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation in the field of monitoring
and evaluation of postal, special telecommunications, networks
telecommunications, telecommunications services, and broadcasting,
telecommunications infrastructure security, prevention and
control, law enforcement of postal administration and
informatics, as well as intensification of non-state revenues
telecommunication operation rights fee tax and
contribution to postal administration in accordance with the provisions
legislation;
b. preparation of policy implementation in the field of monitoring
and evaluation of postal, special telecommunications, networks
telecommunications, telecommunications services, and broadcasting,
telecommunications infrastructure security, prevention and
control, law enforcement of postal administration and
informatics, as well as intensification of non-state revenues
telecommunication operation rights fee tax and
contribution to postal administration in accordance with the provisions
legislation;
c. preparation of the preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria in the field of postal monitoring and evaluation,
special telecommunications and telecommunications networks, services
telecommunications, and broadcasting, as well as prevention and
control, and law enforcement of postal administration
and informatics;
d. preparation of providing technical guidance and supervision in super
postal monitoring and evaluation, telecommunications
special

and

network

telecommunication,

service

telecommunications, and broadcasting, as well as prevention and
controlling and enforcing the law on postal administration
and informatics;

Page 123
- 123 -

e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
postal monitoring and evaluation, special telecommunications and
telecommunications networks, telecommunications services, and
broadcasting, telecommunications infrastructure security,
prevention and control, law enforcement
postal and information technology administration, as well as intensification
non-tax state revenue entitlement fee
telecommunications operations and contributions
postal administration in accordance with the provisions of the regulations
legislation; and
f.

implementation of administrative and household affairs
Directorate.

Article 347
The Directorate of Postal and Informatics Control consists of:
a. Postal Monitoring and Evaluation Sub-directorate;
b. Sub-directorate of Telecommunication Monitoring and Evaluation
Special and Telecommunication Networks;
c. Subdirectorate

Monitoring

and

Evaluation

Telecommunication;
d. Sub-directorate of Broadcasting Monitoring and Evaluation;
e. Sub-directorate of Prevention and Control; and
f.

Administration Subdivision.

Article 348
The Postal Monitoring and Evaluation Sub-directorate has the duties
carry out the preparation of the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of monitoring
and evaluation of postal administration.

Article 349
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 348, Sub-directorate of Postal Monitoring and Evaluation
perform functions:

Page 124
- 124 -

a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
monitoring and evaluation of postal operations;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
monitoring and evaluation of postal operations;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the field of monitoring and evaluation
postal administration;
d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of monitoring and evaluation
postal administration; and
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
monitoring and evaluation of postal administration.

Article 350
The Postal Monitoring and Evaluation Sub-directorate consists of:
a. Postal Monitoring Section; and
b. Post Evaluation Section.

Article 351
(1) The Postal Monitoring Section has the task of carrying out
preparation of materials for the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision,
as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
postal monitoring.
(2) The Post Evaluation Section has the task of carrying out
preparation of materials for the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision,
as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
evaluation of postal administration.

Article 352
Sub-directorate of Telecommunication Monitoring and Evaluation
Special and Telecommunication Networks have duties
carry out the preparation of the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and

Service

Page 125
- 125 -

criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of monitoring
and evaluation of special telecommunications and networks
telecommunication.

Article 353
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 352, Sub-directorate of Monitoring and Evaluation
Dedicated Telecommunications and Telecommunications Networks
perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
monitoring and evaluation of special telecommunications and
telecommunications network;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
monitoring and evaluation of special telecommunications and
telecommunications network;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the field of monitoring and evaluation
special telecommunications and telecommunications networks;
d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of monitoring and evaluation
special telecommunications and telecommunications networks; and
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
monitoring and evaluation of special telecommunications and
telecommunications network.

Article 354
Sub-directorate of Telecommunication Monitoring and Evaluation
Special and Telecommunication Network consists of:
a. Special Telecommunication and Network Monitoring Section
Telecommunication; and
b. Special Telecommunications and Network Evaluation Section
Telecommunication.

Article 355
(1) Special Telecommunication and Network Monitoring Section
Telecommunications has the task of preparing

Page 126
- 126 -

materials for policy formulation and implementation,
preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and
providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
monitoring of special telecommunications operations and
telecommunications network.
(2) Special Telecommunications and Network Evaluation Section
Telecommunications has the task of preparing
materials for policy formulation and implementation,
preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and
providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of evaluation
special telecommunications and network operations
telecommunication.

Article 356
Sub-directorate of Telecommunication Services Monitoring and Evaluation
has the task of carrying out the preparation of the formulation and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
in the field of monitoring and evaluation of telecommunication services, as well as
telecommunications infrastructure security.

Article 357
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 356, Sub-directorate of Service Monitoring and Evaluation
Telecommunications performs the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
monitoring and evaluation of telecommunication services, as well as
telecommunications infrastructure security;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
monitoring and evaluation of telecommunication services, as well as
telecommunications infrastructure security;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the field of service monitoring and evaluation
telecommunication;

Page 127
- 127 -

d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of monitoring and evaluation of services
telecommunication; and
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
monitoring and evaluation of telecommunication services, as well as
telecommunications infrastructure security.

Article 358
Sub-directorate of Telecommunication Services Monitoring and Evaluation
consists of:
a. Telecommunication Services Monitoring Section; and
b. Telecommunication Service Evaluation Section.

Article 359
(1) The Telecommunication Services Monitoring Section has the duties
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of monitoring telecommunications services, as well as
telecommunications infrastructure security.
(2) The Telecommunication Service Evaluation Section has the duty
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of evaluating telecommunications services, as well as security
telecommunications infrastructure.

Article 360
The Sub-directorate of Broadcasting Monitoring and Evaluation has
the task of carrying out the preparation of the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of monitoring
and evaluation of broadcasting operations.

Page 128
- 128 -

Article 361
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 360, Sub-directorate of Broadcasting Monitoring and Evaluation
perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
monitoring and evaluation of broadcasting operations;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
monitoring and evaluation of broadcasting operations;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the field of monitoring and evaluation
broadcasting operations;
d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of monitoring and evaluation
broadcasting operations; and
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
monitoring and evaluation of broadcasting operations.

Article 362
The Sub-directorate of Broadcasting Monitoring and Evaluation consists of:
a. Broadcasting Monitoring Section; and
b. Broadcasting Evaluation Section.

Article 363
(1) The Broadcasting Monitoring Section has the task of carrying out
preparation of materials for the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision,
as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
broadcast monitoring.
(2) The Broadcasting Evaluation Section has the task of carrying out
preparation of materials for the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision,
as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
broadcast evaluation.

Page 129
- 129 -

Article 364
The Sub-Directorate of Prevention and Control has the task of:
carry out the preparation of the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of prevention
and control, as well as law enforcement, supervision, and
control of postal and information technology administration, and
intensification of non-tax state revenue rights fees
maintenance

telecommunication

and

contribution

postal administration in accordance with the provisions of the regulations
legislation.

Article 365
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 364, Sub-directorate of Prevention and Control
perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
prevention and control, as well as law enforcement,
supervision, and control of postal administration and
informatics, and intensification of state revenues
telecommunication operation rights fee tax and
contribution to postal administration in accordance with the provisions
legislation;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
prevention and control, as well as law enforcement,
supervision, and control of postal administration and
informatics, and intensification of state revenues
telecommunication operation rights fee tax and
contribution to postal administration in accordance with the provisions
legislation;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the field of prevention and control, as well as
law enforcement, as well as supervision and control
postal and information technology administration;
d. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of prevention and control, as well as

Page 130
- 130 -

law enforcement, as well as supervision and control
postal and information technology administration; and
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
prevention and control, as well as law enforcement,
supervision and control of postal administration and
informatics, and intensification of state revenues
telecommunication operation rights fee tax and
contribution to postal administration in accordance with the provisions
legislation.

Article 366
The Sub-directorate of Prevention and Control consists of:
a. Prevention Section; and
b. Control Section.

Article 367
(1) The Prevention Section has the task of carrying out
preparation of materials for the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision,
as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
prevention of law violations, supervision and
control of postal and information technology administration, and
implementation of intensification of state revenues is not
telecommunication operation rights fee tax and
contribution to postal administration in accordance with the provisions
legislation.
(2) The Control Section has the task of carrying out
preparation of materials for the formulation and implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision,
as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
controlling and enforcing the law on postal administration
and informatics.

Page 131
- 131 -

Article 368
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and budgets, management
state property, personnel affairs, and archives
and housekeeping directorate.

CHAPTER VI
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF INFORMATION APPLICATIONS

Part One
Position, Duties, and Functions

Article 369
(1) The Directorate General of Informatics Applications is under the
and is responsible to the Minister.
(2) The Directorate General of Informatics Applications is led by
Director General.

Article 370
The Directorate General of Informatics Applications has the task of:
carry out the formulation and implementation of policies in
informatics application management.

Article 371
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 370, Directorate General of Informatics Applications
perform functions:
a. policy formulation in the field of e-management
Government , e-Business , and information security,
improvement of application technology and infrastructure
informatics, as well as informatics empowerment;
b. implementation of policies in the field of e-management
Government , e-Business , and information security,
improvement of application technology and infrastructure
informatics, as well as informatics empowerment;
c. preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria in
e-Government management field ;

Page 132
- 132 -

d. implementation of providing technical guidance and supervision
in the field of e-Government management ;
e. implementation of evaluation and reporting in the field of
e-Government governance , e-Business , and security
information, technology and infrastructure improvements
informatics applications, as well as informatics empowerment;
f. implementation of the administration of the Directorate General of Applications
Informatics; and
g. implementation of other functions assigned by the Minister.

The second part
Organization structure

Article 372
The Directorate General of Informatics Applications consists of:
a. Secretariat of the Directorate General;
b. Directorate of Information Technology Application Governance;
c. Directorate of Government Informatics Application Services;
d. Directorate of Digital Economy;
e. Directorate of Information Empowerment; and
f.

Directorate of Informatics Application Control.

Part Three
Secretariat of the Directorate General

Article 373
The Secretariat of the Directorate General has the task of:
carry out management and technical support to
all organizational units within the Directorate General
Informatics Application.

Article 374
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 373, Secretariat of the Directorate General of Applications
Informatics performs the following functions:
a. preparation of program coordination and planning, plans
budget, program and budget control, and

Page 133
- 133 -

administration of overseas technical assistance, as well as evaluation
and reporting in the field of application management
informatics;
b. preparation of coordination and implementation of data management
and development of management information systems in
field of information application management;
c. preparation of coordination and implementation of studies and
legal advocacy, as well as drafting regulations
legislation in the field of application administration
informatics;
d. preparation of coordination and implementation of work administration
the same in the field of organizing information technology applications;
e. management of financial affairs within the Directorate
General Information Applications; and
f.

implementation

affairs

administration

staffing,

organization, management, public relations support,
equipment, household, and administration in
environment of the Directorate General of Informatics Applications.

Article 375
The Secretariat of the Directorate General consists of:
a. Program Planning and Reporting Division;
b. Legal and Cooperation Division;
c. Financial department; and
d. General Affairs and Personnel Section.

Article 376
The Program Planning and Reporting Section has
the task of carrying out the preparation of coordination and planning
programs, budget plans, program control and
budget, administration of foreign technical assistance,
data management, and development of information systems, as well as
evaluation and reporting in the field of informatics applications.

Page 134
- 134 -

Article 377
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 376, Program Planning and Reporting Section
perform functions:
a. preparation of coordination materials and program planning
and budgets, as well as the administration of external technical assistance
country in the field of informatics applications;
b. preparation of materials for coordination and collection,
processing and presentation of data and information, as well as
development of management information systems in the field of
informatics applications; and
c. preparation of program and budget control materials,
evaluation and preparation of annual, periodic reports, and
accountability in the field of informatics applications.

Article 378
The Program Planning and Reporting Section consists of:
a. Program Planning and Budget Subdivision;
b. Evaluation and Reporting Subdivision; and
c. Data Management Subsection.

Article 379
(1) Program Planning and Budget Subdivision
have the task of preparing materials
coordination and planning of programs and budgets,
as well as the administration of foreign technical assistance in the field of
informatics application.
(2) Evaluation and Reporting Subdivision has duties
carry out the preparation of program control materials and
budget, evaluation and preparation of annual reports,
periodically, and accountability in the field of informatics applications.
(3) The Data Management Subdivision has duties
To do

setup

ingredient

coordination

collection, processing and presentation of data and
information, as well as the development of information systems
management in the field of informatics applications.

Page 135
- 135 -

Article 380
The Legal and Cooperation Section has a duty
carry out the preparation of coordination, legal studies, and
preparation of draft laws and regulations,
providing legal assistance and advocacy, as well as administration

and

cooperation in the field of informatics applications.

Article 381
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 380, Legal and Cooperation Section organizes
function:
a. preparation of coordination materials, legal studies,
providing legal assistance and advocacy, as well as analysis
and evaluation of laws and regulations in the field of
informatics applications;
b. preparation of materials for coordination, study, and preparation
draft laws and regulations, and
legal documentation in the field of informatics applications; and
c. preparation of materials for coordination, administration, management,
and management of domestic and foreign cooperation in
information technology application.

Article 382
The Legal and Cooperation Division consists of:
a. Legal Studies and Assistance Sub-Section;
b. Subsection for Drafting Regulations; and
c. Cooperation Subdivision.

Article 383
(1) The Legal Review and Assistance Subdivision has
the task of carrying out the preparation of coordination materials, studies
law, providing legal assistance and advocacy,
legal documentation, as well as analysis and evaluation
legislation in the field of application
informatics.
(2) Subsection

Compilation

design

Rules

have the task of preparing materials

Page 136
- 136 -

coordination, review, and drafting
laws and regulations, as well as documentation
law in the field of informatics applications.
(3) The Cooperation Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of materials for coordination, administration, management,
and management of domestic and foreign cooperation in
information technology application.

Article 384
The Finance Department has the task of carrying out
management of financial affairs within the Directorate
General Information Applications.

Article 385
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 384, the Finance Division carries out the following functions:
a. management of budget execution;
b. implementation

affairs

system

effort

finance,

treasury, and bookkeeping;
c. preparation of materials for the preparation of financial statements; and
d. implementation of verification and calculation affairs
budget.

Article 386
The Finance Section consists of:
a. Budget Implementation Subsection;
b. Treasury Subdivision; and
c. Verification subsection.

Article 387
(1) The Budget Execution Subdivision has the following tasks:
manage the implementation of the budget in
environment of the Directorate General of Informatics Applications.
(2) Subsection
To do

Treasury

have

affairs

system

Duty

effort

finance,

treasury, and bookkeeping affairs in the environment
Directorate General of Information Applications.

Page 137
- 137 -

(3) The Verification Subdivision has the task of carrying out
verification of budget monitoring, and preparation of materials
financial reports within the Directorate General
Informatics Application.

Article 388
The General and Personnel Section has the task of
doing

affairs

administration

staffing,

equipment, household, procurement administration,
organization and management, as well as administration in the environment
Directorate General of Information Applications.

Article 389
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 388, the General and Personnel Section organizes
function:
a. implementation of personnel administration affairs, evaluation
performance, and organizational structuring in the environment
Directorate General of Informatics Applications;
b. implementation of equipment and household affairs in
environment of the Directorate General of Information Applications; and
c. implementation of administrative, secretarial,
protocols, and management in the environment
Directorate General of Information Applications.

Article 390
General and Personnel Section consists of:
a. Subdivision of Personnel and Organization;
b. Subdivision of Appliances and Households; and
c. Administration Subdivision.

Article 391
(1) The Subdivision of Personnel and Organization has
the task of carrying out personnel administration matters,
performance evaluation, and organizational structuring in the environment
Directorate General of Information Applications.

Page 138
- 138 -

(2) Equipment and Household Subdivision has
the task of carrying out procurement administration affairs,
storage, distribution of equipment and household
within the Directorate General of Informatics Applications
(3) The Administrative Subdivision has the task of administrative affairs
business, secretarial, management, and support
publications and documentation within the Directorate
General Information Applications.

Part Four
Directorate of Informatics Application Governance

Article 392
The Directorate of Informatics Application Governance has the task of:
carry out policy formulation, formulating norms,
standards, procedures, and criteria, providing technical guidance
and supervision, monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the
management of informatics applications, as well as record keeping
intensification of non-tax state revenues.

Article 393
In carrying out the duties as referred to in
Article 392, Directorate of Information Technology Application Governance
perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation in the field of governance
and services of electronic systems and the digital economy, governance
manage personal data protection, electronic system
governance, information technology architecture and
national communications, and electronic certification, center
internet network information, Indonesian domain names, and
intensification of non-tax state revenues in the field of
informatics applications;
b. preparation of the preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria in the area of governance and system services
electronics and digital economy, protection governance
personal data, government electronic systems, architecture
national information and communication technology, certification

Page 139
- 139 -

electronics, internet network information center, name
Indonesian domain, and intensification of state revenue
non-tax in the field of informatics applications;
c. preparation of providing technical guidance and supervision in super
the field of governance and electronic systems services and
digital economy, governance of personal data protection,
government electronic system, electronic certification,
national information and communication technology architecture,
internet network information center, domain name
Indonesia, and the intensification of state revenues is not
tax in the field of informatics applications;
d. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of governance
manage and service electronic systems and the digital economy,
personal data protection governance, electronic systems
governance, information technology architecture and
national communication, electronic certification, coaching
functional positions, internet network information center and
Indonesian domain name, as well as non-state revenue
informatics application tax; and
e. implementation of administrative and household affairs
Directorate.

Article 394
The Directorate of Information Technology Application Governance consists of:
a. Sub-directorate of Electronic and Economic System Governance
Digital;
b. Sub-directorate of Personal Data Protection Governance;
c. Subdirectorate

System

manage

System

Electronic

Government;
d. Sub-directorate of Electronic Certification Governance; and
e. Administration Subdivision.

Article 395
Sub-directorate of Electronic and Economic System Governance
Digital has the task of carrying out the preparation
formulation of policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision,

Page 140
- 140 -

as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
systems planning, implementation, governance and services
electronics and digital economy, network information center
internet, Indonesian domain names and state revenue
not tax informatics applications.

Article 396
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 395, Sub-directorate of Electronic System Governance and
The Digital Economy performs the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
planning and implementation of electronic systems and
digital economy, internet network information center, name
Indonesian domain and intensification of state revenue
non-tax in the field of informatics applications;
b. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and implementation criteria in the field of planning and
application of electronic systems and digital economy, center
internet network information, Indonesian domain names and
intensification of non-tax state revenues in the field of
informatics applications;
c. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of system planning and implementation
electronics and digital economy, network information center
internet, Indonesian domain names and intensification
non-tax state revenue in the application field
informatics;
d. integrated services in the field of information technology applications; and
e. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
planning and implementation of electronic systems, economics
digital, internet network information center, domain name
Indonesia and the intensification of state revenues are not
taxes in the field of informatics applications, as well as services
integrated in the field of informatics applications.

Page 141
- 141 -

Article 397
Sub-directorate of Electronic and Economic System Governance
Digital consists of:
a. Electronic System Governance Planning Section and
Digital Economy; and
b. Section on the Implementation of Electronic System Governance and
Digital Economy.

Article 398
(1) Section of Electronic System Governance Planning and
The Digital Economy has the task of preparing
materials for policy formulation, formulation of norms,
standards, procedures, and criteria, and provision
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of system planning
nongovernmental electronics, digital economy, and the center
internet network information.
(2) Section on the Implementation of Electronic System Governance and
The Digital Economy has the task of preparing
policy formulation materials, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting, issuance of acknowledgments
electronic transaction and system operator, name
Indonesian domain and intensification of state revenue
non-tax in the field of electronic systems and the economy
digital, as well as registration services in the field of applications
informatics.

Article 399
Sub-directorate of Personal Data Protection Governance
has the task of carrying out the preparation of the formulation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, providing technical guidance and supervision,
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of planning
and implementation of personal data protection governance.

Page 142
- 142 -

Article 400
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 399, Sub-directorate of Data Protection Governance
Personal organizing functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
planning and implementation of safeguard governance
personal data;
b. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and implementation criteria in the field of planning and
implementation of personal data protection system governance;
c. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of planning and implementation of governance
manage personal data protection; and
d. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
planning and implementation of safeguard governance
personal data.

Article 401
The Sub-directorate of Personal Data Protection Governance consists of
on:
a. Data Protection Governance Planning Section
Personal; and
b. Section on the Implementation of Personal Data Protection Governance.

Article 402
(1) Personal Data Protection Governance Planning Section
have the task of preparing materials
formulation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, providing technical guidance and
supervision, monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the
personal data protection governance planning.
(2) Section on the Implementation of Personal Data Protection Governance
have the task of preparing materials
formulation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, providing technical guidance and
supervision, monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the
implementation of personal data protection governance.

Page 143
- 143 -

Article 403
Sub-directorate of Government Electronic System Governance
has the task of carrying out the preparation of the formulation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, and providing technical guidance and supervision, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of planning
and implementation of governance of the electronic government system and
national information and communication technology architecture.

Article 404
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 403, Electronic System Governance Sub-directorate
The government carries out the functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
planning and implementation of electronic system governance
governance and information technology architecture and
national communication;
b. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and implementation criteria in the field of planning and
implementation of governance of the electronic government system
and information and communication technology architecture
national;
c. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of planning and implementation of governance
manage electronic systems of government and architecture
national information and communication technology; and
d. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
planning and implementation of electronic system governance
governance and information technology architecture and
national communication.

Article 405
Sub-directorate of Government Electronic System Governance
consists of:
a. Electronic System Governance Planning Section
Government; and

Page 144
- 144 -

b. Electronic System Governance Implementation Section
Government.

Article 406
(1) Electronic System Governance Planning Section
The government has the task of preparing
formulation materials, preparation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of electronic systems governance planning
governance and information technology architecture and
national communication.
(2) Section on the Implementation of Electronic System Governance
The government has the task of preparing
formulation materials, preparation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of implementing electronic system governance
governance and information technology architecture and
national communication.

Article 407
The Sub-Directorate of Electronic Certification Governance has
the task of carrying out the preparation of policy formulation,
preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and
providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of planning and implementation
electronic certification governance.

Article 408
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 407, Sub-directorate of Electronic Certification Governance
perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
planning and implementation of certification governance
electronic;

Page 145
- 145 -

b. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and implementation criteria in the field of planning and
implementation of electronic certification governance;
c. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of planning and implementation of governance
manage electronic certification; and
d. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
planning and implementation of certification governance
electronic.

Article 409
The Electronic Certification Governance Sub-directorate consists of:
a. Electronic Certification Governance Planning Section; and
b. Section on the Implementation of Electronic Certification Governance.

Article 410
(1) Electronic Certification Governance Planning Section

(1) Electronic Certification Governance Planning Section
have the task of preparing materials
formulation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of electronic certification governance planning.
(2) Section on the Implementation of Electronic Certification Governance
have the task of preparing materials
formulation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,
procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance
and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of implementing electronic certification governance.

Article 411
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and budgets, management
state property, civil service and archival affairs,
and housekeeping directorate.

Page 146
- 146 -

Part Five
Directorate of Government Informatics Application Services

Article 412
Directorate of Government Informatics Application Services
has the task of implementing policies, giving
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation,
and reporting in the field of information technology application services
government.

Article 413
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 412, Directorate of Information Application Services
The government carries out the functions:
a. preparation of policy implementation in the infrastructure sector
and government interoperability technologies, services
local government informatics applications, services
political, legal, and security informatics applications,
maritime informatics application services and
human and cultural development, and services
economic informatics application;
b. preparation of providing technical guidance and supervision in super
infrastructure and interoperability technology
government,

service

application

informatics

local government, informatics application services
politics, law and security, application services
maritime informatics and human development
and culture, and information technology application services
economy;
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
infrastructure

and

government,

technology

service

interoperability

application

informatics

local government, informatics application services
politics, law and security, application services
maritime informatics and human development
and culture, and information technology application services
economy; and

Page 147
- 147 -

d. implementation of administrative and household affairs
Directorate.

Article 414
The Directorate of Government Informatics Application Services consists of:
on:
a. Subdirectorate

Infrastructure

and

Technology

Governance Interoperability;
b. Subdirectorate

Service

Application

informatics

Local government;
c. Sub-directorate of Political Informatics Application Services,
Law, and Security;
d. Sub-directorate of Maritime Informatics Application Services
and Human Development and Culture;
e. Subdirectorate

Service

Application

informatics

Economy; and
f.

Administration Subdivision.

Article 415
Sub-directorate of Infrastructure and Technology Interoperability
The government has the task of carrying out the preparation
implementation of policies, providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
infrastructure and technology, interoperability and
government interconnectivity.

Article 416
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 415, Sub-directorate of Infrastructure and Technology
Interoperability Government performs the following functions:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
infrastructure,

technology

interoperability

and

interconnectivity of government informatics applications;
b. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision

in

field

infrastructure,

and

interconnectivity

interoperability

technology
application

government informatics; and

Page 148
- 148 -

c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
infrastructure,

technology

interoperability

and

interconnectivity of government informatics applications.

Article 417
Sub-directorate of Infrastructure and Technology Interoperability
Government consists of:
a. Information Technology and Infrastructure Application Section
Government; and
b. Application Interoperability and Interconnectivity Section
Government Informatics.

Article 418
(1) Information Technology and Infrastructure Application Section
The government has the task of preparing
policy implementation materials, providing guidance
technical and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of information technology application infrastructure
governance, as well as the application of technology applications
government informatics and free and open source
software for government.
(2) Application Interoperability and Interconnectivity Section
Government Informatics has the task of carrying out
preparation of policy implementation materials, provision of
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of interoperability and
interconnectivity of data sharing services between
government data processing applications.

Article 419
Sub-directorate of Government Informatics Application Services
The region has the task of carrying out the preparation
implementation of policies, providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
the field of local government informatics application services,
as well as government and village domain services.

Page 149
- 149 -

Article 420
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 419, Sub-directorate of Informatics Application Services
Regional Governments carry out the functions of:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
application development, data, and service information
local government informatics, and domain services
government and village ;
b. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the fields of development, data, and information
local government informatics application services, and
government and village domain services; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
application development, data, and service information
local government informatics, and domain services
government and village.
Article 421
Sub-directorate of Government Informatics Application Services
The area consists of:
a. Informatics Application Service Development Section
Local government; and
b. Informatics Application Service Data and Information Section
Local government.

Article 422
(1) Informatics Application Service Development Section
Local governments have the task of carrying out
preparation of policy implementation materials, provision of
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of service development
local government informatics application based on
government informatics application services and free
open source software and domain name services
government and village.
(2) Informatics Application Service Data and Information Section
Local governments have the task of carrying out

Page 150
- 150 -

preparation of policy implementation materials, provision of
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of data and information
local government informatics application services.
Article 423
Sub-directorate of Political, Legal, Informatics Application Services
and Security have the task of carrying out the preparation
implementation of policies, providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
development, data, and information service application fields
political informatics, law, and security .

Article 424
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 423, Sub-directorate of Political Informatics Application Services,
Law and Security performs the following functions:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
application development, data, and service information
political, legal, and security informatics;
b. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the fields of development, data, and information
political, legal, and information technology application services
security ; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
application development, data, and service information
political informatics, law, and security .

Article 425
Sub-directorate of Political, Legal, Informatics Application Services
and Security consists of:
a. Informatics Application Service Development Section
Politics, Law, and Security; and
b. Informatics Application Service Data and Information Section
Politics, Law, and Security.

Page 151
- 151 -

Article 426
(1) Informatics Application Service Development Section
Politics, Law and Security have duties
prepare materials for implementing policies,
providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
development of political informatics application services,
law, and security application-based informatics
governance and free and open source software .
(2) Informatics Application Service Data and Information Section
Politics, Law and Security have duties
prepare materials for implementing policies,
providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as
monitoring, evaluation and reporting in the field of data and
information service application of political informatics, law,
and security.

Article 427
Sub-directorate of Maritime Informatics Application Services and
Human Development and Culture has a duty
carry out the preparation of the implementation of policies, the provision of
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation
and reporting in the fields of development, data, and information
maritime informatics application services and development
people and culture.

Article 428
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 427, Sub-directorate of Informatics Application Services
Maritime Affairs and Human Development and Culture
perform functions:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
application development, data, and service information
maritime informatics and human development
and culture;
b. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the fields of development, data, and information

Page 152
- 152 -

maritime informatics application services and
human and cultural development; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
application development, data, and service information
maritime informatics and human development
and culture .

Article 429
Sub-directorate of Maritime Informatics Application Services and
Human Development and Culture consists of:
a. Informatics Application Service Development Section
Maritime Affairs and Human Development and
Culture; and
b. Informatics Application Service Data and Information Section
Maritime Affairs and Human Development and
Culture.

Article 430
(1) Informatics Application Service Development Section
Maritime Affairs and Human Development and
Culture has the task of preparing
policy implementation materials, providing guidance
technical and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of application service development
maritime informatics and human development
and culture based on informatics applications
governance and free and open source software .
(2) Informatics Application Service Data and Information Section
Maritime Affairs and Human Development and
Culture has the task of preparing
policy implementation materials, providing guidance
technical and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of application service data and information
maritime informatics and human development
and culture.

Page 153
- 153 -

Article 431
Sub-directorate of Economic Informatics Application Services
has the task of carrying out the preparation for implementation
policies, formulation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria, providing technical guidance and supervision, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
application development, data, and service information
economic informatics.

Article 432
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 431, Sub-Directorate of Informatics Application Services
The economy performs the following functions:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
application development, data, and service information
economic informatics;
b. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the fields of development, data, and information
economic informatics application services; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
application development, data, and service information
economic informatics.

Article 433
Sub-directorate of Economic Informatics Application Services
consists of:
a. Informatics Application Service Development Section
Economy; and
b. Informatics Application Service Data and Information Section
Economy.

Article 434
(1) Informatics Application Service Development Section
The economy has the task of preparing
material for implementing policies, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of development

Page 154
- 154 -

-based economic informatics application services
government informatics application and free and open
source software .
(2) Informatics Application Service Data and Information Section
The economy has the task of preparing
material for implementing policies, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of data and information
economic informatics application services.

Article 435
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and budgets, management
state property, civil service and archival affairs,
and housekeeping directorate.

Part Six
Directorate of Digital Economy

Article 436
The Directorate of Digital Economy has the task of carrying out
policies, and monitoring, evaluation and reporting in the
digital economy.

Article 437
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 436, the Directorate of Digital Economy organizes
function:
a. setup

implementation

Policy

in

field

development and facilitation of the digital economy of education
and health, agricultural digital economy development
and fisheries, digital economy development
tourism, transportation and trade, as well as
development and facilitation of digital economy ecosystem;
b. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
development and facilitation of the digital economy of education
and health, agricultural digital economy development
and fisheries, digital economy development

Page 155
- 155 -

tourism, transportation and trade, as well as
development and facilitation of digital economy ecosystem;
and
c. implementation of administrative and household affairs
Directorate.

Article 438
The Directorate of Digital Economy consists of:
a. Subdirectorate

Development

Economy

Education and Health;
b. Sub-directorate of Agricultural Digital Economic Development
and Fisheries;
c. Sub-directorate of Tourism Digital Economy Development,
Transportation, and Trade;
d. Sub-directorate of Digital Economy Ecosystem Development;
and
e. Administration Subdivision.

Article 439
Sub-directorate of Education and Digital Economy Development
Health has the task of carrying out the preparation
policy implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of digital economy development and facilitation
education and health.

Article 440
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 439, Sub-directorate of Digital Economy Development

Digital

Education and Health carries out the functions of:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
development and facilitation of the digital economy of education
and health;
b. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
development and facilitation of the digital economy of education
and health; and
c. implementation of administrative and household affairs
Directorate.

Page 156
- 156 -

Article 441
Sub-directorate of Education and Digital Economy Development
Health consists of:
a. Education Platform Development and Facilitation Section ;
and
b. Health Platform Development and Facilitation Section .

Article 442
(1) Education Platform Development and Facilitation Section
have the task of preparing materials
policy implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of platform development and facilitation
education.
(2) Health Platform Development and Facilitation Section
have the task of preparing materials
policy implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of platform development and facilitation
health.

Article 443
Sub-directorate of Agricultural Digital Economic Development and
Fisheries have the task of carrying out the preparation
policy implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of digital economy development and facilitation
agriculture and fisheries.

Article 444
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 443, Sub-directorate of Digital Economy Development
Agriculture and Fisheries perform the following functions:
a.

preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
development and facilitation of agricultural digital economy
and fisheries; and

b.

monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
development and facilitation of agricultural digital economy
and fisheries.

Page 157
- 157 -

Article 445
Sub-directorate of Agricultural Digital Economic Development and
Fisheries consist of:
a. Agricultural Platform Development and Facilitation Section ;
and
b. Fishery Platform Development and Facilitation Section .

Article 446
(1) Agricultural Platform Development and Facilitation Section
have the task of preparing materials
policy implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of platform development and facilitation
agriculture.
(2) Fishery Platform Development and Facilitation Section
have the task of preparing materials
policy implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of platform development and facilitation
fishery.

Article 447
Sub-directorate of Tourism Digital Economy Development,
Transport, and Trade have duties
doing

setup

implementation

Policy,

monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
development and facilitation of the digital tourism economy,
transportation, and trade.

Article 448
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 447, Sub-directorate of Digital Economy Development
Tourism, Transport and Trade organizes
function:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
development and facilitation of the digital tourism economy,
transportation, and trade; and

Page 158
- 158 -

b. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
development and facilitation of the digital tourism economy,
transportation, and trade.

Article 449
Sub-directorate of Tourism Digital Economy Development,
Transportation and Trade consists of:
a. Tourism Platform Development and Facilitation Section
and Transportation; and
b. Sexy

Development

and

Facilitation

Trading.

Article 450
(1) Tourism Platform Development and Facilitation Section
and Transportation has the task of doing
preparation of materials for policy implementation, monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of development and
facilitation of tourism and transportation platforms .
(2) Trading Platform Development and Facilitation Section
have the task of preparing materials
policy implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of platform development and facilitation
trading.

Article 451
Sub-directorate of Digital Economy Ecosystem Development
has the task of carrying out the preparation for implementation
policies, monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the
development and facilitation of the digital economy ecosystem.

Article 452
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 451, Sub-Directorate of Economic Ecosystem Development
Digital perform functions:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
development and facilitation of an economic platform ecosystem
digital and national strategic sectors; and

Page 159
- 159 -

b. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
development of digital economy ecosystem, facilitation
ecosystem of digital economy platforms and strategic sectors
national.

Article 453
Sub-directorate of Digital Economy Ecosystem Development
consists of:
a. Economic Platform Ecosystem Development Section
Digital; and
b. Section for the Facilitation of the Digital Economy Platform Ecosystem .

Article 454
(1) Digital Economy Platform Ecosystem Development Section
have the task of preparing materials
policy implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of platform ecosystem development
digital economy and national strategic sector.
(2) Digital Economy Platform Ecosystem Facilitation Section
have the task of preparing materials
policy implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of economic platform ecosystem facilitation
digital and national strategic sectors.

Article 455
The Administration Subdivision has the task of conducting business
preparation of program plans and budgets, management
state property, personnel affairs, and archives,
and housekeeping directorate.

Seventh Part
Directorate of Information Empowerment

Article 456
The Directorate of Information Empowerment has the task of
implementing policies, monitoring, evaluating, and
reporting in the field of informatics empowerment.

Page 160
- 160 -

Article 457
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 456, Directorate of Information Empowerment
perform functions:
a. preparation of policy implementation in the field of literacy
digital, empowering the information technology community and
communication, information technology capacity empowerment
and communication, and empowering technological creativity
information and communication;
b. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of literacy
digital, empowering the information technology community and
communication, information technology capacity empowerment
and communication, and empowering technological creativity
information and communication; and
c. implementation of administrative and household affairs
Directorate.

Article 458
The Directorate of Information Empowerment consists of:
a. Digital Literacy Sub-directorate;
b. Sub-directorate of Tech Community Empowerment
Information and Communication;
c. Sub-directorate of Technology Capacity Empowerment
Information and Communication;
d. Sub-directorate of Technological Creativity Empowerment
Information and Communication; and
e. Administration Subdivision.

Article 459
The Digital Literacy Sub-Directorate has the task of carrying out
preparation of policy implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of basic digital literacy.

Article 460
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 459, the Sub-Directorate of Digital Literacy organizes
function:

Page 161
- 161 -

a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
design and implementation of basic digital literacy; and
b. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
design and implementation of basic digital literacy.

Article 461
The Digital Literacy Sub-directorate consists of:
a. Digital Literacy Design Section; and
b. Digital Literacy Application Section.

Article 462
(1) The Digital Literacy Design Section has duties
prepare materials for implementing policies,
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
basic digital literacy design.
(2) The Digital Literacy Implementation Section has duties
prepare materials for implementing policies,
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
application of basic digital literacy.

Article 463
Sub-directorate of Information Technology Community Empowerment
and Communication has the task of carrying out the preparation
policy implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of empowering the Information Technology ecosystem
Information and Communication.

Article 464
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 463, Sub-directorate of Technological Community Empowerment
Information and Communication performs the following functions:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
community empowerment design and implementation
information and communication technology; and
b. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
community empowerment design and implementation
information and communication technology.

Page 162
- 162 -

Article 465
Sub-directorate of Information Technology Community Empowerment
and Communication consists of:
a. Technology Community Empowerment Design Section
Information and Communication; and
b. Technology Community Empowerment Application Section
Information and Communication.

Article 466
(1) Technology Community Empowerment Design Section
Information and Communication has the task of carrying out
preparation of materials for policy implementation, monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of design
empowerment of the information technology community and
communication.
(2) Technology Community Empowerment Application Section
Information and Communication has the task of carrying out
preparation of materials for policy implementation, monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of implementation
empowerment of the information technology community and
communication.

Article 467
Sub-directorate of Information Technology Capacity Empowerment
and Communication has the task of carrying out the preparation
policy implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of empowering the capacity of information technology and
communication.

Article 468
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 467, Sub-directorate of Technological Capacity Empowerment
Information and Communication performs the following functions:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
design and implementation of capacity building
information and communication technology; and

Page 163
- 163 -

b. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
design and implementation of capacity building
information and communication technology.

Article 469
Sub-directorate of Information Technology Capacity Empowerment
and Communication consists of:
a. Technology Capacity Empowerment Design Section
Information and Communication; and
b. Technology Capacity Empowerment Application Section
Information and Communication.

Article 470
(1) Technology Capacity Empowerment Design Section
Information and Communication has the task of carrying out
preparation of materials for policy implementation, monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of design
empowerment of information technology capacity and
communication.
(2) Application of Technology Capacity Empowerment Section
Information and Communication has the task of carrying out
preparation of materials for policy implementation, monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of implementation
empowerment of information technology capacity and
communication.

Article 471
Sub-directorate of Information Technology Creativity Empowerment
and Communication has the task of carrying out the preparation
policy implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of empowering creativity in information technology and
communication.

Article 472
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 471, Sub-directorate of Technological Creativity Empowerment
Information and Communication performs the following functions:

Page 164
- 164 -

a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
design and implementation of creativity empowerment
information and communication technology; and
b. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
design and implementation of creativity empowerment
information and communication technology.

Article 473
Sub-directorate of Information Technology Creativity Empowerment
and Communication consists of:
a. Technology Creativity Empowerment Design Section
Information and Communication; and
b. Technology Creativity Empowerment Application Section Seksi
Information and Communication.

Article 474
(1) Technology Creativity Empowerment Design Section
Information and Communication has the task of carrying out
preparation of materials for policy implementation, monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of design
empowerment of information technology creativity and
communication.
(2) Application of Technology Creativity Empowerment Section
Information and Communication has the task of carrying out
preparation of materials for policy implementation, monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of implementation
empowerment of information technology creativity and
communication.

Article 475
The Administration Subdivision has the task of conducting business
preparation of program plans and budgets, management
state property, civil service and archival affairs,
and housekeeping directorate.

Page 165
- 165 -

Part Eight
Directorate of Informatics Application Control

Article 476
The Directorate of Informatics Application Control has:
the task of implementing policies, monitoring, evaluating, and
reporting in the field of informatics application control.

Article 477
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 476, Directorate of Informatics Application Control
perform functions:
a. preparing the implementation of policies in the field of control
electronic systems, digital economy and data protection
privacy, internet content control, investigation and
enforcement, and management control
electronic certification;
b. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
control of electronic systems, the digital economy and
personal data protection, internet content control,
investigation and prosecution, and control
implementation of electronic certification; and
c. implementation of administrative and household affairs
Directorate.

Article 478
The Directorate of Informatics Application Control consists of:
a. Sub-directorate of Electronic System Control, Economics
Digital, and Personal Data Protection;
b. Internet Content Control Sub-directorate;
c. Sub-directorate of Investigation and Enforcement;
d. Sub-Directorate of Control of Certification Operators
Electronic; and
e. Administration Subdivision.

Platforms

Page 166
- 166 -

Article 479
Sub-directorate of Electronic System Control, Economics
Digital, and Personal Data Protection has a duty
doing

setup

implementation

Policy,

monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of control
electronic systems, digital economy, personal data protection
electronic systems, and electronic system eligibility certification.

Article 480
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 479, Sub-Directorate of Electronic System Control,
Digital Economy, and Personal Data Protection
perform functions:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
control of electronic systems, digital economy,
electronic system personal data protection, and
electronic system feasibility certification; and
b. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
control of electronic systems, digital economy,
electronic system personal data protection, and
electronic system eligibility certification.

Article 481
Sub-directorate of Electronic System Control, Economics
Digital, and Personal Data Protection consists of:
a. Electronic and Economic System Control Section
Digital; and
b. Electronic System Personal Data Protection Section.

Article 482
(1) Electronic and Economic System Control Section
Digital has the task of preparing materials
policy implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of electronic system control and
digital economy, as well as system worthiness certification
electronic.

Page 167
- 167 -

(2) Electronic System Personal Data Protection Section
have the task of preparing materials
policy implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of utilization and handling
personal data disputes in electronic systems.

Article 483
The Internet Content Control Sub-directorate has the task of
doing

setup

implementation

Policy,

monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of blocking
illegal internet content, content blocking infrastructure and
disconnection of access to electronic systems.

Article 484
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 483, Sub-directorate of Internet Content Control
perform functions:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
illegal internet content blocking and access termination
electronic system;
b. control center management and operation
blocking of illegal internet content; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
illegal internet content blocking, disconnection
electronic systems, and management and operation
internet content blocking control center.

Article 485
The Internet Content Control Sub-directorate consists of:
a. Illegal Internet Content Blocking Section; and
b. Content Blocking Infrastructure Section.

Article 486
(1) The Illegal Internet Content Blocking Section has:
the task of carrying out the preparation of implementation materials
policy, coordination, monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of blocking illegal internet content

Page 168
- 168 -

and disconnection of access to electronic systems.
(2) The Content Blocking Infrastructure Section has
the task of carrying out the preparation of implementation materials
policy, monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
in the field of management and operation of facilities and
internet content blocking control center infrastructure.

Article 487
The Sub-Directorate of Investigation and Enforcement has the task of
doing

setup

implementation

Policy,

monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of investigation
and prosecution.

Article 488
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 487, Sub-Directorate of Investigation and Enforcement
perform functions:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
investigation, prosecution, digital forensics , and assistance
expert testimony in law enforcement
information and electronic transactions; and
b. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
investigation, prosecution, digital forensics , and assistance
expert testimony in law enforcement
information and electronic transactions.

Article 489
The Sub-directorate of Investigation and Enforcement consists of:
a. Investigation Section; and
b. Enforcement Section.

Article 490
(1) The Investigation Section has the task of carrying out
preparation of policy implementation materials, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
investigation, digital forensics, and information assistance

Page 169
- 169 -

legal expert in law enforcement in the field of information
and electronic transactions.
(2) The Enforcement Section has the task of carrying out
preparation of materials for policy implementation, monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of prosecution, forensics
digital , and legal expert information assistance in
law enforcement in the field of information and transactions
electronic.

Article 491
Sub-Directorate of Control of Certification Operators
Electronics has the task of carrying out the preparation
policy implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of control over recognition and supervision
provider of electronic certification and reliability certification.

Article 492
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 491, Sub-directorate of Operator Control
Electronic Certification carries out the functions of:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
acknowledgment of the eligibility of electronic certification providers
and supervision of electronic certification providers; and
b. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
acknowledgment of the eligibility of electronic certification providers
and supervision of electronic certification providers.

Article 493
Sub-Directorate of Control of Certification Operators
Electronics consists of:
a. Section of Recognition of Electronic Certification Operators;
and
b. Section for Supervision of Electronic Certification Operators.

Article 494
(1) Section for Recognition of Electronic Certification Operators
have the task of preparing materials

Page 170
- 170 -

policy implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of recognition of operator eligibility
electronic certification.
(2) Supervision Section for Electronic Certification Operators
have the task of preparing materials
policy implementation, monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of organizer supervision
electronic certification.

Article 495
The Administration Subdivision has the task of conducting business
preparation of program plans and budgets, management
state property, civil service and archival affairs,
and housekeeping directorate.

CHAPTER VII
DIRECTORATE GENERAL
PUBLIC INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION

Part One
Position, Duties, and Functions

Article 496
(1) Directorate General of Public Information and Communication
under and responsible to the Minister.
(2) Directorate General of Public Information and Communication
led by the Director General.

Article 497
Directorate General of Information and Public Communication
has the task of organizing the formulation and
implementation of policies in the field of information management and
public communication.

Page 171
- 171 -

Article 498
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 497, Directorate General of Information and Communication
The public performs the following functions:
a. formulation of policies in the field of management and
dissemination of public information, increasing the role of the media
public, as well as the development of information and
government public relations;
b. implementation of policies in the field of management and
dissemination of public information, increasing the role of the media
public, as well as the development of information and
government public relations;
c. preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria in
management and dissemination of public information,
increasing the role of public media, as well as developing
government information and public relations institutions;
d. implementation of providing technical guidance and supervision
in the field of management and dissemination of public information,
increasing the role of public media, as well as developing
government information and public relations institutions;
e. implementation of evaluation and reporting in the field of
management and dissemination of public information,
increasing the role of public media, as well as developing
government information and public relations institutions;
f.

implementation of the administration of the Directorate General of Information
and Public Communications; and

g. implementation of other functions assigned by the Minister.

The second part
Organization structure

Article 499
The Directorate General of Information and Public Communication consists of:
on:
a. Secretariat of the Directorate General;
b. Directorate of Governance and Public Communication Partnership;

Page 172
- 172 -

c. Directorate of Political Information and Communication, Law,
and Security;
d. Directorate of Economic Information and Communication and
Maritime;
e. Directorate of Development Information and Communication
People and Culture; and
f.

Directorate of Media Management.

Part Three
Secretariat of the Directorate General

Article 500
The Secretariat of the Directorate General has the task of:
carry out other management and technical support
to all organizational units within the Directorate
General of Information and Public Communication.

Article 501
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 500, Secretariat of the Directorate General of Information and
Public Communication performs the following functions:
a. preparation of program coordination and planning, plans
budget, program and budget control, and
administration of overseas technical assistance, as well as evaluation
and reporting in the field of information and communication
public;
b. preparation of coordination and implementation of data management
and development of management information systems in
the field of public information and communication;
c. preparation of coordination and preparation of studies, and
legal advocacy, as well as drafting regulations
legislation in the field of information and
public communications;
d. preparation of coordination and implementation of work administration
the same in the field of public information and communication;
e. management of financial affairs within the Directorate
General of Information and Public Communication; and

Page 173
- 173 -

f.

implementation

affairs

administration

staffing,

organization, management, public relations support,
equipment, household, and administration in
environment of the Directorate General of Information and
Public Communication.

Article 502
The Secretariat of the Directorate General consists of:
a. Program Planning and Reporting Division;
b. Legal and Cooperation Division;
c. Financial department; and
d. General Affairs and Personnel Section.

Article 503
The Program Planning and Reporting Section has
the task of carrying out the preparation of coordination and planning
programs, budget plans, program control and
budget, administration of foreign technical assistance,
data management and information system development, as well as
evaluation and reporting in the field of information and communication
public.

Article 504
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 503, Program Planning and Reporting Section
perform functions:
a. preparation of coordination materials and program planning,
work plans and budgets, and aid administration
overseas engineering in the field of information and communication
public;
b. preparation of materials for coordination and collection,
processing and presentation of data and information, as well as
operational management information system development sistem
offices in the field of public information and communication;
and

Page 174
- 174 -

c. preparation of program and budget control materials,
evaluation and preparation of reports in the field of information
and public communications.

Article 505
The Program Planning and Reporting Section consists of:
a. Program Planning and Budget Subdivision;
b. Evaluation and Reporting Subdivision; and
c. Data Management Subsection.

Article 506
(1) Program Planning and Budget Subdivision
have the task of preparing materials
program coordination and planning, work plans and
budget, as well as the administration of overseas technical assistance
in the field of public information and communication.
(2) Evaluation and Reporting Subdivision has duties
carry out the preparation of program control materials
and budgets, evaluations and annual reports, periodic
and accountability in the field of information and communication
public.
(3) The Data Management Subdivision has duties
manage data and information, as well as
operational management information system development sistem
offices in the field of public information and communication.

Article 507
The Legal and Cooperation Section has a duty
carry out the preparation of coordination, legal studies,
preparation of draft laws and regulations,
providing legal assistance and advocacy, as well as administration
cooperation in the field of public information and communication.

Article 508
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 507, Legal and Cooperation Section organizes
function:

Page 175
- 175 -

a. preparation of coordination materials, legal studies,
providing legal assistance and advocacy, documentation
law, as well as analysis and evaluation of laws and regulations
invitation in the field of public information and communication;
b. preparation of coordination materials, review of preparation
laws and regulations in the field of information and
public communications; and
c. preparation of materials for coordination, administration, management
domestic and foreign cooperation in the field of information and
public communication.

Article 509
The Legal and Cooperation Division consists of:
a. Legal Subdivision; and
b. Cooperation Subdivision.

Article 510
(1) The Legal Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of coordination materials, legal studies,
providing legal assistance and advocacy, drafting
draft legislation, implementation
legal assistance, legal counseling, documentation
law, as well as analysis and evaluation of laws and regulations
invitation in the field of public information and communication.
(2) The Cooperation Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of materials for coordination, administration and
management of domestic and foreign cooperation in the field of
public information and communication.

Article 511
The Finance Department has the task of carrying out
management of financial affairs within the Directorate
General of Information and Public Communication.

Article 512
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 511, the Finance Section carries out the functions of:

Page 176
- 176 -

a. management of budget execution;
b. implementation of budget verification and calculation; and
c. implementation of bookkeeping, treasury, and
preparation of materials for the preparation of financial statements.

Article 513

The Finance Section consists of:
a. Budget Implementation Subsection;
b. Treasury Subdivision; and
c. Verification subsection.

Article 514
(1) The Budget Execution Subdivision has the following tasks:
perform budget calculations and monitoring in
environment of the Directorate General of Information and
Public Communication.
(2) Subsection

Treasury

have

Duty

carry out bookkeeping, treasury, and
preparation of financial report materials in the environment
Directorate General of Information and Public Communication.
(3) The Verification Subdivision has the task of carrying out
verification of budget disbursement documents in the neighborhood
Directorate General of Information and Public Communication.

Article 515
The General and Personnel Section has the task of
carry out administrative affairs of personnel, organization,
administration, equipment, household, administration
and support for public relations within the directorate general.

Article 516
The General Affairs and Personnel Section carries out the following functions:
a. implementation of personnel administration affairs, evaluation
performance and organizational arrangement within the Directorate
General of Information and Public Communication;

Page 177
- 177 -

b. implementation of equipment and household affairs in
environment of the Directorate General of Information and
Public Communications; and
c. implementation of administrative, secretarial,
management, as well as support for publications and
documentation within the Directorate General of Information
and Public Communications.

Article 517
The General and Personnel Section consists of:
a. Subdivision of Personnel and Organization;
b. Subdivision of Appliances and Households; and
c. Administration Subdivision.

Article 518
(1) The Subdivision of Personnel and Organization has
the task of carrying out personnel administration matters,
performance evaluation, and organizational structuring in the environment
Directorate General of Information and Public Communication.
(2) Equipment and Household Subdivision has
the task of carrying out procurement administration affairs,
storage, distribution of equipment and household
within the Directorate General of Information and
Public Communication.
(3) The Administration Subdivision has the task of carrying out
affairs

administration,

secretarial,

management, as well as support for publications and
documentation within the Directorate General of Information
and Public Communications.

Part Four
Directorate of Governance and Public Communication Partnership

Article 519
Directorate of Governance and Public Communication Partnership
has the task of carrying out the formulation and
implementation of policies, formulation of norms, standards,

Page 178
- 178 -

procedures, and criteria, and providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
governance and public communications partnerships, and
development of functional positions in the field of public communication.

Article 520
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 519, Directorate of Governance and Communication Partnership
The public performs the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation in the field of information and
public communications and public communications partnerships,
and development of functional positions in the field of communication
public;
b. preparation of policy implementation in the field of partnership
public communication, as well as the development of functional positions
the field of public communication;
c. preparation of the preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and
criteria in the field of public information and communication and
public communication partnerships, as well as job development
functional field of public communication;
d. preparation of providing technical guidance and supervision in super
governance and public communications partnerships,
and development of functional positions in the field of communication
public;
e. preparation of the arrangement of related functional positions
function assignment;
f.

monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of governance
managing and public communication partnerships and coaching
functional positions in the field of public communication; and

g. implementation of administrative and household affairs
Directorate.

Article 521
Directorate of Governance and Public Communication Partnership
consists of:
a. Sub-directorate of Public Communication Governance;
b. Sub-directorate of Public Communication Partnership;

Page 179
- 179 -

c. Sub-directorate of Division of Functional Position Development
Public Communications; and
d. Administration Subdivision.

Article 522
The Sub-Directorate of Public Communication Governance has
the task of carrying out the preparation of policy formulation,
preparation of norms, standards, procedures and criteria, and
providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of communication governance
public.

Article 523
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in Article
522, Sub-directorate of Public Communication Governance
perform functions:
a. preparation of materials for policy formulation in the field of governance
manage the provision and administration of information and
public communications;
b. preparation of materials for the preparation of norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria in the field of governance of provision and
organizing public information and communication;
c. preparation of materials for technical guidance and supervision in
in the field of supply and implementation governance
public information and communications; and
d. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of governance
manage the provision and administration of information and
public communication.

Article 524
The Sub-directorate of Public Communication Governance consists of:
a. Public Information Provision Governance Section; and
b. Section of Governance for the Implementation of Public Communication.

Article 525
(1) Public Information Provision Governance Section Kelola
have the task of preparing materials

Page 180
- 180 -

policy formulation and implementation, preparation
norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, and giving
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of supply governance
public information.
(2) Section on Governance for the Implementation of Public Communications
have the task of preparing materials
policy formulation and implementation, preparation
norms, standards, procedures, and criteria, giving
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of governance
organizing public communications.

Article 526
The Sub-Directorate of Public Communication Partnership has
the task of carrying out the preparation of the formulation and implementation
policies, providing technical guidance and supervision, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of partnership
media and social communication.

Article 527
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in Article
526,

Subdirectorate

Communication Partnership

Public

perform functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
media and social communication partnerships;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
media and social communication partnerships;
c. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of media communication partnerships and
social; and
d. implementation of evaluation and reporting in the field of partnership
media and social communication.

Article 528
The Public Communication Partnership Sub-directorate consists of:
a. Media Communications Partnership Section; and

Page 181
- 181 -

b. Social Communication Partnership Section.

Article 529
(1) The Media Communications Partnership Section has duties
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, providing technical guidance and
supervision, and monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
media communications partnership.
(2) The Social Communication Partnership Section has duties
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, providing technical guidance and
supervision, and monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
the field of social communication partnerships.

Article 530
Sub-directorate of Division of Functional Position Development
Public Communication has the task of carrying out
preparation of policy formulation and implementation, provision of
technical guidance and supervision, and monitoring, evaluation
and reporting in the areas of competency development, career,
and the performance of functional positions in the field of public communication.

Article 531
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 530, Sub-Directorate of Functional Position Development
The field of Public Communication carries out the following functions:
a. preparation of policy formulation materials in the field of
competency development, career, and job performance
functional field of public communication;
b. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
competency development, career, and job performance
functional field of public communication;
c. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of competency development, career, and
performance of functional positions in the field of public communication;
and
d. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of

Page 182
- 182 -

competency development, career, and job performance
functional field of public communication.

Article 532
Sub-directorate of Division of Functional Position Development
Public Communication consists of:
a. Competency Development and Position Career Section
Functional Public Communication Sector; and
b. Performance Section Functional Position Communications
Public.

Article 533
(1) Position Competency and Career Development Section
Functional Public Communication Sector has the task
carry out the preparation of formulation materials and
implementation of policies, providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
in the field of competency development and job career
functional field of public communication.
(2) Performance Section of Functional Positions in the Communication Sector
The public has the task of preparing materials
formulation and implementation of policies, granting
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of job performance
functional field of public communication.

Article 534
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and budgets, management
state property, civil service and archival affairs,
and housekeeping directorate.

Page 183
- 183 -

Part Five
Directorate of Political Information and Communication, Law, and
Security

Article 535
Directorate of Political Information and Communication, Law, and
Security has the task of carrying out the implementation
policies, providing technical guidance and supervision, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of information and
political, legal and security communications.

Article 536
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 535, Directorate of Political Information and Communication,
Law and Security performs the following functions:
a. preparing the implementation of policies in the field of information
and communication of the political and government sectors, law
and human rights, as well as defense and security;
b. preparation of providing technical guidance and supervision in super
information and communication sector political sector and
governance, law and human rights, and
defense and security;
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the information sector
and communication of the political and government sectors, law
and human rights and defense and security;
and
d. implementation of administrative and household affairs
Directorate.

Article 537
Directorate of Political Information and Communication, Law, and
Security consists of:
a. Sub-directorate of Political Information and Communication and
Government;
b. Sub-directorate of Legal Information and Communication and
Human rights;

Page 184
- 184 -

c. Sub-directorate of Defense Information and Communications and
Security; and
d. Administration Subdivision.

Article 538
Sub-directorate of Political Information and Communication and
The government has the task of carrying out the preparation
implementation of policies, providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting, in
the fields of programming and monitoring, as well as production
content and dissemination of political sector information and
government.

Article 539
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 538, Sub-Directorate of Political Information and Communication
and the Government carries out the functions of:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
programming and monitoring, and production
content and dissemination of political sector information and
government;
b. preparation of materials for technical guidance and supervision in
the field of programming and monitoring, as well as
content production and dissemination of political sector information
and governance; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
programming and monitoring, and production
content and dissemination of political sector information and
government.

Article 540
Sub-directorate of Political Information and Communication and
Government consists of:
a. Section for Programming and Political Monitoring and
Government; and
b. Section of Content Production and Dissemination of Political Information
and Governance.

Page 185
- 185 -

Article 541
(1) Section for Programming and Political Monitoring and
The government has the task of preparing
policy implementation materials, providing guidance
technical and supervision, and monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of programming and
monitoring of information on the political and government sectors.
(2) Content Production and Political Information Dissemination Section
and the Government has the duty to carry out
preparation of policy implementation materials, provision of
technical guidance and supervision, and monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of content production and
dissemination of information on the political and government sectors.

Article 542
Sub-directorate of Information and Communication Law and Rights
Human Rights have the task of carrying out the preparation
implementation of policies, providing technical guidance and
supervision, and monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the
programming and monitoring, and content production
and dissemination of legal and human rights sector information
human.

Article 543
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in Article
542, Sub-directorate of Legal Information and Communication and
Human Rights carry out the functions:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
programming and monitoring, and production
content and dissemination of legal and rights sector information
human rights;
b. preparation of materials for technical guidance and supervision in
the field of programming and monitoring, as well as
content production and dissemination of legal sector information
and human rights; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
programming and monitoring, and production

Page 186
- 186 -

content and dissemination of legal and rights sector information
human rights.

Article 544
Sub-directorate of Information and Communication Law and Rights
Human Rights consist of:
a. Section for Programming and Legal Monitoring and
Human rights; and
b. Section of Content Production and Dissemination of Legal Information
and Human Rights.

Article 545
(1) Section for Program Preparation and Legal Monitoring and
Human Rights have the duty to carry out
preparation of policy implementation materials, provision of
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of programming

and monitoring of legal and human rights sector information
human.
(2) Content Production and Legal Information Dissemination Section
and Human Rights have the task of doing
preparation of policy implementation materials, provision of
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of content production and
dissemination of information on the legal and human rights sector
human.

Article 546
Sub-directorate of Defense Information and Communications and
Security has the task of carrying out the preparation
implementation of policies, providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
the fields of programming and monitoring, as well as production
content and dissemination of defense sector information and
security.

Page 187
- 187 -

Article 547
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 546, Sub-directorate of Information and Communication
Defense and Security carries out the functions of:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
programming and monitoring, and production
content and dissemination of defense sector information and
security;
b. preparation of materials for technical guidance and supervision in
the field of programming and monitoring, as well as
content production and sector information dissemination
defense and security; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
programming and monitoring, and production
content and dissemination of defense sector information and
security.

Article 548
Sub-directorate of Defense Information and Communications and
Security consists of:
a. Defense Programming and Monitoring Section
and Security; and
b. Content Production and Information Dissemination Section
Defense and security.

Article 549
(1) Defense Programming and Monitoring Section
and Security have the task of making preparations
policy implementation materials, providing guidance
technical and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of programming and
monitoring of defense and security sector information.
(2) Content Production and Information Dissemination Section
Defense and Security has the task of doing
preparation of policy implementation materials, provision of
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of content production and

Page 188
- 188 -

dissemination of information on the defense and security sector.

Article 550
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and budgets, management
state property, civil service and archival affairs,
and housekeeping directorate.

Part Six
Directorate of Economic Information and Communication and
Maritime

Article 551
Directorate of Economic Information and Communication and
Maritime has the task of implementing policies,
providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of information and communication
finance, agriculture, agrarian, environmental and financial sectors
forestry, trade, industry, cooperatives and business
small and medium enterprises, state-owned enterprises, employment
public housing and public housing, employment, energy and
mineral resources, transportation, marine and fisheries,
and tourism.

Article 552
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 551, Directorate of Information and Communication
The Economy and Maritime Affairs carries out the following functions:
a. preparing the implementation of policies in the field of information
and communication of the financial, agricultural, agrarian,
environment and forestry, trade,
industry, cooperatives and small and medium enterprises,
state-owned enterprises, public works and
public housing, employment, energy and resources
mineral resources, transportation, marine and fisheries,
and tourism;

Page 189
- 189 -

b. preparation of providing technical guidance and supervision in super
financial sector information and communication,
agriculture, agrarian, environment and forestry,
trade, industry, cooperatives and small businesses
and medium-sized enterprises, state-owned enterprises, employment
public and public housing, employment, energy
and mineral resources, transportation, marine and
fisheries, and tourism;
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the information sector
and communication of the financial, agricultural, agrarian,
environment and forestry, trade,
industry, cooperatives and small and medium enterprises,
state-owned enterprises, public works and
public housing, employment, energy and resources
mineral resources, transportation, marine and fisheries,
and tourism; and
d. implementation of administrative and household affairs.

Article 553
Directorate of Economic Information and Communication and
Maritime consists of:
a. Sub-directorate of Economic Information and Communication I;
b. Sub-directorate of Economic Information and Communication
II;
c. Sub-directorate of Maritime Information and Communication; and
d. Administration Subdivision.

Article 554
Sub-directorate of Economic Information and Communication I
has the task of carrying out the preparation of policies,
providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation and reporting in the field of programming and
monitoring, as well as content production and information dissemination
economy I financial sector, agriculture, agrarian,
environmental and forestry.

Page 190
- 190 -

Article 555
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 554, Sub-directorate of Information and Communication
Economy I carries out the following functions:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
programming and monitoring and production
content and dissemination of sector I economic information
finance, agriculture, agrarian, environment and
forestry;
b. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of programming and
monitoring and content production and dissemination
economic information I financial sector, agriculture,
agrarian, environment and forestry; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
programming and monitoring, and production
content and dissemination of sector I economic information
finance, agriculture, agrarian, environment and
forestry.

Article 556
Sub-directorate of Economic Information and Communication I
consists of:
a. Program Preparation and Monitoring Section
Economy I; and
b. Content Production and Information Dissemination Section
Economy I.

Article 557
(1) Program Preparation and Monitoring Section
Economy I has the task of preparing
policy implementation materials, providing guidance
technical and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of programming and
monitoring of information on the financial, agricultural,
agriculture, environment and forestry.

Page 191
- 191 -

(2) Content Production and Information Dissemination Section
Economy I has the task of preparing
policy implementation materials, providing guidance
technical and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of content production and dissemination
information on the financial, agricultural, agrarian,
environmental and forestry

Article 558
Sub-directorate of Economic Information and Communication II
has the task of carrying out the preparation for implementation
policies, providing technical guidance and supervision, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of preparation
programs and monitoring, as well as content production and
dissemination of economic information II trade sector,
industry, cooperatives and small and medium enterprises, agencies
state-owned enterprises, public works and public housing,
and employment.

Article 559
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 558, Sub-directorate of Information and Communication
Economy II carries out the following functions:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
programming and monitoring and production
content and dissemination of trade sector information,
industry, cooperatives and small and medium enterprises,
state-owned enterprises, public works and
public housing, and employment ;
b. preparation of materials for technical guidance and supervision in
the field of programming and monitoring, as well as
content production and sector information dissemination
trade, industry, cooperatives and small businesses
medium-sized enterprises, state-owned enterprises, public works
and public housing, and employment; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
programming and monitoring, and production

Page 192
- 192 -

content and dissemination of trade sector information,
industry, cooperatives and small and medium enterprises,
state-owned enterprises, public works and
public housing and employment.

Article 560
Sub-directorate of Economic Information and Communication II
consists of:
a. Program Preparation and Monitoring Section
Economy II; and

b. Content Production and Information Dissemination Section
Economy II.

Article 561
(1) Program Preparation and Monitoring Section
Economy II has the task of preparing
policy implementation materials, providing guidance
technical and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of programming and
economic information monitoring sector II
trade, industry, cooperatives and small businesses
medium-sized enterprises, state-owned enterprises, public works
and public housing, and employment.
(2) Content Production and Information Dissemination Section
Economy II has the task of preparing
policy implementation materials, providing guidance
technical and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of content production and dissemination
economic information II trade sector,
industry, cooperatives and small and medium enterprises,
state-owned enterprises, public works and
public housing and employment.

Article 562
The Sub-Directorate of Maritime Information and Communication has
the task of carrying out the preparation of policy implementation,

Page 193
- 193 -

providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of programming and
monitoring, as well as content production and information dissemination
energy sector, mineral resources, transportation, marine
and fisheries, and tourism.

Article 563
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 562, Sub-Directorate of Maritime Information and Communication
perform functions:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
programming and monitoring, and production
content and dissemination of source energy sector information
mineral resources, transportation, marine and fisheries,
and tourism;
b. preparation of materials for technical guidance and supervision in
the field of programming and monitoring, as well as
content production and dissemination of energy sector information
mineral resources, transportation, marine and
fisheries, and tourism; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
programming and monitoring, and production
content and dissemination of source energy sector information
mineral resources, transportation, marine and fisheries,
and tourism.

Article 564
The Sub-directorate of Maritime Information and Communication consists of:
a. Maritime Monitoring and Programming Section;
and
b. Maritime Information Dissemination and Content Production Section.

Article 565
(1) Maritime Monitoring and Programming Section
have the task of preparing materials
implementation of policies, providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in

Page 194
- 194 -

field of programming and information monitoring
energy sector, mineral resources, transportation,
marine and fisheries, as well as tourism.
(2) Maritime Information Dissemination and Content Production Section
have the task of preparing materials
implementation of policies, providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
the field of content production and information dissemination sector
energy, mineral resources, transportation, marine and
fisheries and tourism.

Article 566
The Administration Subdivision has the task of carrying out plans
preparation of programs and budgets, management of goods
state property, personnel affairs and archives, as well as
household directorate.

Seventh Part
Directorate of Information and Communication for Human Development
and Culture

Article 567
Directorate of Information and Communication for Human Development
and Culture has the task of carrying out the preparation
implementation of policies, providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
information and communication sector of education, religion,
culture, social, youth, sports, child protection,
empowerment of women, health, and villages and
transmigration.

Article 568
To carry out the tasks as referred to in
Article 567, Directorate of Information and Communication
Human Development and Culture organizes
function:

Page 195
- 195 -

a. preparing the implementation of policies in the field of information
and communication in the education, religion, culture,
social, youth, sports, child protection,
empowerment of women, health, villages, and
transmigration;
b. preparation of providing technical guidance and supervision in super
the information and communication sector of the religious sector,
culture, social, youth, sports, protection
children, empowering women, health, villages, and
transmigration;
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the information sector
and communication in the religious, cultural, social,
youth, sports, child protection, empowerment
women, health, village, and transmigration; and
d. implementation of administrative and household affairs
Directorate.

Article 569
Directorate of Information and Communication for Human Development
and Culture consists of:
a. Sub-directorate of Education Information and Communication and
Culture;
b. Sub-directorate of Information and Social Communication;
c. Sub-directorate of Health Information and Communication; and
d. Administration Subdivision.

Article 570
Sub-directorate of Education Information and Communication and
Culture has the task of carrying out the preparation
implementation of policies, providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
the fields of programming and monitoring, as well as production
content and dissemination of educational and cultural information
education, religion and culture sectors.

Page 196
- 196 -

Article 571
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 570, Sub-directorate of Information and Communication
Education and Culture carries out the following functions:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
programming and monitoring, and production
content and dissemination of educational information and
culture in the education, religion, and culture sectors;
b. preparation of materials for technical guidance and supervision in
the field of programming and monitoring, as well as
content production and dissemination of educational information
and culture in the education, religion, and
culture; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
programming and monitoring, and production
content and dissemination of educational information and
education, religion, and culture sectors.

Article 572
Sub-directorate of Education Information and Communication and
Culture consists of:
a. Educational Programming and Monitoring Section
and Culture; and
b. Content Production and Information Dissemination Section
Education and culture.

Article 573
(1) Educational Programming and Monitoring Section
and Culture has the task of doing

preparation of policy implementation materials, provision of
technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of programming
and monitoring of educational and cultural information
education, religion and culture sectors.
(2) Content Production and Information Dissemination Section
Education and Culture has a duty
prepare materials for implementing policies,

Page 197
- 197 -

providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of production
content and dissemination of educational information and
education, religion, and culture sectors.

Article 574
The Sub-Directorate of Information and Social Communication has
the task of carrying out the preparation of policy implementation,
implementation of technical guidance and supervision, as well as
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of preparation
programs and monitoring, as well as content production and
dissemination of social information on the social sector, youth, and
sports, as well as child protection, and empowerment
female.

Article 575
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 574, Sub-Directorate of Information and Social Communication
perform functions:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
programming and monitoring, and production
social sector information content and dissemination,
young man,

Sports,

protection

child,

and

child,

and

Women empowerment;
b. preparation of materials for providing technical guidance and
supervision in the field of programming and
monitoring, as well as content production and dissemination
social information social sector, youth, sports,
child protection, and women's empowerment; and
c. monitoring, evaluation and reporting in the field of
programming and monitoring, and production
social sector information content and dissemination,
young man,

Sports,

protection

Women empowerment.

Article 576
The Sub-directorate of Information and Social Communication consists of:

Page 198
- 198 -

a. Section for Programming and Social Monitoring; and
b. Section of Content Production and Social Information Dissemination.

Article 577
(1) Section for Programming and Social Monitoring
have the task of preparing materials
implementation of policies, providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
field of programming and information monitoring
social sector social, youth, sports, protection
children and empowering women.
(2) Content Production and Social Information Dissemination Section
have the task of preparing materials
implementation of policies, providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
the field of content production and dissemination of social information
social sector, youth, sports, child protection, and
Women empowerment.

Article 578
Sub-directorate of Health Information and Communication
has the task of carrying out the preparation for implementation
policies, providing technical guidance and supervision, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of preparation
programs and monitoring, as well as content production and
dissemination of health information in the health sector, villages, and
transmigration.

Article 579
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 578, Sub-directorate of Information and Communication
Health carries out the functions:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
programming and monitoring, and production
content and dissemination of sector health information
health, village, and transmigration;

Page 199
- 199 -

b. preparation of materials for technical guidance and supervision in
the field of programming and monitoring, as well as
content production and dissemination of health information
health, village, and transmigration sectors; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
programming and monitoring, and production
content and dissemination of sector health information
health, village, and transmigration.

Article 580
The Sub-directorate of Health Information and Communication consists of:
on:
a. Health Programming and Monitoring Section;
and
b. Content Production and Information Dissemination Section
Health.

Article 581
(1) Health Program Preparation and Monitoring Section
have the task of preparing materials
implementation of policies, providing technical guidance and
supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in
field of programming and information monitoring
and health, village, and transmigration communications.
(2) Content Production and Information Dissemination Section
Health has the task of preparing
policy implementation materials, implementation of guidance
technical and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of content production and dissemination
health, village, and transmigration information.

Article 582
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and budgets, management
state property, civil service and archival affairs,
and housekeeping directorate.

Page 200
- 200 -

Part Eight
Directorate of Media Management

Article 583
Directorate

Management

Media

have

Duty

carry out the implementation of policies, provide guidance
technical and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of online , print, audio media management
visuals, and social media.

Article 584
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 583, Directorate of Media Management organizes
function:
a. preparing the implementation of policies in the field of management
online media , print, audio visual, and social media;
b. preparation of providing technical guidance and supervision in super
the field of online media management , print, audio-visual, and
social media;
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
media management of online , print, audio-visual, and media
social; and
d. implementation of administrative and household affairs
Directorate.

Article 585
The Directorate of Media Management consists of:
a. Online Media Sub-directorate ;
b. Print Media Sub-directorate;
c. Sub-directorate of Audio Visual and Social Media; and
d. Administration Subdivision.

Article 586
The Online Media Sub-directorate has the task of carrying out
preparation of policy implementation, and providing guidance
technical and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of online media management .

Page 201
- 201 -

Article 587
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in Article
586, Sub-directorate of Online Media carries out the following functions:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
online media management ;
b. preparation of materials for technical guidance and supervision in
the field of online media management ; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
online media management .

Article 588
The Print Media Sub-Directorate has the task of carrying out
preparation of policy implementation, providing guidance
technical and supervision, as well as monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of print media management.

Article 589
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in Article
588, the Sub-directorate of Print Media carries out the following functions:
a. preparation of materials for implementing policies in the field of
print media management;
b. preparation of materials for technical guidance and supervision in
the field of print media management; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
print media management.

Article 590
The Sub-directorate of Audio Visual and Social Media has
the task of carrying out the preparation of policy implementation,
providing technical guidance and supervision, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of audio-visual and media
social.

Article 591
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 590, Sub-directorate of Audio Visual and Social Media
perform functions:

Page 202
- 202 -

a. preparation of policy implementation materials in the audio field
visuals and social media;
b. preparation of materials for technical guidance and supervision in
audio-visual and social media fields; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the audio field
visuals and social media.

Article 592
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and budgets, management
state property, civil service and archival affairs,
and housekeeping directorate.

CHAPTER VIII
INSPECTORATE GENERAL

Part One
Position, Duties, and Functions

Article 593
(1) The Inspectorate General is under and responsible for
answer to the Minister.
(2) The Inspectorate General is led by the Inspector General.

Article 594
The Inspectorate General has the task of carrying out
internal supervision within the Ministry of Communications
and Informatics.

Article 595
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 594, the Inspectorate General carries out the following functions:
a. preparation of technical policies for internal control in
environment of the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology;
b. implementation of internal control in the environment
Ministry of Communications and Information Technology towards

Page 203
- 203 -

performance and finance through audits, reviews , evaluations,
monitoring, and other supervisory activities;
c. implementation of supervision for certain purposes over
assignment of the Minister;
d. preparation of reports on the results of supervision in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics;
e. implementation of the administration of the Inspectorate General; and
f.

implementation of other functions assigned by the Minister.

The second part
Organization structure

Article 596
The Inspectorate General consists of:
a. the Secretariat of the Inspectorate General;
b. Inspectorate I;
c. Inspectorate II;
d. Inspectorate III; and
e. Inspectorate IV.

Part Three
Secretariat of the Inspectorate General

Article 597
The Secretariat of the Inspectorate General has the following duties:
carry out technical and administrative services to
all organizational units within the Inspectorate General.

Article 598
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 597, the Secretariat of the Inspectorate General
function:
a. implementation of coordination and planning and
supervisory work program, program control and
budget, as well as evaluation and reporting in the environment
Inspectorate General;

Page 204
- 204 -

b. implementation of the evaluation of the monitoring results report
functional, reports on the results of community supervision, and
monitoring the completion of follow-up results
supervision;
c. management of personnel and administrative affairs; and
d. financial management and household affairs
Inspectorate General.

Article 599
The Secretariat of the Inspectorate General consists of:
a. Program and Evaluation Section;
b. Personnel and Administration Division;
c. Finance and Household Division; and
d. Monitoring Results Follow-up Section.

Article 600
The Program and Evaluation Section has the task
carry out the preparation of coordination and preparation
plans , programs and budgets, program control and
budget, as well as evaluation and reporting in the environment
Inspectorate General.

Article 601
In carrying out the tasks as stated in
Article 600, Program and Evaluation Section organizes
function:
a. preparation of coordination materials and preparation of plans,
work program, and budget; and
b. preparation of program and budget control materials,
and evaluation and reporting.

Article 602
The Program and Evaluation section consists of:
a. Program and Budget Subdivision; and
b. Evaluation and Reporting Subsection.

Page 205
- 205 -

Article 603
(1) The Program and Budget Subdivision has duties
carry out the preparation of materials for coordination and preparation
plans, programs and budgets.
(2) Evaluation and Reporting Subdivision has duties
carry out the preparation of program control materials and
budgeting, evaluation, collection, processing, analysis,
preparation, and presentation of evaluation reports.

Article 604
The Division of Personnel and Administration has the task of
carry out personnel and administrative affairs in
Inspectorate General environment.

Article 605
In carrying out the tasks as stated in
Article 604, Personnel and Administration Section
perform functions:
a. implementation of personnel affairs in the environment
Inspectorate General; and
b. implementation of administrative affairs in the environment
Inspectorate General.

Article 606
The Personnel and Administration Division consists of:
a. Personnel Subdivision; and
b. Administration Subdivision.

Article 607
(1) The Personnel Subdivision has the task of carrying out
personnel affairs which include the preparation of
employee needs, preparing employee transfers,
employee development, and general staffing.
(2) The Administration Subdivision has the task of carrying out
administrative matters.

Page 206
- 206 -

Article 608
The Finance and Household Section has duties
carry out financial management and household affairs
stairs within the Inspectorate General.

Article 609
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in Article
608, the Finance and Household Section organizes
function:
a. financial management within the Inspectorate
General; and
b. implementation of household affairs in the neighborhood
Inspectorate General.

Article 610
The Finance and Household Division consists of:
a. Finance Subdivision; and
b. Household Subsection.

Article 611
(1) The Finance Subdivision has the task of carrying out
financial management which includes treasury,
verification, and salary.
(2) The Household Subdivision has the task of carrying out
household affairs.

Article 612
The Follow-up Section on Supervision Results has the task of
carry out an evaluation of the supervisory report
functional, reports on the results of community supervision,
monitoring the completion of the follow-up to the results of supervision,
and management of supervisory information systems.

Article 613
In carrying out the tasks as stated in
Article 612, Follow-up Section on Supervision Results
perform functions:

Page 207
- 207 -

a. evaluation of the report on the results of the apparatus' supervision
Supervision

Internal

Government,

monitoring

completion of the follow-up results of the apparatus' supervision
Internal Government, management of information systems
supervision; and
b. evaluation of the report on the results of the apparatus' supervision
Government External Oversight, supervision
community and monitoring of follow-up completion
results of the supervision of the External Supervisory Apparatus
Government and community supervision.

Article 614
The Follow-up Section on Supervision Results consists of:
a. Subsection of Follow-up on Internal Monitoring Results; and
b. Subsection of Follow-up on External Monitoring Results.

Article 615
(1) Sub-Section of Follow-up on Internal Audit Results
has the task of preparing evaluation materials
on the report on the results of the supervision of the Supervisory
Internal Government, monitoring the completion of actions
further results of the supervision of the Internal Supervisory Apparatus
Government, and management of information systems
supervision which includes application maintenance,
internal database management, as well as analysis and
information presentation.
(2) Subsection of Follow-up on External Monitoring Results
has the task of preparing evaluation materials
on the report on the results of the supervision of the Supervisory
External government, community oversight and
monitoring the completion of follow-up results
external and community oversight.

Page 208
- 208 -

Part Four
Inspectorate I

Article 616
Inspectorate I has the task of carrying out the preparation of
technical policy and implementation of internal control
on performance and finances through audits, reviews ,
evaluation, monitoring, and other supervisory activities,
supervision for certain purposes on the assignment of the Minister,
as well as preparation of reports on the results of supervision in the
Directorate General of Postal Resources and Equipment and
informatics.

Article 617
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 616, Inspectorate I carries out the following functions:
a. preparation of technical policies for internal control in
scope of the Directorate General of Resources and Equipment
Post and Information Technology;
b. preparation of plans and programs for internal control in
scope of the Directorate General of Resources and Equipment
Post and Information Technology;
c. internal control of performance and finance
through audits, reviews , and other supervisory activities
within the scope of the Directorate General of Resources and
Postal and Information Technology Equipment;
d. supervision for certain purposes on assignment
Minister;
e. reporting results of supervision; and
f. implementation of administrative affairs of the Inspectorate I.

Article 618
Inspectorate I consists of:
a. Administration Subdivision; and
b. Auditor Functional Position Group.

Page 209
- 209 -

Article 619
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
personnel administration, finance, household, mail
correspondence, archives, and documentation of Inspectorate I.

Part Five
Inspectorate II

Article 620
Inspectorate II has the task of carrying out the preparation of
technical policy and implementation of internal control
on performance and finances through audits, reviews ,
evaluation, monitoring, and other supervisory activities,
supervision for certain purposes on the assignment of the Minister,
as well as preparation of reports on the results of supervision in the
Directorate General of Post and Information Technology Administration and
Inspectorate General.

Article 621
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 620, Inspectorate II carries out the following functions:
a. preparation of technical policies for internal control in
the scope of the Directorate General of Postal Administration and
Informatics and the Inspectorate General;
b. preparation of plans and programs for internal control in
the scope of the Directorate General of Postal Administration and
Informatics and the Inspectorate General;
c. internal control of performance and finance
through audits, reviews , and other supervisory activities
within the scope of the Directorate General of Postal Administration and
Informatics and the Inspectorate General;
d. supervision for certain purposes on assignment
Minister;
e. reporting results of supervision; and
f. implementation of administrative affairs of the Inspectorate II.

Page 210
- 210 -

Article 622
Inspectorate II consists of:
a. Administration Subdivision; and
b. Auditor Functional Position Group.

Article 623
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
personnel administration, finance, household, mail
correspondence, archives, and documentation of the Inspectorate II.

Part Six
Inspectorate III

Article 624
Inspectorate III has the task of carrying out supervision
internal performance and finance through audits, reviews ,
evaluation, monitoring, and other supervisory activities,
supervision for certain purposes on the assignment of the Minister,
as well as the preparation of reports on the results of supervision of the Directorate pengawasan
General Information and Public Communication and Agency
Research and Human Resources Development.

Article 625
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 624, Inspectorate III carries out the following functions:
a. preparation of technical policies for internal control in
the scope of the Directorate General of Information and Communication
Public and Research and Development Agency Resources
Human Power;
b. preparation of plans and programs for internal control in
the scope of the Directorate General of Information and Communication
Public and Research and Development Agency Resources
Human Power;
c. internal control of performance and finance
through audits, reviews , and other supervisory activities
within the scope of the Directorate General of Information and Communication

Page 211
- 211 -

Public and Research and Development Agency Resources
Human Power;
d. supervision for certain purposes on assignment
Minister;
e. preparation of inspection report; and
f. implementation of administrative affairs of the Inspectorate III.

Article 626
Inspectorate III consists of:
a. Administration Subdivision; and
b. Auditor Functional Position Group.

Article 627
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
personnel administration, finance, household, mail
correspondence, archives, and documentation of the Inspectorate III.

Seventh Part
Inspectorate IV

Article 628
Inspectorate IV has the task of carrying out the preparation of
technical policy and implementation of internal control
on performance and finances through audits, reviews ,
evaluation, monitoring, and other supervisory activities,
supervision for certain purposes on the assignment of the Minister,
as well as preparation of reports on the results of supervision in the
Directorate General of Informatics Applications and Secretariat
General.

Article 629
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 628, Inspectorate IV carries out the following functions:
a. preparation of technical policies for internal control in
the scope of the Directorate General of Informatics Applications and
General Secretariat;

Page 212
- 212 -

b. preparation of plans and programs for internal control in
the scope of the Directorate General of Informatics Applications and
General Secretariat;
c. internal control of performance and finance
through audits, reviews , and other supervisory activities
within the scope of the Directorate General of Informatics Applications and
General Secretariat;
d. supervision for certain purposes on assignment
Minister;
e. reporting results of supervision; and
f. implementation of administrative affairs of the Inspectorate IV.

Article 630
Inspectorate IV consists of:
a. Administration Subdivision; and
b. Auditor Functional Position Group.

Article 631
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
personnel administration, finance, household, mail
correspondence, archives, and documentation of Inspectorate IV.

Part Eight
Auditor Functional Position Group

Article 632
(1) The Auditor Functional Position Group has duties
assisting the Inspector in carrying out supervision
in accordance with the provisions of the legislation
invitation.
(2) Auditor Functional Position Group consists of
a number of functional auditors at the level
positions regulated based on the provisions of the regulations
legislation.
(3) The Auditor Functional Position Group as
referred to in paragraph (2), coordinated by the official

Page 213
- 213 -

functional senior auditor appointed by the Inspector
General.
(4) The number of functional auditors is determined
based on needs and workload.
(5) The position of the auditor's functional staff is as follows:
referred to in paragraph (2), shall be regulated in accordance with the provisions of
legislation.

CHAPTER IX
BODY
RESOURCES RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
HUMAN

Part One
Position, Duties, and Functions

Article 633
(1) Resource Research and Development Agency
Humans are under and responsible to
Minister.
(2) Research and Development Agency for Resources
Humans are led by the Head of the Agency.

Article 634
Human Resources Research and Development Agency
has the task of conducting research and
development in the field of communication and informatics, as well as
human resource development communication and
informatics.

Article 635
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 634, Agency for Research and Development of Resources
Humans perform functions:
a. formulation of technical policies in the field of research and
development of communication and informatics, as well as

Page 214
- 214 -

human resource development communication and
informatics;
b. implementation of research and development in the field of
communication and informatics, as well as development
human resources for communication and informatics;
c. implementation of evaluation and reporting in the field of research
and development of communication and informatics, as well as
human resource development communication and
informatics;
d. implementation of the administration of research bodies and
human Resource Development; and
e. implementation of other functions assigned by the Minister.

The second part
Organization structure

Article 636
Human Resources Research and Development Agency
consists of:
a. Agency Secretariat;
b. Research and Development Center for Resources,
Equipment, and Implementation of Post and Information Technology;
c. Informatics Application Research and Development Center
and Public Information and Communication;
d. Center for Professional Development and Certification; and
e. Education and Training Center.

Part Three
Agency Secretariat

Article 637
The Secretariat of the Agency has the task of carrying out support
management and technical services to all units
organizations within the Research and Development Agency
Human Resources.

Page 215
- 215 -

Article 638
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 637, Secretariat of the Research and Development Agency
Human Resources performs the following functions:
a. coordination and preparation of plans, programs, and
budgeting, evaluation, and reporting, control
programs and budgets, administration of external technical assistance
country in the field of research and development and
human resource development communication and
informatics;
b. coordination and implementation of data processing and systems
information and public relations in the field of
research and development and development
human resources for communication and informatics;
c. preparation of coordination and implementation of legal affairs
and cooperation in research and development
and human resource development, communication,
and informatics;
d. management of financial affairs within the Agency
Research and Human Resources Development;
e. management of personnel affairs, organization, and governance
as in the Agency for Research and
Human Resource Development; and
f.

management of administrative affairs, household and
equipment, as well as documentation, publications and
library within the Research Agency and
Human Resource Development.

Article 639
Secretariat of the Research and Development Agency for Resources
Human Resources consists of:
a. Program Planning and Reporting Division;
b. Financial department;
c. Personnel and Organization Section; and
d. General Affair.

Page 216
- 216 -

Article 640
The Program Planning and Reporting Section has
the task of carrying out the preparation of coordination and preparation
plans, programs, budgets and reports, control
programs and budgets, evaluation, data processing, and
cooperation administration and law within the Agency
Research and Human Resources Development.

Article 641
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 640, Program Planning and Reporting Section
perform functions:
a. preparation of coordination and preparation of plans, programs,
and budget within the Agency for Research and
Human Resource Development;
b. preparation of program and budget control, evaluation,
coordination of the preparation of program implementation reports,
and data processing within the Agency for Research and
Human Resource Development; and
c. implementation of cooperation administration and law in
Environment Research and Development Agency Resources
Human Power.

Article 642
The Program Planning and Reporting Section consists of:
a. Program Planning and Budget Subdivision;
b. Evaluation and Reporting Subdivision; and
c. Cooperation Subdivision.

Article 643
(1) Program Planning and Budget Subdivision
have the task of preparing materials
coordination and preparation of plans, programs, and
budget within the agency.
(2) Evaluation and Reporting Subdivision has duties
carry out the preparation of program control materials and
budget, evaluation, coordination of report preparation

Page 217
- 217 -

implementation

program,

processing

development of information systems within the Agency
Research and Human Resources Development.
(3) The Cooperation Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of the administration of cooperation and law in
Environment Research and Development Agency Resources
Human Power.

data

and

Article 644
The Finance Department has the task of carrying out
financial management within the Research and Development Agency
Human Resource Development.

Article 645
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 644, The Finance Division carries out the following functions:
a. implementation and evaluation of budget implementation;
b. implementation of the financial treasury; and
c. implementation of bookkeeping and verification.

Article 646
The Finance Section consists of:
a. Budget Implementation Subsection;
b. Treasury Subdivision; and
c. Verification subsection.

Article 647
(1) The Budget Execution Subdivision has the following tasks:
carry out the preparation of implementation and evaluation materials
budget execution.
(2) Subsection

Treasury

To do

have

affairs

system

Duty

effort

finance,

treasury, and bookkeeping.
(3) The Verification Subdivision has the task of carrying out
verification of budget monitoring, and preparation of materials
financial statements.

Page 218
- 218 -

Article 648
The Division of Personnel and Organization has the task of
carry out the management of personnel administration affairs,
organization, management, and employee development in
Environment Research and Development Agency Resources
Human Power.

Article 649
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 648, Division of Personnel and Organization
perform functions:
a. preparation of organizational evaluation materials and management;
b. preparation of personnel administration materials, preparation of
formation and transfer of employees; and
c. preparation of personnel development materials.

Article 650
The Personnel and Organization Section consists of:
a. Sub-Section Organization and Management;
b. Employee Formation and Transfer Subdivision; and
c. Employee Development Subdivision.

Article 651
(1) The Organization and Administration Subdivision has
task of preparing organizational evaluation materials
and management within the Agency for Research and
Human Resource Development.
(2) The Formation and Transfer of Employees Subdivision has:
the task of preparing administrative materials, formations,
and staff mutations within the Research Agency Badan
and Human Resource Development.
(3) The Employee Development Subdivision has duties
carry out the preparation of coordination, planning, and
employee development needs.

Page 219
- 219 -

Article 652
The General Section has the task of carrying out management
administrative affairs, household, equipment, inventory
state property, and procurement management and
publications, documentation, and libraries in the neighborhood
Agency for Research and Human Resources Development.

Article 653
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 652, General Section carries out the following functions:
a. implementation of administrative affairs;
b. implementation of household affairs, equipment, and
inventory of state property;
c. procurement management within the agency; and
d. implementation of publication, documentation, and
library management within the Agency
Research and Human Resources Development.

Article 654
General Section consists of:
a. Administration Subdivision;
b. Subdivision of Household and Equipment; and
c. Subsections of Publications, Documentation, and Libraries.

Article 655
(1) The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
administrative affairs, correspondence, and archives at
Environment Research and Development Agency Resources
Human Power.
(2) The Household and Equipment Subdivision has
the task of doing household chores, equipment,
maintenance, and inventory of property assets
countries within the Agency for Research and
Human Resource Development.
(3) Subsection of Publications, Documentation, and Libraries
has the task of collecting, processing,
preparation, and publication of research and study results,

Page 220
- 220 -

documentation materials, and libraries in the neighborhood
Research and Development Agency for Resources
Human.

Part Four
Research and Development Center
Resources, Devices and Deployment
Post and Informatics

Article 656
Research and Development Center for Resources, Tools,
and the Implementation of Post and Information Technology has the task of
carry out technical policy formulation, implementation,
and monitoring, evaluation, and reporting of research and
development in the field of resources, tools, and
postal and information technology administration.

Article 657
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 656, Center for Research and Development of Resources,
Equipment, and Organization of Post and Information Technology
perform functions:
a. preparation of research technical policy formulation and
development, quality assurance, and utilization
results in the areas of resources, devices, and
postal and information technology administration;
b. preparation of the implementation of research and development,
quality assurance, as well as the utilization of results in the field of
resources, equipment, and administration of post and
informatics;
c. implementation of research evaluation and reporting and
development, quality assurance, and utilization
results in the areas of resources, devices, and
postal and information technology administration; and
d. implementation of central administration.

Page 221
- 221 -

Article 658
Research and Development Center for Resources, Tools,
and Implementation of Post and Information Technology consists of:
a. Field of Research Implementation;
b. Quality Assurance and Results Utilization; and
c. Administration Subdivision.

Article 659
The Field of Research Implementation has the task of
carry out the preparation of the preparation of technical policies,
implementation, evaluation, and reporting of research and
development in the field of resources, tools, and
postal and information technology administration.

Article 660
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article

659,

Field

Maintenance

Research

perform functions:
a. preparation of materials for the preparation of technical policies, programs,
and research and development cooperation in the field of
resources, equipment and administration of post and
informatics;
b. preparation of preparation and implementation materials dan
research and development in the field of resources,
equipment, and administration of post and information technology;
and
c. implementation of research evaluation and reporting and
development in the field of resources, tools, and
postal and information technology administration.

Article 661
The Field of Research Implementation consists of:
a. Program and Cooperation Sub-sector; and
b. Evaluation and Reporting Sub-Sector.

Page 222
- 222 -

Article 662
(1) The Program and Cooperation Sub-sector has the following tasks:
prepare materials for policy making
technical, program, cooperation, research implementation and
development in the field of resources, tools, and
postal and information technology administration.
(2) The Evaluation and Reporting Sub-Sector has duties
prepare materials for the preparation of evaluations and
reporting on the implementation of research and development in
the field of resources, equipment, and maintenance
post and informatics.

Article 663
Quality Assurance and Results Utilization Bidang
has the task of carrying out the preparation of the preparation of
technical policy, implementation, evaluation and reporting
quality assurance and utilization of research results and
development in the field of resources, tools, and
postal and information technology administration.

Article 664
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 663, Quality Assurance and Utilization Sector
Result of holding function:
a. preparation of materials for the preparation of technical policies, standards
and procedures for conducting research and
development in the field of resources, tools, and
postal and information technology administration;
b. preparation of quality assurance implementation materials
research and development, institutional accreditation,
and accreditation of research and development publications in
the field of resources, equipment, and maintenance
post and informatics;
c. preparation of materials for the implementation of the utilization of results
research and development, publishing scientific journals,
and publication of research and development results in

Page 223
- 223 -

the field of resources, equipment, and maintenance
post and informatics; and
d. implementation of quality assurance evaluation and reporting
and utilization of research and development results
in the field of resources, equipment, and maintenance
post and informatics.

Article 665
The field of Quality Assurance and Utilization of Results consists of:
on:
a. Quality Assurance Sub-Sector; and
b. Sub-Sector Utilization of Results.

Article 666
(1) The Quality Assurance Sub-Sector has the following tasks:
prepare materials for policy making
technical standards and procedures, implementation of guarantees
quality, institutional accreditation, and publication accreditation
the results of research and development in the field of sources
power, equipment, and maintenance of post and
informatics.
(2) The Sub-Sector for Utilization of Results has the following tasks:
To do

setup

ingredient

implementation

utilization of results, publishing scientific journals, and
publication of research and development results in the field of
resources, equipment, and administration of post and
informatics.

Article 667
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of budget plans and reports, affairs
staffing, management of state property, archives, and
central household.

Page 224
- 224 -

Part Five
Research and Development Center
Applications of Informatics and Public Information and Communication

Article 668
Center for Research and Development of Informatics Applications and
Public Information and Communication has a duty
carry out technical policy formulation, implementation,
and monitoring, evaluation, and reporting of research and
development in the field of informatics and information applications
and public communications.

Article 669
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 668, Center for Application Research and Development
Informatics and Information and Public Communication
perform functions:
a. preparation of research technical policy formulation and
development, quality assurance, and utilization
results in the field of informatics and information applications and
public communications;
b. preparation of the implementation of research and development,
quality assurance, as well as the utilization of results in the field of
informatics and information and communication applications
public;
c. implementation of research evaluation and reporting and
development, quality assurance, and utilization
results in the field of informatics and information applications and
public communications; and
d. implementation of central administration.

Article 670
Center for Research and Development of Informatics Applications and
Public Information and Communication consists of:
a. Field of Research Implementation;
b. Quality Assurance and Results Utilization; and
c. Administration Subdivision.

Page 225
- 225 -

Article 671
The Field of Research Implementation has the task of
carry out the preparation of the preparation of technical policies,
implementation, evaluation, and reporting of research and
development in the field of informatics and information applications
and public communications.

Article 672
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article

671,

Field

Maintenance

Research

perform functions:
a. preparation of materials for the preparation of technical policies, programs,
and research and development cooperation in the field of
informatics and information and communication applications
public;
b. preparation of preparation and implementation materials dan
research and development in the application field
informatics and public information and communication; and
c. implementation of research evaluation and reporting and
development in the field of informatics applications and
public information and communication.

Article 673
The Field of Research Implementation consists of:
a. Program and Cooperation Sub-sector; and
b. Evaluation and Reporting Sub-Sector.

Article 674
(1) The Program and Cooperation Sub-sector has the following tasks:
prepare materials for policy making
technical, program and cooperation and implementation
research and development in the application field
informatics and information and public communication.
(2) The Evaluation and Reporting Sub-Sector has duties
prepare materials for the preparation of evaluations and
reporting on the implementation of research and development in

Page 226
- 226 -

field of informatics and information applications and
public communication.

Article 675
Quality Assurance and Results Utilization Bidang
has the task of carrying out the preparation of the preparation of
technical policy, implementation, evaluation, and reporting
quality assurance and utilization of research results and
development in the field of informatics and information applications
and public communications.

Article 676
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 675, Quality Assurance and Utilization Sector
Result of holding function:
a. preparation of materials for the preparation of technical policies,
quality assurance, utilization of results, publishing
scientific journals and publications, as well as institutional accreditation
and accreditation of research and development publications in
field of informatics and information applications and
public communications;
b. preparation of materials for the implementation of quality assurance,
utilization of results, publishing scientific journals and
publications, as well as institutional accreditation and accreditation
research and development publications in the field of
informatics and information and communication applications
public; and
c. implementation of quality assurance evaluation and reporting
and utilization of research and development results
in the field of informatics and information applications and
public communication.

Article 677
The field of Quality Assurance and Utilization of Results consists of:
on:
a. Quality Assurance Sub-Sector; and
b. Sub-Sector Utilization of Results.

Page 227
- 227 -

Article 678
(1) The Quality Assurance Sub-Sector has the following tasks:
prepare materials for policy making
technical and implementation of quality assurance, accreditation
institutions and accreditation of research results publications
and development in the field of informatics applications and
public information and communication.
(2) The Sub-Sector for Utilization of Results has the following tasks:
prepare materials for policy making
technical implementation and utilization of results and hasil
publishing scientific journals and publication of research results
and development in the field of informatics applications and
public information and communication.

Article 679
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of budget plans and reports, affairs
staffing, management of state property, archives, and
central household.

Part Six
Center for Professional Development and Certification

Article 680
The Center for Professional Development and Certification has duties
carry out technical policy formulation, implementation,
and evaluation, and reporting of professional development and
certification for state civil servants and the public in the field of
communication and informatics.

Article 681
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 680, Center for Professional Development and Certification
perform functions:
a. preparation of standardization technical policy formulation
competence, professional development, and development
certification system, as well as accreditation of educational institutions

Page 228
- 228 -

and technical training for state civil servants and
community in the field of communication and informatics;
b. preparation of the implementation of competency standardization,
professional development, and certification development,
and accreditation of technical education and training institutions
for the state civil apparatus and the public in the field of
communication and informatics.
c. implementation of standardization evaluation and reporting
competence, professional development, and development
certification, as well as accreditation of educational institutions and
technical training in the field of communication and informatics;
and
d. implementation of central administration.

Article 682
The Center for Professional Development and Certification consists of:
a. Competency Standardization Field;
b. Field of Professional Development;
c. Certification Development Field; and
d. Administration Subdivision.

Article 683
The field of Competency Standardization has duties
carry out the preparation of the preparation of technical policies,
implementation, and monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
standardization of competence for state civil servants and
community in the field of communication and informatics.

Article 684
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article

683,

Field

Standardization

Competence

perform functions:
a. preparation of materials for the preparation of technical policies
standardization of competence for state civil servants and
community in the field of communication and informatics;

Page 229
- 229 -

b. preparation of materials for implementing competency standardization
for the state civil apparatus and the public in the field of
communication and informatics; and
c. implementation of standardization evaluation and reporting
competence for the state civil apparatus and society.

Article 685
The field of Competency Standardization consists of:
a. Sub-sector of Standardization of Communication Competence; and
b. Sub-sector of Standardization of Informatics Competence.

Article 686
(1) Sub-sector of Standardization of Communication Competence
have the task of preparing materials
technical policy formulation, implementation, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting of standardization
competence for the state civil apparatus and the community in
communication field.
(2) Sub-sector of Standardization of Informatics Competence
have the task of preparing materials
technical policy formulation, implementation, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting of standardization
competence for the state civil apparatus and the community in
informatics field.

Article 687
Field

Development

Profession

have

Duty

carry out the preparation of the preparation of technical policies,
implementation, and monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
professional development for state civil servants and
community in the field of communication and informatics.

Article 688
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 687, Professional Development Sector organizes
function:

Page 230
- 230 -

a. preparation of materials for the preparation of technical policies
professional development for state civil servants and
community in the field of communication and informatics;
b. preparation of materials for the implementation of professional development
and management of domestic and foreign scholarships for
state civil apparatus and society in the field of
communication and informatics; and
c. implementation of development evaluation and reporting
professional competence in the field of communication and
informatics.

Article 689
The Field of Professional Development consists of:
a. Sub-sector of Communication Professional Development; and
b. Sub-sector of Informatics Professional Development.

Article 690
(1) Subfield

Development

Profession

Communication

have the task of preparing materials
technical policy formulation, implementation, and
monitoring, evaluation, and development reporting
profession and management of domestic and foreign scholarships
in the field of communication.
(2) Subfield

Development

Profession

informatics

have the task of preparing materials
technical policy formulation, implementation, and
monitoring, evaluation, and development reporting
profession and management of domestic and foreign scholarships
in the field of informatics.

Article 691
The Field of Certification Development has duties
carry out the preparation of the preparation of technical policies,
implementation, and monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
development of certification in the field of communication and
informatics.

Page 231
- 231 -

Article 692
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article

691,

Field

Development

Certification

perform functions:
a. preparation of materials for the preparation of technical policies
development of certification for state civil servants and
community and accreditation of educational institutions and
technical training for state civil servants in the field of
communication and informatics;
b. preparation of materials for implementing certification development
for state and community civil servants and accreditation
educational institutions and technical training for apparatus aparat
state civil servants in the field of communication and informatics; and
c. implementation of development evaluation and reporting
certification and accreditation of educational institutions and
technical training for state civil servants in the field of
communication and informatics.

Article 693
The Field of Certification Development consists of:
a. Communication Certification Development Sub-sector; and
b. Informatics Certification Development Sub-Sector.

Article 694
(1) Sub-sector of Communication Certification Development
have the task of preparing materials
technical policy formulation, implementation, and
monitoring, evaluation, and development reporting
certification, as well as accreditation of educational institutions and
technical training for state civil servants in the field of
communication.
(2) Sub-sector of Informatics Certification Development
have the task of preparing materials
technical policy formulation, implementation, and
monitoring, evaluation, and development reporting
certification, as well as accreditation of educational institutions and

Page 232
- 232 -

technical training for state civil servants in the field of
informatics.

Article 695
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of budget plans and reports, affairs
staffing, management of state property, archives, and
central housekeeping
Seventh Part
Education and Training Center

Article 696
The Education and Training Center has duties
carry out employee development through education
and managerial, technical, and functional training.

Article 697
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 696, The Center for Education and Training organizes
function:
a. preparation of technical policies in the field of education and
managerial, technical, and functional training;
b. implementation of managerial education and training,
technical, and functional;
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting of education and
managerial, technical, and functional training; and
d. implementation of central administration

Article 698
The Education and Training Center consists of:
a. Administration Section;
b. Field of Education and Training
managerial;
c. Field of Education and Training Implementation and
Technical Certification; and
d. Field of Education and Training Implementation and
Functional Certification.

Page 233
- 233 -

Article 699
The Administrative Section has the task of carrying out business
central administration.

Article 700
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 699, the Administrative Section carries out the functions of:
a. implementation of the preparation of program plans and
budgeting, reporting, and cooperation;
b. implementation of financial affairs; and
c. implementation of correspondence, household affairs,
equipment, and staff.

Article 701
The Administration Section consists of:
a. Program, Reporting, and Cooperation Subdivision;
b. Finance Subdivision; and
c. General and Personnel Subsection.

Article 702
(1) Program, Reporting, and Cooperation Subdivision
have the task of making plans
programs and budgets, and reporting and collaboration.
(2) The Finance Subdivision has the task of carrying out
financial affairs.
(3) The General and Personnel Subdivision has duties
do paperwork, household,
equipment, and staff.

Article 703
Field of Management Education and Training
has the task of carrying out policy making
technical, implementation, and monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of managerial education and training.

Page 234
- 234 -

Article 704
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 703, Field of Education and Training
Managerial carry out functions:
a. preparation of materials for the preparation of technical policies in the field of
modules, teaching materials, appointment of teaching staff, and
implementation guidelines in the field of education and
managerial training;
b. preparation of module implementation materials, teaching materials,
determination

power

teacher,

and

guidelines

implementation in the field of education and training
managerial;
c. preparation of materials for the implementation of education and training
managerial; and
d. implementation of evaluation and reporting in the field of
managerial education and training.

Article 705
Field of Management Education and Training
consists of:
a. Sub-sector of Planning and Development; and
b. Sub-sector of Implementation and Evaluation.

Article 706
(1) The Planning and Development Sub-Sector has
the task of carrying out the preparation of preparation materials
technical policies, modules, teaching materials, staffing
teachers, and implementation guidelines
managerial education and training.
(2) The Sub-Sector of Implementation and Evaluation has duties
carry out the preparation of implementation materials, and evaluate
and reporting on the implementation of education and training
managerial.

Article 707
Field of Education and Training Implementation and
Technical Certification has the task of carrying out

Page 235
- 235 -

preparation of technical policies, implementation, and monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of education and training
and technical certification.

Article 708
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 707, Field of Education and Training
and Technical Certification carries out the functions of:
a. preparation of materials for the preparation of technical policies in the field of
modules, teaching materials, appointment of teaching staff, and
implementation guidelines in the field of
education and training and technical certification;
b. preparation of module implementation materials, teaching materials,
determination

power

teacher,

and

guidelines

implementation in the field of education and training and
technical certification;
c. preparation of materials for the implementation of education and training
and technical certification; and
d. implementation of evaluation and reporting in the field of
education and training and technical certification.

Article 709
Field of Education and Training Implementation and
Technical Certification consists of:
a. Sub-sector of Planning and Development; and
b. Sub-sector of Implementation and Evaluation.

Article 710
(1) The Planning and Development Sub-Sector has
the task of carrying out the preparation of preparation materials
technical policies, modules, teaching materials, staffing
teachers, and implementation guidelines
education and training and technical certification.
(2) The Sub-Sector of Implementation and Evaluation has duties
carry out the preparation of implementation materials, and evaluate
and reporting on the implementation of education and training
and technical certification.

Page 236
- 236 -

Article 711
Field of Education and Training Implementation and
Functional Certification has the task of carrying out
preparation of technical policies, implementation, and monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of education and training
and functional certification.

Article 712
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 711, Field of Education and Training
and Functional Certification carries out the functions of:
a. preparation of materials for the preparation of technical policies in the field of
modules, teaching materials, appointment of teaching staff, and
implementation guidelines in the field of education and
functional training and certification;
b. preparation of module implementation materials, teaching materials,
determination

power

teacher,

and

guidelines

implementation in the field of education and training and
functional certification;
c. preparation of materials for the implementation of education and training
and functional certification; and
d. implementation of evaluation and reporting in the field of
education and training and functional certification.

Article 713
Field of Education and Training Implementation and
Functional Certification consists of:
a. Sub-sector of Planning and Development; and
b. Sub-sector of Implementation and Evaluation.

Article 714
(1) The Planning and Development Sub-Sector has
the task of carrying out the preparation of preparation materials
technical policies, modules, teaching materials, staffing
teachers, and implementation guidelines
education and training and functional certification.

Page 237
- 237 -

(2) The Sub-Sector of Implementation and Evaluation has duties
carry out the preparation of implementation materials, and evaluate
and reporting on the implementation of education and training
and functional certification.

CHAPTER X
EXPERT STAFF

Article 715
Expert Staff are under and responsible to
Minister, and administratively coordinated by
Secretary General.

Article 716
Expert Staff consists of:
a. Legal Expert Staff;
b. Expert Staff for Social, Economic, and Cultural Affairs;
c. Expert Staff for Communication and Mass Media; and
d. Technology Expert Staff.

Article 717
(1) Expert Staff for Legal Affairs has the task of providing
recommendations on strategic issues to the Minister
related to law.
(2) Expert Staff for Social, Economic, and Cultural Affairs
have recommendations on strategic issues
to the Minister related to the social, economic,
and culture.
(3) Expert Staff for Communication and Mass Media
has the task of providing recommendations to

strategic issues to the Minister related to the
communication and mass media.
(4) Expert Staff in the Technology Sector has the task of providing
recommendations on strategic issues to the Minister
related to technology.

Page 238
- 238 -

CHAPTER XI
DATA CENTER AND INFORMATION MEANS

Part One
Position, Duties and Functions

Article 718
(1) The Center for Data and Information Facilities is under and
responsible to the Minister through the Secretary
General.
(2) The Center for Data and Information Facilities is led by the Head of
Center.

Article 719
The Data Center and Informatics Facilities have the task of
carry out the management, development, and utilization
information assets in the field of data and information technology facilities.

Article 720
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 719, Data Center and Information Facilities
perform functions:
a. preparation of technical policies in the infrastructure sector,
systems, and data informatics;
b. implementation in the fields of infrastructure, systems, and data
informatics;
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
infrastructure, systems, and data informatics; and
d. implementation of central administration.

The second part
Organization structure

Article 721
The Center for Data and Information Technology consists of:
a. Informatics Infrastructure Sector;
b. System and Data Sector; and

Page 239
- 239 -

c. Administration Subdivision.

Part Three
Informatics Infrastructure

Article 722
The Information Infrastructure Sector has the task of
carry out technical policy formulation, implementation,
and monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the
informatics infrastructure, as well as procurement services
electronic.

Article 723
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article

722,

Field

Infrastructure

informatics

perform functions:
a. preparation of materials for the preparation of technical policies in the field of
maintenance of information assets, technology tools
informatics, servers, internal and inter network devices
ministries/agencies, and backup and central networks
disaster recovery, as well as procurement services;
b. preparation of implementation materials in the field of asset maintenance
information assets, information technology tools, servers,
device

network

internal

and

between

ministries/agencies, and backup and central networks
disaster recovery, as well as procurement services; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
maintenance of information assets, technology tools
informatics, servers, internal and inter network devices
ministries/agencies, and backup and central networks
disaster recovery, as well as procurement services.

Article 724
Informatics Infrastructure Sector consists of:
a. Network Sub-sector;
b. Sub-sector of Information Technology Devices; and
c. Information Security Sub-Sector.

Page 240
- 240 -

Article 725
(1) The Network Sub-Sector has the task of carrying out
preparation of materials for the preparation of technical policies,
implementation, and monitoring, evaluation, and reporting
in the field of maintenance of device information assets
internal and inter-ministerial/institutional networks, as well as
network backup and recovery center.
(2) Sub-sector of Information Technology Devices has:
the task of carrying out the preparation of preparation materials
technical policies, implementation, and monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of management and
maintenance of technology device information assets
informatics, servers , and supporting facilities including
backup and disaster recovery center.
(3) The Information Security Sub-Sector has the following tasks:
prepare materials for policy making
technical, implementation, and monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting on the security and protection of assets
information assets within the Ministry of Communications
and Informatics and procurement services
electronic.

Part Four
System and Data Field

Article 726
The System and Data Sector has the task of carrying out
preparation of technical policies, implementation, and monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of systems and data
informatics.

Article 727
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 726, System and Data Sector performs the following functions:
a. preparation of materials for the preparation of technical policies in the field of
management and maintenance of portals and content,

Page 241
- 241 -

data collection, processing and presentation, as well as
application development;
b. preparation of implementation materials in the field of management and
portal and content maintenance, collection,
processing and presentation of data, as well as development
application; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of
management and maintenance of portals and content,
data collection, processing and presentation, as well as
application development.

Article 728
The System and Data field consists of:
a. Portal and Content Sub-sector;
b. Data Collection and Processing Sub-Sector; and
c. Application Development Sub-Sector.

Article 729
(1) The Portal and Content Sub-sector has duties
prepare materials for policy making
technical, implementation, and monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of portal management and maintenance
and content.
(2) The Data Collection and Processing Sub-Sector has
the task of carrying out the preparation of preparation materials
technical policies, implementation, and monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting in the field of collection,
processing, and presentation of data.
(3) The Application Development Sub-Sector has the following tasks:
prepare materials for policy making
technical, implementation, and monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting in the field of application development.

Page 242
- 242 -

Part Five
Administration Subdivision

Article 730
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and personnel affairs, governance
business, household and equipment, as well as monitoring,
evaluation, and preparation of reports on the implementation of central tasks.

CHAPTER XII
INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTIONAL CENTER

Part One
Position, Duties, and Functions

Article 731
(1) The International Institutional Center is under and
responsible to the Minister through the Secretary
General.
(2) The International Institutional Center is led by the Head of
Center.

Article 732
The International Institutional Center has duties
carry out analysis, advocacy, and management in the field of
international institutional relations.

Article 733
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article

732,

Center

Institutional

International

perform functions:
a. preparation of the preparation of technical policies in the field of
substance analysis, advocacy, and relationship management
international institutions;
b. implementation in the field of substance analysis, advocacy, and
management of international institutional relations;

Page 243
- 243 -

c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting in the field of analysis
substance, advocacy, and relationship management
international institutions; and
d. implementation of central administration.

The second part
Organization structure

Article 734
The International Institutional Center consists of:
a. Multilateral Institutional Sector;
b. Regional Institutional Sector;
c. Bilateral Institutional Sector; and
d. Administration Subdivision.

Part Three
Multilateral Institutional Field

Article 735
The Multilateral Institutional Sector has duties
carry out technical policy formulation, implementation,
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting of substance analysis,
advocacy, and governance of institutional relations
multilateral in the field of resources, tools, and
postal and informatics administration, informatics application,
public information and communication, research and
human resource development, as well as investment and
international communications and informatics market.

Article 736
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article

735,

Field

Institutional

Multilateral

perform functions:
a. preparation of technical policy formulation, analysis
substance, advocacy, and relationship management
multilateral institutions in the field of resources,
equipment, and post and information technology administration,

Page 244
- 244 -

informatics applications, public information and communication,
human resource research and development,
as well as investment and international communications markets and
informatics;
b. preparation of the implementation of substance analysis, advocacy, and
governance of multilateral institutional relations in
the field of resources, equipment, and maintenance
post and informatics, informatics applications, information and
public communication, research and development
human resources, as well as investment and markets
international communications and informatics; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting of substance analysis,
advocacy, and governance of institutional relations
multilateral in the field of resources, tools, and
postal and information technology administration, applications
informatics, public information and communication, research
and human resource development, and
investment and international markets communications and
informatics.

Article 737
Multilateral Institutional Sector consists of:
a. Sub-Section Institutional Resources and Equipment
Post and Informatics, and Research and Development
Multilateral Human Resources;
b. Institutional Sub-Sector of Postal Administration and
Informatics, Informatics Applications, and Information and
Multilateral Public Communications; and
c. Sub-sector of Institutional Investment and Market
International Communication and Informatics
Multilateral.

Article 738
(1) Sub-sector of Institutional Resources and Equipment
Post and Informatics, and Research and Development
Multilateral Human Resources has a duty
prepare the preparation of technical policies,

Page 245
- 245 -

implementation, and monitoring, evaluation, and reporting,
as well as substance analysis, advocacy, and management
multilateral institutional relations in the field of resources
postal and informatics power and equipment, and research
and human resource development.
(2) Sub-sector of Institutional Administration of Post and
Informatics, Informatics Applications, and Information and
Multilateral Public Communication has a duty
prepare the preparation of technical policies,
implementation, and monitoring, evaluation, and reporting,
as well as substance analysis, advocacy, and management
multilateral institutional relations in the field of
postal and information technology administration, applications
informatics, and public information and communication.
(3) Sub-sector of Investment and Market Institutions
International Communication and Informatics
Multilateral has the task of preparing
technical policy formulation, implementation, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting, as well as analysis
substance, advocacy, and relationship management
multilateral institutions in the field of investment and markets
international communications and informatics.

Part Four
Regional Institutional Sector

Article 739
Field

Institutional

Regional

have

carry out technical policy formulation, implementation,
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting of substance analysis,
advocacy, and governance of regional institutional relations in
the field of resources, equipment, and postal administration
informatics, informatics applications, information and communication
public, research and human resource development,
as well as investment and international communications markets and
informatics.

Page 246
- 246 -

Article 740
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 739, Regional Institutional Sector organizes
function:
a. preparation of technical policy formulation, analysis
substance, advocacy, and relationship management
regional institutions in the field of resources, tools,
and administration of post and information technology, applications
informatics, public information and communication, research
and human resource development, and
investment and international markets communications and
informatics;
b. preparation of the implementation of substance analysis, advocacy, and
governance of regional institutional relations in the field of
resources, equipment, and administration of post and
informatics, informatics applications, information and
public communication, research and development
human resources, as well as investment and markets
international communications and informatics; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting of substance analysis,
advocacy, and governance of institutional relations
regional areas in the areas of resources, tools, and
postal and information technology administration, applications
informatics, public information and communication, research
and human resource development, and
investment and international markets communications and
informatics.

Article 741
Regional Institutional Sector consists of:
a. Sub-Section Institutional Resources and Equipment
Post and Informatics, Informatics Applications, and Research
and Regional Human Resources Development;
b. Institutional Sub-Sector of Postal Administration and
Informatics, and Public Information and Communication
Regional; and

Page 247
- 247 -

c. Sub-sector of Institutional Investment and Market
International Communication and Informatics
Regional.

Article 742
(1) Sub-sector of Institutional Resources and Equipment
Post and Informatics, Informatics Applications, and Research
and Regional Human Resources Development
has the task of carrying out the preparation
technical policies, implementation, and monitoring,
evaluation, and reporting, as well as substance analysis,
advocacy, and governance of institutional relations
regional areas in the field of postal resources and equipment and
informatics, informatics applications, and research and
human Resource Development.
(2) Sub-sector of Institutional Administration of Post and
Informatics, and Public Information and Communication
Regional has the task of making preparations
technical policy formulation, implementation, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting, as well as analysis
substance, advocacy, and relationship management
regional institutions in the field of postal administration and
informatics, and public information and communication.
(3) Sub-sector of Investment and Market Institutions
International Communication and Informatics
Regional has the task of making preparations
technical policy formulation, implementation, and
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting, as well as analysis
substance, advocacy, and relationship management
regional institutions in the field of investment and markets
international communications and informatics.

Page 248

Duty

- 248 -

Part Five
Bilateral Institutional Sector

Article 743
Field

Institutional

Bilateral

have

Duty

carry out technical policy formulation, implementation,
monitoring, evaluation, and reporting of substance analysis,
advocacy, and management of bilateral institutional relations
in the field of resources, equipment, and postal management
and informatics, informatics applications, information and
public communications, research and development resources
human resources, as well as investment and international markets
communication and informatics.

Article 744
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 743, Bilateral Institutional Sector organizes
function:
a. preparation of technical policy formulation, analysis
substance, advocacy, and relationship management
bilateral institutions in the fields of resources, tools,
and administration of post and information technology, applications
informatics, public information and communication, research
and human resource development, and
investment and international markets communications and
informatics;
b. preparation of the implementation of substance analysis, advocacy, and
management of bilateral institutional relations in the field of
resources, equipment, and administration of post and
informatics, informatics applications, information and
public communication, research and development
human resources, as well as investment and markets
international communications and informatics; and
c. monitoring, evaluation, and reporting of substance analysis,
advocacy, and governance of institutional relations
bilaterally in the areas of resources, equipment, and
postal and information technology administration, applications

Page 249
- 249 -

informatics, public information and communication, research
and human resource development, and
investment and international markets communications and
informatics.

Article 745
Bilateral Institutional Sector consists of:
a. Sub-Section Institutional Resources and Equipment
Post and Informatics, Research and Development
Human Resources, Investment and International Markets
Bilateral Communication and Information Sector; and
b. Institutional Sub-Sector of Postal Administration and
Informatics, Informatics Applications, and Information and
Bilateral Public Communication.

Article 746
(1) Sub-sector of Institutional Resources and Equipment
Post and Informatics, Research and Development
Human Resources, Investment and International Markets
The field of Bilateral Communication and Informatics has:
the task of carrying out the preparation of policy making
technical, implementation, and monitoring, evaluation, and
reporting, as well as substance analysis, advocacy, and governance
implement bilateral institutional relations in the field of
postal and information technology resources and equipment,
human resource research and development,
as well as investment and international markets
communication and informatics.
(2) Sub-sector of Institutional Administration of Post and
Informatics, Informatics Applications, and Information and
Bilateral Public Communication has a duty
prepare the preparation of technical policies,
implementation, and monitoring, evaluation, and reporting,
as well as substance analysis, advocacy, and management
relationship

institutional

bilateral

in

field

postal and information technology administration, applications
informatics, and public information and communication.

Page 250
- 250 -

Part Six
Administration Subdivision

Article 747
The Administrative Subdivision has the task of carrying out
preparation of program plans and budgets, management
state property, civil service and archival affairs,
and central housekeeping.

CHAPTER XIII
FUNCTIONAL POSITION GROUP

Article 748
Within the Ministry of Communication and Information
Functional Position Groups can be formed in accordance with the
needs.

Article 749
The Functional Position Group has the task of carrying out
activities in accordance with their respective functional positions
based on the provisions of laws and regulations.

Article 750
(1) The Functional Position Group consists of a number of
functional positions that are divided into various groups
functional positions in accordance with their field of expertise.
(2) Respectively

Group

Position

Functional

as referred to in paragraph (1) shall be coordinated
by a functional staff appointed by the Head
Organizational Unit.
(3) The number of functional personnel as referred to in
paragraph (1) is determined based on the needs and burdens
work.
(4) Types and levels of functional positions as referred to
referred to in paragraph (1) shall be regulated based on the provisions of
legislation.

Page 251
- 251 -

CHAPTER XIV
TECHNICAL IMPLEMENTATION UNIT

Article 751
(1) Within the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology
a Technical Implementation Unit can be formed as the executor
certain operational technical tasks and/or technical tasks
certain supporting Directorate General/Agency in accordance
with need.
(2) Establishment of the Technical Implementing Unit as referred to
referred to in paragraph (1) shall be stipulated by Regulation
Minister of Communications and Information Technology after receiving
written approval from the minister who organized
government affairs in the field of state apparatus.

CHAPTER XV
WORKING PROCEDURE

Article 752
In carrying out its duties and functions, the Ministry of
Communication and Informatics must develop a business map
processes that describe effective working relationships
and efficient between organizational units within the Ministry
Communication and Informatics.

Article 753
The Minister submits a report to the President regarding
results of the implementation of government affairs in the field of communication
and informatics periodically or at any time according to
with need.

Article 754
The ministry must prepare a job analysis, job map,
job descriptions, and workload analysis of all
positions within the Ministry of Communications and
informatics.

Page 252
- 252 -

Article 755
Every element in the ministry environment in implementing
the task must apply the principles of coordination, integration, and
synchronization both within the ministry and
in the relationship between government agencies, both central and
as well as area.

Article 756
Each organizational unit leader must implement a system
government internal control in their respective environments
to realize the implementation of accountability mechanisms
public through the preparation of planning, implementation, and
integrated performance reporting.

Article 757
Each organizational unit leader is responsible for leading
and coordinate subordinates and provide
direction, as well as instructions for carrying out the duties of subordinates.

Article 758
Every head of the organizational unit is required to supervise the implementation of
each subordinate's duties and when
deviations are required to take appropriate steps
required in accordance with the provisions of the legislation
invitation.
Article 759
Each organizational unit leader must follow and
comply with instructions and be responsible to superiors
each and submit performance reports individually
periodically on time.

Article 760
In carrying out their duties, each organizational unit leader
must carry out coaching and supervision of the unit
organization under it.

Page 253
- 253 -

CHAPTER XVI
ECHELON, APPOINTMENT AND TERMINATION

Article 761
(1) Secretary General, Director General, Inspector
General, and Head of Agency are structural positions
echelon Ia or Middle High Leadership Position.
(2) Expert Staff is a structural position of echelon Ib or
Middle High Leadership Position.
(3) Head of Bureau, Head of Center, Director, Secretary of Directorate
General, Agency Secretary, Inspector, and Secretary
Inspectorate General is a structural position of echelon II.a
or Primary High Leadership Position.
(4) Head of Section, Head of Sub-Directorate, and Head of Division
is a structural position of echelon III.a or Position
Administrator.
(5) Head of Subdivision, Head of Section, and Head of Subdivision
is a structural position of echelon IV.a or Position
Supervisor.

Article 762
Echelon Ia structural officials who are transferred to positions
Expert staff are still given echelon Ia or leadership positions
Middle Height.

Article 763
(1) Secretary General, Director General, Inspector
General, Head of Agency, and Expert Staff are appointed and
dismissed by the President on the recommendation of the Minister
Communication and Informatics.
(2) Echelon II structural officials or high leadership positions
Primary down is appointed and dismissed by
Minister of Communication and Information Technology.
(3) Echelon III structural officials or Administrator positions
down can be appointed and dismissed by officials
delegated authority by the Minister
Communication and Informatics.

Page 254
- 254 -

CHAPTER XVII
OTHER PROVISIONS

Article 764
(1) Head of Public Relations Bureau other than duties and
its functions as stated in Article 100,
is ex officio as Information Management Officer and
Documentation hereinafter abbreviated as PPID in
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology.
(2) Further provisions regarding duties and responsibilities
PPID's responsibility as referred to in paragraph (1) is regulated
based on the provisions of laws and regulations.

Article 765
Organizational chart of the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology
and organizational units under the Ministry of Communications and
Informatics listed in the Appendix is part of
which is an integral part of this Ministerial Regulation.

Article 766
Changes to the organization and work procedures according to regulations
This is determined by the Minister of Communications and Information Technology
after obtaining written approval from the minister who
carry out government affairs in the field of apparatus
country.

Article 767
Changes in the division of the object of the Inspectorate's supervision
regulated based on this Ministerial Regulation stipulated by
separate legislation.

CHAPTER XVIII
CLOSING

Article 768
At the time this Ministerial Regulation comes into force, all
implementing regulations of the Regulation of the Minister of Communications

Page 255
- 255 -

and Informatics Number 1 of 2016 concerning Organization and Information Technology
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology
declared to remain valid as long as it does not contradict
and/or have not been changed or replaced by regulations
new implementation based on this Ministerial Regulation.

Article 769
At the time this Ministerial Regulation comes into force, all
existing positions and officials holding positions in
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology
as referred to in the Regulation of the Minister of Communications
and Informatics Number 1 of 2016 concerning Organization and Information Technology
Work Procedure of the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology (Berita
The Republic of Indonesia Year 2016 Number 103) remains
carry out their duties and functions until they are regulated
back based on this Ministerial Regulation.

Article 770
At the time this Ministerial Regulation comes into force, Regulation
Minister of Communication and Information Technology Number 1 Year 2016
about the Organization and Work Procedures of the Ministry of Communications
and Informatics (State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia Year
2016 Number 103) is revoked and declared invalid.

Article 771
This Ministerial Regulation comes into force on the
invited.

Page 256
- 256 -

For everyone to know, command
promulgation of this Ministerial Regulation with its placement penempatan
in the State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia.

Set in Jakarta
on July 19, 2018

MINISTER OF COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,

signed.

RUDIANTARA

Promulgated in Jakarta
on August 2, 2018

DIRECTOR GENERAL
LEGISLATION
MINISTRY OF LAW AND HUMAN RIGHTS
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,

signed.

WIDODO EKATJAHJANA

STATE GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA YEAR 2018 NUMBER 1019
Copies match the original
Ministry of Communication and Informatics
Head of law firm,

Bertiana Sari
Initials:
Head of Bandok:

Page 257
- 257 -

ATTACHMENT
RULES

MINISTER

COMMUNICATION

AND

INFORMATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
NUMBER 6 YEAR 2018
ABOUT
MINISTRY ORGANIZATION AND WORKING PROCEDURES
COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION

ORGANIZATIONAL CHART OF THE MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION AND
ORGANIZATIONAL UNIT UNDER THE MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATION AND
INFORMATION

Organizational Chart of the Ministry of Communications and Organizational Units below
Ministry of Communication and Information Technology as follows:

a. Organizational Structure of the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology;
b. Organizational Structure of the Secretariat General;
c. Organizational Structure of the Directorate General of Resources and Equipment
Post and Information Technology;
d. Structure

Organization

Directorate

General

Maintenance

Post and Information Technology;
e. Structure

Organization

Directorate

Informatics Applications;
f.

Organizational Structure of the Directorate General of Information and Communication
Public;

g. Inspectorate General Organizational Structure;
h. Organizational Structure of the Research and Development Agency Pengembangan
Human;

Page 258

i.

Organizational Structure of Data Center and Information Facilities; and

j.

Organizational Structure of the International Institutional Center.

General

ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATICS

Page 259
- 259 -

Page 260
- 260 -

ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
SECRETARIAT GENERAL

Page 261
- 261 -

Page 262
- 262 -

Page 263
- 263 -

Page 264
- 264 -

Page 265
- 265 -

Page 266
- 266 -

Page 267
- 267 -

Page 268
- 268 -

ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
DIRECTORATE GENERAL
RESOURCES AND DEVICES
POST AND INFORMATION

Page 269
- 269 -

Page 270
- 270 -

Page 271
- 271 -

Page 272
- 272 -

Page 273
- 273 -

Page 274
- 274 -

Page 275
- 275 -

ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
DIRECTORATE GENERAL OF ORGANIZATION
POST AND INFORMATION

Page 276
- 276 -

Page 277
- 277 -

Page 278
- 278 -

Page 279
- 279 -

Page 280
- 280 -

Page 281
- 281 -

Page 282
- 282 -

Page 283
- 283 -

ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
DIRECTORATE GENERAL
INFORMATION APPLICATION

Page 284
- 284 -

Page 285
- 285 -

Page 286
- 286 -

Page 287
- 287 -

Page 288
- 288 -

Page 289
- 289 -

Page 290
- 290 -

Page 291
- 291 -

ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
DIRECTORATE GENERAL
PUBLIC INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION

Page 292
- 292 -

Page 293
- 293 -

Page 294
- 294 -

Page 295
- 295 -

Page 296
- 296 -

Page 297
- 297 -

Page 298
- 298 -

Page 299
- 299 -

ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
INSPECTORATE GENERAL

Page 300
- 300 -

Page 301
- 301 -

ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
HUMAN RESOURCES

Page 302
- 302 -

Page 303
- 303 -

Page 304
- 304 -

Page 305
- 305 -

Page 306
- 306 -

Page 307
- 307 -

Page 308
- 308 -

ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
CENTER
DATA AND INFORMATION MEANS

Page 309
- 309 -

Page 310
- 310 -

ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE
CENTER
INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTIONS

Page 311
- 311 -

MINISTER OF COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,
signed.
RUDIANTARA

