Page 1

COPY
PRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
GOVERNMENT REGULATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
NUMBER Tl YEAR 2OI9
ABOUT
PEI!ry ELECTRONIC SYSTEM AND TRANSACTION ORGANIZATION

BY THE GRACE OF GOD THE ALMIGHTY GOD

PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,

a. that with the development of information technology,

Weigh

very rapidly in order to encourage growth
digital economy and enforcement of state sovereignty over
electronic information in the territory of the Republic of Indonesia

Indonesia, necessary arrangements as a whole

utilization of information technology and electronic transactions;

b. that Government Regulation Number 82 of 20 12
regarding the Operation of Electronic Systems and Transactions
is no longer in accordance with the development needs
community law so that it needs to be replaced;

c. that based on the considerations referred to in

in letter a and letter b, it needs to stipulate Regulation

Government on System Implementation and
Electronic Transactions;

l. Article 5 paragraph (2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Indonesia

Remember

Indonesia in 1945;

2. Law Number

I of 2008 concerning Information
and Electronic Transactions ( State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia)
Indonesia Year 2OO8 Number 58, Supplementary sheet
State of the Republic of Indonesia Number 4843) seb, gaimana
has been amended by Law Number 19 Years
2016 concerning Amendments to Law Number I I
1

Year 2O08 concerning Information and Electronic Transactions
( State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia Year 2O16 Number

251, Supplement to the State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia
Number 5952);

DECIDE:...

SK No011683 A

Page 2

PRESIDENT

REPUELIC OF TNONESTA

2DECIDING:
Set

GOVERNMENT REGULATION ON PEI{ORGANIZATION
ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS AND TRANSACTIONS.

PIG
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
Article 1

In this Government Regulation what is meant by:

l. Electronic System is a series of devices and

procedure electronics are functioning. prepare,
collect, process, analyze, store,
display, announce, transmit, and/or
disseminate Electronic Information.

2. Electronic Transactions are legal acts that
carried out using a computer, network

computers, and/or other electronic media .

3. Electronic Agent is a device of a System

Electronics are made to perform an action

against a certain Electronic Information directly
automatically organized by People.

4. Electronic System Operator is any Person,

the organizers state, the Agency business, and society

which provide, manage, and / or
operate System Electronics is individually

or jointly to System Users

Electronics for his own needs and/ or needs
other party.

5. Public Scope Electronic System Operators are
Organization of Electronic Systems by Agencies

Organizers of the State or institution which is appointed by the

Agencies Penyilenggara.Negara.

6. Private Scope Electronic System Operators are

implementation of Electronic Systems by Persons, Entities
Business, and society.

7. Ministries or Institutions are Agencies
State Administrators in charge of supervising and
issue regulations for the sector.
8. Information. . .

SK No011684 A

Page 3

PRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

3-

8. Electronic Information is one or a collection of Data

Electronics, including but not limited to writing,
sound, image, map, design, photo, eledrontc data
interchange (EDI), electronic mail ( electronic mail ,
telegram, telex, telecopg or the like, letters, signs,
numbers, Access codes, symbols, or perforations that have been
processed that have meaning or can be understood by people
who can understand it.

9. Electronic Document is any Electronic Information
created, forwarded, sent, received, or

stored in the form of analog, digital, electromagnetic,
optical, or the like, which can be viewed, displayed,
and/ or heard via

computer or System

Electronics, including but not limited to writing,
sounds, pictures, maps, designs, photographs or the like,
letters, signs, numbers, Access codes, symbols or perforations
which has meaning or meaning or can be understood by
someone who can understand it.

10. Information Technology is a

technique for

collect, prepare, store, process,
announce, analyze, and/or disseminate
information.

1

1. Electronic System User is any Person,

the organizers state, the Agency business, and society

that utilizes goods, services, facilities, or
information provided by the System Operator
Electronic.

12. Device Hardware is one or a series of tools that
connected in the Electronic System .
13. Software Software is one or a set of programs
computers, procedures, and/or related documentation
in the operation of Electronic Systems .
14. Electronic System Feasibility Test is a series of

the process of objectively assessing each
Electronic System components, whether carried out manually
independently and/or carried out by institutions that
competent and competent.

15. Access is the activity of interacting with

Electronic systems that stand alone or in

network.

16. Implementation. . .

SK No. 01 1685 A

Page 4

FRESTDEN

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-416. Implementation of Electronic Transactions is a series of
Electronic Transaction activities carried out by
Sender and Receiver by using System
Electronic.

17. Electronic Contract is an agreement of the parties that
made through the Electronic System .

18. The sender is a legal subject who sends

Electronic Information and/or Electronic Documents .

19. Recipient is a legal subject who receives
Electronic Information and/or Electronic Documents from
Sender.

20. Electronic Certificate is a certificate which is
electronic documents containing Electronic Signatures and
identity that shows the status of the legal subject of the para

21.

the parties in the transaction Electronics are issued by
Electronic Certification Operator .
Electronic Certification Operator is an agency

law that functions as a worthy party

trusted, which provides and audits Certificates
Electronic.

22. Electronic Signature is a signature that
consists of Information Electronics are attached,
associated with or related to Electronic Information
others that are used as verification tools and
authentication.

Marker 23. Hand is the subject of law which
being associated or linked with the Signs Hand
Electronic.

24. Electronic Signature Making Device is
Device Software or device Hardware that
configured and used to create Signs
Electronic Hand .

25. Electronic Signature Creation Data is code
personal code , biometric code , cryptographic code , and/ or code
which resulted from the conversion of manual signatures
become an Electronic Signature , including other codes
which resulted from the development of Information Technology.

26.Institutions...

SK No011686 A

Page 5

FRESIDENT

REFUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-526. l, Reliability Certification Institute is an institution

independent organization formed by recognized professionals ,

approved, and supervised by the Government with
authority to audit and issue certificates
Reliability in Transalsi Electronics.

27. Certificate of Reliability is a document that certifies
Business communities are organized Transactions
The electronics have passed the audit or conformity test from
Reliability Certification Institute .

28. Business Actor is any individual or
Business Entities , whether in the form of legal entities or
not a legal entity , which is established and domiciled
or carry out activities within the jurisdiction of the State
Republic of Indonesia, are individually and

together, through a maintenance agreement
business activities in various economic fields .

29. Personal Data is any data about a good person
were identified and / or can be identified by

alone or in combination with other information
both are directly and not indirectly through
Electronic and /or non- electronic systems .
30. Electronic Data is data in electronic form which

not limited to text, sound, images, maps,

designs, photos, electronic ideals interchange (EDI), letters
electronics (electronic mail1, telegram, telex, teleapg or
the like, letters, signs, numbers, access codes, symbols,
or perforation.

31. Domain name is the address internet penyeldnggara
state, person, business entity, and/ or society,
which can be used to communicate via
internet, in the form of a code or character arrangement that
is unique to indicate a specific location in the
Internet.
32. Domain Name Registry is the operator which

be responsible for the conduct of management,
operation, and maintenance of the organization
Domain Name Electronic System .

33. Domain Name Registrar is a Person, Business Entity ,
or the community that provides registration services
Domain Name .
34. Users. . .

SK No011687 A

Page 6

PRESIDENT

REPUELIC OF INDONESIA

-634. Domain Name Users are Persons, Agencies
State Administrators , Business Entities, or the public
who applied for registration for the use of the Name
Domain to the Registrar Name Domain.

35. Agencies Organizers state that the next

called Agencies are institutions of legislative, executive, and
judiciary at the central and regional levels and other agencies
which is formed by the rules of law.
36. People are individuals, both citizens of the state
Indonesia, citizens of foreign, as well as the body of law.
37. Business Entity is an individual company or
partnership companies , both legal entities
and that no entity law.
38. Government is the Minister or other official who

appointed by the President.

39. Minister is the minister who organizes the affairs of
government in the field of communication and informatics.
CHAPTER II
ELECTRONIC SYSTEM OPERATION

Part One
General
Article 2

(1) Electronic System Operation is carried out by
Electronic System Operator .

(21 Electronic System Operators as referred to in
in paragraph (1) includes:

a. Public Scope Electronic System Operator ; and
b. Private Scope Electronic System Operator .
(3) Public Scope Electronic System Operator
include:

a. agency; and
b. an institution that is designated by the Agency.
(4) Operator . . .

SK No 011688 A

Page 7

FRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-7

(4) Public Scope Electronic System Operator
as referred to in paragraph (2) letter a does not

including Scope of Electronic System Operators
The public which is the regulatory and supervisory authority
financial sector .

(5) Private Scope Electronic System Operator
as referred to in paragraph (2) letter b includes:

a. Electronic System Operator that is regulated or
b.

supervised by the Ministry or the Institution based on the
provisions of laws and regulations; and
Electronic System Operators that have portals,

sites, or applications in the network via the Internet
used for:
1. provide, manage, and/or
operate bidding and/or
trade in goods and/ or services;

2. provide, manage, and/or
operate financial transaction services ;

3. delivery of paid digital materials or content

through the data network either by downloading
via portal or site, mail delivery
electronically, or through other applications to the device
users;

4. provide, manage, and/or

operate communication services including

but not limited to short messages ,
voice call , video call , mail

electronics, and conversations within the network in

form of digital platforms , networking services and
social media ;

5. service engine search, service provision

Electronic information in the form of writing,
sound, picture, animation, music, video, film, and

game or a combination of some
and/ or in its entirety; and/ or

6. processing of Personal Data for activities
serve the public operations are related
with Electronic Transaction activities .
Article 3...

SK No011689 A

Page 8

FRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-8Article 3

(1) Every Electronic System Operator must
organizes Systems Electronics is a reliable and
safe and responsible for its operation
Electronic System as it should be.

(2) Electronic System Operators are responsible
on the operation of its Electronic System .

(3) The provisions as referred to in paragraph (2) do not
applies in the event that it can be proven that the occurrence of a situation
coercion, error, and/or negligence of the parties
Electronic System Users .
Article 4

As long as it is not specified otherwise

Constitution

separately, each Electronic System Operator must
operate an Electronic System that meets
minimum requirements as follows:

a. can re- display Electronic Information
and/ or Electronic Documents in their entirety according to
with a retention period determined by regulations
legislation;

b. protect the availability, integrity, authenticity,
confidentiality, and accessibility of Electronic Information
in the operation of the Electronic System ;

c. can operate according to procedures or instructions
in the operation of the Electronic System ;

d. equipped with procedures or instructions that

e.

announced with language, information, or symbols that
can be understood by the parties concerned with the
the operation of the Electronic System ; and
have a sustainable mechanism to maintain

novelty, clarity, and responsibility
procedures or instructions.
Article 5

(1) Electronic System Operators are required to ensure
The Electronic System does not contain Electronic Information
and/or Electronic Documents that are prohibited according to
with statutory provisions .
(2) Operator. . .

SK No011690 A

Page 9

FRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-9(2) Electronic System Operators are required to ensure:
The Electronic System does not facilitate
dissemination of Electronic Information and/or

Electronic Documents that are prohibited in accordance with
statutory provisions .

(3) Provisions regarding the obligations of the System Operator
Electronic as referred to in paragraph (1) and paragraph
(2) regulated by a Ministerial Regulation.

Part Two
Electronic System Registration
Article 6

(1) Each Electronic System Operator as referred to in
referred to in Article 2 paragraph (2) is obliged to carry out
registration.

(21 Obligation to register for Operators
Electronic System is done before Electronic System
started to be used by Electronic System Users .

(3) Electronic System Operator Registration
as referred to in paragraph (1) shall be submitted to
Minister through service license sought
integrated in electronic accordance with the provisions
laws and regulations.

(4) Further provisions regarding registration
Electronic System Operator as referred to
in paragraph (3) refers to norms, standards, procedures,
and criteria are set by regulation.
Part Three
Hardware
Article 7

(1) Hardware that is used by the Operator
Electronic Systems must:
a. meet the aspects of security, interconnectivity and
compatibility with systems that use;

b. have technical support services ,

maintenance, and/or after-sales from the seller or
provider; and

c. have a service continuity guarantee .
(2) Fulfillment . . .

SK No011691 A

Page 10

FRESIDENT

REFUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-10-

(2) Fulfillment of the requirements as

referred to in paragraph (1) must be carried out through
certification or other similar evidence .
Part Four
device Software
Article 8

Device Software that is used by the Operator System
Electronics must:

a. guaranteed safety and reliability of operations as
should; and

b. ensure service continuity .
Article 9

(1) Developers who provide Software that

specially developed for System Operators
Electronic Public Scope must submit code
sources and documentation of the Software to
The agency or institution concerned.

(2) The agency or institution that is concerned as

(3)

referred to in paragraph (1) must store the source code
and documentation of the Software referred to in
facilities in accordance with statutory provisions .
In the event that the facilities as referred to in paragraph (2)
not yet available, Agencies or institutions can save
source code and documentation of the Software

to the third- reliable storage code
source.

(4) Developers are required to guarantee the acquisition and/or Access
to the source code and documentation of the Device

Soft to trusted third parties as
referred to in paragraph (3).

(5) Public Scope Electronic System Operators are required to
guarantee the confidentiality of the source code of the Software

were used and only used for

the interests of the Electronic System Operator Scope
Public.
(6) Provisions. . .

SK No 011692 A

Page 11

FRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

- 11-

(6) The provision is further regarding the obligation handover
source code and documentation of the Software
to the agency or institution as intended

in paragraph (l) and source code storage and
documentation of the Software to third parties
reliable as referred to in paragraph (3) is regulated
by Ministerial Regulation.
Part Five
power Expert
Article 10

(1) Energy experts are used by the Operator System
Electronics must have competence in the field of Systems
Electronics or Information Technology .
(21 Energy experts as referred to in paragraph (1) shall
comply with the provisions of laws and regulations.
Part Six
Tata Manage Systems Electronics
Article 11

(1) The Electronic System Operator must guarantee:
a. availability of service level agreement ;
b. availability of information security agreement
c.

towards services Information Technology services that
used; and
information security and means of communication
internally organized.

(21 Electronic System Operators as referred to in
referred to in paragraph (1) must ensure that every
components and integration of all Electronic Systems
operates as it should.
Article 12

Electronic System Operators must implement
management risk against kemsakan or losses that

caused.
Article 13. . .

SK No 011693 A

Page 12

PRESIDENT

BLIK INDONESIA

-t2Article 13

Electronic System Operators must have policies
order management, procedure ker.ya operation, and mechanisms
audits are conducted periodically for Systems Electronics.
Article 14

(1) Electronic System Operators are required to implement

the principle of protecting Personal Data in conducting
processing of Personal Data includes:

a. Personal Data collection is carried out by
limited and specific, valid in law, fair,

with the knowledge and consent of the owner

Personal data;

b. processing of Personal Data is carried out in accordance with
her tqiuan;

c. Personal Data processing is carried out by
guarantee the rights of the owner of the Personal Data;

d. Personal Data processing is carried out by email,
complete, not misleading, up -to-date, can
accountable, and pay attention
the purpose of processing Personal Data;

e. Personal Data processing is carried out by
protect the security of Personal Data from loss,
misuse, access and disclosure of that
not valid, as well as the alteration or destruction of data
Personal;

f. Personal Data processing is carried out by
notify tqiuan collection, activity
processing, and Data protection failure
Personal; and

g. processing of Personal Data is destroyed and/ or
deleted unless it is still in the appropriate retention period

with needs based on provisions
laws and regulations.

l2l Processing of Personal Data as referred to in
paragraph (1) includes:

a. acquisition and collection;
b. processing and analysis;
c. storage;
d. fixes and updates;
e. appearance . . .

SK No011694 A

Page 13

FRESTDEN

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-13-

e. appearances, announcements, transfers,
dissemination, or disclosure; and/ or

f. deletion or destruction.
(3) Processing of Personal Data must comply with the provisions
there is a valid consent from the owner of the Personal Data
for 1 (one) or several specific purposes that have been
submitted to the owner of the Personal Data.

(4) In addition to the approval as referred to in

paragraph (3), the processing of Personal Data must meet
provisions are needed for:

a. fulfillment of the obligations of the agreement in the case of the owner
Data Privacy is one of the parties or
to fulfill the request of the owner of Personal Data
at the time will make an agreement;

b. fulfillment of the legal obligations of the Data controller

Personal in accordance with the provisions of the regulations
legislation;

c. fulfillment of the protection of legitimate interests (uital
interest) the owner of the Personal Data;

d. implementation of the authority to control Personal Data
based on the provisions of the legislation
invitation;

e. fulfillment of the obligations of the Personal Data controller
in public services for the public interest ;

f.

and/or
fulfilling the interests of the legitimate more than
Personal Data controller and/or Data owner
Personal.

(5) If there is a failure in protecting the Data
The person it manages, the System Operator
Electronic must notify in writing
to the owner of the Personal Data.

(6) Provisions regarding the technical processing of Personal Data

arranged in accordance with the provisions of the regulations pemndanginvitation.
Article 15

(1) Every Electronic System Operator must
delete Electronic Information and/or Documents
Electronics are not relevant are located at the bottom
control at the request of the person concerned.

(2) Obligations . . .

SK No011695 A

Page 14

FRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-14(21 Obligation to delete Electronic Information and/or
Electronic Documents which are not relevant as
referred to in paragraph (1) consists of:
a. san eraser (right to eraser; and

b. removal from search engine listings (right to
deli.stingl.

(3) Electronic System Operators who are required to remove

Electronic Information and/or Electronic Documents
as referred to in paragraph (1) is
Electronic System Operators that obtain
and / or process the Personal Data in under control.
Article 16

(1) Electronic Information and/or Electronic Documents that
not relevant , right to removal

e-mail as referred to in Article 15 paragraph (2)
letter a consists of Personal Data which:

a. obtained and processed without the owner's consent
Personal data;

b. the consent has been withdrawn by the data owner
Personal;

c. obtained and processed by way against
law;

d. is no longer suitable for the purpose of acquisition
based on the agreement and/or terms
regulatory law ;

e. its use has exceeded the appropriate time

by agreement and/or regulatory provisions ketentuan
legislation ; and / at au

f. displayed by the Electronic System Operator
which results in loss to the Data owner
Personal.

(21 Obligation to delete Electronic Information and/or
Electronic Documents as referred to in paragraph
(1) does not apply in the case of Electronic Information
and / or Document Electronics are required to be recorded
or prohibited to be deleted by the System Operator

Electronics in accordance with regulatory provisions
legislation.

Article 17. . .

SK No011696 A

Page 15

FRESTDEN

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-15Article 17

(U Deletion of Electronic Information and/or Documents
Electronics that are not relevant are done

(21

expenditure of the list of engines search (rigru to delistingl
as referred to in Article 15 paragraph (2) letter b
carried out by court order.
Application for deletion of Information

Electronic and/ or Electronic Documents to
local district court is carried out by a person who

concerned as the owner of the Personal Data in accordance
with the provisions of the legislation.

(3) Application for stipulation of deletion as referred to in
referred to in paragraph (2) must contain:
a. the identity of the applicant;
b. the identity of the Electronic System Operator and/ or
Electronic System address ;
c. Data Privacy which is not relevant in under control

. Electronic System Operator ; and
d. the reason for the deletion request.
(4) In the event that the court grants the request
stipulation of deletion as referred to in

paragraph (2l., Electronic System Operators must

(5)

perform deletion of Electronic Information and/ or
Documents Electronic are not relevant.
The court stipulation as referred to in paragraph
(4) becomes the basis for request for deletion of Information

Electronic and/ or Electronic Documents that are not

relevant by a person who is concerned to
Electronic System Operator .
Article 18

(1) Every Electronic System Operator must
provide information deletion mechanism

Electronic and/ or Electronic Documents that have been

not relevant in accordance with the provisions of the regulations
legislation.

(21 The elimination mechanism as referred to in
paragraph (l) shall at least contain provisions regarding:

a. provision

SK No011697 A

Page 16

FRESIDENT

FEPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-16a. provision of communication channels between Operators
Electronic System with the owner of Personal Data;

b. Electronic Information deletion feature and/or
Electronic Documents which are not relevant to the
allows the owner of the Personal Data to do
deletion of his Personal Data; and

c. data collection on request for deletion Information
Electronic and/or Electronic Documents that are not
relevant.

(3) Further provisions regarding the mechanism
deletion as referred to in paragraph (1) and
paragraph (21 is regulated by Ministerial Regulation.

(4) Provisions regarding the deletion mechanism in
certain sectors can be made by the Ministry or
Relevant institutions after coordinating with the Minister.
Article 19

(1) The Electronic System Operator must implement the
kelota Systems Electronics are good and accountable.

(21 Governance as referred to in paragraph (1) at least
slightly meet the requirements:

a. the availability of procedures or instructions in
maintenance of Electronic Systems that

'

documented and/or announced by

language, information, or symbols understood by
parties are associated with the implementation of systems
the electronics ;

b. there is a sustainable mechanism for
maintain the novelty and clarity of the procedure guidelines
implementation;

c. their institutional and completeness of personnel

support for the operation of Electronic Systems
as appropriate;

d. the implementation of performance management on the system
the electronics . held for
ensure the Electronic System is operational
as appropriate; and
e. existence . . .

SK No 011698 A

Page 17

PRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-t7e. there is a plan to maintain continuity
the administration of the Electronic System it manages.

(3) In addition to the requirements as referred to in paragraph (21,
The relevant ministry or agency can determine

requirement other that specified in the regulations
legislation.

Article 20

(1) The Electronic System Operator for the Public Scope is obliged to
have an activity continuity plan for

deal with disturbances or disasters in accordance with
the risk of its impacts .

(21 Public Scope Electronic System Operators must

perform management, processing, and/or
Electronic System and Electronic Data storage in
Indonesian territory .

(3) Public Scope Electronic System Operators may
perform management, processing, and/or
Electronic System and Electronic Data storage in

(4)

outside the territory of Indonesia in terms of storage technology
not available in the country.
Criteria storage technology is not available in the
country as referred to in paragraph (3) is determined

by a committee consisting of ministries that
carry out government affairs in the field of

communication and informatics, institutions in charge of
the affairs of the assessment and application of technology, institutions

in charge of cyber security affairs , and
(5)
(6)

Relevant Ministry or Institution .
The formation of the committee as referred to in paragraph
(4) determined by the Minister.
In the event that the Electronic System Operator Scope

Pubtik uses third party services ,

Public Scope Electronic System Operators must

classify the data according the risk that

caused.
(71 Further provisions regarding data classification according to
the risk as referred to in paragraph (6) is regulated
by Ministerial Regulation.
Article 21 ...

SK No011699 A

Page 18

FRESIDENT

REFUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-18Article 21

(1) Private Scope Electronic System Operators may
perform management, processing, and/or
Electronic System and Electronic Data storage in
territory of Indonesia and / or in the outer region of Indonesia.

(21 In the case of Electronic Systems and Electronic Data

do the management, processing, and / or
Storage in

the outer region of Indonesia, the Operator
The Private Scope Electronic System is required to ensure
effectiveness of supervision by Ministries or Agencies
and law enforcement .

(3) Private Scope Electronic System Operators are obligated to
provide Access to Electronic Systems and Data

Electronics for monitoring and enforcement pengawasan
law in accordance with the provisions of the legislation
invitation.

(4) Provisions regarding the management, processing, and
Electronic System and Electronic Data storage for
Private Scope Electronic System Operators in the . sector
finances are further regulated by regulatory authorities and
financial sector supervisor .

Ketqiuh Part

Electronic System Operation Security
Article 22

(1) Electronic System Operators are required to provide
audit track record of all activities
Electronic System operation .

(21 Audit track record as referred to in paragraph (1)
used for monitoring, enforcement purposes
law, dispute resolution, verification, testing, and
other checks.
Article 23

Electronic System Operators are required to perform
security of Electronic System components .

Article 24 . . .

SK No. 01 1700 A

Page 19

FRESIDENT
REPUBL]K INDONESIA

-19Article 24

(1) Electronic System Operators are required to have and
carry out procedures and means for security

Electronic Systems in avoiding interference,

failure, and loss.

(2) Electronic System Operators are required to provide
a security system that includes procedures and systems
prevention and response to threats and

attacks that cause disruption, failure, and
loss.

(3) In the event of a system failure or disturbance that
serious impact as a result of the actions of the parties
other against Electronic Systems , System Operators
Electronics must secure Electronic Information
and/or Electronic Documents and immediately report

in the first opportunity to the enforcement officers

(4)

law and related Ministries or Institutions .
The provision is more about system security
as referred to in paragraph (2) is regulated in
regulations of the head of the institution that implements urLlsan
administration in the field of security Siber.
Article 25

Electronic System Operators are required to re- display
Electronic Information and / or Documents Electronic manner
intact in accordance with the format and period of retention are determined
based on the provisions of the laws and regulations.
Article 26

(1) Electronic System Operators are required to maintain
confidentiality, integrity, authenticity, accessibility,
availability, and traceability of information
Electronic and/or Electronic Documents in accordance with
provisions of laws and regulations.

(21 In

the operation of Electronic Systems which
intended for Electronic Information and/or

Electronic Documents which can be transferable,
Electronic Information and/ or Electronic Documents
must be unique and describe mastery and
ownership.

Article 27 ...

SK No 0117O'l A

Page 20

FRESIDENT

Republic of Indonesia

-20Article2T

System Operator must guarantee
the functioning of the Electronic System in accordance with the
its designation, with due regard to
The Electronic

interoperability and compatibility with Electronic Systems
before and / or Systems Electronics are related.
Article 28

(1) Electronic System Operators are required to perform
education to Electronic System Users .

(21 Education as referred to in paragraph (1) at least
little about the rights, obligations, and responsibilities responsibilities

all related parties , as well as the submission procedure
complain.

Article 29

Electronic System Operators are required to submit
information to Electronic System Users at least
about:

a. the identity of the Electronic System Operator ;
b. the object being transacted;
c. the feasibility or security of the Electronic System ;
d. procedures for using the device;
e. contract terms ;
f. procedures for reaching agreement;
g. guarantee of privacy and/or protection of Personal Data; and

h. complaint center telephone number .
Article 30

(1) Electronic System Operators are required to provide litur
according to the characteristics of the Systems Electronics that
use it.

(21 Features as referred to in paragraph (1) at least
in the form of facilities for:

a. do . .
SK No0117OZ A

Page 21

PRESIDENT
REFUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-2ta. make corrections;
command;
b. me
c. provide confirmation or reconfirmation;
d. choose to continue or stop doing<execute
next activity;

e. see the information that is presented in the form of bid
Electronic Contracts or advertisements;

f. check the status of successful or failed transactions
Electronic; and

.

C. read the agreement before making a transaction
Electronic.

Article 31

Electronic System Operators are required to protect
its users and the public area of the losses that
caused by the Electronic System it operates.
Article 32

(1) Everyone who works in the neighborhood
Electronic System operations are required to secure
and protect Electronic System facilities and infrastructure

or information that is channeled through the System
Electronic.

(21 Electronic System Operators are required to provide,
educate, and train personnel on duty and
shall be liable to the security and

protection of Electronic System facilities and infrastructure .
Article 33

For the purposes of the criminal justice process , the Organizer

Electronic Systems are required to provide Electronic Information
and/or Electronic Data contained in the System

Electronics or Electronic Information and/ or Data
Electronics are produced by Electronic Systems on
a valid request from an investigator for a criminal offense
in accordance with the authority stipulated in the
Constitution.

Section . . .

SK No011703 A

Page 22

FRESTDEN
Republic of Indonesia

-22Part Eight

Electronic System Feasibility Test

Article 34

(1) Electronic System Operators are required to perform
Electronic System Eligibility .

(21 The obligations as referred to in paragraph (1) may be
implemented on all or part of the components

components in the Electronic System in accordance with
characteristics of protection needs and strategic nature
Electronic System operation .
Ninth Part
Supervision

Article 35

(1) The Minister is authorized conduct surveillance against
Electronic System operation .

(2\ Supervision as referred to in paragraph (l)
includes monitoring, controlling, checking,
search and security.

(3) Provisions regarding supervision over
Electronic Systems in certain sectors waJl
by the relevant Ministry or Institution

made
after

coordinate with the Minister.
CHAPTER III
PEI{ELECTRONIC AGENT ORGANIZATION

Part One

Electronic Agent
Article 36

(1) System Operator

could

operate their own Electronic System or
through an Electronic Agent .
(2) Agent...

SK No 011704 A

Page 23

FRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
'

-23-

(2\ Electronic Agent as referred to in paragraph (1)
is part of the Electronic System .

(3) The obligations of the Electronic System Operator apply
mutatis mutandis to the organizers of the Agent
Electronic.

l4l Electronic Agents can take the form of:
a. visual;
b. audio;
c. Electronic Data ; and
d. other forms .
Article 37

(1) Electronic Agent Operators are required to load or
convey information to protect rights
users on Electronic Agents who
held, includes at least information
about:

a. the identity of the Electronic Agent operator ;
b. the object being transacted;
c. the eligibility or safety of the Electronic Agent ;
d. procedures for using the device;
e. contract terms ;
f. procedures for reaching agreement;
g. guarantee of privacy and/or protection of Personal Data ;
and

h. complaint center telephone number .
(21 Electronic Agent Operators are required to contain or
provide features in order to protect the rights

users on Electronic Agents who

according to the characteristics of the Agent

(3)

The electronics it uses.
The features as referred to in paragraph (21 are:
facilities for:

a. make corrections;
b. cancel the order;
c. provide confirmation.or reconfirmation;
d. . choose to continue or stop executing
' next activity;
e. see . . .

SK No. 01'1705 A

Page 24

FRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-24-

e. see the information that is presented in the form of
Electronic Contract bids or advertisements;

f. check the status of successful or failed transactions;
and/ or

g. Read the agreement before making a transaction.
(41 Electronic Agent Operators must provide features
on the Electronic Agent it operates which
allows users to make changes
information that is still in the transaction process .
Article 38

(1) Electronic Agent can be held for more than

1 (one) interest of the Electronic System Operator

based on an agreement between the parties.

(21 The agreement as referred to in paragraph (1) must
load at least:

a. rights and obligations;
b. responsibility; responsibility;
c. complaint mechanism and dispute resolution;
d. time period;
e. cost;
f. service coverage; and
g. choice of law.
(3) In the event that the Electronic Agent is held for more than
of 1 (one) interest of the System Operator

Electronics, organizers Agents Electronics mandatory
give the same treatment to
Electronic System Operators that use
the Electronic Agent .

(4) In the event that the Electronic Agent is organized for
interests of more than I (one) System Operator
Electronic organizers Electronics Agents of the
considered as Electronic System Operator
separately.
Section . . .

SK No 011706 A

Page 25

FRESTDEN

REFUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-25Part Two
Obligations
Article 39

(1) In the operation of the Electronic Agent , the operator
Electronic Agents must observe the principles:

a. prudence;
b. security and integration of technology systems
Information;

c. security control over Transaction activities
Electronic;

d. cost effectiveness and efficiency; and
e. consumer protection in accordance with the provisions
laws and regulations.

(21 Electronic Agent Operators are required to have and
run the procedure the standard operation of the
comply with the principles of data security control
users and Electronic Transactions .

(3) The principle of controlling user data security and
Electronic Transactions as referred to in
verse (21 includes:

a. confidentiality;
b. integrity;
c. availability;
d. authenticity;
e. authorization; and
f. irresistibility.
Article 40

(1) Electronic Agent Operators are required to:
a. perform identity authentication tests and

check Electronic System User authorization
the Transactions Electronic;
b. have . . .

SK No 011707 A

Page 26

PRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-26-

b. have and implement policies and procedures
to take action if there are indications
teq'adi data theft ;

c. ensure control over authorization and

Access rights to systems, databases, and applications
Electronic Transactions ;

d. develop and implement methods and procedures
to protect and/or keep secret

integrity of data, records and related information
Electronic Transactions ;

e. have and implement standards and
control over use and protection

data if the service provider has access
to the data;

f. have a business continuity plan including
contingency plans are effective to ensure

availability of Electronic Transaction systems and services
on an ongoing basis ; and

g. have procedures handling of events was unexpected

which quickly and precisely to reduce the impact
an incident, fraud and System failure
Electronic.

(21 Electronic Agent Operators are required to prepare and
establish procedures to guarantee Transactions
Electronic so it ca n't be denied by
consumer-

CHAPTER IV
ELECTRONIC TRANSACTION ORGANIZATION

First Chart

Scope of Operation Transactions Electronic
Article 4 1

(1) Implementation of the Transaction Electronics can do
in the public or private sphere .
(2) Implementation. . .

SK No 01'1708 A

Page 27

PRESTDEN

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-27 (21 Implementation of Electronic Transactions within the scope of

the public includes the Implementation of Electronic Transactions
by:

a. agency;
b. an institution that is designated by the Agency;
c. inter-Agency;
d. an institution that is appointed;
e. between the Agency and the appointed institution ; and
f. between Agencies or institutions with Business Actors
in accordance with the provisions of the legislation

invitation.

(3) Implementation of Electronic Transactions within the scope of
private sector includes Electronic Transactions :

a. between business actors ;
b. between Business Actors and consumers; and
c. interpersonal.
The second part
Electronic Transaction Operational Requirements

Article 42

(1) Implementation of Electronic Transactions is mandatory
using the Electronic Certificate which is issued by
Indonesian Electronic Certification Operator .

(2) Implementation of Electronic Transactions may
using a Certificate of Reliability.

(3) In case of using Reliability Certificate
as referred to in paragraph (2), the Implementation of

Electronic Transactions must use Certificates
The reliability of which was published by the Institute for Certification
Registered reliability .
Article 43

Implementation of Electronic Transactions carried out
by the Electronic System Operator for the Public Scope must
pay attention to aspects of safety, reliability, and efficiency.
Article 44...

SK No011709 A

Page 28

FRESTDEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-28Article 44

(1) The sender is obliged to ensure that the Electronic Information
sent properly and not be intrusive.

L2L provision more about the delivery of Information

Electronics are regulated in a Ministerial Regulation.
Part Three
Electronic Transaction Requirements
Article 45

(l) the Electronic Transactions that do the parties
give legal consequences to the parties.

(21 Implementation of Electronic Transactions conducted
the parties must pay attention to:

a. good faith ;
b. the precautionary principle;
c. transparency;
d. accountability; and
e. fairness.
'

Article 46

(1) Electronic Transactions can be made based on

Contract Electronic or form of contractual Other
as a form of agreement made by the

party.

(21 Electronic Contracts are considered valid if:

a. there is an agreement of the parties;
b. performed by the subject of law that conversation or that

authorized to represent in accordance with the provisions
laws and regulations;

c. there are certain things; and
d. the object of the transaction must not conflict with
regulatory legislation ,. decency, and
public order.
Article 47...

SK No011710 A

Page 29

PRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-29Article 47

(1) Contract Electronics and forms of contractual other
as referred to in Article 46 paragraph (1) which

addressed to the Indonesian population must be made
in Indonesian.

(21 Contracts Electronics are made with clause raw
must be in accordance with the provisions of the standard clauses

as regulated in the laws and regulations
invitation.

(3) The Electronic Contract shall at least contain:
a. identity data of the parties;
b. objects and specifications;
c. requirements for Electronic Transactions;
d. price and cost ;
e. procedures in the event of a cancellation by the
party;

f. provisions that give rights to parties who

harmed to be able to return the goods
and/ or request a product replacement if
there are hidden defects ; and

g. choice of law for the settlement of Electronic Transactions .
Article 48

(1) Business Actors who offer products through the System
Electronics must provide complete information
and correctly with respect to the terms of the contract, the manufacturer,
and products that are offered.

(21 Business Actors are required to provide clarity of information
about contract offers or advertisements.

(3) The perpetrator Enterprises shall provide limit the time to
consumers and/or contract recipients 'for
return the goods delivered and / or services that

provided if it is not in accordance with the contract or

(4)

there are hidden defects .
Business Actors are required to submit information regarding

goods that have been shipped and / or services that
provided.

(5) Actors . . .

SK No 011711 A

Page 30

PRESIDENT
REPUELIC OF TNDONESIA

-30-

(5) Business actors can not burden consumers
the obligation to pay the goods are shipped

and / or services are provided without the basic contract.
Article 49

(1) Electronic Transactions occur on time achievement
agreement of the parties.

(21 Unless other by the parties, the agreement
as referred to in paragraph (1) occurs at the moment
deals transactions that are sent by the sender has
received and approved by the Recipient.

(3) The agreement as referred to in paragraph (2) may
done by:

a. act of acceptance which stated
approval; or

b. the act of receiving and/or using the object
by Electronic System Users .
Article 50

(1) In the Implementation of Electronic Transactions , the parties
must guarantee:

a. providing correct data and information; and
b. availability of facilities and services and solutions
complaint.

(21 In the Implementation of Electronic Transactions of the parties
should determine the choice of law in equilibrium
on the implementation of Electronic Transactions .
CHAPTER V
ELECTRONIC CERTIFICATION ORGANIZATION

First Chart

Electronic Certificate
Article 51

(1) The Electronic System Operator as referred to
in Article 2 paragraph (21 must have a certificate)
Electronic.

(2) User .

SK No 0117'12 A

Page 31

FRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

- 31 -

(21 Electronic System Users can Sistem
Electronic Certificate in Electronic Transactions .

(3) In order to have an Electronic Certificate , the Operator
Electronic Systems and Electronic System Users must

submit an application to the Operator
Indonesian Electronic Certification .

l4l In case of need, the Ministry or t embaga can

require Electronic System Users to use
Electronic Certificate in Electronic Transactions.

(5) Further provisions regarding the use of Certificates
The electronics as referred to in paragraph (4) are regulated
by the Ministry or Institution.

(6) Provisions more about the procedure how to have
Electronic Certificates are regulated in a Ministerial Regulation.
Part Two

Electronic Certification Operator
Article 52
The Electronic Certification Operator is authorized to:

a. examination of prospective owners and/or certificate holders
Electronics, Electronic Certificate issuance ,

extension of the validity period of the Electronic Certificate ,
blocking and revocation of Electronic Certificates ,
Electronic Certificate validation ; and list generation
Electronic Certificates are active and which repealed; and

b. creation, verification, and validation of the Mark
Electronic Hands and/ or other services that
using Electronic Certificates.
Article 53

(1) Electronic Certification Operators consist of:
a. Indonesian Electronic Certification Operator ; and
b. Electronic Certification Operators .
(21 Implementation of Indonesian electronic certification
adheres to the principle of one parent.

(3) Operator. . .

SK No011713 A

Page 32

FRESIDENT

Republic of Indonesia

-32-

(3) Indonesian Electronic Certification Operators are required to
get recognition from the Minister with a parent
to the main Electronic Certification Operator that
organized by the Minister.

(41 Indonesian Electronic Certification Operators must
get an assessment of the agency certification
Accredited Electronic Certification Operator .

(5) Foreign Electronic Certification Operators who
operating in Indonesia must be registered in Indonesia.

(6) Further provisions regarding registration
Foreign Electronic Certification Operators as
referred to in paragraph (5) shall be regulated in a Ministerial Regulation.
Article 54

(1) Recognition of Electronic Certification Operators
Indonesia as referred to in Article 53 paragraph (3)
given by the Minister after the Certification Operator

Indonesian electronics meet process requirements
recognition which is set in the Ministerial Regulation.

(21 List of acknowledgments of Electronic Certification Operators
Indonesia including the services convening
created, maintained, and published by the Minister.

(3) The provision more about the procedure of recognition
Indonesian Electronic Certification Operators are regulated
in the Ministerial Regulation.
Article 55

(1) The Indonesian Electronic Certification Operator has the right to
earn income by charging fees
services from Electronic Certificate users .

(2) Indonesian Electronic Certification Operators are obligated
deposit any revenue from service fee

the use of Electronic Certificate which is calculated from
percentage of income to the state.

(3) The income as referred to in paragraph (1) and
paragraph (21 is non- tax state revenue.
Bagran . .

Decree No. 011,714 A

Page 33

PRESTDEN

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-33Part Three
Supervision
Article 56

(1) The Minister of conduct surveillance against:
a. implementation of Indonesian electronic certification ;
and

b. Operator of foreign Electronic Certification.
(21 Supervision for the implementation of certification
Indonesian electronics as referred to in paragraph
(l) letter a includes:

a. recognition; and
b. operation of the Certification Operator facilities
Main electronics for Certification Operators
Indonesian Electronics .

(3) Further provisions regarding supervision

implementation of Indonesian electronic certification and
Foreign Electronic Certification Operators are regulated in
Ministerial regulation.
Part Four

Service Operator Certification Electronics
Paragraph I
General
Article 57

(1) Indonesian Electronic Certification Operator
providing services which are certified.
(21 Services as referred to in paragraph (1) include:

a. Electronic Signature ; and/ or
b. other services that use Certificates
(3)

Electronic.
Other services as referred to in paragraph (2) letter
b includes:
a. electronic seal ;
b. electronic time markers ;
c. registered electronic delivery service ;
d. authentication

.

SK No 011715 A

Page 34

PRESTDEN

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-34-

d. website authentication ; and/or
e. Preservation of Electronic Signatures and/or seals
electronic.
Article 58

(1) Indonesian Electronic Certification Operator
bear the losses were caused by
Intentional or negligence to Person, Business Entity

or the Agency due to its failure to comply
its obligations as stipulated in the Regulations

this government .
(21 Indonesian Electronic Certification Operators are considered
intentionally or negligently unless the Certification Operator

Electronics Indonesia are able to prove

(3)

that the loss occurred not because of deliberate or
his negligence.
The responsibility of proving against intentional or

negligence that made by the parties is not
Indonesian Electronic Certification Operators become
sole responsibility of the person, the Agency Business or Agency
who suffered losses.
Paragraph 2
Electronic Signature
Article 59

(1) Electronic Signatures are used in
Electronic Transactions can be generated through various
signing procedure .

L2L In terms of the use of sign Hand Electronics

representing a Business Entity , its Electronic Signature
called to seal the electronics.

(3) Signs Hand Electronics as referred to in
paragraphs (1) and (2) have legal force and
legal consequences as long as they meet the requirements
as follows:

a. Related Electronic Signature Creation Data
only to the Signatories;

b.Data...
SK No 011716 A

Page 35

FRESTDEN

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-35-

b. Electronic Signature Creation Data at the time

the electronic signing process only resides
in the power of the Signatories;

c. any changes to the Sign of the Hand
Electronics that happened after time
the signing can be known;

d. any changes to Electronic Information
related to Electronic Signature
The after time signature can
is known;

e. There are ways particular that used to
identify who the Signer is; and

f. There are ways particular to show that
Markers Hand has been giving consent
of the Electronic Information that is relevant.
Article 6O

(1) Signs Hand Electronic serves as a tool
authentication and verification of:

a. Signer's identity ; and
b. integrity and authenticity of Electronic Information.
(21 Electronic Signatures include:

a. Certified Electronic Signature ; and
b. Electronic Signature is not certified.
(3) Signs Hand Electronic certified as
referred to in paragraph (2) letter a must:

a. fulfill the validity of the legal force and consequences
Electronic Signature law as

referred to in Article 59 paragraph (3);

b. using Sertifrkat Electronics are made by

Indonesian Electronic Certification Operator services ;
and

c. created by using Device Makers
Certified Electronic Signature .
(4) Sign.

.

.

SK No 011717 A

Page 36

FRESIDENT
INDONESIAN REPUELTK

-36(41 Signs

Hand Electronics is not certified
as referred to in paragraph (2) letter b is made
without using the services of a Certification Provider
Indonesian Electronics .

Paragraph 3
Electronic Signature Creation Data
Article 6l

(1) Data Preparation Signs Hand Electronics should be
unique refers only to the Signer and can be
used to identify the Signer.

(2) Electronic Signature Creation Data as referred to in
referred to in paragraph (1) may be made by the Operator
Sertifi kasi Electronics.

(3) Data Preparation Signs Hand Electronics as
referred to in paragraph (1) and paragraph (21 must meet
conditions:

a. if using cryptographic code , Creation Data

Electronic Signatures must not be able to
easy to determine from the data verification Signs Hand

Electronics through certain calculations , in
period of time, and with the tools that are reasonable;

b. Data Creation Signs Hand Electronics
stored in an electronic media that

are in the control of the Signatories ; and

c. data related to mandatory Signer
stored in a place or data storage facility ,

that uses a trusted system belonging to
Electronic Certification Operators that can
detect changes and comply
requirements:

1. The only people who were given the authority to
enter new data , change, swap,
or replace data;

2. The information identity markers Hands can
checked for authenticity; and
3.. change

..

.

SK No011718 A

Page 37

FRESIDENT
PUELIC INDONESIA

-37-

3. Other technical changes that violate

security requirements can be detected or
known to the organizers.

d. if Electronic Signature Creation Data

made by Electronic Certification Operator
then the whole process of making Data Creation
Signs Hand Electronic guaranteed security and
confidentiality by the Certification Operator
Electronic.

(4) Markers Hands must maintain confidentiality and
shall be liable on Data Creation Signs Hand

Electronic.
Article 62

(1) During the signing process, it must be done
mechanism to ensure Mark verification data

Electronic Hands related to Manufacturing Data
Electronic Signature is still valid or not
revoked.

(21 In the signing process must be done
mechanisms to ensure the Data Creation Signs
Electronic Hand :

a. not reported missing;
b. not reported changing hands to people
who are not entitled; and

c. is in the power of the Signatories.
(3) Prior to signing, Information
The electronics to be signed must be known
and understood by the Signatories.

(4) Signer's Agreement on Information
Electronic to be signed with Sign
Electronic Hand must use mechanism
affirmations and/or other mechanisms that show
the intent and purpose Markers Hands for bound
in an Electronic Transaction .

(5) Electronic Signature on Electronic Information
most bit:

a. made...
SK No011719 A

Page 38

PRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-38-

a. created using Sign Creation Data
Electronic Hand ; and

b. include the time of signing.
(6) Change of Electronic Signature and/or Information
Electronics were signed after time
signing must be known, detected, or
identified by a certain method or by means of
certain.
Article 63

(1) Markers Hands can entrust Data Creation
Electronic Signature to the Operator
Electronic Certification.

l2l Electronic Signature Creation Data as

referred to in paragraph (1) may be entrusted only to
Indonesian Electronic Certification Operator .

(3) In the case of Electronic Certification Operator
save Electronic Signature Creation Data ,
Electronic Certification Operators are required to:

a. ensure the use of Data Creation Signs

Hand Electronics only be in power
Signer;

b. using the Signature Generator

Certified electronics in storage
Data Creation Signs Hand Electronics; and

c. ensure mechanisms are used to
the use of Data Creation Signs Hand
Electronics for Signs Hand Electronics
apply a combination of at least 2 (two) factors

authentication.

(4) Provisions regarding Signature Generator
Certified electronics as referred to in
paragraph (3) letter b is stipulated in a Ministerial Regulation.
Article 64

(1) Before nda Hand Electronics in use,
Electronic Certification Operators are required to ensure
initial identification of the Signer by:

a. marker . .

.

SK No 011720 A

Page 39

FRESIDENT

REFUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-39-

a. Signer conveys identity to
Organizers Sertifi cation Electronics;

b. Signer registers to
Electronic Certification Operator ; and

c. in case required, the Operator Sertilikasi

Electronics can bestow in secret the data
identity of the Signer to the Operator
Other Electronic Certification with approval
Signer.

(2) Mechanisms used for the use of Data
Making the sign of Hand Electronics for Signs
Electronic Hand applies the fewest combinations
2 (two) authentication factors.

(3) The electronic information verification process that
signed can be done by checking the data
Elektr6nik Signature verification to browse
any changes to the signed data .

Paragraph 4

Electronic Seal
Article 65

Settings regarding Electronic Signatures apply
mutatis mutandis against electronic seal settings .
paragraph 5
Electronic Time Marker
Article 66

The electronic timekeeping service consists of:

a. service markers electronic time certified; and
b. service markers electronic timing is not certified.
Article 67

(1) Requirements for certified electronic time markers
must meet the following requirements

:

a bind

SK No 011721 A

Page 40

PRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-40-

a. bind date and time to Information

Electronic and/or Electronic Documents for

prevent the possibility of Electronic Information

and/or Electronic Documents are changed without
detected;

b. refers to the relevant accurate time source
with coordinated universal clock ;

c. using the Electronic Certificate which is made by

Indonesian Electronic Certification Operator services ;
and

d. signed using sign Hand
Elektrcjnik or electronic seal that
organized by the Certification Operator
Electronic Indonesia or using the method

are equivalent.

(21 markers while electronically certified must
provide:

a. the date and time are accurate; and
b. integrity of Electronic Information and/ or Documents
Electronics are associated with the date and time
that.

(3) Service marker electronic timing not certified
made without using the services of the Operator
Indonesian Electronic Certification .

(41 provision more about the markers of time
certified electronics is regulated by a Ministerial Regulation.
Paragraph 6

Service Delivery Electronic Listed
Article 68

The registered electronic delivery service consists of:
a

certified registered electronic delivery service ;
and

b

delivery service
certified .

electronic registered not
Article 69...

SK No011722 A

Page 41

PRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF TNONESTA

-41 Article 69

(1) Certified Electronic Certification Operators who
providing electronic delivery services
certified registered must guarantee:
a,
the integrity of the data that is in
b.
The sender of the data can be identified;
c.
The recipient of the data can be identified; and
d.

accuracy of delivery date and time and
data reception .

(21 Certified registered electronic delivery service
as referred to in paragraph (1) must meet
minimum requirements:

a. organized by I (one) or more
^ Indonesian Electronic Certification Operators ;
can identify the sender with accurate;

b.
c. can identify the Recipient address before
data transmission ;

d. sending and receiving data is secured by
e,

Signs Hands Electronics and seals electronics from
Indonesian Electronic Certification Operator ;
changes in data in the process of sending or
receipt of data can be known by the sender and
Receiver; and

f. time and date of delivery, receipt, and

data changes can be displayed with markers

certified electronic time.

(3) If data transmission involves 2 (two) or more

Indonesian Electronic Certification Operators , all
requirements as referred to in paragraph (2)
applies to all Certification Operators
Electronic Indonesia were involved.

(4) Service delivery electronically recorded no
certified made without using services

(5)

Indonesian Electronic Certification Operator .
Provisions more about the service delivery
electronic records are regulated by a Ministerial Regulation.

' Paragraph 7 . .

SK No 011723 A

.

Page 42

PRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-42Paragraph 7

Authentication Site Web
Article 7O

The site authentication web consists of:

a. authentication sites web certified; and
b. website authentication is not certified.
Article 71

(l) Electronic Certification Operators who

website authentication service must have method
reliable person who is able to identify the Person or

Agency Enterprises that are responsible for the
maintenance of websites that use the service
website authentication .

(21 Authentication sites web aims
trust in transactions

for

menJamm

by

electronic

through the website.

(3) Certified website authentication must use
Electronic Certificate which is made by the services of the Operator
Sertifi kasi Electronics Indonesia.

(4) Information that must be included in the Electronic Certificate
used for website authentication include
but not limited to:

a. name of Person, Business Entity , or Agency
website organizer ;

b. the address of the Person, Business Entity, or Institution at least
a little explaining the domicile city of People, Badan

' The business, or agency operates;

c. Domain Name operated by the organizer
site web;

d. the validity period of the Electronic Certificate;
e. the identity of the Electronic Certification Operator who
issue Electronic Certificates; and

f. Electronic Certificate number .
(5) Authentication...

SK No011724 A

Page 43

PRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-43(5) site authentication web is not certified made without
use the services of an Electronic Certification Operator
Indonesia.

(6) The provision is more about site authentication web
certified as referred to in paragraph (3) is regulated
by Ministerial Regulation.
Paragraph 8
Preservation of Electronic Signatures and/or Electronic Seals

ArticleT2

(1) Preservation of Electronic Signatures and/or seals
electronics consist of:

a. Preservation of Electronic Signatures and/ or seals
certified electronics; and

b. Preservation of Electronic Signatures and/or seals
uncertified electronics.

(21 Preservation of Electronic Signatures and/ or seals
certified electronics must meet the following requirements:

a. menggunakaa Certificate Electronics are made by

Indonesian Electronic Certification Operator services ;
and

b. Signs Hand Electronic and / or seal electronic

tersertilikasi are contained in the Information
Electronic and/or Electronic Documents still
can be validated despite the validity period of the Certificate
The electronics are out.

(3) Preservation of Electronic Signatures and/ or seals
uncertified electronics made without using
Indonesian Electronic Certification Operator services .

(4) The provision is further regarding the preservation Signs
Electronic Hand and/or electronic seal
certified is regulated by a Ministerial Regulation.

BABVI ...

SK No 011725 A

Page 44

PRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-44CHAPTER VI
RELIABILITY CERTIFICATION AGENCY

Article 73

(1) Business Actors who

Transaction

Electronics can be certified by Certification bodies
Reliability.

(21 Reliability Certification Bodies must be domiciled in
Indonesia.

(3) The Reliability Certification Agency is established by professionals.
l4l professionals who form the Institute for Certification
The reliability as referred to in paragraph (3) at least

a bit covers the profession:
a. Information Technology consultant ;

b. Information Technology auditors ; and
c. legal consultant in the field of Information Technology.

(5) Reliability Certification Bodies must be registered in
register Institution Certification Reliability who published
by the Minister.

(6) Conditions, more about requirements

formation lrmbaga Certification Reliability regulated
by Ministerial Regulation.
Article T4

(1) Reliability Certificate aims to protect consumers
in Electronic Transactions .

(21 Certificate of Reliability as referred to in paragraph
(1) constitutes a guarantee that the Business Actor has
meet the criteria determined by the institution
Reliability Certification .

(3) Business Actors who have met the criteria as
referred to in paragraph (2) has the right to use the Certificate

Reliability on websites and/ or Electronic Systems
other.

Article 75. . .

SK No 011726 A

Page 45

FRESIIIEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-45Article 75

(1) The Reliability Certification Agency may issue
Certificate of Reliability through the Certification process
Reliability.

(21 Reliability Certification Process as referred to
in paragraph (l) includes examination of information

that complete and correct from business communities and their
Electronic System .

(3) The information that is complete and correct as
referred to in paragraph (2) includes but is not limited to
on information that:

a. contains the identity of the Business Actor;
b. contains protection policies and procedures
privacy;

c. contains security policies and procedures
system; and

d. contains a guarantee statement for the goods and/or
services are offered.

Article 76

(1) Reliability Certificate issued by the Institution
Reliability Certification covers the following categories:

a. identity registration;
b. Electronic System security ; and
c. privacy policy .
(2) Fulfillment of the categorization as
referred to in paragraph (1) determines the Certificate level
Reliability.

(3) The provision is more advanced on setting the level
Reliability Certificate as referred to in paragraph
(2) regulated by a Ministerial Regulation.
Article 77

Supervision of the Reliability Certification Institute
implemented by the Minister.
Article 78...

SK No 011727 A

Page 46

FRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-46Article 78

(U To obtain recognition of Certification Bodies
Reliability is subject to an administration fee .

(21 Any income on administrative costs as
referred to in paragraph (1) is state revenue
not pqiak.
CHAPTER VII
DOMAIN NAME MANAGEMENT
Article 79

(1) Domain Name Management is held by
Domain Name Manager.

(21 Domain Names consist of:

a.. Generic high level Domain Name ;
b. Indonesian high- level Domain Names ;
c. Second- level Indonesian Domain Names ; and
d. Indonesian Domain Name derived level.
(3) business Name Domain as referred to in
paragraph (1) consists of:

a. Domain Name Registry ; and
b. Registrar Name Domain
Article 8O

(1) business Name Domain as referred to in
Article 79 paragraph (3) can be implemented by the Government

and/or society.

(21 The community as referred to in paragraph (1) must
Indonesian legal entity .

(3) Domain Name Manager is determined by the Minister.
.Article 81

(1) Domain Name Registry as referred to in

Article 79 paragraph (3) letter a carries out management
Name Domain level generic high and Domain Names
Indonesian high level .
(2) Registry. . .

SK No 0117?8 A

Page 47

FRESIDENT
REFUELIC INDONESIA

-47 -

l2l Domain Name Registry can authorize

generic high- level Domain Name registration and
Indonesian high level Domain Name to Registrar
Domain Name .

(3) Domain Name Registry functions:
a. provide input to the regulatory plan
Domain Name to the Minister;

b. perform supervision of the Registrar Name
Domain; and

c. resolve Domain Name disputes .
(4) Further provisions regarding settlement
Domain Name dispute as referred to in
paragraph (3) letter c shall be regulated by a Ministerial Regulation.
Article 82

(1) Registrar Name Domain as referred to in
Article 79 paragraph (3) letter b implement management

Name Domain Indonesia the level of the second and the name

(2 \

Indonesian domain derived level .
Registrar Name Domain consists of:

a. Registrar Name Domain Agencies; and
b. Registrar Name Domain besides Agencies.
(3) Registrar Name Domain Agencies implement
second level Indonesian Domain Name registration and

Indonesian Domain Name derived level for
agency needs .

(4) Registrar of the Agencies Domain Name as intended
in paragraph (3) is implemented by the Minister.

(5) For military purposes , Domain Name Registrar
The agency as referred to in paragraph (3)

carried out by the minister who organizes
government affairs in the field of defense and
security.

(6) Domain Name Registrars other than Agencies do
second level Indonesian Domain Name registration
for commercial and non-commercial users .

L7L Registrar Name Domain besides Agencies shall be registered
to the Minister

Article 83...

SK No011729 A

Page 48

FRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-48Article 83

(l) Domain Name Registration is carried out based on
first registrant principle .

l2l Domain name registered as intended

in paragraph (1) must meet the following requirements:

a. in accordance with the provisions of the legislation
invitation;

b. decency prevailing in society; and
c. good faith .
(3) Domain Name Registry and Domain Name Registrar
authorized:

a. refuse registration Name Domain if Name

The domain does not meet the requirements as
referred to in paragraph (2);

b. temporarily disable name usage
Domain; or

c. delete the Domain Name if the user's Name

Domain violates the provisions in the Rules
this government .
Article 84

(1) Registry Name Domain and Registrar Name Domain compulsory
shall manage the Domain Name is
accountable.

(21 In the case of a Domain Name Registry or a Name Registrar
Domain intends to end its management, Registry

Domain Names or Registrar Name Domain compulsory
hand over all Domain Name management to
Minister no later than 3 (three) months in advance.
Article 85

(1) Domain Name indicating Agency only
can be registered and/ or used by the Agency
concerned.

(2) institutions

.. .

SK No 011730 A

Page 49

FRESIDENT

Republic of Indonesia

-49(21 Agencies must use the appropriate Domain Name
with the name of agencies that concerned.
Article 86

(1) Domain Name Registry and Domain Name Registrar
accept Domain Name registration upon application
Domain Name User.

(21 Domain Name Users as referred to in
paragraph (1) is responsible for Domain Names which
registered it.
Article 87

(l) The registry Name Domain and / or Registrar Name Domain
entitled to income by collecting

registration fee and/or use of Domain Name
from Domain Name Users .

(21 In the case of Domain Name Registry and Name Registrar
Domain as referred to in paragraph (1)
is a Domain Name manager other than the Agency,

Domain Name Registry and Domain Name Registrar are mandatory
deposit a portion of the income from registration and
the use of the Domain Name is calculated from the percentage
income to the state.

(3) The income as referred to in paragraph (1) and
state revenue as referred to in paragraph (2)
a reception state is not a tax.

Article 88

Supervision of management

Domain

Name

implemented by the Minister.

Article 89

Provisions more about the requirements and procedures for ways
the determination of Domain Name managers is regulated in the Regulations
Minister.

CHAPTER VIII ...
SK No 011731 A

Page 50

FRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-50CHAPTER VIII
GOVERNMENT ROLE
Article 9O

The role of the Government in administering the system and
Electronic Transactions include

:

a. facilitate the use of Information Technology and
Electronic Transactions in accordance with regulatory provisions
legislation;

b. protect the public interest of all kinds

disturbance as a result of misuse of Information
Electronic and Transaction Electronic are disturbing
public order, in accordance with the provisions of the regulations
legislation;

c. to prevent the spread and

use of Electronic Information and/or Documents
Electronics that have a charge that is prohibited according to
with the provisions of laws and regulations; and

d. determine the Agency or institution that has the Data
Electronic strategic Waj ib protected.
Article 9l

Role of Government to facilitate utilization memfasilitasi

Information Technology and Electronic Transactions as
referred to in Article 90 letter a includes:

a. policy determination;
b. policy implementation;
c. infrastructure facilitation;
d. promotion and education; and
e. supervision.
Article 92

Infrastructure facilitation as referred to in Article
91 letter c includes:
a. System gate development and maintenance
National electronics ;
b. development . . .

SK No011732 A

Page 51

FRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-51 b

development and
Information Technology;

maintenance of forensic facilities

c. implementation of master electronic certification ;
d. maintenance of data center and recovery center

national disaster in an integrated manner in the context of
implementation of government affairs based on

electronic;

e. Electronic System security means for

prevention of attacks on information infrastructure
vital in strategic sectors ;

f. means of storing or storing source code and
documentation on the device software to agencies; and

g. means others are needed to facilitate
utilization of Information and Transaction Technology
Electronics based on the provisions of laws and regulations

invitation.
Article 93

(1) Promotion and education as referred to in
Article 91 letter d is carried out by the appropriate agency
with its authority based on the provisions
laws and regulations to realize
utilization of Information and Transaction Technology
Electronics are arnan, ethical, intelligent, creative,
productive and innovative.

(21 Implementation of promotion and education can involve
stakeholders including the community and/or
Information Technology and Electronic Transactions activist .
Article 94

(1) The role of the Government to protect the public interest
from any kind of disturbance as a result
misuse of Electronic Information and Transactions
Electronics that disturb public order
as referred to in Article 90 letter b includes:

a. establishment of a national cyber security strategy that
is part of the national security strategy,
including building a cybersecurity culture ;

b. setting information security standards ;
c. settings . . .

SK No 011733 A

Page 52

FRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-52-

c. protection maintenance arrangements
vital information infrastructure ;

d. setting management risk implementation
Electronic Systems ;

e. setting resource human in
implementation of Electronic System protection ;

f. guidance and supervision of the implementation of
protection of vital information infrastructure ;

g. risk management coaching and supervision
Electronic System operation ;

h. human resource development and supervision
in the implementation of System protection
Electronic;

i. implementation of Electronic Information security ;
j. organizing the handling of incidents of security
information;

k. implementation of emergency response management ; and
l. functions other are necessary to protect
public interest from any kind of interference.
(21 The authority as referred to in paragraph (1) may be
implemented through working together with other parties.
Article 95

The role of the Government to carry out prevention
dissemination and use of Electronic Information

and / or Electronic Documents which have a charge that
prohibited in accordance with the provisions of the legislation
invitation as referred to in Article 9O letter c
in the form of:

a. access termination ; and/ or
b. instruct the Electronic System Operator
to perform disconnection Access

on Electronic Information and/or Documents
The electronics .

Article 96...

SK No 011734 A

Page 53

FRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF ]INDONESIA

-53Article 96

Termination of Access is made to Electronic Information
and/ or Electronic Documents as intended
in Article 95 with the classification:

a. violate the provisions of laws and regulations;
b. disturbing the public and disturbing order
general; and

c. tell how or provide Access to

Electronic Information and/or Electronic Documents that
has a prohibited load in accordance with the provisions
laws and regulations.
Article 97

(1) The public may apply for termination of
Access to Electronic Information and/or Documents
Electronic as referred to in Article 96

to the Minister.

(21 Ministries or l, relevant agencies in coordination with
Minister for termination of Access to Electronic Information
and/or Electronic Documents as intended
in Article 96.

(3) Law enforcement officers may request termination of Access
Electronic Information and/or Electronic Documents
as referred to in Article 96 to the Minister.

(4) The judiciary may order the termination of
Access to Electronic Information and/ or Documents
Electronic as referred to in Article 96
to the Minister.

(5) Provisions regarding procedures for application for termination
Access as referred to in paragraph (1) to
with paragraph (4) is regulated by a Ministerial Regulation.
Article 98

(1) Electronic System Operators are required to perform
termination of Access to Electronic Information
and/or Electronic Documents as intended
in Article 96.
(2) Operator. . .

SK No 011735 A

Page 54

PRESIDENT

u

K INDONESIA

-54(21 Electronic System Operators as referred to in

in paragraph (1) includes providers of Access services
internet, organizer of the network and services
telecommunications, content providers , and
link organizer that provides network traffic

cross Electronic Information and/ or Documents
Electronic.

(3) Electronic System Operators that do not perform
Access termination can be subject to liability

law based on the provisions of the legislation
invitation.
(41 Further provisions regarding the implementation of obligations
termination of Access as referred to in paragraph (1)
regulated by Ministerial Regulation.
Article 99

(1) The government shall stipulate an agency or institution that
have strategic Electronic Data that must be protected.
(21 Agencies or institutions that have Electronic Data
strategic areas that must be protected as intended
in paragraph (l ), includes:

a. government administration sector ;
b. sectors of energy and a source of power minerals;
c. transportation sector;
d. financial sector;
e. health sector ;
f. information and communication technology sector ;
g. food sector ;
h. defense sector; and
i. other sectors as determined by the President.

(3) Agencies or institutions that have Electronic Data
strategic as referred to in paragraph (1) must (1)

make Documents Electronic and record Parts

electronics and connect them to the data center
specific to the interests of securing data.
(41 provision is further regarding the obligation made
Electronic Documents and their electronic backup
and connect it to a specific data center
as referred to in paragraph (3) is regulated in
regulations of the head of the institution in charge of affairs
cyber security .
CHAPTER IX. . .

SK No011736 A

Page 55

PRESIDENT

INDONESIAN REFUELIC

-55CHAPTER IX
ADMINISTRATIVE SANCTIONS
Article 100

(1) Violation of the provisions of Article 4, Article 5 paragraph (1)
and paragraph (2), Article 6 paragraph (1), Article 9 paragraph (1) and paragraph (4),
Article 14 paragraph (1) and paragraph (5), Article 15 paragraph (1), Article 17
paragraph (41, Article 18 paragraph (1), Article 21 paragraph (21 and paragraph (3),
Article 22 paragraph (1), Article 23, Article 24 paragraph (1), paragraph (2), and
paragraph (3), Article 25, Article 26 paragraph (1), Article 28 paragraph (1),
Article 29, Article 30 paragraph (1), Article 31, Article 32 paragraph (1) and
sure (21, Article 33, Article 34 paragraph (1), Article 37 paragraph (1) and
paragraph (2), Article 38 paragraph (3), Article 39 paragraph 12), Article 40 paragraph
(1) and paragraph (21, Article 42 paragraph (1) and paragraph (3), Article 51
paragraph (l), Article 53 paragraph (3), Article 55 paragraph (21, Article 63 paragraph
(3), Article 64 paragraph (1), Article 69 paragraph (1), Article 82 paragraph (71,
Article 84 paragraph (1) and paragraph (2), Article 87 paragraph (2), and Article
98 paragraph (1), is subject to administrative sanctions .

(21 The administrative sanctions as referred to in paragraph
(1) can be:

a. written warning ;
b. administrative fines ;
c. temporary suspension ;
d. access termination ; and/or
e. removed from the list.
(3) Administrative sanctions are given by the Minister according to
with the provisions of laws and regulations.

(4) Imposition of administrative sanctions as referred to
in paragraph (2) letter c and letter d is done through
coordination with the leadership of the Ministry or Institution
related.

(5) The imposition of administrative sanctions as referred to
in paragraph (2) and paragraph (3) does not waive liability
responsible for criminal and civil.

Article 1O1 ...

SK No011737 A

Page 56

PRESIDENT

Republic of Indonesia

-56Article 101

Further provisions regarding the procedure for imposing sanctions
administrative and filing objections to the imposition of
administrative sanctions are regulated in a Ministerial Regulation.
CHAPTER X
TRANSITIONAL TERMS
Article 102

(1) At the time this Government Regulation comes into force,
Electronic System Operators that have been operating
prior to the promulgation of this Government Regulation,
shall adjust themselves with the provisions of Article 6 paragraph
(1) within a period of 1 (one) year.
(21 At the time this Government Regulation comes into force,
Organizers System Electronic Public scope that
been operating before the promulgation of the Regulations
The Government is, shall adjust themselves with
the provisions of Article 20 paragraph (21 within a period of 2 (two)
year.
CHAPTER XI
CLOSING
Article 103

(1) At the time this Government Regulation comes into force,
implementing regulations of Government Regulation
Number 82 of 2Ol2 concerning System Operations

and Electronic Transactions are declared to remain valid
as long as it does not contradict or has not been replaced with

the new based on Government Regulation of this.

(21 At the time this Government Regulation comes into force,
Government Regulation Number 82 Year 2Ol2 t.enr.ang

System dal Transactions Electronic
(State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia Year 2012
Number 189, Supplement I, State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia
Indonesia Number 5348) is revoked and declared no
apply.
Article 104

This Government Regulation comes into force on the
invited.

So that

SK No 011738 A

Page 57

FRESTDEN
Republic of Indonesia

-57 -

So that every orcrng informed, ordered
the promulgation of this Government Regulation by
its placement on the sheet of the Republic of Indonesia
Indonesia.

Set in Jakarta
on October 4, 2019
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,

signed
JOKO WIDODO

Promulgated in Jakarta
on October 10 , 2019
PIt. MINISTER OF LAW AND HUMAN RIGHTS
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,

rtd

TJAHJO KUMOLO

STATE GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA YEAR 2019 NUMBER 185

Copies match the original
MINISTRY OF STATE SECRETARIAT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

puti Legal Affairs and
invitation,

na Djaman

SK No 011739 A

Page 58

PRESIDENT
INDONESIAN PUBLIC

EXPLANATION
ON

GOVERNMENT REGULATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
NUMBER 71 YEAR 2019
ABOUT
PEI{ORGANIZATION OF ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS AND TRANSACTIONS

I. GENERAL
Several provisions in Law Number 11 of 2008

regarding Information and Electronic Transactions mandates the regulation of
more advanced in Rule Government, namely the setting of the
Institute for Certification of Reliability, Signature Electronic Organizers
Certification Electronics, Operator Systems Electronics, Implementation

Electronic Transactions, Electronic Agent operators , and management
Domain Names have been regulated in Government Regulation Number 82 Years
2Ol2 concerning the Operation of Electronic Systems and Transactions . However,
Government Regulation Number 82 Year 2Ol2 concerning the Implementation of
Electronic Systems and Transactions need to be adapted to developments
technology and societal needs .
The stipulation of this Government Regulation is
further regulates several provisions in Law No
19 of 2O16 concerning Amendments to Law Number 1l Year

also intended to

2008 concerning Information and Electronic Transactions established to
guarantee the recognition and respect for the rights and freedoms of people
another and to meet the demands of the fair in accordance with the judgment
security and order public in a society that is democratic.
Some provisions were necessary arrangements more advanced , namely:

'System Electronics for

a. obligations for each Operator

delete Electronic Information and/or Electronic Documents that
not relevant that is in under control on demand Person
are concerned by the determination of the court; and

b. the role of the Government in facilitating the use of Technology

Information and Electronic Transactions, protect the public interest
from any kind of disturbance as a result of misuse of Information
Electronics and Electronic Transactions that disturb order

public, and prevent the dissemination and use of Information
Electronic and / or documents electronically which has a payload that
prohibited in accordance with the provisions of the legislation.
Theory

SK No011740 A

Page 59

FRESTDEN

REPUELIC ]INDONESIA

-2The contents of this Government Regulation include:

a. category of Electronic System Operator ;
b. obligations of the Electronic System Operator ;
c. deletion and/or closure of Access to Information

Electronic and / or documents electronically are not relevant;
placement of Electronic Systems and Electronic Data ;
supervision of Electronic System operation ;

d.
e.
f. operation of Electronic Agents;
g. Electronic Transaction Operation ;
h. implementation of Electronic Certification;
i. Domain Name management ;
j. the role of the Government in the implementation of the System and Transaction
Electronic; and

k. administrative sanctions.
II. ARTICLE BY ARTICLE
Article 1

Quite clear.
Article 2

Paragraph (1)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)

letter a
Quite clear.

letter b

What is meant by "institution appointed by

"Agency" is an institution that implements

implementation of the Electronic System in the public sphere over
name of the appointing agency .

Paragraph(a)...

SK No011741 A

Page 60

FRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-.)Paragraph (4)
What is meant by " sector regulatory and supervisory authorities"

finance " among other authorities in the field of monetary, system
payments, macro prudential, banking, capital market, as well as
insurance, pension funds , financial institutions , and financial institutions
other financial services .
Paragraph (5)

letter a
Quite clear.

letterb
What is meant by " Electronic System Operator"
which has portals, websites, or applications in the network
via the internet" is an Electronic System Operator

the System

used in

the region

Indonesia, and/or offered in the territory of Indonesia.

f number

Quite clear.

Number 2
Quite clear.
Number 3
Quite clear.
Number 4
Pretty clear.
Number 5
Quite clear.
Number 6
Processing of Personal Data includes the acquisition and
collection, processing and analysis,
repairs and updates, appearance,

announcement, transfer, dissemination, or
disclosure, and/or deletion or
destruction of Personal Data.

Article 3

Paragraph (1)
What is meant by "reliable" is that the Electronic System has
capabilities in accordance with the needs of its use.

What is meant by " arran" is Electronic System
protected by physical and non-physical.
That. .

.

SK No011742 A

Page 61

FRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-4
What is meant by "operation of the Electronic System "
as it should' is the Electronic System has
capabilities according to specifications.
Paragraph (2)

What is meant by " responsible" is
Electronic System Operators who are responsible for
law on the operation of the Electronic System .
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Article 4

Quite clear.
Article 5

Quite clear.
Article 6

Quite clear.
Article 7

Paragraph (1)

letters

What is meant by "interconnectivity" is

the ability to connect with each other so that they can

functioning as it should. Interconnectivity
includes interoperability capabilities.

What is meant by "compatibility" is conformance
System Electronic one with Systems Electronics that
other.

letter b
Quite clear.

letter c
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)

Evidence of certification can be obtained through third parties who
accredited in Indonesia or other evidence as
supporters who declare compliance with the requirements
of agency certification in outside Indonesia.

Article 8...

SK No011743 A

Page 62

FRESTDEN
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-5Article 8

letter a
What is meant by "assured security and reliability"
operating as it should be "is the Operator System
Electronics guarantee that the Software does not contain any other instructions instruksi
than it should be or hidden instructions that
is against the law (malicious code), such as instruction fime
bombs, virus programs , trojans, worms, and backdoors. This security
can be done by checking the source code .

letterb
Quite clear.
Article 9

Paragraph (1)

What is meant by "source code" is a series of

orders, statements and / or declarations are written in
computer programming language that can be read and understood
person.
verse l2l

Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)

What is meant by " trusted third party depositor"
source code (source code escrou)" is a profession or a party
independent which the competent organizing services
storage of computer program source code or Device
Software for the benefit can be accessed, acquired, or
source code submitted by the provider to the user.
Paragraph (4)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (s)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (6)
Quite clear.
Article 1O

Paragraph (1)
What is meant by " experts" are personnel who have
specialized knowledge and skills in Systems bidang

Electronics can dipertanggunglawabkan academically
as well as practical.

Paragraph(2)...
SK No011744 A

Page 63

PRESIDENT

Republic of Indonesia,

-6Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Article l1

Paragraph (1)

letter a
What is meant by " service level agreement (seruie
leuel agreement)" is a statement regarding the level
service quality of an Electronic System .

letterb
Quite clear.

letter c
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Article 12

What is meant by "implementing risk management " is
carry out risk analysis and formulate mitigation measures and
countermeasures to overcome threats, disturbances, and obstacles
to the Electronic System it manages.
Article 13
What is meant by 'governance policy ', among others, includes
policies regarding activities to build organizational structures , processes
business (business process), and management of performance, as well as providing

Electronic System operation support personnel for
ensure that the Electronic System can operate as
should be.

Article 14

Paragraph (1)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)

Which is meant by "consent that is valid" is
approval are submitted are explicit, are not allowed in
hidden or based on error, negligence, or coercion.

Paragraph (4) ...
SK No 0117t+5 A

Page 64

PRESTDEN

INDONESIAN PUBLIC

-7Paragraph (4)

letters
Quite clear.

letterb
Quite clear.

letter c
What is meant by "legitimate interest"

is the need / necessity to protect the things that
very important about a person's existence .

letterd
Quite clear.

letter e
Quite clear.

letter f

Quite clear.

Paragraph (5)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (6)
Quite clear.
Article 15

Paragraph (1)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)

letter a
Quite clear.

letterb
Obligation to remove from the list of search engines (ri.ghf to
delisting includes Electronic System Operators that
run search engine to remove appearance
and/ or close Access to Electronic Information
and / or Document Electronics that are not relevant to the
based on court order.
Paragraph (s)
Quite clear.
Article 16

Quite clear.
Article 17. . .

SK No011746 A

Page 65

PRESTDEN
INDONESIAN REFUELIC

-8Article 17

Quite clear.
Article 18

Quite clear.
Article 19

Paragraph (l)
Governance Systems Electronics are good (IT Gouernanel include
the process of planning, implementing, operating,

maintenance, and documentation.
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Article 2O

Paragraph (1)

What is meant by " activity continuity plan"
(business antinuitg planl" is a series of processes that
performed to ensure continued ongoing activities
in conditions of getting disruption or disaster.
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (4)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (5)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (6)
Quite clear.
Verse (71

Quite clear.
Article 2l

Quite clear.

Article 22...

SK No011747 A

Page 66

FRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-9Article 22

Paragraph (1)
The mechanism of the awdit track record (audit trail) includes:

a. maintain transaction logs according to data retention policy
organizer, in accordance with the provisions of the legislation
invitation;

b. provide notification to consumers when a
the transaction has been successfully executed;

c. ensure the availability of an audit trail function to be able to
efforts to detect and / or the occurrence of pen5rusupan that
should direviu or evaluated by Beikala; and

' d. in terms of processing systems and the audit trail is
third party responsibility , the audit trail process

must conform to the standards that are set by
Electronic System Operator .
Paragraph (2)

What is meant by "examination of other ' among others
inspection for mitigation or response handling purposes

emergency (incident response ounce el.
Article 23

Electronic System Components consist of:

a. Software;
b. Device Hardware;
c. energy expert;
d. Electronic System security system ; and
e. governance governance Systems Electronics.
Article 24

Paragraph (1)
What is meant by "interference" is any action that

are destructive or impact seriously on the System

' Electronic so that the Electronic System does not work
as it should be.
What is meant by "failure" is the partial cessation of
or all the essential functions of the Electronic System

so that the Electronic System does
should be.

not function as
which . . .

SK No011748 A

Page 67

FRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-10What is meant by "loss" is the impact on
damage to the Electronic System which has legal consequences for
users, organizers, and other third parties both materially

nor immaterial.
Paragraph (2)
What is meant by "prevention and control system "

among other antivirus, anti- spam, fireuall, inhusion detection,
system preuention, and/ or management system management
information security.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (4)
Quite clear.
Article 25

Quite clear.
Article 26

Paragraph (1)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)
What is meant by " Electronic Information and/or Documents"
Electronics that can be transferred " is the letter valuable
or letters are valuable in electronic form.
What is meant by " Electronic Information and/or Documents

Electronic must be unique" means Electronic Information and/or
Electronic Documents and/or Electronic Information Recording
and/or the Electronic Document is the only
which represents a particular value .
What is meant by " Electronic Information and/or Documents

Electronics must explain mastery" is Information
The Electronic and/ or Electronic Document must be
explain the nature of mastery which is represented by

control system or recording system for Electronic Information
and/ or the relevant Electronic Document .
What is meant by " Electronic Information and/or Documents"

Electronic must explain its ownership" is Information

The Electronic and/ or Electronic Document must be
explain the nature of the ownership of which is represented by
there is a means of technological control that ensures there is only one
a copy of the valid (single authoritatiue copgl and not changed.

Article 2T .

..

SK No011749 A

Page 68

FRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

- 11PasaT 27

What is meant by "interoperability" is the ability
Different Electronic Systems to be able to work in an integrated manner .

What is meant by "compatibility" is the suitability of the System
One Electronic with another Electronic System .
Article 28

Paragraph (1)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)

Education that can be delivered to System Users
Electronics include:

a. convey to Electronic System Users

the importance of maintaining the security of Personal Identification
Number (PIN)/ passuord) for example:

1. keep secret and don't tell
PIN / passuord to
organizing officer;

anyone including the

2. do change the PIN / password is periodically;
3. Use a PIN/ passuord that is not easy to guess

such as the use of personal identity in the form of a date
born;

4. do not record the PIN/ password; and
5. PIN/ password for one product should be different
from other product PIN/ passruord .

b. convey to Electronic System Users
regarding various modes of Electronic Transaction crime;
and

c. convey to Electronic System Users
regarding procedures and procedures for submitting claims.

Article 29

Obligation to convey information to System Users
Electronics are intended to protect the interests of Users
Electronic System .
Article 3O. . .

SK No. 011750 A

Page 69

FRESTDEN
REFUBLTK INDONESIA

-t2Article 30

Paragraph (1)

The provision of features is intended to protect the rights or
interests of Electronic System Users .
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Article 3l

Quite clear.

Article 32

. Quite clear.
Article 33

Quite clear.
Article 34

Quite clear.
Article 35

Quite clear.
Article 36

Paragraph (1)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (4)

letter a
What is meant by "visual form" is a display that

can be seen or read, among other graphical displays an
websites.

letter b

What is meant by " audio form " is anything

something that can be heard, among other services

telemarketing.

letter c
What is meant by " Electronic Data forms such as
electronic data capture (EDCI, radio frequency identification
(RFI), and barode reagnition.
Electronics

SK No011751 A

Page 70

PRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-13Electronic data capture (EDC) is an Electronic Agent for

and on behalf of the Electronic System Operator who
in collaboration with network operators . EDC can
used as independent by the institution 's financial bank
and/or together with financial institutions or
other non-financial.

In the event that Electronic Transactions are carried out by
using Bank X card at Bank Y 's EDC , then
Bank Y will continue the transaction that the Bank X,
through the network operator .

letter d
Quite clear.
Article 37

Paragraph (1)

letters
Information about the identity of the Electronic Agent operator
at least contain a logo or name that shows
identity.

letter b
Quite clear.

letter c
Quite clear.

letterd
Quite clear.

letter e
Quite clear.

letter f

Quite clear.

letterg
Quite clear.

Letterh
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.

Paragraph (4) ...
Decree No. 011752 A

Page 71

FRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-t4Paragraph (4)
Quite clear.
Article 38

Paragraph (1)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)

What is meant by "treated the same" among others
imposition of rates, facilities, requirements, and procedures that
same.

Paragraph (4)
Quite clear.

.

Article 39

Paragraph (1)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)

letter a
What is meant by "confidentiality" is in accordance with

the legal concept of confidentiality (conftdentialitgl above
information and communication is electronic.

letter b
What is meant by "integrity" is in accordance with
the legal concept of the integrity (integrity) of Information
Electronic.

letter c
What is meant by "availability" is in accordance with

'' legal concept of the availability of the above lauailabilitgll
Electronic Information.

letterd
What is meant by "authenticity" is in accordance with

. draft law on authenticity (authentication) that

includes the authenticity (originality) of the contents
Electronic.

of an Information
Letter e . .

SK No011753 A

Page 72

FRESIDENT
REPUELIC OF INDONESIA

-15letter e
What is meant by "authorization" is in accordance with
legal concept of authorization ( authorizationl based on
scope of duties and functions in an organization and
management.

letter f

What is meant by "deniability" is appropriate
with the legal concept of non- repudiation .

Article 4O

Paragraph (1)

letters
In testing the authenticity of the identity and
check the Electronic System User's authorization , it is necessary
pay attention to, among other things:

1. written policies and procedures to ensure

the ability to test the authenticity of identity and
check the authority of the Electronic System User ;

2. methods for testing authenticity; and
3. a combination of at least 2 (two) authentication factors (froo
factor authentication\ ie uhat Aou knoul
"

tutrat gou ttaud ( magnetic card
with chips, tokens, digital signatures, "uhat you ard
(PIN/ passwordl,

"

or "biometrics (retina and fingerprint ).

letterb
Quite clear.

letter c
Quite clear.

letter d
Protection of the confidentiality of User's Personal Data

Electronic systems must also be met in terms of:

organizers use the services of latn parties (outsourcing.

letter e
Quite clear.

letter f

Quite clear.

.

letter g
Procedures for handling the incident was not unexpected also must
fulfilled in the event that the operator uses the services of a third party
Latin (outsourcingl.

Paragraph(2)...
SK No011754 A

Page 73

FRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

- 16Paragraph (2)

In developing and establishing procedures to ensure
Electronic Transactions so that it can not be denied by
consumers should pay attention to:

a. The Electronic Translation system has been designed for

transaction basis
reduce the possibility
not accidentally (unintended) by the users who are entitled;

b

the whole identity of the party who did the transaction have been tested
its authenticity or authenticity; and

c

financial transaction data is protected from

the possibility

changes and any changes can be detected.
Article 41

Quite clear.
Article 42

Quite clear.
Article 43

Quite clear.
Article 44

Paragraph (1)

These Terms are intended to protect System Users
Electronic from sending Electronic Information that is
annoying (spam).

Commonly known forms of spam are e-mail spam , spam
messaging instant, spam usenet newsgroups, engine spam search
web information (web search engine spam , blog spam, news spam)
on mobile phones, and Internet forum spam .

Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Article 45

Paragraph (1)
Quite clear
Paragraph (2)

letter a
Quite clear.

Letter b . . .

SK No 011755 A

Page 74

PRESIDENT

REFUBLIC OF TNONESTA

-t7letter b
Quite clear.

letter c
Quite clear.

letter d
Quite clear.

letter e
What is meant by "fairness" is referring to
elements of propriety that apply in accordance with custom or
evolving business practices .
Article 46

Paragraph (1)

Electronic Transactions may include several forms or
variants, including:

a. the deal is not done by electronic yet
b.

p'elaksanaan contractual relationship settled in
electronic;
the deal is done by electronics and pelalsanaan
relationship contractual completed by electronically; and

c. the deal is done by electronic and implementation

relationship contractual resolved not be electronic.

Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Article 47

Paragraph (1)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)
What is meant by " statutory regulations" between:

other Law on Consumer Protection.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Article 48

Paragraph (1)

What is meant by "information that is complete and correct"
include:

a. information...

SK No 011756 A

Page 75

FRESIDENT

REFUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-18-

a. information containing the identity and status of legal subjects subjek
and competence, both as a manufacturer, supplier,
organizers or intermediaries;

b. other information that explains certain things that become
terms of the validity of the agreement as well as explaining the goods and/ or
services offered, such as name, address, and description
goods/services.

What is meant by "contractC" includes an agreement or
sincerity.
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (a)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (s)
Pretty clear..
Article 49

Paragraph (1)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)

Electronic Transactions occur at the time of agreement between the parties
parties that can be in the form of checking data, identity, number
Qtsonal personal identification
pass / word password (passuor @.

identification number / PlNl or password

Paragraph (3)

letters

,

What is meant by "action of acceptance which
express agreement" among others by clicking
electronic approval by System Users
Electronic.

'

letter b
Quite clear.

Article 50

Paragraph (1)
Quite clear.

Paragraph(2)...
SK No 011757 A

Page 76

PRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-19Paragraph (2)

What is meant by "in balance" is

pay attention to the interests of both parties are fair (/ ail).

Article 5l

Paragraph (1)

The obligation to use Electronic Certificates applies to:
SSL Encryption.

Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)

Ownership of Electronic Certificates is one of the efforts

to improve the security of the system operation
Electronics in addition to other security measures.

Ownership of Electronic Certificates functions to support
security of Electronic System operation which includes

among others confidentiality, authenticity, integrity, and
non-repudiationl .
Paragraph (4)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (5)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (6)
Peraturd.n Minister shall, among other arrangements regarding the governance

how to file a request for electronic certification that

submitted through the Electronic Certification Operator or
authority of registration (registration authoitgl are appointed by
Electronic Certification Operator .
Article 52

letter a

What is meant by "inspection" is an examination of
physical presence of the prospective certificate holder , can be done directly
electronics in the network if the examination uses
biometrics.

letterb
Signs Hand Electronics is an agreement on Information
Electronic and/ or Electronic Documents made by

the individual or the individual who represents
Business Entity or Institution.
Article 53...

SK No 011758 A

Page 77

PRESTDEN

REFUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-20Article 53

Paragraph (1)

letters
Which referred to the "Operator Sertifi cation Electronics
Indonesia" is an Electronic Certification Operator that
got sertilikasi order to do surveillance
towards implementation and unhrk be a differentiator
that the Indonesian Electronic Certification Operator may

become a trusted third party who is a guarantor
authenticity of electronic identity.

letter b
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)

What is meant by "the principle of one induld is
The Indonesian Electronic Certification Operator is based on
Organizers of Electronic Certification parent who organized

by the Minister and the certificate is signed using

certificate of the main Electronic Certification Operator .

Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (4)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (s)

What is meant by "registered" is not registering as
Indonesian Business Entity but registering the company perusahaan
as a foreign Electronic Certification Operator to the Minister.
Paragraph (6)
Quite clear.
Article 54

Quite clear.
Article 55

Quite clear.
Article 56

Quite clear.
Article 57

Paragraph (1)
Quite clear.

Paragraph(2)...
SK No 011759 A

Page 78

FRESIDENT
REPUELIC OF TNONESTA

-2tParagraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)

letter a
An electronic seal is an Electronic Signature that
used by Business Entities or Agencies to guarantee

authenticity and integrity of an Electronic Information
and/ or Electronic Documents .

letter b
Marker time electronic merrrpakan marker that
binding between time and date with Information

Electronic and/or Electronic Documents with
using reliable methods .

letter c
The registered electronic delivery service is a service

which provides the delivery of Electronic Information
and/ or Electronic Documents and provide evidence
related to sending Electronic Information and/or Documents
Electronic and protect Electronic Information and/ or
Documents Electronics are shipped from the risk of loss,
theft, damage, or pembahan are not valid.

letter d
The site authentication web is a service that identifies

website owner and associate the website to

Person or Business Entity who received the Certificate
Electronic sites web by using methods that
reliable.

letter e
Preservation Signs Hand Electronic and / or seal
electronics is a service that guarantees strength
Electronic Signature law and electronic seal in
an Electronic Information and/or Electronic Document
can still be validated despite the validity period of the Certificate
The electronics are out.
Article 58

Paragraph (1)

If the Indonesian Electronic Certification Operator
cooperate with other Electronic System Operators in
implementation of part of its infrastructure or services, then
Loss or negligence that occurs remains the responsibility
Indonesian Electronic Certification Operator .

Paragraph(2)...
SK No011760 A

Page 79

FRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-22Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Article 59

Quite clear.
Article 60

Paragraph (1)

Electronic Signature works like a signature
manual in terms of representing the Signer's identity .
In the proof of authenticity (authentication) sign hand-wound
can be done through verification or examination of
Signs specimens Hand Electronics of markers Hands.

'

At Signature Electronics, Data Creation Signs Hand
Electronics acts as Electronic Signature specimen
of the Signatories.

Electronic Signatures must be usable by experts

which are competent to carry out checks and
proof that the signed Electronic Information
with the Electronic Signature does not experience
changes after signing.
Paragraph (2)

Legal consequences of using an Electronic Signature
certified or not certified influence on
strength of evidentiary value .

Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (4)
Pretty clear.
Article 6l

Paragraph (1)
What is meant by "unilC" is any code that

used or functioned as Creation Data .Sign
Electronic Hands must refer to only one subject
law or an entity that represents a single identity.

Paragraph(2)...

SK No 011761 A

Page 80

FRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-zJParagraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (s)

letter a
Electronic Signature Creation Data generated
with cryptographic techniques in general have a correlation
probability -based mathematics with verification data Sign

Electronic Hand . Therefore, the election code of cryptographic
that will be used must consider the adequacy of
the level of difficulty that is encountered and the source of power must

prepared by the party that tried to falsify data
Electronic Signature Creation .

letter b
What is meant by " electronic media" are facilities,

means, or device that is used to
collect, store, process, and/or

disseminate Electronic Information used by Lintuk Lin
temporary or permanent.

letter c
What is meant by "data related to Markers
Hand" is all data that can be used for

mengidentilikasi identity themselves Markers Hands such as name,
address, place and date of birth, as well as the code of the specimen mark
manual hand.

What is meant by "trusted system" is a system

who followed the procedures of use Signs Hand
Electronics that ensure authenticity and integrity
Electronic Information. This can be seen by
taking into account several factors, including:
1. Financial and source power;
2. The quality of the Hardware and Software Software;
3. certificate and application procedures as well as data retention ;

4. The availability of Data Creation Signs Hand
5.

Electronic; and
audit by an independent agency.

letterd
Quite clear.
Paragraph (a)
Quite clear.
Article 62...

SK No011762 A

Page 81

FRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-24Article 62

Paragraph (1)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)
Pretty clear.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (a)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (5)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (6)
Examples of the provisions of this are as follows:

a. Changes to Electronic Signatures after time
signing must result in Information

The electronics it's attached to don't work properly
it should, damaged, or can not be displayed if the mark

Electronic Hand is attached to and/or linked to
Electronic information are signed. Technique

'

embedding and associating an Electronic Signature on
Electronic information that is signed can
give rise to Electronic Information or Documents
New electronics that:

1. seen as an entity that is not able to
separated; or

2. looks separate and Electronic Information that
signed can be read by the layman

while the Electronic Signature is in the form of a code

and/or images.

b. Changes to Electronic Signatures after time
Signing must result in ssphagia or
entire Information Electronics is invalid or not applicable

if Signs Hand Electronics associated logically with
Electronic Information signed by him. Change

what happens to Electronic Information that
signed must cause a discrepancy between
Electronic Signature with Electronic Information
related to visits to clear through mechanisms
verification.
Article 63...

SK No011763 A

Page 82

FRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-25Article 63

Quite clear.
Article 64

Paragraph (1)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)

Factor authentication that can be selected to be combined
can be divided into 3 (three) types, namely:

a. something that is individually owned (uhat gou lnuel
for example an ATM card or smart card;

b. something that is known to be an individual (tuhat gou knou)
eg PIN/ pa.ssutord or cryptographic key ; and

c. something that is a characteristic of an individual
lwhat gou are) e.g. sound patterns (uoie patteml, dynamics
writing hand (handwriting dgnamicsl, or fingerprints fingers
fingerpintl.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Article 65

Quite clear.
Article 66

Quite clear.
Article 67

Quite clear.
Article 68

Quite clear.
Article 69

Quite clear.
Article 7O

Pretty clear.
Article 71

Paragraph (1)
Quite clear.

Paragraph(2) ...'
SK No 011764 A

Page 83

PRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF ]NDONESTA

-26Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (s)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (4)

letters
Quite clear.

letterb

What is meant

with "address"
people's domicile

explain the city
operate.

at least

or Business Entity

letter c
Quite clear.

letterd
Quite clear.

letter e
Quite clear.

letter f

Quite clear.

Paragraph (s)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (6)
Quite clear.
PasaJT2

Quite clear.
Article 73

Paragraph (1)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (4)

letters
Information Technology Consultant covers the security profession
information.

Letter b . .

.

SK No 011765 A

Page 84

FRESIDENT

REPUELIC OF INDONESIA

-27 letter b
Quite clear.

letter c
Quite clear.
Paragraph (s)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (6)
Quite clear.
Article 74

Quite clear.
Article 75

Quite clear.
Article 76

Paragraph (1)

letter a
Identity registration is a Certificate of Reliability that
guarantee of reliability is limited to securing that the identity
The perpetrator of I-Isaha is correct.
Validation -*ang carried out by l, reliability certification institute
only to the identity of the Business Actor at least
contains the name of the legal subject , the status of the legal subject , the address
or position, telephone number , email address, business license ,
and Taxpayer Identification Number (NPWP) if not
registered in the Integrated Business Licensing system

. Electronic Online Single Submission.

Reliability Certification agency that issues Certificates

This reliability provides traceability assurance that
the identity of the Business Actor is correct.

letter b

Electronic Sisterh Security is a Certificate
The reliability that the guarantee of reliability provides
assurance that the atdi delivery process : data exchange
through the perpetrator's website.

Businesses are protected for their safety by using
technology for securing data exchange processes such as
SSL/Seanre Socket Lager protocol .

Certificate. . .

SK No011766 A

Page 85

FRESIDENT
REPUELIC OF INDONESIA

-28Certificate of Reliability This ensures that there is a system

security in the process of exchanging data that has been tested.

Security against the vulnerability of Qrulnerabilitg seat)
is a guaranteed Reliability Certificate
reliability is to provide assurance that there are

system management information security is applied

by Business Actors by referring to the standard
zrmanning certain Electronic Systems based on
provisions of laws and regulations.

letter c
The privacy policy is a Certificate of Reliability that
guarantee of reliability is to provide assurance that

Consumer's personal data is kept confidential
as it should be.

Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.

TT article

Enough j

Article 78

Quite clear.

Article 79

Paragraph (1)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (2)

letter a

What is meant by " High level Domain NameNama
generilC is Name Domain -level height which comprises the top
three or more characters in the naming system hierarchy
domains other than country high- level domains (auntry code Top
I, Euel Domainl. For example ". archipelago" or " java".

letter b

SK No011757 A

Page 86

PRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,

-29letter b

Which is intended to oNama Domain -level high
Indonesia" is a high-level domain in the hierarchy
domain naming system showing Indonesian code

(.id) according to the list of country codes in ISO 3166-1 which
used and recognized by Internet Assigned Numbers
Autoitg.(IANAI.

letter c
Examples of second- level Indonesian Domain Names are co.id,
go.id, ac.id, or.id, or mil.id.

letter d
' Examples of derived-level Indonesian Domain Names are
kominfo.go.id.
Paragraph (3)

letter a
Included within the scope of the definition of Domain Name Registry
is the function and role of the ccTLD manager.

letter b
Quite clear.
Article 80

Quite clear.
Article 81

Quite clear.
Article 82

Quite clear.
Article 83

Quite clear.
Article 84

Quite clear.
Article 85

Quite clear.
Article 86

Quite clear.
Article 87...

SK No011768 A

Page 87

FRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-30Article 87
clear enough ,
Article 88

Quite clear.
Article 89

Quite clear.
Article 90

Quite clear.
Article 91

Enough jelly
Article 92

letter a
What is meant by " national Electronic System gate "
among others Indonesian National Sirqle Windotu (INSW) and
electronically integrated business licensing service
online single submission).

H ufb
Quite clear.

letter c
Quite clear.

letter d

management . and disaster recovery center
National is integrated ditqjukan for common applications and
Data center

Strategic Electronic Data .

letter e
Quite clear.'

letter f

Quite clear.

letter g
Quite clear.
Article 93

Enough ace.
Article 94

Quite clear.
Article 95

SK No011769 A

Page 88

PRESIDENT

REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-31 Article 95

Quite clear.
Article 96

letter a

What is meant by "violating the provisions of the regulations"
legislation" including Electronic Information and/ or

Documents Electronic which contains elements of pornography,

gambling, frtnah and / or contamination of the name either, fraud,

hatred towards ethnicity, religion, race, and intergroup (SARA),
violence and/or child abuse , property violations
intellectual property, violation of trade in goods and services through
. electronic system , terrorism and/ or radicalism, separatism
and/or prohibited dangerous organizations , security breaches
information, violation of consumer protection, violations in
health sector, violation of drug and food control .

letter b

What is meant by "disturbing the community and"
disturbing public order" including information and/or
falsified facts .

letter c
Quite clear.

Article 97

Quite clear.

at 98
Paragraph (1)

Which dirnaksud with "termination of access" among others
Access blocking, account closure , and/ or deletion
content.
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (4)
Quite clear.
Article 99. . .

SK No 011770 A

Page 89

PRESIDENT

REFUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-32Article 99

Paragraph (l)

What is meant by "Agencies or institutions that have
Strategic Electronic Data " is an agency or institution that

have a vital information infrastructure in the yarrg . sector
set.
Paragraph (2)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (3)

Connections to certain data centers for the benefit of
data security is implemented in the event of an incident
which must be reported to the agency in charge of
cyber security .

Paragraph (4)
Quite clear.
Article 100

Paragraph (1)
The imposition of sanctions in this provision is only required for

parties who commit administrative violations , while
regarding violations of a moral or civil nature do not

subject to administrative sanctions .
Paragraph (2)

letters
Quite clear.

letter b
Quite clear.

letter c
What is meant by " temporary suspension is
in the form of discontinuation of part or all of the components or
services on the relevant Electronic System for
certain period of time.

letter d
. What is meant by "Termination of Access" among others
.

Access
blocking , account closure , and/or
content removal.

letter e
Quite clear.

Paragraph (3)...

SK No011771 A

Page 90

PRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

-33Paragraph (3)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (4)
Quite clear.
Paragraph (5)
Quite clear.
Article 101

Quite clear.
Article 1O2

Quite clear.
Article 103

Quite clear.
Article 104

Self- explanatory

SUPPLEMENT TO STATE GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA NUMBER 6400

SK No011772 A

