Page 1

The supervising organization clearly states working conditions, etc., individual group supervised training practitioners, etc. and group supervised technical intern trainees, etc.
Guidelines for appropriately dealing with the handling of personal information, etc.

April 7, 2009
Ministry of Justice / Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare Notification No. 2
1st purpose
This guideline is based on the Act on the Proper Implementation of Skill Training for Foreigners and the Protection of Skill Trainees (hereinafter
Below is called "law". ) Established in Article 5-3 of the Employment Security Act, which is applied pursuant to the provisions of Article 27, Paragraph 2.
Regarding matters, etc., it stipulates the matters necessary for the supervising organization to properly deal with them.
In addition, along with the necessary matters regarding the measures that the supervising organization should take pursuant to the provisions of Article 43 of the Act, the individual
The supervising organization handles personal information properly based on the provisions of Article 8 of the Act on the Protection of Personal Information.
It also stipulates the necessary matters regarding the measures to be taken in order to achieve this.
Matters concerning Article 5-3 of the Employment Security Act applied pursuant to the provisions of Article 27, Paragraph 2 of the Second Act (Labor Article)
Clarification of matters, etc.)
The supervising organization shall be subject to the provisions of Article 5-3, Paragraph 1 of the Employment Security Act, which is applied pursuant to the provisions of Article 27, Paragraph 2 of the Act.
Based on the rules, group-supervised technical intern trainees, etc. (group-supervised technical intern trainees or group-supervised technical intern trainees)
A person who is about to become alive. same as below. ), The content of the work that the person should be engaged in and
In clarifying working conditions (hereinafter referred to as "working conditions, etc."), the following matters shall be applied.
Be considerate.
1 The specified working conditions, etc. shall not be false or exaggerated.
2 Level of working conditions, etc. so that they can be concretely understood by group-supervised technical intern trainees, etc.
Limit the range as much as possible.
3 Regarding the content of work that group supervised technical intern trainees should engage in, including the work environment, it is possible
Be as specific and detailed as possible.
4 Regarding working hours, start and end times, work exceeding the prescribed working hours, break time,
Specify holidays, etc.
5 Regarding wages, wage type (monthly wage, daily wage, hourly wage, etc.), basic wage, fixed amount payment
Clarify matters related to allowances, commuting allowances, salary increases, etc.
6 The contents of the specified working conditions, etc. are the working conditions at the time of concluding the contract related to technical intern training including the labor contract.
If there is a possibility that it will be different from the above, etc., clearly indicate that fact and work
If the conditions, etc. are different from the contents already specified, the group supervisor who received the specification
Promptly inform the science technical intern trainees.
7 The supervising organization separately clarifies some matters such as working conditions when clarifying working conditions, etc.
When indicating it, clearly indicate that fact as well.
Matters concerning Article 33-5 of the Employment Security Act applied pursuant to the provisions of Article 27, Paragraph 2 of the Third Act (supervision)
Group responsibilities) etc.

Page 2

1 Promotion of introduction of occupations that match the abilities of group-supervised technical intern trainees, etc.
The supervising organization introduces employment related to technical intern training that suits the abilities of group supervised technical intern trainees, etc.
We will strive to accurately grasp the abilities of group-supervised technical intern trainees so that we can do it.
In addition, strive to secure as wide a range of job offers as possible within the scope of the business.
2 Appropriate handling of complaints from group-supervised technical intern trainees, etc.
The supervising organization is the organization of the competent minister, the Organization for Technical Intern Training for Foreigners, other supervising organizations and other related parties.
Promptly and appropriately respond to complaints from group-supervised technical intern trainees, etc. related to the project while coordinating
Strive to improve and improve the system for processing.
3 Acquisition of appropriate permission for supervision business
Group-supervised training practitioners, etc. (Become a group-supervised training practitioner or a group-supervised training practitioner)
A person who tries. same as below. ), We searched for group-supervised technical intern trainees, etc.
Above, we encourage you to get a job as a technical intern trainee supervised by the group, and apply for a job accordingly.
If the so-called scouting act of mediating a person who has done so is performed as a business, it is included in the supervision business.
It is rare, and in order to carry out the business, it is necessary to obtain the permission of the supervising organization.
thing. Also, of the so-called outplacement business, only education and training, consultation, advice, etc.
However, the business that introduces employment related to technical intern training falls under the supervision business, and is relevant.
In order to carry out the business, it is necessary to obtain the permission of the supervising organization.
Matters concerning Article 43 of the 4th Law (Individuals of group-supervised trainees, etc. and group-supervised technical intern trainees, etc.)
Handling of human information)
1 Collection, storage and use of personal information
(1) The supervising organization is a group supervising type training practitioner, etc. and a group supervising type within the scope of the purpose of the work.
Collect personal information of technical intern trainees (referred to simply as "personal information" in 1 and 2)
And do not collect the following personal information. However, a special profession
The existence of the above needs is indispensable for achieving the purpose of other business, and it is a collection item.
This does not apply when collecting from the person with a target.
B. Race, ethnicity, social status, family origin, registered domicile, place of birth and other causes of social discrimination
Matters that may occur
B Thoughts and beliefs
C. Status of participation in the labor union
⑵ When collecting personal information, the supervising organization collects it directly from the person or consents to the person.
Must be collected from persons other than the person under the law and must be by legal and fair means.
When.
(3) The storage or use of personal information shall be limited to the scope of the purpose of collection. However, other storage
Or when the purpose of use is indicated and the consent of the person is obtained, or when it is stipulated by other laws.
Is not limited to this.
2 Appropriate management of personal information

Page 3

(1) The supervising organization will take measures related to the following matters regarding personal information related to its storage or use.
At the same time, in response to requests from group supervised trainees and group supervised technical intern trainees, etc.
In response, the content of the measures must be explained.
B. Measures to keep personal information accurate and up-to-date to the extent necessary according to the purpose
Place
(B) Measures to prevent loss, destruction and falsification of personal information
C. Measures to prevent access to personal information by persons without legitimate authority
D. Destroy or delete personal information that no longer needs to be stored for the purpose of collection.
Measures for
(2) The supervising organization corresponds to the secret of the group supervising type intern trainee, etc. and the group supervising type technical intern trainee, etc.
If you get to know the personal information you want to do, the personal information will be known to others without a justifiable reason.
Especially strict control must be carried out so that it does not happen.
(3) The supervising organization has created rules regarding the proper management of personal information, including the following matters.
Must comply with this.
B. Matters concerning the range of persons who can handle personal information
(B) Matters concerning education and training such as training for those who handle personal information
C. Disclosure or correction of personal information when requested by the person (including deletion. The same shall apply hereinafter)
Matters concerning the handling of
D. Matters concerning the handling of complaints regarding the handling of personal information
(4) The supervising organization is responsible for requesting disclosure or correction of personal information.
Do not treat the person unfavorably.
3 Compliance with the Law Concerning the Protection of Personal Information, etc.
In addition to what is stipulated in 1 and 2, the supervising organization shall be the Act on the Protection of Personal Information, Article 2, Article 5.
Corresponds to the personal information handling business operator (hereinafter referred to as "personal information handling business operator") specified in the section.
In that case, the obligations stipulated in Chapter 4, Section 1 of the same law must be observed. Also,
Even if it does not correspond to a business operator handling personal information, it is an individual according to the business operator handling personal information.
Strive to ensure the proper handling of personal information.

