Page 1

Guidelines for the protection of personal information in the telecommunications business
(Ended 29 April 18 days Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications Notification No. 152 Patent)
Final revision Heisei 29 years 9 May 14 days Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications Notification No. 297 Patent
Chapter 1 General Rules
(Purpose)
Article 1 This guideline is based on the public nature of the telecommunications business and the development of the advanced information and telecommunications society.
In view of the remarkable expansion of the use of personal information, matters belonging to the confidentiality of communications and other matters
Establish basic matters to be observed by telecommunications carriers regarding the proper handling of personal information
By doing so, we will improve the convenience of telecommunications services and protect the rights and interests of users.
The porpose is to do.

(Applicable target)
Article 2 The provisions of this guideline are related to the proper handling of personal information by telecommunications carriers.
It is interpreted and operated as defining the basic matters to be observed.
2 Telecommunications carriers are subject to the provisions of the Act on the Protection of Personal Information (hereinafter referred to as the "Act").
Article 4 of the Telecommunications Business Act (Act No. 86 of 1979) concerning secrecy of communications
In addition to complying with relevant regulations, do not handle personal information properly in accordance with the provisions of this guideline.
Must be.
3 Telecommunications carriers are individuals specified in Chapter 2 for various information specified in Chapter 3.
In addition to observing the common principles regarding the handling of information, we will handle it properly in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 3.
There must be.

(Definition)
Article 3 The terms used in this guideline are examples of terms used in Article 2 of the Act.
In addition, the meanings of the terms listed in the following items shall be as specified in each item.
(I) Telecommunications carrier Telecommunications business (telecommunications stipulated in Article 2, item 4 of the Telecommunications Business Law)
Refers to a business. ).
(Ii) Telecommunications services means telecommunications services specified in Article 2, item 3 of the Telecommunications Business Act.
(Iii) Telecommunications services Telecommunications services and services provided by telecommunications carriers as a business.
A service that accompanies this.
(Iv) User A person who uses telecommunications services.
(V) Conclude a contract with a subscriber telecommunications carrier to receive telecommunications services.
To say a person.

Chapter 2 Common Principles Regarding the Handling of Personal Information

Page 2

(Specification of purpose of use)
Article 4 When handling personal information, telecommunications carriers use it for the purpose of use (hereinafter referred to as "the following".
It is called "purpose of use". ) Must be specified as much as possible.
2 When changing the purpose of use, the telecommunications carrier shall change the purpose of use before the change and its relevance.
Do not go beyond what is reasonably acceptable to have.
3 The purpose of use specified in paragraph 1 is the range necessary to provide telecommunications services.
You must try not to exceed.

(Restrictions depending on the purpose of use)
Article 5 A telecommunications carrier shall be specified pursuant to the provisions of the preceding Article without obtaining the consent of the person in advance.
Personal information must not be handled beyond the scope necessary to achieve the stated purpose of use.
2 Telecommunications carriers accept business from other personal information handling carriers due to mergers or other reasons.
If personal information is acquired in connection with the succession, without obtaining the consent of the person in advance,
Beyond the scope necessary to achieve the purpose of use of the personal information before the succession, the personal information
Must not be dealt with.
(3) The provisions of the preceding two paragraphs shall not apply in the following cases.
When required by law
When it is necessary to protect the life, body or property of two people, with the consent of the person
When it is difficult to get.
(Iii) When it is particularly necessary to improve public health or promote the sound development of children.
When it is difficult to obtain the consent of the person.
Shikoku organizations or local public bodies or those entrusted with them carry out the affairs stipulated by laws and regulations.
To obtain the consent of the person when it is necessary to cooperate in carrying out
When there is a risk of hindering the performance of the relevant affairs.
4 Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding three paragraphs, the telecommunications carrier shall, with the consent of the user, and others.
Unless there is a reason to prevent the illegality of the communication, please use the personal information related to the confidentiality of communications.
It doesn't become.

(Restriction on acquisition)
Article 6 Telecommunications carriers provide telecommunications services for the acquisition of personal information.
Therefore, we must endeavor only when necessary.

(Proper acquisition)
Article 7 Telecommunications carriers must not acquire personal information by deception or other improper means.
I.

Page 3

2 A telecommunications carrier shall not obtain the consent of the person in advance, except in the following cases.
You must not obtain sensitive personal information.
When required by law
When it is necessary to protect the life, body or property of two people, with the consent of the person
When it is difficult to get.
(Iii) When it is particularly necessary to improve public health or promote the sound development of children.
When it is difficult to obtain the consent of the person.
Shikoku organizations or local public bodies or those entrusted with them carry out the affairs stipulated by laws and regulations.
To obtain the consent of the person when it is necessary to cooperate in carrying out
When there is a risk of hindering the performance of the relevant affairs.
(V) The personal information requiring consideration is the person, the national institution, the local public body, and each of Article 76, Paragraph 1 of the Act.
Persons listed in the issue, foreign governments, foreign government agencies, foreign local governments, international organizations or outside
It is open to the public by a person equivalent to the person listed in each item of Article 76, paragraph 1 of the Act in the country.
If
(Vi) By visually observing or photographing the person, personal information requiring consideration that is clear in appearance can be obtained.
When to get
(Vii) In the cases listed in each item of Article 15, paragraph 10, of sensitive personal information that is personal data
When receiving an offer.
3 Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the telecommunications carrier shall have other differences with the consent of the user.
Unless there is a reason for legal obstruction, personal information related to confidentiality of communications must not be obtained.
I.

(Notification of purpose of use at the time of acquisition, etc.)
Article 8 When a telecommunications carrier acquires personal information, the purpose of use is publicized in advance.
Unless otherwise indicated, the purpose of use must be promptly notified or announced to the person.
Must be.
2 The telecommunications carrier decides to conclude a contract with the person regardless of the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
The person concerned stated in the contract or other documents (including electromagnetic records; the same shall apply hereinafter).
When acquiring personal information of the person in question Other personal information of the person directly stated in writing from the person
When obtaining information, the purpose of use must be clearly stated to the person in advance.
Absent. However, if there is an urgent need to protect human life, body or property,
Not limited to.
3 If the telecommunications carrier changes the purpose of use, the changed purpose of use shall be referred to as a book.
You must notify or publish to a person.
4. The provisions of the preceding three paragraphs shall not apply in the following cases.
(I) By notifying or disclosing the purpose of use to the person, the life, body, of the person or a third party,

Page 4

When there is a risk of harming property or other rights and interests
(Ii) The rights of the telecommunications carrier or the rights of the telecommunications carrier by notifying or publicizing the purpose of use.
When there is a risk of harming legitimate interests
Cooperate with national organizations or local public bodies to carry out the affairs stipulated by law
When it is necessary to notify the person of the purpose of use or publicize it.
When there is a risk of hindering the performance of the office work.
(Iv) When it is recognized that the purpose of use is clear from the status of acquisition

(Ensuring accuracy)
Article 9 Telecommunications carriers correct personal data to the extent necessary to achieve the purpose of use.
You must make sure to keep it up to date.

(Retention period, etc.)
Article 10 Telecommunications carriers shall use personal data (excluding those related to confidentiality of communications; hereinafter referred to in this Article).
Same as before. ), Set the storage period within the range necessary for the purpose of use.
After the storage period has passed or after it is no longer necessary to use the personal data, the personal data will be stored without delay.
You must try to erase it. However, this does not apply in the following cases.
(I) When it must be preserved in accordance with the provisions of laws and regulations.
(Ii) When there is the consent of the person.
(Iii) When a telecommunications carrier stores personal data to the extent necessary to carry out its own business
And when there is a good reason not to erase the personal data.
(Iv) In addition to the cases listed in the preceding three items, there is a special reason for not erasing the personal data.
When there is a reason.
2 The telecommunications carrier may have other reasons to prevent illegality with the consent of the user.
Except when personal information related to confidentiality of communications must not be stored and storage is permitted.
However, after achieving the purpose of use, the personal information must be deleted promptly.
I.

(Safety management measures)
Article 11 A telecommunications carrier shall handle personal data or personal information related to confidentiality of communications.
(Hereinafter referred to as "personal data, etc.") Prevention of leakage, loss or damage, and other personal days
Take necessary and appropriate measures for safety management of data, etc. (hereinafter referred to as "safety management measures")
I have to do it.

(Supervision of employees and contractors)
Article 12 A telecommunications carrier shall provide its employees (including dispatched workers; the same shall apply hereinafter) to individuals.

Page 5

When handling data, etc., so that the safety management of the personal data, etc. can be achieved.
Necessary and appropriate supervision of the employee must be provided.
2 Telecommunications carriers ensure the implementation of safety management measures and other proper handling of personal data, etc.
For protection, the employee must endeavor to provide the necessary education and training.
3 When a telecommunications carrier outsources all or part of the handling of personal data, etc.,
For those who have been entrusted with the handling so that the safety management of personal data, etc. entrusted to them can be achieved.
Necessary and appropriate supervision must be provided.

(Personal information protection manager)
Article 13 A telecommunications carrier is a personal information protection manager (personal data of the telecommunications carrier).
The person in charge of handling such as. ) And inside to comply with this guideline
Formulation of regulations, establishment of audit system and supervision of handling of personal data, etc. of the telecommunications carrier
Must try to do.

(privacy policy)
Article 14 The telecommunications carrier has a privacy policy (the telecommunications carrier has personal information).
It refers to the way of thinking and policies in promoting protection. ) Is appropriate.
2 Telecommunications carriers refer to application software (hereinafter referred to as "application").
Say. ), Regarding the acquisition of information by the application
It is appropriate to publish a clear and properly defined privacy policy.
3 When operating a site that provides applications, the telecommunications carrier
For those who provide the application on the site, the application
Publicly announces a privacy policy that clearly and appropriately defines the acquisition of information by
It is appropriate to encourage them.

(Restrictions on provision to third parties)
Article 15 A telecommunications carrier shall obtain the consent of the person in advance, except in the following cases.
Do not provide personal data to third parties without.
When required by law
When it is necessary to protect the life, body or property of two people, with the consent of the person
When it is difficult to get.
(Iii) When it is particularly necessary to improve public health or promote the sound development of children.
When it is difficult to obtain the consent of the person.
Shikoku organizations or local public bodies or those entrusted with them carry out the affairs stipulated by laws and regulations.
To obtain the consent of the person when it is necessary to cooperate in carrying out
When there is a risk of hindering the performance of the relevant affairs.

Page 6

2 Telecommunications carriers provide personal data provided to third parties (excluding sensitive personal information;
Same in this section. ), An individual who can identify the person at the request of the person.
In the case where it is decided to suspend the provision of data to a third party, the following matters
In addition to notifying the person in advance or putting it in a state that the person can easily know
When notifying the Personal Information Protection Commission pursuant to the provisions of Article 23, paragraph 2 of the Act, the provisions of the preceding paragraph
Regardless, the personal data can be provided to a third party.
(I) The purpose of use is to provide it to a third party.
(Ii) Items of personal data provided to a third party
(3) Method of providing to a third party
(Iv) Suspension of provision of personal data that identifies the person to a third party at the request of the person
To do.
5 How to accept the request of the person
(3) When a telecommunications carrier changes the matters listed in item (ii), item (iii) or item (v) of the preceding paragraph,
A state in which the person is notified in advance of the contents to be changed or the person can easily know the contents to be changed.
And must notify the Personal Information Protection Commission.
4. Notifications pursuant to the provisions of the preceding two paragraphs or measures to be placed in an easily recognizable state are as follows.
It shall be done by.
(I) The person identified by personal data provided to a third party ("Person" in the next issue)
That is. ) Allows the period required to request the suspension of the provision.
(Ii) By an appropriate and rational method that allows the person to reliably recognize the matters listed in each item of paragraph (2).
That.
5 Notification pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 or 3 must be made by any of the following methods.
Must be.
(I) An electronic information processing organization (Personal Information Protection Commission) as stipulated by the Personal Information Protection Commission.
Electrical communication between the computer used by the committee and the computer used by the person making the notification
An electronic information processing organization connected by a communication line. ) How to use
(Ii) Regulations for Enforcement of the Act on the Protection of Personal Information (Personal Information Protection Commission Regulations No. 2008)
No. 3 Hereinafter referred to as "rules". ) Enter in the notification form in the separate form 1 and the notification form
Optical disc on which items to be recorded (certain items are reliably recorded by a method similar to this)
Including things that can be kept. Hereinafter referred to as "optical disc, etc." ) How to submit
6 When a telecommunications carrier makes a notification pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 2 or 3 by an agent
Submit a document certifying its authority to the Personal Information Protection Commission in accordance with the second rule form.
There must be.
7. Telecommunications carriers in foreign countries (meaning countries or regions outside Japan; the same shall apply hereinafter)
When making a notification pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (2) or paragraph (3), the person must have an address in Japan.
Has the authority to represent the telecommunications carrier in all acts related to the notification.

Page 7

You have to decide what. In this case, the telecommunications carrier shall notify the notification.
All matters related to the notification to the person who has an address in Japan at the same time as the telecommunications carrier
A document certifying that the act has been granted the authority to represent the telecommunications carrier (Japan)
Includes verbal translations. ) Must be submitted to the Personal Information Protection Commission.
8 Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraphs, the telecommunications carrier shall, with the consent of the user, other
Unless there is a reason to prevent illegality, provide personal information related to confidentiality of communications to a third party.
must not.
9. The telecommunications carrier shall promptly after the announcement pursuant to the provisions of Article 23, Paragraph 4 of the Act.
Matters listed in paragraph 2 (No. 2 of the same paragraph, by using the Internet or other appropriate methods
When there is a change in the matters listed in item 3 or 5, the matters listed in each of the changed items
Section) shall be published.
10 In the following cases, the person who receives the provision of the personal data shall be in paragraphs 1 to 7.
Up to and the application of the provisions of the preceding paragraph shall not fall under the category of a third party.
(I) Handling of personal data to the extent necessary for the telecommunications carrier to achieve the purpose of use
When the personal data is provided by entrusting all or part of
(Ii) When personal data is provided due to business succession due to a merger or other reasons
(Iii) Personal data shared with a specific person will be provided to that specific person.
In some cases, to that effect and items of personal data to be shared, shared use
Responsible for the scope of the person who does it, the purpose of use of the person who uses it, and the management of the personal data.
Notify the person in advance of the name or name of the person who does the work, or the person can easily know
When it is in a ready state.
11 The telecommunications carrier shall use the purpose of use or personal data of the user specified in item 3 of the preceding paragraph.
When changing the name or name of the person responsible for management, change the content
If you do not notify the person in advance or put it in a state that the person can easily know about it
It doesn't become.

(Restrictions on provision to third parties in foreign countries)
Article 16 A telecommunications carrier shall be a third party in a foreign country (Handling of Personal Data, Law No. 4).
Corresponds to the measures that the business operator handling personal information should take according to the provisions of Chapter 1 Section
A body that meets the criteria set forth in the next section as necessary to continuously take measures to
Excludes those who have a system in place. The same shall apply hereinafter in this article. ) Where personal data is provided
In that case, except for the cases listed in each item of paragraph 1 of the preceding article, to a third party in a foreign country in advance.
You must obtain the consent of the person to approve the offer. In this case, the same article (same as above)
Excluding paragraph 8 of Article. ) Does not apply.
2 Handling of personal data According to the provisions of Chapter 4, Section 1 of the Act, a business operator handling personal information
Measures necessary to continuously take measures equivalent to the measures that should be taken

Page 8

The criteria specified as are applicable to any of the following items.
(I) Between the telecommunications carrier and the person who receives the provision of personal data, to the person who receives the provision
Regarding the handling of the personal data in the law, by an appropriate and rational method, Chapter 4 of the Act
Implementation of measures in line with the purpose of the provisions of Section 1 is ensured.
(Ii) The person who receives the personal data is based on the international framework for handling personal information.
Must be certified.

(Creation of records related to provision to a third party, etc.)
Article 17 A telecommunications carrier shall provide personal data to a third party (persons listed in each item of Article 2, Paragraph 5 of the Act).
except. The same shall apply hereinafter in this article and the next article. ), Documents, electromagnetic records or
According to the classification in each of the following items by the method of making using microfilm.
Therefore, a record regarding the matters specified in each item must be prepared. However,
The provision of the personal data is either each item of Article 15, paragraph 1 or each item of paragraph 10 (the provisions of the preceding article).
When providing personal data by, any place that falls under any of the items of Article 15, Paragraph 1)
In that case, this is not the case.
(I) When personal data is provided to a third party pursuant to the provisions of Article 15, paragraph (2)
Matters listed up to d
B. Date when the personal data was provided
(B) The name or name of the third party and other matters sufficient to identify the third party (non-special)
When it is provided to a fixed number of people, that fact)
C. Identify the name of the person identified by the personal data and other persons.
Sufficient matters
D. Items of the personal data
(Ii) When personal data is provided to a third party pursuant to the provisions of Article 15, paragraph 1 or the preceding Article:
Matters listed in (a) and (b)
B. The fact that the consent of the person in Article 15, paragraph 1 or the preceding article has been obtained
(B) Matters listed in the previous item (b) to (d)
2 Of the matters specified in each item of the preceding paragraph, the method already specified in the preceding paragraph, the next paragraph and the fourth paragraph is used.
Recorded in the record of the preceding paragraph (limited to the case where the record is kept)
If the content is the same as the item, the record of the item in the preceding paragraph shall be omitted.
Can be done.
3 The record set forth in paragraph 1 must be promptly created each time personal data is provided to a third party.
Not. However, personal data will be provided to the third party continuously or repeatedly (No.
Excludes provision pursuant to the provisions of Article 15, paragraph 2. The same shall apply hereinafter in this section. ) Or
It is certain that personal data will be provided to the third party continuously or repeatedly.
Records can be created in a batch when it is expected to occur.

Page 9

4 Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, pursuant to the provisions of Article 15, paragraph 1 or the preceding article, the item for the person
When personal data related to the person concerned is provided to a third party in connection with the provision of goods or services
In addition, the matters specified in each item of paragraph 1 in the contract and other documents prepared for the provision.
If is stated, the document shall be used in place of the record relating to the matter in paragraph 1.
be able to.
(5) The telecommunications carrier shall list the records set forth in paragraph (1) in the following items from the date of creation of the records.
Depending on the classification of the case, it must be stored for the period specified in each item.
(I) When a record is created by the method prescribed in the preceding paragraph Finally, the individual data related to the record
From the day when the data is provided to the day when one year has passed
(Ii) When a record is created by the method prescribed in the proviso of paragraph (3) Finally, in the record
From the date when the relevant personal data is provided to the date when three years have passed since the date of provision.
(3) In cases other than the previous two items, three years

(Confirmation when receiving a third party offer, etc.)
Article 18 When receiving personal data from a third party, the telecommunications carrier shall have the following:
If you do not confirm by the method specified in each item according to the matters listed in each item
It doesn't become. However, the provision of the personal data is not in each item of Article 15, paragraph 1 or each item of paragraph 10.
This does not apply if there is a gap.
(I) In the case of the name or name and address of the third party and the corporation, its representative (in the corporation)
If there is no organization with a representative or manager, the representative or manager
Name of person) (excluding those corresponding to the matters listed in item 3) Providing the personal data
How to receive a declaration from the third party to be provided and other appropriate methods
(Ii) Background of acquisition of the personal data by the third party (those that fall under the matters listed in the next item)
Except for. ) From the third party who provides the personal data to the individual by the third party
How to receive a contract or other document showing the process of acquiring human data Other suitable
The painful way
(Iii) The provisions of the preceding two items have already been made when receiving other personal data from the third party.
Confirmation by method (By the method specified in paragraphs 3, 5 and 6 for the confirmation)
Only when creating and storing records. )
The content of the matter and the content of the matters listed in the preceding two items related to the provision are the same.
How to check
(2) The third party set forth in the preceding paragraph shall be applicable when the telecommunications carrier confirms pursuant to the provisions of the same paragraph.
The matters pertaining to the confirmation must not be false to the telecommunications carrier.
(3) When the telecommunications carrier confirms pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (1), it shall provide documents, electromagnetic records or
According to the classification in each of the following items by the method of making using microfilm.
Therefore, a record regarding the matters specified in each item must be prepared.

Page 10

(I) Provision of personal data from a business operator handling personal information pursuant to the provisions of Article 23, paragraph 2 of the Act.
If you receive the following items from a to e
B. Date of receiving personal data
(B) Matters listed in each item of paragraph (1)
C. Identify the name of the person identified by the personal data and other persons.
Sufficient matters
D. Items of the personal data
(E) The fact that it has been announced pursuant to the provisions of Article 23, Paragraph 4 of the Act
(Ii) From the business operator handling personal information, the part other than those listed in each item of Article 23, paragraph 1 of the Act or the 20th Act
When personal data is provided pursuant to the provisions of Article 4 Matters listed in the following a and b
B. The fact that the consent of the person in question, Article 23, Paragraph 1 of the Act or Article 24 of the Act has been obtained.
(B) Matters listed in the previous item (b) to (d)
(Iii) Received the provision of personal data from a third party (excluding those who fall under the category of business operators handling personal information)
In the case of digits Items listed in item 1 (b) to (d)
4 Of the matters specified in each item of the preceding paragraph, the method already specified in the preceding paragraph, the next paragraph and the sixth paragraph is used.
Recorded in the record of the preceding paragraph (limited to the case where the record is kept)
If the content is the same as the item, the record of the item in the same paragraph may be omitted.
it can.
5 The record set forth in paragraph 3 must be promptly created each time personal data is provided by a third party.
Must be. However, the third party will provide personal data continuously or repeatedly.
(Excluding the provision pursuant to the provisions of Article 15, paragraph 2. The same shall apply hereinafter in this Article.)
Or to receive personal data continuously or repeatedly from the third party
Records of what is expected to be certain can be created in bulk.
6 Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraph, from a third party in connection with the provision of goods or services to the person
When personal data related to the person is provided, it is created for the provision.
If the contract or other document contains the matters specified in each item of paragraph 3, the document concerned.
Can be replaced with a record relating to the relevant matter in the same paragraph.
7. The telecommunications carrier shall list the records set forth in paragraph 3 in the following items from the date of creation of the records.
Depending on the classification of the case, it must be stored for the period specified in each item.
(I) When a record is created by the method prescribed in the preceding paragraph Finally, the individual data related to the record
From the day when the data is provided to the day when one year has passed
(Ii) When a record is created by the method prescribed in the proviso of paragraph 5 Finally, in the record
From the date when the personal data is provided to the date when three years have passed since the date of receipt of the personal data.
(3) In cases other than the previous two items, three years

(Publication of matters related to retained personal data, etc.)

Page 11

Article 19 A telecommunications carrier shall be responsible for the following matters regarding retained personal data.
Must be in a state that can be known (including the case of responding without delay at the request of the person)
Must be.
(I) Name or name of the telecommunications carrier
(Ii) Purpose of use of all retained personal data (corresponding to Article 8, Paragraph 4, Items 1 to 3)
Except when )
(3) Requests pursuant to the provisions of the following paragraph or Article 21, paragraph 1, Article 21, paragraph 1 or Article 22, paragraph 22
Procedures for responding to requests pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (1) or paragraph (3) (according to the provisions of Article 25, paragraph (2))
When the amount of the fee is set, the amount of the fee is included. )
(Iv) To file a complaint regarding the handling of retained personal data by the telecommunications carrier.
(V) When the telecommunications carrier is a target carrier of an authorized personal information protection organization
Is the name of the authorized personal information protection organization and the address to which the complaint can be resolved.
2 The telecommunications carrier intends to use the retained personal data that identifies the person from the person.
When requested to notify, the person must be notified without delay.
However, this does not apply if any of the following items apply.
(I) The purpose of use of the retained personal data that identifies the person concerned is clear according to the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
If
(Ii) When applicable to Article 8, Paragraph 4, Items 1 to 3
3 Telecommunications carriers shall pass the purpose of use of retained personal data requested based on the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
If you decide not to know, you must notify the person without delay.
Not.

(Disclosure)
Article 20 The person shall open the retained personal data that identifies the person to the telecommunications carrier.
You can request an indication.
(2) When a telecommunications carrier receives a request pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, it shall exchange a document with the person.
By the attached method (if there is a method agreed by the person who requested the disclosure, the method concerned)
Therefore, the retained personal data must be disclosed without delay. However, to disclose
If any of the following items apply, do not disclose all or part of it.
Can be done.
When there is a risk of harming the life, body, property or other rights and interests of the person or a third party
(Ii) Places that may significantly hinder the proper implementation of the business of the telecommunications carrier.
Go
(Iii) Decree (Law, Law Enforcement Ordinance on Protection of Personal Information (Cabinet Order No. 507 of 2003) and
And rules are excluded. The same shall apply in paragraph 4 and paragraph 2 of the next article. ) Is violated
3 The telecommunications carrier shall have all or part of the retained personal data pertaining to the request pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1.

Page 12

When it is decided not to disclose the relevant personal data or when the retained personal data does not exist
Must notify the person without delay.
4 According to the provisions of laws and regulations, the method equivalent to the method prescribed in the main text of paragraph 2 shall be applied to the person.
A place where all or part of the retained personal data that identifies the person is to be disclosed.
In that case, the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 shall apply to all or part of the retained personal data.
Does not apply.

(Correction, etc.)
Article 21 The person shall give the telecommunications carrier the retained personal data that identifies the person.
If the content is not true, correct, add or delete the content of the retained personal data (hereinafter referred to as this)
In the article, it is called "correction, etc." ) Can be requested.
2 When a telecommunications carrier receives a request pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, it will correct the content, etc.
To achieve the purpose of use, unless special procedures are stipulated by laws and regulations.
To the extent necessary, conduct the necessary investigation without delay, and based on the results, the relevant possession
The contents of human data must be corrected.
3 The telecommunications carrier shall be young in all the contents of the retained personal data pertaining to the request pursuant to the provision of paragraph 1.
Or when some corrections are made, or when it is decided not to make corrections
Will inform the person to that effect (including the content when corrections are made) without delay.
Must be notified.

(Suspension of use, etc.)
Article 22 The person gives the telecommunications carrier the retained personal data that identifies the person.
Obtained when being handled in violation of the provisions of Article 5 or in violation of the provisions of Article 7.
If it is, the use of the retained personal data will be suspended or deleted (hereinafter referred to in this Article).
It is called "suspension of use, etc." ) Can be requested.
2 When a telecommunications carrier receives a request pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the reason for the request
When it is found that there is, to the extent necessary to correct the violation, without delay
The use of retained personal data must be suspended. However, the retained personal data
When it costs a lot of money to suspend the use of, etc. In other places where it is difficult to suspend the use, etc.
In case of taking alternative measures necessary to protect the rights and interests of the person
Is not limited to this.
3 The person is the telecommunications carrier, and the retained personal data that identifies the person is Article 15
If it is provided to a third party in violation of the provisions of paragraph 1 or Article 16, the holding individual
You can request the suspension of the provision of data to third parties.
4 When a telecommunications carrier receives a request pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the reason for the request
When it is found that there is, we will stop providing the retained personal data to a third party without delay.

Page 13

I have to stop. However, a large amount of money will be required to suspend the provision of the retained personal data to a third party.
When it is difficult to stop providing to other third parties
When taking necessary alternative measures to protect the rights and interests of the person, this is the limit.
Not.
5 The telecommunications carrier shall have all or all of the retained personal data pertaining to the request pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1.
When the use of some parts is suspended or it is decided not to suspend the use
Or all or part of the retained personal data pertaining to the request pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 3.
When the provision to a third party is stopped or the decision not to stop the provision to a third party
If you do, you must notify the person without delay.

(Explanation of reason)
Article 23 Telecommunications carriers shall be referred to as Article 19, paragraph 3, Article 20, paragraph 3, and Article 21, paragraph 3.
Or all or one of the measures requested or requested by the person pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5 of the preceding Article.
When notifying the department not to take the measures or taking measures different from the measures
When notifying the fact, you must try to explain the reason to the person.

(Procedures for responding to requests for disclosure, etc.)
Article 24 A telecommunications carrier may request pursuant to the provisions of Article 19, paragraph 2 or Article 20, paragraph 1.
Paragraph, Article 21, Paragraph 1 or Article 22, Paragraph 1 or Paragraph 3
(Hereinafter referred to as "request for disclosure, etc." in this Article), the request or request is received.
The methods listed in the following items can be specified as the method of staking. Smell in this case
Therefore, the person must make a request for disclosure, etc. in accordance with the method.
(I) Request for disclosure, etc.
(Ii) Document format to be submitted when requesting disclosure, etc. and other methods for requesting disclosure, etc.
(Iii) Confirmation that the person making the request for disclosure, etc. is the person or the agent prescribed in paragraph 3.
the method of
(Iv) How to collect the fee set forth in paragraph (1) of the next article
2 The telecommunications carrier is the owner of the individual who is the target of the request for disclosure, etc. to the person.
It is possible to request the presentation of matters sufficient to identify the data. In this case, electricity
The telecommunications carrier is responsible for making requests for disclosure, etc. easily and accurately.
Providing information that contributes to the identification of the retained personal data and other appropriate measures in consideration of the convenience of the individual
I have to take the place.
(3) Requests for disclosure, etc. may be made by the following agents. However, the twentieth
Regarding the request for disclosure pursuant to the provisions of Article 1, paragraph 1, in the case of infringing the confidentiality of communications of the person, etc.
This shall not apply if any of the items in Article 20, paragraph 2 applies.
(I) Legal representative of a minor or an adult guardian

Page 14

(Ii) An agent delegated by the principal to request disclosure, etc.
4 The telecommunications carrier shall establish procedures for responding to requests for disclosure, etc. based on the provisions of the preceding three paragraphs.
In doing so, care must be taken not to impose an excessive burden on the person.
I.

(Commission)
Article 25 A telecommunications carrier is requested to notify the purpose of use pursuant to the provisions of Article 19, paragraph 2.
Or when a request for disclosure pursuant to the provisions of Article 20, paragraph 1 is received, the actual measures concerned
Fees can be collected for the application.
2 When a telecommunications carrier collects a fee pursuant to the provisions of the preceding paragraph, the actual cost is taken into consideration.
The amount of the fee must be set within the range that is considered reasonable.

(Advance billing)
Article 26 The person himself / herself may be younger, Article 20, Paragraph 1, Article 21, Paragraph 1 or Article 22, Paragraph 1.
When he / she intends to file an action relating to a request pursuant to the provision of paragraph 3, he / she shall be referred to as the defendant in the action.
Make the request in advance to the person who should be, and two weeks from the date of arrival
The complaint can only be filed after the lapse of time. However, the complaint
This shall not apply when the person to be the defendant refuses the request.
(2) The request set forth in the preceding paragraph shall be deemed to have arrived when the request should normally have arrived.
(3) The provisions of the preceding two paragraphs shall be Article 20, Paragraph 1, Article 21, Paragraph 1 or Article 22, Paragraph 1
Applies mutatis mutandis to the petition for provisional disposition order pertaining to the request pursuant to the provision of paragraph 3.

(Handling of complaints by telecommunications carriers)
Article 27 Telecommunications carriers handle complaints regarding the handling of personal information appropriately and promptly.
Must.
2 The telecommunications carrier must establish the system necessary to achieve the purpose set forth in the preceding paragraph.
Absent.

(Creation of anonymous processing information, etc.)
Article 28 A telecommunications carrier constitutes anonymously processed information (anonymously processed information database, etc.)
Limited to things. same as below. ), Identifying a specific individual and its
It is necessary to prevent the personal information used for creation from being restored.
The personal information must be processed in accordance with the following standards.
(I) All or part of the description, etc. that can identify a specific individual included in personal information
(Has regularity that can restore all or part of the description, etc.)
Including replacing with other description etc. by no method. ).

Page 15

(Ii) Delete all of the personal identification code included in the personal information (restore the personal identification code)
Replacing with other descriptions, etc. by a method that does not have regularity that can be based
Including. ).
(Iii) A code that connects personal information and information obtained by taking measures against the personal information (actually, electricity)
Limited to codes that connect information handled by telecommunications carriers to each other. ) To be deleted
And (with the personal information by a method that does not have regularity that can restore the code
Place the information obtained by taking measures against the personal information in a code that cannot be linked.
Including changing. ).
(Iv) Deleting a peculiar description, etc. (Regularity that can restore the peculiar description, etc.)
Includes replacement with other descriptions, etc. by a method that does not have. ).
(V) In addition to the measures listed in the preceding items, the description, etc. included in the personal information and the individual including the personal information.
Differences from other personal information that composes the personal information database, etc.
Considering the nature of the personal information database, etc., and taking appropriate measures based on the results
To take.
2 When a telecommunications carrier creates anonymously processed information, is it the personal information used to create it?
Regarding the description, etc. deleted from the above, the personal identification code, and the processing method performed according to the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
In accordance with the standards set forth below as necessary to prevent leakage of information
Measures must be taken for the security management of information.
(I) Processing method information (descriptions deleted from personal information used to create anonymous processing information, etc.)
Information on the personal identification code and the processing method performed according to the provisions of the preceding paragraph (the information)
Limited to those that can be used to restore the personal information. ). Below in this article
Same as before. ) Clearly define the authority and responsibility of the person who handles it.
(Ii) Establish rules regarding the handling of information such as processing methods, and process methods in accordance with the rules.
Etc. We will handle the information appropriately, evaluate the status of the handling, and conclude the result.
Take necessary measures to make improvements based on the results.
(Iii) Collection of information on processing methods, etc. by a person who does not have the proper authority to handle information on processing methods, etc.
Take necessary and appropriate measures to prevent handling.
3 When a telecommunications carrier creates anonymously processed information, it can be used on the Internet without delay.
Information about individuals contained in the anonymously processed information by use or other appropriate method
You have to publish your eyes.
4 A telecommunications carrier creates anonymously processed information on behalf of another personal information handling carrier.
In that case, the other business operator handling personal information relates to the individual included in the anonymously processed information.
Information items shall be published by the method specified in the preceding paragraph. In this case,
With the announcement, the telecommunications carrier shall be deemed to have announced the item.
5 The telecommunications carrier creates anonymously processed information and provides the anonymously processed information to a third party.
In some cases, provide it to a third party in advance by using the Internet or other appropriate method.

Page 16

Items of personal information included in the anonymously processed information provided and the method of providing it
The information related to the provision is anonymously processed information to the third party.
To that effect by sending an e-mail, delivering a document, or any other appropriate method
Must be more explicit.
6 Telecommunications carriers create anonymously processed information and handle the anonymously processed information by themselves.
Therefore, in order to identify the person related to the personal information used to create the anonymously processed information.
In addition, the anonymously processed information must not be collated with other information.
7 When a telecommunications carrier creates anonymously processed information, the safety management of the anonymously processed information
Complaints about necessary and appropriate measures for the purpose, creation of the anonymously processed information and other handling
Processing and other measures necessary to ensure the proper handling of the anonymously processed information
And shall endeavor to publicize the contents of the measures.

(Provision of anonymous processing information)
Article 29 A telecommunications carrier that handles anonymously processed information is anonymized processed information (individually by itself).
Excludes those created by processing human information. The same applies below in this chapter. ) To a third party
When doing so, use the Internet or other appropriate method in advance to a third party.
Items of information about individuals included in anonymously processed information provided to and the method of providing it
And to the third party, the information related to the provision is anonymously processed.
How to send an e-mail or deliver a document to the effect that it is a report, or any other appropriate person
Must be specified by law.

(Prohibition of identification)
Article 30 A telecommunications carrier that handles anonymously processed information handles anonymously processed information.
In the case of, identify the person related to the personal information used to create the anonymously processed information.
Therefore, the description, etc. deleted from the personal information, the personal identification code, or the 28th
Article 1, Paragraph 1, Act on the Protection of Personal Information Held by Administrative Organizations (Act No. 50 of 2003)
No. 8) Article 44-10, paragraph 1 (including the cases where it is applied mutatis mutandis in paragraph 2 of the same Article) or
Act on the Protection of Personal Information Held by Independent Administrative Institutions, etc. (Act No. 59 of 2003)
No.) According to the provisions of Article 44-10, paragraph 1 (including the cases where it is applied mutatis mutandis in paragraph 2 of the same Article).
Obtain information about the processing method performed, or refer to the anonymous processing information with other information.
Must not match.

(Safety management measures, etc.)
Article 31 A telecommunications carrier that handles anonymously processed information is a safety pipe for anonymously processed information.
Necessary and appropriate measures for reason, handling of complaints regarding the handling of anonymously processed information, etc.
Take necessary measures to ensure the proper handling of anonymously processed information, and take such measures

Page 17

You must endeavor to publish the contents of the deposit.

Chapter 3 Handling of various information
(Communication history)
Article 32 A telecommunications carrier shall have a communication history (date and time when the user used telecommunications, the relevant telecommunications).
Information related to the telecommunications of the other party of the air communication and other users, and the content of the telecommunications
It means something other than. same as below. ), Billing, billing, complaint handling, fraudulent use
It can be recorded only when it is necessary for the performance of other business.
2 When the telecommunications carrier complies with the warrant issued by the judge with the consent of the user,
Except for cases of self-defense or emergency evacuation and other reasons for blocking illegality
Must not provide communication history to others.

(Usage details)
Article 33 Usage details by the telecommunications carrier (date and time when the user used telecommunications, the electricity concerned
Regarding the destination of communication, billing information corresponding to these, and other users' use of the telecommunications
A document that describes the information. same as below. The range of information described in) is the item of the usage statement.
Do not exceed the limits necessary to achieve the goal.
2 The telecommunications carrier makes the subscriber or other person who can view the usage details view or deliver it.
In doing so, it is necessary to prevent unreasonable infringement of the confidentiality of communications and personal information of users.
I have to take a position.

(Caller information)
Article 34 Telecommunications carriers provide caller information notification services (caller ID, caller rank).
Notify the recipient of information about the sender (hereinafter referred to as "sender information"), such as information indicating the location.
The telephone service to be used. same as below. ), For each communication, caller information
A function must be provided to block notification of information.
2 When providing a caller information notification service, the telecommunications carrier has the right of the user.
Necessary measures must be taken to secure it.
3 When the telecommunications carrier is necessary to provide the caller information notification service and other services
Except for, the caller information must not be provided to others. However, there is the consent of the user
If you follow the warrant issued by the judge, you are actually guilty of threatening by using the telephone.
When performing reverse detection at the request of the victim and the investigative agency when there is a person
If there is an emergency call to the effect that there is an imminent danger to life, body, etc.
If there are other reasons for preventing illegality when performing reverse detection at the request of these, this shall apply.
Absent.

Page 18

(location information)
Article 35 A telecommunications carrier shall act as a telecommunications carrier if the consent of the user has been obtained in advance.
Location information only when there is a legitimate business act related to the provision of services or other reasons for preventing illegality
(Information indicating the location of the person who owns the mobile terminal, not the caller information.
U. same as below. ) Can be obtained.
2 A telecommunications carrier may issue an order issued by a judge if the consent of the user has been obtained in advance.
If you follow the conditions and there are other reasons to prevent illegality, please tell others about your location information.
Can be provided or used for other purposes.
3 A service in which a telecommunications carrier notifies a subscriber or a person instructing the location information.
Injustice of the user's rights when providing or having a third party provide
It is appropriate to take necessary measures to prevent this.
4 When a telecommunications carrier is requested to obtain location information at the request of an investigative agency
In the case, the location information can be obtained only when the warrant issued by the judge is obeyed.
it can.
5 In addition to the preceding paragraph, telecommunications carriers search for and rescue persons in need of rescue, police and maritime services.
Positional information of persons requiring rescue at the request of the National Safety Agency, fire department, or other similar organizations
If you are asked to obtain information, there is a serious danger to the person's life or body.
It is imminent and it is possible to obtain the location information in order to detect the person at an early stage.
The location information can be obtained only when it is deemed indispensable.

(Information on non-payers, etc.)
Article 36 Telecommunications carriers may not pay charges for telecommunications services or carry out mobile voice communication services.
When it is deemed necessary and appropriate to prevent unauthorized use of
Information on non-payers, etc. with the telecommunications carrier of
Those who do not pay the charges for telecommunications services or contractors by mobile voice communication carriers
Act on Identity Verification, etc. and Prevention of Unauthorized Use of Mobile Voice Communication Services (2005)
Law No. 31) To provide mobile voice communication services, etc. in cases that fall under each item of Article 11
Name, address, non-payment amount, telephone number and other relevant person or relevant person of the holder related to the contract
Information about the holder. same as below. ) Can be exchanged. However, this is not the case
There is a risk of unfairly infringing the rights and interests of the person by exchanging information such as payers.
This does not apply when it is recognized that there is.
2 When a telecommunications carrier exchanges information such as nonpayers with another telecommunications carrier
Is the information to that effect, information items such as non-payers to be exchanged, and the range of telecommunications carriers to be exchanged.
And the name or name of the person responsible for managing the information such as non-payers exchanged
It is appropriate to notify the person in advance or put it in a state that the person can easily know.
Is.

Page 19

3 The telecommunications carrier is responsible for the management of the exchanged non-payment information set forth in the preceding paragraph.
When changing a person's name or name, inform the person in advance about the content to be changed.
It is appropriate to put it in a state where it can be known or easily known by the person.
4 The telecommunications carrier that exchanged information on non-payers, etc. shall refer the information on non-payers, etc. at the time of subscription.
It is appropriate not to use it for any purpose other than inspection.
5 The telecommunications carrier that provided or received information on nonpayers, etc., is the information on the nonpayers, etc.
It is appropriate to take particular precautions for proper management of information.

(Subscriber information related to sending junk mail, etc.)
Article 37 Telecommunications carriers send e-mails to a large number of people at one time.
It is especially necessary and appropriate to prevent problems in sending and receiving e-mails.
If approved, subscriber information (a large number at one time) with other telecommunications carriers
Act on Appropriate Transmission of Specified E-mail to Persons (Act 26 of 2004)
No.), causing problems in sending and receiving e-mails that violate the provisions of
Telecommunications carriers benefit from sending e-mails that could cause them to
Regarding the name, address and other information of the subscriber who has taken suspension measures or canceled the contract
Limited to information to be done. same as below. ) Can be exchanged. However, the relevant subscriber information
It is recognized that the subject of exchange may unreasonably infringe the rights and interests of the person.
However, this does not apply.
2 When a telecommunications carrier exchanges subscriber information with another telecommunications carrier,
And the items of subscriber information to be exchanged, the scope of telecommunications carriers to be exchanged and exchanged.
About the name or name of the person who is responsible for the management of the subscriber information
Therefore, it is appropriate to notify the person or put it in a state that the person can easily know.
3 The telecommunications carrier is the person responsible for managing the exchanged subscriber information set forth in the preceding paragraph.
When changing the name or name, notify the person in advance of the content to be changed.
Alternatively, it is appropriate to put it in a state that the person can easily know.
4 The telecommunications carrier that exchanged the subscriber information does not examine the subscriber information at the time of subscription.
It is appropriate not to use it for any purpose.
5 The telecommunications carrier that provided or received the subscriber information is appropriate for the subscriber information.
It is appropriate to take special measures for proper management.

(Telephone number information)
Article 38 Telephone number information from a telecommunications carrier (when a telecommunications carrier concludes a telephone subscription contract)
The name of the subscriber or the name that the subscriber wants to be listed in the telephone directory and to provide the telephone number.
And the corresponding telephone number and other information about the subscriber. same as below. )
When issuing a telephone directory or conducting directory assistance services, the subscriber should be referred to the telephone directory.

Page 20

It is appropriate to give them the opportunity to choose not to post or give out their phone numbers.
is there. In this case, if the subscriber chooses to omit, the subscriber's information without delay.
Must be excluded from the subject of listing in the telephone directory or directory assistance services.
2 Telephone number provided when a telecommunications carrier issues a telephone directory or conducts directory assistance services.
It is appropriate that the scope of the information does not exceed the limit necessary to achieve the purpose of each business.
It's off. However, this does not apply with the consent of the subscriber.
3 Provision of telephone number information when a telecommunications carrier issues a telephone directory or provides directory assistance.
It is appropriate that the form does not unreasonably infringe the rights and interests of the person.
4 Telecommunications carriers use telephone numbers, except when issuing telephone directories or providing directory assistance services.
It is appropriate not to provide information. However, this does not apply in the following cases.
(I) When issuing a telephone directory or outsourcing directory assistance services
(Ii) When issuing a telephone directory or providing it to a person who conducts directory assistance services
(Iii) Other cases that fall under each item of Article 5, paragraph 3
5 A telecommunications carrier issues telephone number information, a telephone directory, or conducts directory assistance services.
When providing to a person, the provision contract, etc. shall be handled in accordance with the preceding paragraphs.
It is appropriate to specify.

Chapter 4 Miscellaneous Rules
(Review of guidelines)
Article 39 Regarding this guideline, changes in social conditions, changes in public awareness, and technological movements
Review as necessary in light of changes in various environments such as changes in orientation.

