Page 1

LAW OF MONGOLIA
May 16, 1995

Ulaanbaatar city

ABOUT THE SECRET OF THE ORGANIZATION

CHAPTER ONE
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1. Purpose of the law
The purpose of this law is to regulate relations related to the establishment and protection of organizational secrecy.
Article 2. Legislation on organizational secrecy
Legislation on the secrecy of the organization is derived from the Constitution, this law and other legislative acts
consists of.
Article 3 Understanding the secrets of the organization
1. Confidentiality of an organization shall be understood in this law in the following sense:
1 / "organization" means a body recognized by law with specific functions and powers
means a person;
2 / "Organizational secrecy" means the legitimate interests of an organization in human rights, honor and reputation
information, documents and physical items classified as confidential by the relevant law for the purpose of protection of interests.
2. Unless otherwise provided by law, it is related to the specifics of the organization's official activities, or
In order to protect the market and its advantages in fair competition, the organization has kept it secret and protected it.
Confidential information, technological solutions, projects, the disclosure of which may harm their legitimate interests,
research and analysis documents, necessary techniques and equipment in the organization's secrets
may include.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated June 16, 2011 /
3. Relations related to official secrets of government organizations shall be regulated by relevant laws.
/ This section was added by the law in 1 December 2016 /

CHAPTER TWO
DETERMINATION AND PROTECTION OF ORGANIZATIONAL SECRETS
Article 4. Establishment of organizational secrecy
1. The State Great Hural shall establish by law the secrecy related to paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of Article 3 of this Law
confirm.
2. The secrets related to paragraph 2 of Article 3 of this Law shall be determined by the organization itself.
3. The confidentiality of the organization shall be fully disclosed by the competent authority or official in accordance with the law
shall not interfere with the exercise of their rights and functions.
Article 5. Protection of organizational secrets
1. The secrets of an organization shall be under the protection of that organization. The organization maintains confidentiality
The procedure shall be established and enforced in accordance with the relevant legislation.
2. Responsible for the secrecy of the organization or its official duties and professional activities
According to the law, the person who got acquainted with it is obliged to keep it a secret.
3. The organization shall disclose the personal secrets discovered in accordance with the activities of the organization
The same protects the secrets.

CHAPTER THREE
OTHER THINGS
Article 6. Scope of information prohibited from confidentiality
The organization may not disclose the following information:
1 / activities, production, services, equipment used by the organization,
reporting the impact of technology on the health of the population and the environment
display information;
2 / is in the possession of the organization and the storage and protection procedures have been violated
in case of all kinds of toxins and radiation that may endanger the health of the population and the environment
information describing the harmful effects of the active substance;
3) information on the crime and other information required by law.
Article 7. Getting acquainted with the secrets of the organization
1. Organizations and their employees specially authorized by law shall have the authority and direction to inspect
get acquainted with the secrets of the organization in accordance with its duties.

2. A person who has become acquainted with or disclosed the secrets of the organization in accordance with his / her official duties shall disclose the secrets only
It shall be used in accordance with the grounds and procedures specified in the legislation and shall not be disclosed to others.
3. Inspections carried out by authorized organizations and officials in accordance with their mandate
have the right to disclose the secrets of the organization in violation of the law and in the course of the investigation
Some specific information related to the secrets of the organization related to the revealed violations and shortcomings of others
may be made public if it does not harm the legitimate interests.
Article 8. Appeal to court
If it is considered that the secrets established by law have been disclosed to others, the organization has the right to file a complaint to the court.
Article 9. Liability for violators
1. The Civil Service Law, if the actions of an official violating this law are not criminal
shall be liable in accordance with the law.
2. A person or legal entity that violates this law shall be specified in the Criminal Code or the Law on Violations
be held accountable.
/ This article was amended according to the law dated December 04, 2015 /
Article 10. Entry into force of the law
This law shall come into force on July 1, 1995.
CHAIRMAN OF THE PARLIAMENT OF MONGOLIA

Н. BAGHABANDI

