Page 1

LAW OF MONGOLIA
April 21, 1995

Ulaanbaatar city

ABOUT PERSONAL SECRETS

CHAPTER ONE
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1. Purpose of the law
The purpose of this law is to regulate relations related to the establishment and protection of personal secrets.
Article 2. The concept of personal secrecy
"Personal secrecy" means the confidentiality of a Mongolian or foreign citizen or stateless person in accordance with the laws of Mongolia.
information, documents and physical objects that may cause obvious damage to the legitimate interests, honor and reputation of the person.
Article 3. Legislation on personal secrecy
Legislation on personal secrecy shall consist of the Constitution, this law and other legislative acts.

CHAPTER TWO
TYPES OF INDIVIDUAL SECRETS, PROTECTION OF INDIVIDUAL SECRETS
Article 4. Types of personal secrets
1. There are the following types of personal secrets:
1 / secrets of correspondence;
2 / health secrets;
3 / property secrets;
4 / family secrets;
5) other secrets established by law.
2. Correspondence, health, property and family secrets shall be understood in this law in the following meanings:
1 / in the secrecy of correspondence, exchanging letters, telegrams, parcels, applications, etc. with other persons and organizations by post
news, documents and physical items;
2 / the confidentiality of an individual's illness, other than certain infectious diseases that are dangerous to the body and common to the public;
information;
3 / secrets of property shall be known only to the owner of property, intellectual property, rights or his / her proxies, as well as to authorized bodies
information, documents, numbers, agreements and physical items found by the official in accordance with his / her official duties;
4) disclosure of family secrets to others shall be contrary to the honor, dignity and interests of the individual and his / her family members
information.
3. An individual's own archives, savings, notes, seals and related images and audio recordings may be kept confidential.
4. In paragraph 2 of this article, "diseases other than certain infectious diseases that are dangerous to the public" means the human immunodeficiency virus.
The infection and acquired immunodeficiency do not apply to the disease.
/ This part was added by the law in 13 December 2012 /
/ This part was annulled by the Resolution No. 02 of December 12, 2014 /
Article 5. Protection of personal secrets
1. Individuals shall protect their secrets.
2. If necessary, personal secrets may be protected by the state and organizations in accordance with the grounds and procedures provided by law.
3. A share of an authorized official of a state organization specially authorized by law only in accordance with the grounds and procedures specified in the legislation
get acquainted with human secrets.
4. It shall be prohibited for a person who disclosed personal secrets in accordance with the law or by proxy to disclose them to others.

CHAPTER THREE
OTHER THINGS
Article 6. Disclosure of personal secrets
In order not to harm the interests of Mongolia's defense and national security, and the health and legitimate interests of its citizens
in case of emergency, by the decision of the relevant authorized state body / official /, personal health and other
Confidentiality may be disclosed within the scope provided by law.
Article 7. Appeal to court

If an individual specified in paragraph 4 of Article 5 of this Law considers that he / she has disclosed his / her secrets to others, an individual shall have the right to file a complaint to the court.
Article 8. Liability for violators
8.1. If the actions of an official violating this Law are not of a criminal nature, he / she shall be subject to liability specified in the Civil Service Law.
8.2. A person or legal entity that violates this Law shall be subject to liability specified in the Criminal Code or the Law on Violations.
/ This article was amended according to the law dated December 04, 2015 /
Article 9. Entry into force of the law
This law shall come into force on July 1, 1995.
CHAIRMAN OF THE PARLIAMENT OF MONGOLIA

N.BAGABANDI

