Page 1

LAW OF MONGOLIA
December 3, 2015

Ulaanbaatar city

CRIMINAL LAW
/ Revised version /
GENERAL CLASS

CHAPTER ONE
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1.1. Purpose of the law
1. The purpose of this law is to protect human rights, freedoms and the public guaranteed by the Constitution of Mongolia
and national interests, constitutional institutions, and national and human security
protection against crime and crime prevention.
Article 1.2. Principles of law
1. A crime and criminal liability imposed on it shall be determined by this law.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Criminal law shall not be applied in a similar manner.
3. The type and amount of new criminal liability for acts or omissions that have been newly criminalized
Amendments to the established Criminal Code shall be an integral part of this law.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
4. Terms and concepts of this law shall be interpreted in accordance with the Law of Mongolia and the Law of Mongolia
Definitions and norms specified in ratified and acceding international treaties shall be followed.
5. Administrative normative acts may be used to explain the terms and concepts of this law.
Article 1.3. Principles of fairness
1. Criminal liability is a criminal offense committed by a person or legal entity
The nature and extent of the danger and the form of guilt are appropriate.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. A person's nationality, ethnicity, language, race, age, sex, or social origin shall be the basis for criminalization and sentencing.
status, wealth, occupation, position, religion, opinion, sexual and gender orientation
No discrimination on the basis of identity, education or disability.
3. A person who has committed a crime shall be subject to criminal liability. Criminal liability to other persons
Do not use.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
4. A person who has committed a crime on behalf of a legal entity for the benefit of a legal entity
Imposition of criminal liability shall not serve as a ground for release of a legal entity from criminal liability.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
5. One crime shall be imposed once.
Article 1.4. Principle of guilt
1. Criminal liability shall be imposed on a person found guilty by a court of having committed a crime specified in this Law
will wait.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Criminal liability for causing damage or harm specified in this law through no fault of its own
do not wait.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. The nature of the social danger of the act or omission of the person who committed the crime
unaware, unaware of the circumstances of the case, potentially dangerous to society
If the harm was unpredictable and should not have been known, the harm was inflicted through innocence
see.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
4. No criminal liability shall be imposed for a person's views or beliefs.
/ Part 3 was re-edited into parts 3 and 4 by the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 1.5. Criminal law shall apply to the territory of Mongolia
1. A person who has committed a crime in the territory of Mongolia shall be subject to criminal liability under this law.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Possession of a Diplomatic Mission Abroad belonging to the territory of Mongolia
This is a person who has committed a crime on a Mongolian ship or aircraft in the territory, water and airspace
shall be subject to criminal liability by law.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. A person enjoying diplomatic diplomatic privileges and privileges of a foreign country shall commit a crime in the territory of Mongolia
whether he shall be criminally liable under this law in accordance with international treaties to which Mongolia is a party
resolve.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
4. In the cases specified in this law, this shall apply to a legal entity that has committed a crime in the territory of Mongolia
shall be subject to criminal liability by law.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 1.6. Criminal law shall apply outside the territory of Mongolia
1. A citizen of Mongolia or a stateless person permanently residing in the country shall be specified in this law abroad
If a person commits a crime and is not criminally liable for the crime, it is a criminal offense under this law
be held accountable.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. If a person has been convicted of a crime specified in paragraph 1 of this Article abroad, Mongolia
The state court may commute the sentence imposed on him in accordance with this law. Many of Mongolia
Unless otherwise provided by the state contract, the court shall find the person not guilty on the grounds specified in this law
can be.
3. A crime while serving abroad, unless otherwise provided by an international treaty to which Mongolia is a party
Mongolian military servicemen shall be subject to criminal liability under this law.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
4. Many Mongolian citizens and stateless persons who have committed crimes outside the borders of Mongolia
This law shall impose criminal liability in cases specified in the state contract.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
5. Foreign citizens and stateless persons not permanently residing in Mongolia outside the country
Many Mongolians have not been convicted of crimes against Mongolia's interests
This law may impose criminal liability in cases specified in the state contract.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 1.7. Transfer of a person who has committed a crime
1. Transfer of a citizen of Mongolia to a foreign country for investigation or conviction for a crime
will not give.
2. A foreigner in the territory of Mongolia who has committed a crime outside the territory of Mongolia
a citizen or stateless person not permanently residing in Mongolia in accordance with an international treaty to which Mongolia is a party
may be extradited to a foreign country for investigation or conviction.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
3. Sufficient grounds for imposing the death penalty or torture in accordance with the law of the country
criminal investigation and conviction of a foreign citizen or stateless person in that country
shall not be extradited to be punished.
Article 1.8. Period of validity of the law
1. Criminalization of an act or omission and imposition on a guilty person or legal entity
The type and amount of liability shall be determined by the law in force at the time the crime was committed.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Acts and omissions specified in this law, regardless of when the consequences of the crime were revealed
The period of termination is calculated as the time of the crime.
3. If the crime or omission continued for a certain period of time, the crime has been committed, or
The period of suspension shall be included in the period of the crime.
Article 1.9. Re-application of the law
1. A crime in which an act or omission is no longer considered a crime, the sentence is commuted
The law that improved the legal status of the perpetrator shall be applied retroactively.
2. An act or omission has been newly criminalized, the sentence has been aggravated, or a crime has been committed
Laws that have worsened the legal status of a person shall not be applied retroactively.
3. If the sentence under the new law is reduced, the court shall impose a previous sentence
the sentence of the convicted person shall be reduced in accordance with the newly established amount.
Article 1.10. Limitation period for a crime
1. A person may not be prosecuted if it is established that the following period has elapsed since the commission of the crime:
1.1. The maximum term of imprisonment in a special section of this law shall be set for one year or less,
or a crime for which the maximum sentence of restriction of the right to travel has been imposed for a period of one year or less
one year has elapsed since the commission;
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
1.2. The minimum term of imprisonment in a special section of this Law shall be more than one year and the maximum term shall be eight years.
the minimum sentence imposed for a shorter period of time or restriction of the right to travel is more than one year
five years have elapsed since the commission of the crime;
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
1.3. The minimum term of imprisonment in a special section of this Law shall be more than five years and the maximum term of imprisonment shall be ten
twelve years have elapsed since the commission of a crime for a period of five years or less;
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
1.4. The minimum term of imprisonment in a special section of this law shall be more than twelve years and the maximum term of imprisonment
up to twenty years after committing a crime not punishable by life imprisonment
years have passed.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
1.5. The minimum term of imprisonment in a special section of this law shall be more than six months and the maximum shall be three years.
the minimum sentence imposed for a shorter period of time or restricting the right to travel is more than six months;
Three years have elapsed since the commission of the crime, the maximum term of which was set at three years or less.
/ This provision was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
2. The statute of limitations shall run from the date of the crime until the prosecution
count.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 18, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
3. A crime committed by a person who has committed a crime before the expiration of the period specified in paragraph 1 of this Article
in the case of an intentional repeated offense, the limitation period shall be extended from the time of the commission of the last offense to each offense
count new.
4. Crimes punishable by imprisonment for life, security and peace of mankind
The statute of limitations for crimes against peace shall not be counted.
5. The statute of limitations for tax evasion shall be five days from the date of the crime
years.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
6. Committing a crime on behalf of a legal entity for the benefit of a legal entity
If a special section of the law provides for criminal liability of a legal entity, it shall be specified in the article or section
the limitation period shall be counted in the same way as the criminal limitation period.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /

CHAPTER TWO
CRIME
Article 2.1. Concept and nature of crime
1. A socially dangerous act or omission specified in a special section of this Law shall be considered a crime
calculated.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Damage or harm caused by a wrongful act or omission in cases specified in a special section of this Law
the consequences shall be considered a crime.
3. The nature of the act, omission, damage, harm or guilt not specified in the special section of this Law.
similar use shall not be considered a crime.
4. The nature of the crime specified in the special section of the Criminal Code is only in the form, but the specific
the degree of social danger of a person's personal status, actions and omissions are rights protected by this law
Actions and omissions that do not cause actual harm or harm shall not be considered a crime.
/ This section was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 2.2. Crime and inaction
1. A special section of this law shall specify the acts and omissions that may be considered a crime.
2. A negligent act or omission shall be considered a crime if it is specified in a special section of this Law
calculated.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. The nature of a single crime specified in a special section of this Law without repeated acts or omissions
shall be deemed to have been committed as one continuous crime.
4. The nature of several crimes specified in the special section of this Law, without a single act or omission
if he meets them, he shall be deemed to have committed several crimes.
Article 2.3. Guilt
1. The fault may be intentional or negligent.
2. Realizing that his actions or omissions are illegal and committed at will,
Intentional infliction of harm or harm shall be considered an intentional crime.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. Realizing that their actions or omissions are illegal, causing harm and harm
It is assumed that the consequences may not be known in advance, but the damage and harm
The consequences, or the possibility of damage or harm, must have been known in advance and could have been known
however, if the damage or harm was caused due to an unintentional act, it shall be considered a negligent crime.
Article 2.4. Mixed forms of guilt
1. The crime of causing negligent damage or harm due to intentional actions or omissions
a mixed form of guilt.
2. Characterization and imposition of a crime committed in a mixed form of guilt in a special section of this Law
specify the type and amount of the sentence.
Article 2.5. Damage and harm of crime
1. Human life, health, property and other rights due to crimes specified in the special section of this Law,
the direct consequences of crime on freedom, public and national interests and security
damage.
2. The consequences of committing a crime specified in a special section of this Law and causing damage shall be considered a crime
shall be considered as a consequence of the case.
3. “Serious damage and harm” specified in this law means the source of the victim's life
damage to property rights or rights that are important to the security of the country and the population
understand what happened.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
4. The amount of damage specified in this law shall be understood as follows:
4.1. “Large damage” means an amount equal to fifty thousand units or more;
4.2. “Significant damage” means togrogs equal to ten thousand units or more
size;
4.3. “Minor damage” means togrogs equal to three hundred units or less.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
5. The court shall determine the damage and harm of the crime, compensate the actual damage and determine the damage
the amount of liquidation costs shall be determined in monetary terms.
Explanation: “Unit” specified in this law shall be understood as specified in paragraph 3 of Article 5.3 of this law.
/ The explanation of this section was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 2.6. Classification of crimes
1. A minimum sentence of imprisonment for a term of two years or more shall be imposed in a special section of this Law
A defined crime is a serious crime.
2. The maximum sentence of imprisonment in a special section of this Law shall be five years or less
A crime that is established or not punishable by imprisonment is a minor crime.
/ This article was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 2.7. Preparation for a crime
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
1. Weapons and specially prepared weapons are searched, made, adjusted,
deliberately agreed on the commission of a crime and the appropriate conditions for the commission of the crime
preparation for the commission of a crime.
2. An act prepared for a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to three years.
Failure to do so will not result in criminal liability.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. An act or omission prepared for a crime shall be considered a crime if it meets the characteristics of a specific crime
shall be subject to criminal liability.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
4. The nature of the act or omission prepared by the court for a crime other than those specified in paragraph 2 of this article
This law provides for the imposition of a crime, taking into account the circumstances in which the crime was not completed
a sentence may not exceed one third of the maximum sentence.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 2.8. Attempt to commit a crime and refusal to commit a crime
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
1. An act or omission directly aimed at committing a crime is intentional, even if it is intentional
attempted to commit a crime if the crime has not been completed due to circumstances beyond his control.
2. The nature of the act by which the court attempted to commit the crime and the circumstances in which the crime was not completed
one-third of the maximum sentence provided for in the special section of this Law
shall be sentenced to no more than two.
3. I understood that it was possible to commit a crime, but I did it voluntarily
Refusal shall not be subject to criminal liability.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
4. Actions or omissions committed before the voluntary refusal to commit a crime
if it has the nature of another independent crime, criminal liability shall be imposed for that crime.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /

CHAPTER THREE
PARTICIPATION IN CRIME
/ The title of this chapter was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 3.1. Participation in a crime
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
1. Intentional association of two or more persons to commit a crime shall be considered as complicity in a crime.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. The executor, organizer, puncher and accomplice shall be considered as accomplices to the crime.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. Whether there was a prior agreement to commit a crime or no prior agreement
however, intentional association by an act shall be considered complicity in a crime.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 3.2. The perpetrator of the crime
1. A person who commits a crime specified in this Law, a group of others, and a minor shall be sentenced
the incompetent person did not commit the crime together and did not understand that the crime was being committed
An executor of a crime shall be a person who has committed an act using other persons or animals.
2. An official authorized to make decisions on behalf of a legal entity in the name of the legal entity
on behalf of, in the interests of a legal entity to make a decision and give permission for a crime specified in this law
committed by others, for the benefit of a legal entity, the nature of the crime specified in this law
the perpetrator shall be deemed to have committed an act or omission.
3. The executive officer of the legal entity is aware that the decision made by the management is illegal
shall be considered as a co-executor.
Article 3.3. Organizer of a crime
1. Duties of initiators, directors, planners and accomplices of crimes,
A person who distributes participation and forms an organized criminal group is called an organizer of a crime.
2. The organizer of a crime shall be considered the co-perpetrator of the crime.
Article 3.4. Criminal instigator
1. A person who intentionally engages, hires, or intentionally incites others to commit a crime
a criminal. A person who incites others to commit a crime through others
calculated.
2. Punishment imposed on the perpetrator of a crime committed by the perpetrator of a crime
shall be punishable by a fine.
Article 3.5. Companion to crime
1. A person who has promised in advance and supported others to commit an intentional crime shall be prosecuted
that is.
2. Taking into account the role of accomplices in the commission of the crime and the nature of the act
the executors within the type and amount of punishment imposed by the court for this crime
shall be imposed a sentence not exceeding the sentence imposed.
Article 3.6
1. The Contractor shall have committed a crime other than that agreed upon with other partners.
2. No punishment shall be imposed on other accomplices who did not participate in the crime committed by the Contractor.
Article 3.7. Group execution
1. A crime shall be committed in a group if two or more persons have committed it intentionally.
2. The actions of the perpetrators of a group crime shall be aggregated and classified by each perpetrator
Sentences shall be imposed differently depending on the role and participation in the commission of the crime.
Article 3.8. Organized crime group
1. Three or more persons who have committed a crime in advance for the purpose of gaining profit
A stable association is an organized criminal group.
2. An organized criminal group is a person who has established or led an organized criminal group
in the acts established, directed and committed by other members of an organized criminal group
the executor shall be calculated and sentenced.
3. A member of an organized criminal group is charged with joining an organized criminal group and
shall be punished for the crime committed by him.
4. Organize a person who has committed a crime by joining an organized criminal group
shall be considered a member of an organized criminal group and shall be sentenced for a crime committed by him / her.
5. To impose a sentence on a person who joins an organized criminal group and commits a crime
whether other members of the group who formed, led or participated in the crime have been convicted
do not interfere.
6. Organized crime in which a member of an organized criminal group discovers a crime
Assisted in the detection of crimes committed by the group, provided information, and has the competent authority
If he cooperated, he may be convicted, commuted and released.

CHAPTER FOUR
CONDITIONS FOR DECISION OF CRIME
Article 4.1. Compulsory protection
1. Unlawful or against an attack on one's own life or the life or health of others
Acts of a criminal nature shall not be considered a crime.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. Avoidance of any profession, special training, official position, dangerous attacks by others
have the right to protection, whether or not they have access to assistance.
3. Forced protection when it becomes clear that an illegal attack by others has begun or is about to begin
do. Actions taken after the end of the attack are not considered compulsory protection.
4. A law enforcement agency authorized to use firearms, physical force and special equipment in accordance with the law
In the course of performing their duties and investigating and resolving cases, security guards shall perform their official duties
in response to a lawful use of firearms, physical force or special means
actions are not considered compulsory protection.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Explanation: -According to this law, “close person” means a person's spouse, partner, parents,
grandparents, births, stepchildren, adopted children, grandchildren, siblings, others living together
Understands relatives.
/ The interpretation of this article is repealed by the law dated January 10, 2020
estimated./
Article 4.2. Attack for the purpose of arrest or suppression
1. Arresting a person who has committed a crime and fleeing, bringing him to the competent authorities, is of a criminal nature
forcing the person to perform the actions specified in this law in order to stop the act
Arrest and detention shall not be considered a crime.
2. Arrest for causing obvious damage that does not clearly correspond to the nature and extent of the crime
In the absence of the necessary circumstances, law enforcement officers shall arrest and detain as provided by law
Exceeding the extent of arrest and suppression of aggression in violation of grounds and procedures
calculated.
Explanation: The “law enforcement” specified in this law means the police, intelligence, enforcement of court decisions, and the state
employees of the special protection service, authorized persons specially authorized by law, and rangers
understand.
/ The interpretation of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 4.3. Infliction of harm in unavoidable circumstances
1. Threats to interests protected by this law may not be eliminated by other means
a crime specified in this law, not exceeding the extent of the danger that might have arisen in the situation
It is not a crime to cause harm to others by committing an act of a criminal nature.
2. The extent of the inevitability of the act of causing more harm than could have been caused
is considered an exaggeration.

Article 4.4. Coercion and domination
1. The right and legitimate interests of a family member or other person to use force
inevitably subjected to the domination of others due to threats to harm or harm their interests
Criminal acts and omissions specified in this law shall not be considered a crime.
2. A person who commits a crime by forcing others physically or emotionally
the perpetrator who committed the crime.
3. If a crime is committed in excess of the threat posed by others, it is considered to be coercion and domination.
do not watch.
Article 4.5. Reasonable risk
1. In order to achieve results that are beneficial to the public, the law,
Profits protected by this law, even if measures have been taken to prevent the risks specified in the standard
Damage to the interests shall not be considered a crime.
2. Risk in life-threatening, public, catastrophic situations,
Testing on the human body is not considered a reasonable risk.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated February 2, 2017 /
Article 4.6. Fulfillment of orders and tasks
1. A military serviceman or law enforcement officer must provide written and oral instructions of a higher level official
It is not possible to know that the orders and instructions to be executed are illegal, and they are executed without knowing this law
Damage to protected interests shall not be considered a crime. Illegal orders and tasks were given
the official shall be considered the executor who committed the crime.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. It is obviously illegal to commit an act or omission of an obvious criminal nature specified in this law
The order and decision of the military serviceman and law enforcement officer must decide independently the duties and rights of the service
If a military serviceman or law enforcement officer deliberately fulfills this task while under his / her jurisdiction,
the crime of using the perpetrators of the crime, the officials who gave orders and instructions to others
committed by the executor.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. In case of non-compliance with a clearly illegal order or instruction, the person who gave the order or instruction shall be considered a criminal
an attempt to commit a crime.

CHAPTER FIVE
OBJECTIVES AND TYPES OF CRIMINAL LIABILITY
/ The title of this chapter was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 5.1. Purpose of criminal liability
1. The purpose of criminal liability is to punish a person or legal entity who has committed a crime
to restore the rights violated due to the crime, to compensate the damage, to prevent the crime, to commit a crime
to socialize the perpetrator.
2. Criminal liability shall consist of punishments and coercive measures specified in this law.
3. A person who has reached the age of criminal responsibility at the time of committing a crime and is capable of taking responsibility
shall be subject to criminal liability in accordance with the grounds and procedures specified in this law.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
4. Legal entities shall be subject to criminal liability in cases specified in a special section of this Law.
5. The circumstances in which the crime was committed, the nature of the crime, the damage and the consequences for the legal entity
shall be subject to criminal liability in accordance with the grounds and procedures specified in this Law.
/ This article was re-edited by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 5.2. Types of punishment
1. The following sentences shall be imposed on a person who has committed a crime:
1.1. A fine;
1.2. A sentence for community service;
1.3. Penalty for restricting the right to travel;
1.4. Imprisonment;
1.5. Disqualification.
2. Imposition of fines, community service, restriction of the right to travel, imprisonment, basic and disqualification
used as an additional penalty.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. A special section of this law shall specify the type and amount of the main sentence to be imposed for a crime.
Article 5.3. Penalty
1. A person who has committed a crime shall have a fine unit specified in a special section of this Law (hereinafter referred to as “unit”)
A fine shall be imposed in equal amounts.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. The amount of a fine shall be from one hundred units to forty thousand units.
3. One unit specified in this law shall be equal to one thousand togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
4. The court shall impose a fine of three years, taking into account the convict's ability to earn property, salary and other income
may be set to be paid in installments for up to
5. If the convict fails to serve the fine within the period set by the court, the court shall impose the unserved fine
Fifteen units of togrogs shall be exchanged for imprisonment for one day.
6. Restriction of the right to work, restriction of the right to travel and imprisonment shall not be replaced by a fine.
Article 5.4. Punishment for community service
1. Remuneration of a person who has committed a crime for work in the public interest established by a court
Punishment for non-payment is called community service.
2. The circumstances in which the court committed the crime, the damage caused, the nature of the harm and the crime
The penalty for community service shall not exceed eight hours per day, depending on the individual's personal circumstances
two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
3. The sentence of community service shall not exceed four hours per day, for a total of one hundred and twenty-four hundred and eighty
set the time.
/ This part was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
4. If the convict has not served the sentence of community service, eight sentences of community service shall be imposed
part-time work shall be replaced by imprisonment for one day.
5. The penalty for community service shall be imposed directly on the person who has completely lost his / her ability to work and on his / her physical health
Pregnant women, women over the age of fifty-five and over sixty are sentenced to community service
not for men of any age.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 5.5. Penalty for restricting the right to travel
1. A person who has committed a crime to leave his / her place of residence under the supervision of the competent authority
Prohibition, prohibition to visit certain places, travel in the direction determined by the court, the competent authorities
the obligation to change one's place of residence or travel with a permit for a period of one month to five years
Restriction of the right to travel.
2. The circumstances in which the crime was committed by the court, the damage caused, the nature of the harm and the crime
Considering the personal circumstances of the perpetrator, if the convict is considered to be at risk of endangering others,
may not be allowed to communicate with others.
3. If the convict has not served the sentence of restriction of the right to travel, the convict has not served the sentence of restriction of the right to travel
one day of the remaining period shall be replaced by one day of imprisonment.
4. The circumstances in which a person who has been convicted of a crime and has admitted his guilt has committed a crime
Taking into account the circumstances, the damage caused, the nature of the damage and the personal circumstances, the court shall consider Article 6.7 of this law
mitigation of sentence, release from punishment and coercive measures to restrict the right to travel as specified in Articles 1.1 and 1.2
size can be used.
/ This section was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 5.6. Imprisonment
1. The freedom of a person who has committed a crime shall be restricted for a certain period of time or for the rest of his life.
or detention in a closed detention facility.
2. The conditions of open and closed detention facilities shall be determined by law.
3. A person who has committed a crime specified in this Law shall be open for a period of six months to twenty years.
or in solitary confinement.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
4. The circumstances in which the court committed the crime, the damage caused, the nature of the harm and the crime
in an open or closed detention center, depending on the personal circumstances of the perpetrator
to be enjoyed.
5. In cases specified in this law, a person who has committed a crime shall be isolated in a closed detention facility
shall be sentenced to life imprisonment.
6. A person sentenced to life imprisonment commits a crime after twenty-five years in prison
whether to release, taking into account the circumstances, the damage caused, the nature of the damage and the personal circumstances of the convict
resolve.
7. If a convict has not been released in accordance with the procedure set forth in paragraph 6 of this Article, this shall be repeated every two years
will be discussed.
8. A person who commits a crime before reaching the age of eighteen shall not be sentenced to life imprisonment.
9. A person convicted of a fine, community service or restriction of the right to travel shall be brought to court
If the decision is not complied with, the offender shall be sentenced to imprisonment
The remaining unserved sentence shall be imposed in accordance with Article 5.3, Paragraph 5 and Article 5.4, Paragraph 4 of this Law
shall be sentenced to imprisonment in accordance with the procedure specified in paragraph 3 of Article 5.5.
/ This section was added by the law in 6 June 2017 /
Article 5.7. Disqualification
1. To work in the public service of a person who has committed a crime, to carry out professional activities, or other
Prohibition of certain rights for a period of one to eight years is called disqualification.
2. The circumstances in which the court committed the crime, the damage caused, the nature of the harm and the crime
Depending on the personal circumstances of the perpetrator, a penalty of disqualification may be imposed in addition to the basic sentence imposed. This
Disqualification shall be imposed in cases specified in a special section of the law.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. If a court imposes a sentence of deprivation of liberty in addition to imprisonment, upon completion of the sentence, or a fine shall be imposed.
from the time of imposition of the sentence, or if it is imposed in addition to the sentence of community service or restriction of the right to travel
coercive measures, if coercive measures have been taken to impose obligations or restrict rights without imposing a custodial sentence
Count the time from the time of measurement.
4. The circumstances of the crime, the damage caused, the nature of the harm, and the crime committed
taking into account the individual's personal circumstances, the court may decide whether the crime specified in Chapter 12 of this Law is against a child or not
It is imposed on the parents, guardians and custodians who committed the crime specified in Chapter 16
in addition to the basic sentence, a disqualification may be imposed.
/ This section was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /

CHAPTER SIX
GROUNDS AND PROCEDURES FOR CRIMINAL LIABILITY AND RELEASE
/ The title of this chapter was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 6.1. Imposition of criminal liability
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
1. A court shall classify a person who has committed a crime in a special class in accordance with the grounds and procedures specified in the general class of this Law
shall be subject to criminal liability within the specified type and amount.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. The circumstances of the crime, the damage caused and the consequences of the criminal liability
mitigation and aggravation of the nature and personal circumstances of the perpetrator and criminal liability
the situation is taken into account from all angles.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. Criminal liability shall be inhumane, cruel, and not detrimental to human dignity.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
4. Termination of criminal liability, except as otherwise provided by law
shall not be grounds for aggravation of human legal status.
/ This section was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 6.2. Age limit for criminal liability
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
1. A person who has reached the age of sixteen at the time of committing a crime shall be subject to criminal liability.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. A person between the ages of fourteen and sixteen shall be charged under Article 10.1 of the Special Part of this Law (murder), 11.1 /
Intentional infliction of serious harm to human health /, 12.1 / Rape /, 17.1 / Theft /, 17.2 / Robbery /, 17.8 /
Destruction and damage to property /, 20.7 / Illegal use of drugs and psychotropic substances /, 20.16 / Many
disturbing public order /, 26.1 / illegal attack on electronic information /, 26.2 / electronic information
Preparation and sale of software and hardware for illegal intrusion into the network /, 26.3 / Malware
If he / she has committed a crime specified in Article 29.8 (committing terrorism), he / she shall be subject to criminal liability.
be held accountable.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. A person who has reached the age of fourteen at the time of committing a crime and who has not reached the age of eighteen
Coercive measures of a disciplinary nature specified in this Law may be applied without imposition.
4. Adolescents referred to in paragraph 2 of this article shall have the right to self-determination due to mental retardation
to be fully aware of the illegal nature of the act or omission and its consequences
Failure to do so may result in impunity.
Article 6.3. Responsibility
1. A person who is capable of committing a crime shall be subject to criminal liability.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. The actual nature and danger of one's actions due to mental illness or mental retardation
Loss of consciousness and ability to drive shall be considered as incapacity.
3. This law stipulates that a person who was incapable of committing a crime at the time of committing a crime shall not be sentenced
apply coercive measures of a medical nature.
Page 2

4. In the event that a person becomes incapacitated after committing a crime, the court shall be of a medical nature to him
shall be subject to coercive measures and shall be sentenced after recovery.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 6.4. Imposition of a sentence on a person who has committed a crime while intoxicated or intoxicated
1. Committing a crime while intoxicated or intoxicated shall be grounds for exemption from criminal liability
can't
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. A person who commits a crime while intoxicated or intoxicated becomes addicted to alcohol or drugs
if it is established, in addition to the sentence imposed on him / her, it shall have medical character specified in Article 7.4 of this Law
coercive measures may be used.
Article 6.5. Conditions for mitigation of criminal liability
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
1. The court shall take into account the following mitigating circumstances when imposing criminal liability:
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
1.1. Committed a crime for the first time due to accidental circumstances;
1.2. Provided medical or other assistance to the victim immediately after committing the crime
damages paid;
1.3. Under physical, emotional, property, official or other means
committed a crime as a result of entering;
Committed a crime due to illegal or improper actions of the victim;
1.5. To detect a crime committed by others, to reveal oneself, to earn money by committing a crime,
helped to earn income;
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Committed a crime due to misconception of the situation;
1.7. Assaulting a victim in order to protect himself / herself due to constant violence and harassment
committed a crime.
2. The circumstances specified in paragraph 1 of this article in a special section of this law shall be considered as a crime
shall not be considered as mitigating circumstances.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. The court shall mitigate the criminal liability taking into account the special circumstances not specified in this article
can be.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 6.6. Circumstances aggravating criminal liability
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
1. The court shall take into account the following aggravating circumstances when imposing criminal liability:
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
1.1. Causing extreme physical and emotional pain and suffering in a very cruel and ridiculous way
insulted;
1.2. Committed an intentional crime specified in one chapter of the special section of this law two or more times,
or committed a group crime;
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Committed in a manner dangerous to the public;
Committed for the purpose of concealing or facilitating another crime;
1.5. The victim and his / her relatives in connection with the performance of official duties and public duties
committed against a loved one;
1.6. Committed against a person under his / her control, knowing that the victim is unable to defend himself / herself;
1.7. Committed by taking advantage of emergencies, disasters, catastrophes and public disorder;
1.8. An obligation imposed by a court on a person who is obliged to admit his / her guilt and pay damages
not fulfilled.
2. Aggravating circumstances specified in a special section of this law shall be specified as a crime
shall not be considered an aggravating circumstance.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. The court shall take into account the circumstances not specified in this article to aggravate the criminal liability
prohibited.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Explanation: -According to this law, “close person” means a person's spouse, partner, parents,
grandparents, births, stepchildren, adopted children, grandchildren, siblings, others living together
Understands relatives.
/ The explanation of this article was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 6.7. To commute the sentence of a person who has admitted his guilt, from the sentence
release and application of coercive measures
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
/ The title of this article was amended by the law dated January 10, 2020 /
1. The circumstances of the commission of a crime by a person who has been proven guilty of a crime and has admitted his guilt
Depending on the circumstances, the damage caused, the nature of the damage and the personal circumstances, the court shall detain him as follows
mitigation of sentence, release from punishment and coercive measures may be applied:
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
1.1. The maximum term of imprisonment in a special section of this Law shall be up to three years or less
A person who has committed a specified crime shall compensate for the damage caused by the crime or commit a crime
to release from punishment or up to three years if he expressed compensation for the damage caused by the crime
to apply coercive measures to impose obligations and restrict rights;
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
1.2. The maximum term of imprisonment in a special section of this law shall be five years or less
the person who committed the crime shall compensate the damage caused by the crime or due to the crime
the obligation to serve for five years or less, if the damage is expressed
to apply coercive measures of restraint and restriction of rights;
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
1.3. The minimum term of imprisonment in a special section of this law shall be more than two years and the maximum term shall be up to eight years
if the person who committed the crime for a specified period of time has compensated the damage caused by the crime
the minimum sentence, not exceeding one-half of the maximum sentence specified in the article, section or provision
impose a sentence of at least one-second;
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
1.4. The maximum term of imprisonment in a special section of this Law shall be twelve years or up to fifteen years
if the person who committed the crime for a specified period of time has compensated the damage caused by the crime
The minimum sentence shall not exceed two-thirds of the maximum sentence specified in the article, section or provision
to impose a sentence of not less than two thirds of the amount;
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
1.5. The maximum term of imprisonment in a special section of this law shall be up to twenty years
caused by a person who has committed a crime not punishable by life imprisonment
if the damage has been reimbursed, three-quarters of the maximum sentence specified in the article, section or provision
without exceeding, impose a sentence of not less than three-fourths of the minimum sentence.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Organized criminal group on the grounds specified in paragraph 6 of Article 3.8 of this Law
The procedure set forth in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be followed in commuting the sentence of a member.
3. A person who has committed a crime specified in a special section of this Law shall be sentenced to life imprisonment
If he is found guilty, the court shall decide whether to impose a term of imprisonment on him.
4. During the period of coercive measures to impose a sentence and impose restrictions
The procedure set forth in this chapter shall not apply to the imposition of a sentence on a person who fails to perform the duties assigned by a court.
5. Opportunity to earn property, salary and other income of a person who has claimed compensation for damages
The period of compensation may be set to be paid in installments during the probationary period.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was repealed by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 6.8. Imposing a sentence on a person who has committed several crimes
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
1. When a court imposes a sentence on a person who has committed several crimes, he shall add a sentence for each crime
determine the type and amount of the total sentence to be served.
2. If several types of sentences have been imposed for several crimes, the following shall be commuted to a lighter sentence
It may be decided to consolidate or to enjoy separately:
2.1. Togrogs equal to fifteen units of a fine;
Eight hours of community service;
One day of the sentence of restriction of the right to travel;
One day of imprisonment.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. The total amount of the same sentence added to several crimes shall be added to the group
The maximum sentence for the most serious crime shall not exceed the maximum sentence.
4. The aggregate amount of the total sentence imposed for a crime specified in several groups is the heaviest
the maximum sentence of a convicted group shall not be exceeded.
Article 6.9. Imposition of several sentences
1. A convicted person commits a new crime or is sentenced by a court before serving the sentence
if it has been established after the issuance of a court sentence that another crime has been committed prior to sentencing
to impose a sentence for the crime and to consolidate the remaining unserved sentences imposed by the previous conviction
determine the total sentence to be served.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. If a court has imposed several types of sentences by several convictions, Article 6.8 of this Law
It may be decided to combine them or to use them separately in accordance with the procedure set forth in paragraph 2 of this Article.
3. When aggregating the sentences imposed by several convictions, the total amount of the sentence shall be increased
The sentence may not exceed the maximum amount established by this law.
4. The total amount of the additional consolidated sentence remained unserved from the sentence imposed by the previous conviction
is greater than
Article 6.10. Calculation of the period of detention
1. The period of arrest and detention shall be included in the sentence to be served by the convict.
2. One day of arrest and detention shall be equal to fifteen units of a fine
togrogs, eight hours of community service, one day of restriction of the right to travel, imprisonment
shall be deducted from the sentence to be served for one day.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 6.11. Replacement of imprisonment with restriction of the right to travel
1. For a crime for which a maximum sentence of up to five years has been imposed in a special section of this Law
Imprisonment of a convicted person may be commuted to restriction of the right to travel on the following grounds:
1.1. Three months before the birth of a pregnant woman and up to two years after the birth;
1.2. Single parents with children up to two years old.
2. The period of serving a sentence of restriction of a convict's right to travel as soon as the conditions specified in paragraph 1 of this Article are eliminated
shall serve the remaining sentence which has not been served during the period of imprisonment.
3. A crime specified in a special section of this law punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to five years
the convicted person has paid the damage caused by the crime within the period specified in paragraph 1 of this article, the harm
if the consequences have been remedied, the court shall determine the circumstances of the crime, the damage caused, the nature of the damage,
Depending on the convict's personal circumstances, the remaining unserved imprisonment may be released.
/ This article was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 6.12. Early release from imprisonment and supervision
1. The convict shall be compensated for the damage caused by the crime and shall be safe for the public by his conduct
if he / she has not committed a serious violation during the term of serving the sentence and has served the following percentage of the imposed sentence
Taking into account the prosecutor's proposal, the court may decide to release him / her ahead of time and establish supervision:
Not less than one-half of the sentence imposed for a term of up to five years;
1.2. Two-thirds of the sentence imposed for a period of more than five to twelve years
at least a copy;
1.3. Three-quarters of the sentence imposed for a period of more than twelve to twenty years
if enjoyed at least a percentage.
2. A period of probation equal to the remainder of the sentence not served during the early release from custody
set.
3. A person released earlier from imprisonment has violated the obligations imposed on him during the probation period
if the court overturns the decision of the court to review the proposal based on the prosecutor's proposal
decide to enjoy.
4. If a person released from imprisonment has committed an intentional crime during the probation period
Article 6.9 of this Law shall impose a sentence imposed on a new crime on a sentence that has not been served by a court
Add and consolidate as specified.
5. If a person released from imprisonment has committed a negligent crime during the probation period
The court shall decide whether to impose a sentence in accordance with the procedure set forth in Article 6.9 of this Law.
Article 6.13. Causes of illness due to imprisonment, restriction of the right to travel, or community service
release
/ The title of this article was amended by the law dated January 10, 2020 /

1. The actual nature of one's actions after being convicted of a crime and having a mental illness
to release from punishment a person who has lost the ability to realize the quality and harm, to control his actions,
apply coercive measures of a medical nature.
2. After committing a crime and being convicted by a court, he / she has a disease that prevents him / her from serving his / her sentence
In this case, the convict may be released from serving the sentence, and this procedure shall be established by law.
3. To protect one's health while serving a sentence of imprisonment, restriction of the right to travel, or community service
A person who has caused intentional damage shall not be released from punishment.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 6.14. Pardon and pardon
1. To grant amnesty or pardon to a person or legal entity who has committed a crime
The sentence of a person who has committed a crime shall be served in full or in part by the decree of the President of Mongolia
can be released.
2. Amnesty and pardon for crimes against human security and peace specified in this law
not shown.
Article 6.15. Assistance in detecting a crime
1. The minimum sentence for transnational organized crime or imprisonment is more than five years
a person who has actually assisted in the detection of a crime for a specified period of time
may be released from liability.
2. A person who has committed a crime against the security and peace of mankind specified in this law
not considered as a partner.
/ This article was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /

CHAPTER SEVEN
APPLICATION AND COMPULSORY MEASURES
Article 7.1. Probation without imprisonment
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
1. A person who has committed a minor crime has admitted his guilt and suffered damage caused by the crime
to compensate for the damage caused by the crime or to compensate for the damage caused by the crime
depending on the circumstances of the crime and the personal circumstances of the person who committed the crime.
may serve up to five years without imprisonment.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Intentional commission of two or more crimes specified in a special section of this Law or imprisonment
committed a crime for which the maximum term is more than five years, or an organized crime
Paragraph 1 of this article shall not apply if a member of the group has committed a crime.
3. The court shall take into account the circumstances of the crime and the personal circumstances of the person who committed the crime
A number of obligations and restrictions set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 7.3 of this Law shall be imposed.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
4. If the obligation is not fulfilled or the restrictions are violated during the probation period, the court shall grant the probation
the decision shall be revoked and a sentence shall be imposed.
5. If an intentional crime specified in a special section of this Law is committed during the probationary period, the court shall probate
The decision shall be annulled and a sentence shall be imposed in accordance with the procedures specified in Articles 6.8 and 6.9 of this Law.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
6. If a negligent crime was committed during the probation period, the circumstances of the crime,
the nature of the damage, the nature of the person who committed the crime, the obligations and rights
taking into account the fulfillment of the obligations imposed during the period of taking the restrictive measures
the court shall decide whether to revoke the coercive measures.
7. To pay the damages of the crime in full during the probationary period and fulfill the obligations imposed by the court
does not violate the rights and imposes further obligations and coercive measures to restrict the rights
if it is not necessary, the court shall impose an obligation or restrict the right on the basis of the prosecutor's conclusion
may be released before the expiration of the period for which the measure was taken.
8. The prosecutor's office shall not violate the obligations imposed by the court and the restrictions imposed during the probation period
The court shall not impose a sentence based on the conclusion.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
9. Expressing compensation for the damage caused by the crime in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article
The court shall set a time limit for the acquitted person to pay damages.
/ This section was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 7.2. Types of coercive measures
1. It is a crime if the court deems it necessary to satisfy the purpose of the sentence specified in Article 5.1 of this Law
The following coercive measures shall be applied without parole or in addition to the imposed sentence
can be used:
Coercive measures to impose obligations and restrict rights;
Compulsory measures of a medical nature;
Compulsory measures to confiscate property and income.
Article 7.3. Coercive measures to impose obligations and restrict rights
1. The court shall take into account the personal circumstances of the person who committed the crime and the circumstances of the crime
A number of obligations set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article may be imposed and restrictions may be imposed.
2. The court shall have the following obligations:
To take measures to eliminate the consequences of a crime;
2.2. To participate in training to improve behavior and provide work skills;
To perform certain work and duties;
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
To undergo psychiatric and anti-addiction treatment;
/ This provision was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
2.5. Has the right to change his / her place of residence, work, school, and control his / her travel
notify the organization in advance.
3. The court shall establish the following restrictions:
3.1. Restricting access to certain places and communication with certain persons;
3.2. Prohibition to own and possess firearms;
3.3. Prohibit the use of alcohol and drugs;
3.4. Prohibit to conduct certain types of activities.
4. A prosecutor's conclusion in case of non-fulfillment of court obligations or violation of restrictions
Based on this, the court shall annul the decision and impose a sentence.
5. Intentional crime during the period of taking coercive measures to impose obligations or restrict rights
If it is committed, the court shall annul the decision on which the coercive measure was taken and shall comply with Article 6.1
shall be sentenced in accordance with the procedure specified in Article
6. Negligent crime during the period of taking coercive measures to impose obligations or restrict rights
if committed, the circumstances of the crime, the damage caused, the nature of the harm, and the crime
taking into account the personal circumstances of the perpetrator, the fulfillment of the obligations and restrictions imposed by the court
the court shall decide whether to revoke the coercive measures.
7. A person who has been subjected to coercive measures of restraint or restriction of rights shall be fully liable for the damage caused by the crime
did not violate the restriction of rights by fulfilling the obligations imposed by the court and to pay further obligations,
based on the conclusion of the procurator if he / she deems it not necessary to apply coercive measures to restrict his / her rights
the court may release him from the sentence before the expiration of this period.
8. Upon the expiration of the period of coercive measures to impose obligations or restrict the rights of the person
The court shall decide whether to impose a sentence based on the conclusion of the procurator.
9. The procedure for monitoring a person who has been subjected to coercive or restrictive measures shall be established by law
set.
Article 7.4. Compulsory measures of a medical nature
1. To be responsible after committing a crime, when he / she was incapable of being responsible at the time of committing the crime
In case of incapacity, the court shall decide to apply compulsory measures of a medical nature.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Medical coercion due to incapacity at the time of the crime
If the insolvency of the person whose measure has been taken has disappeared, the court shall impose the coercive measure
make a decision to stop.
3. The mental state of a person who was incapable of taking responsibility at the time of committing a crime is for himself and others
mental health without the use of forensic coercive measures unless there is a danger
may be transferred to a relevant medical institution for treatment or care by a guardian.
4. He was able to be held accountable at the time of the crime, but at the time of the investigation
to be responsible for the case of a person who has been subjected to coercive measures of a medical nature due to his / her incompetence
If the incapacity is eliminated, the court shall terminate the coercive measure and impose a sentence.
5. A person who has been subjected to compulsory medical measures has been treated within the statute of limitations
If the incompetence is eliminated, the sentence imposed on him by the court shall be of a medical nature
One day of the measure shall be deducted as one day of imprisonment and the remaining sentence shall be served.
6. It is necessary to treat a convicted person's mental illness while he or she is able to prosecute
if necessary, under forensic outpatient supervision or treatment by a psychiatrist
Coercive measures of a medical nature may be used.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
7. Expert opinion on the type, regime and duration of compulsory medical measures
determined by the court.
8. An expert's opinion on whether to extend, change or terminate compulsory medical measures
decided by the court.
9. Personality of the person who committed the crime, the circumstances of the crime, alcoholism and drug addiction
compulsory medical treatment for psychosis and addiction treatment, taking into account the addiction
measures may be imposed.
/ This section was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 7.5 Compulsory measures to confiscate property and income
1. Compensation for property, income or damage caused to others by committing a crime
for the purpose of committing a crime with assets and income equal to the damage caused by the crime
shall be compulsorily deducted from the property and income of a person or legal entity.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. “Property and income earned from committing a crime” in Mongolia shall be specified in a special section of this law.
in a foreign country, a crime punishable by imprisonment for more than one year under the law of that country
committing direct and indirect material and intangible assets, their value, profits, income and crimes
means the equipment and tools used or intended to be used in the commission.
3. To compensate the confiscated property and income for the damage caused to others, and to investigate and resolve cases
operating costs. The amount of money and income earned from the crime exceeded the damage
in case of transfer to the state budget.
4. Items found at the commission of a crime, its price, vehicles used to commit a crime,
rides, firearms, ammunition and specially prepared weapons shall be in the possession of the guilty person.
If it was established that it was confiscated, stored, destroyed and compensated for criminal damage
spend.
5. Assets and income earned from committing a crime shall be transferred to others on the basis of a legally concluded transaction
in case of transfer to ownership, the court shall evaluate the property and assign it to the person or legal entity who committed the crime.
confiscation of property and income not prohibited by law shall be enforced and damages shall be paid. The asset,
If it is established that the proceeds were obtained knowingly from the commission of a crime, the court shall
A transaction in which income is transferred to the ownership of others shall be annulled, assets and income shall be confiscated and damages shall be paid
will be reimbursed.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
6. When confiscating property and income, the court shall specify the confiscated property and income in detail in its decision.
Article 7.6. Postponement of execution of a court sentence imposed by imprisonment
1. A juvenile, a pregnant woman, or a child under the age of three who has committed a minor crime for the first time
up to two years of imprisonment for a mother with a child or a single father
may be postponed. During this period, the convict shall be supervised by a court decision enforcement agency.
2. Imprisonment based on the conclusion of the prosecutor if the convict avoids taking care of the child
the decision to postpone the execution of the imposed sentence shall be revoked and the imprisonment shall be imposed in person
The judge shall issue an order to exercise it.
3. During the period of postponement of the execution of a court decree, the person shall commit a new intentional crime
If he commits a crime, the court shall impose a sentence on him in accordance with Article 6.9 of this Law.
4. Obligations imposed by the court during the period of postponement of execution of the court decree,
If the restriction has not been violated, the court shall release the person from punishment based on the conclusion of the procurator.
/ This article was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /

CHAPTER EIGHT
ADMINISTRATIVE CRIMINAL LIABILITY
/ The title of this chapter was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 8.1. Grounds for imposing criminal liability on a minor
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
1. This is for a person who has reached the age of fourteen and has not reached the age of eighteen at the time of the crime
shall be subject to criminal liability in accordance with the grounds and procedures set forth in this chapter.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Criminal liability for a juvenile shall be appropriate to his / her age, body, health and customs
to help them find their place in society, to get an education that takes into account their moral and psychological characteristics,
Awareness of the consequences of the crime committed, the environment and people who led the crime
Isolation from influence and, if necessary, imprisonment of a juvenile who has committed a crime
is aimed at educating.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. The court shall determine the identity of the juvenile who committed the crime and the circumstances of the crime
shall be imposed in accordance with the procedures set forth in this chapter, with or without imposition of a sentence;
disciplinary measures may be used.
4. A crime in which a minimum sentence of five years or more is imposed in a special section of this law
a disciplinary coercive measure specified in this chapter without the imposition of a sentence on the juvenile offender
size should not be used alone.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated June 27, 2018 /
5. The grounds set forth in this chapter for a person who has reached the age of eighteen and who has not reached the age of twenty-one
may be sentenced to disciplinary action and disciplinary measures may be imposed.
6. A person who has reached the age of fourteen and has not reached the age of eighteen at the time of the crime
Article 8.6 of this Law shall not apply if the person has reached the age of eighteen at the time of the court sentence.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 8.2. Types of punishment to be imposed on a minor
1. A juvenile who has committed a crime shall be sentenced as follows:
To do community service;
To restrict the right to travel;
1.3. Imprisonment in a special educational institution.
Article 8.3. Doing community service
1. A juvenile who has committed a crime is entitled to his or her age, health, morals and children
shall be sentenced to community service that does not contradict mental development.
2. The court shall sentence a juvenile to community service for a maximum of three hours a day, for a total of one hundred
twenty to three hundred and sixty hours.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. Coercive measures of a disciplinary nature in addition to the sentence of community service
can be used.
Article 8.4. Restriction of the right to travel
1. The court has committed a crime punishable by a restriction of the right to travel in a special section of this law
A sentence of restriction of a juvenile's right to travel specified in a special class in accordance with the procedure set forth in Article 5.5 of this Law
the sentence shall be halved.
Article 8.5 Imprisonment in a special educational institution
1. This shall be imposed on a juvenile who has committed a crime punishable by imprisonment in a special section of this Law
to impose a sentence of imprisonment specified in a special unit in accordance with the procedure set forth in Article 5.6 of the Law
reduces.
2. A special educational institution for juveniles to serve their sentences
the conditions shall be determined by law.
3. General and professional punishment for a juvenile serving a sentence in a special educational institution
Organize trainings on education, labor and life skills. A juvenile serving a prison sentence
Older people will not be employed.
4. A juvenile serving a sentence of imprisonment in a special educational institution at the age of eighteen
If he has not served the remaining sentence of imprisonment up to the age of twenty-one special educational
to continue to serve in an institution or to be transferred to an adult detention center
The court will decide whether.
Article 8.6. Enforcement of a court sentence imposed on a juvenile
postpone
1. For the first time, a court shall impose a maximum sentence of eight years or less in a special section of this law
committed a crime that is not punishable by imprisonment for a term specified in a special section of this law
when deferring the execution of a decree of punishment imposed on a juvenile in accordance with Article 7.6 of this Law 7.3
The obligations and restrictions set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of this Article may be imposed.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated June 27, 2018 /
2. A juvenile who has postponed the execution of a court decree within the period set by the court
based on the conclusion of the procurator in case of non-fulfillment of the assigned duties or violation of the established restrictions
to annul a decision to postpone the execution of a decree of imprisonment imposed by a court and to imprison
make a decision on serving the sentence in person.
3. During the period of postponement of the execution of a court decree, the person shall commit a new intentional crime
If he commits a crime, the court shall impose a sentence on him in accordance with Article 6.9 of this Law.
4. Execution of a court sentence imposed on a juvenile
the conclusion of the procurator if he / she has not violated the obligations imposed by the court and the restrictions imposed by the court
on the basis of which the court shall release from punishment.
/ This article was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 8.7. Coercive measures of an educational nature
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
1. The maximum term of imprisonment in a special section of this Law shall be eight years or less.
or a juvenile who has committed a crime not punishable by imprisonment in a special section of this law
sentencing taking into account the circumstances of the crime, the damage caused, the nature of the damage and personal circumstances
may be imposed for a period of one to three years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated June 27, 2018 /
2. The court shall inform the juvenile offender of his / her guilt, compensate the damage,
In order to teach them the right way to work and live, and to prevent them from re-offending
obligations specified in paragraph 2 of Article 7.3 of the Law.
3. Coercive measures of an educational nature shall be imposed by the state administrative body in charge of children's affairs
implemented by the organization.
4. Supervise a juvenile offender during the period of probation
The responsibilities of upbringing are taken into account by certain colleagues, non-governmental organizations, parents and guardians
supporter, educator, close relative, at the request of a particular citizen, or
can be assigned with permission.

CHAPTER NINE
CRIMINAL LIABILITY OF LEGAL ENTITIES
/ The title of this chapter was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 9.1. Grounds for imposing criminal liability on a legal entity
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
1. The nature of the crime specified in the special section of this Law to impose a sentence on a legal entity shall be determined by law
an official authorized to represent the person alone or jointly to make a decision or a legal act
Imposition of a penalty on a legal entity for actions or omissions committed in the interests of a person
will be the basis.
2. The name of the legal entity shall be given to the official authorized to make decisions on behalf of the legal entity
on behalf of, in the interests of a legal entity to make a decision and give permission for a crime specified in this law
in this law, by an act or omission committed by others or failing to fulfill its legal obligations
shall be punished in accordance with this Law.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. A special section of this law provides for criminal liability of a legal entity.
Authorized to make decisions and issue permits on behalf of legal entities in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph 2
shall not be grounds for release of an official from punishment.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
4. Branches and representative offices of foreign legal entities in the territory of Mongolia
shall be subject to the same criminal liability as a legal entity specified in this Law.
/ This section was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 9.2. Types of criminal liability to be imposed on legal entities
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
1. The following sentences shall be imposed on a legal entity that has committed a crime:
1.1. A fine.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
1.2. Disqualification;
/ This provision was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Liquidation penalty.
/ This provision was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
2. It is a crime if the court deems it necessary to achieve the purpose set forth in Article 5.1 of this Law
In addition to the sentence imposed on the legal entity, the following coercive measures may be applied:
Coercive measures of disqualification;
Compulsory liquidation measures;
Compulsory measures to confiscate assets and income of legal entities.
/ This section was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 9.3. Fines
1. In the case specified in this law, from ten thousand units to four hundred thousand units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs.
Article 9.4. Coercive measures of disqualification
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
1. In cases specified in a special section of this law, for a period of one to eight years
a coercive method of restricting or depriving a person of the right to carry out one or more types of activities
size applies.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 9.5. Compulsory liquidation measures
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
1. Compulsory measures to liquidate a legal entity in cases specified in a special section of this Law
used.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. In case of liquidation of a legal entity, property and income shall be confiscated due to a crime
to decide on the issue of compensation for damages and transfer of the remaining funds to the state budget
resolve.
3. If a branch or representative office of a legal entity has committed a crime, the branch or representative office
can be dissolved.
/ This section was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 9.6. Compulsory measures to confiscate assets and income of legal entities
1. Compensation for property, income or damage caused to others by committing a crime
assets and income equal to the damage caused by the crime for the purpose of the legal entity
shall be compulsorily deducted from its assets and income.
2. When applying coercive measures to confiscate the assets and income of a legal entity, Article 7.5 of this law shall apply
The procedure set forth in Article
/ This article was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 9.7. Criminal liability of a legal entity shall be unconditional
1. A legal entity subject to criminal liability in accordance with the special section of this Law
If established, the following legal entities shall be subject to criminal liability:
1.1. If one legal entity is created in conjunction with other legal entities, the newly established legal entity
to the person;
1.2. If merged with other legal entities, to the merged legal entity;
1.3. If another legal entity was established by division or separation, the items related to the crime
in proportion to the transfer of property, property and non-property rights, obligations and activities
to the relevant legal entity;
1.4. The legal entity has changed by changing the type, form and main purpose of the organization
if it is a reorganized legal entity;
A company is in the interests of the parent company, its founders, and shareholders
If the offense is committed to the parent company.
2. In order to avoid criminal liability of a legal entity during the proceedings
in case of intentional liquidation, criminal liability shall be imposed on the shareholders whose property has been distributed,
property, property and non-property rights in any form, method or means without justification
affiliated persons, property, property and property transferred from the legal entity
Compensation shall be paid from other legal entities that transferred non-rights to them free of charge.
3. Imposition of criminal liability on a legal entity as specified in 1.3 of this Article shall be a criminal offense
If it is not possible to achieve the goal and it does not comply with the principles of justice, the judge shall be at the time of the crime
property related to the case, property and non-property rights, duties and activities as a whole
criminal liability shall be imposed on the legal entity in charge.
4. The legal entity specified in this article knew about the crime before its reorganization
criminal liability regardless of whether or not.
/ This article was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
SPECIAL CLASS

CHAPTER TEN
A CRIME AGAINST THE RIGHT TO LIFE
Article 10.1. Murder
1. Murder shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 8 to 15 years.
2. The person:
2.1. With extreme cruelty;
In a way that may cause harm to the life, health or property of many people;
By order;
For the purpose of concealment or simplification of other crimes;
2.5. For the purpose of creating material and non-material benefits for oneself and others;
2.6. Two or more persons;
2.7. The victim is unable to defend himself / herself, knowing that he / she is a minor or pregnant;

Committing domestic violence;
2.9. In connection with his / her job or official duties, he / she and his / her close person;
2.10. A member of an organized criminal group in the course of his / her organized criminal activity;
Page 3

Grouping;
Torture;
For the purpose of obtaining blood, tissues and organs;

2.14. Based on opinion, race, ethnicity, religion, sexual orientation and gender orientation
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of at least twelve to twenty years or for life.
Explanation: “Minor child” in this law means a person under the age of fourteen.
Article 10.2. Killing a person in a state of shock
1. Violence against a person close to him, threatening to use force, severe humiliation,
sudden emotional shock due to the victim's misconduct
one to five years if a person is killed due to a temporary seizure or mental disorder
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 10.3 Excessive arrest and detention
1. Arresting a person who has committed a crime or a fugitive convict, bringing him to the competent authority, or committing a crime
the nature and extent of the offense committed by the person in order to stop the offense
committing an act that is clearly inconsistent with the scope; the conditions necessary to detain the person with unavoidable harm
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
Article 10.4. Inducing a person to commit suicide
1. Due to property, position, family relationships or other circumstances
persistent violence, insults, beatings, torture, or intimidation of subordinates
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
Explanation: “Family relations” specified in this law means family members and others
a person living together for some reason, divorced, or ceased to live together for other reasons,
guardians, custodians, caregivers and their dependents
understand the relationship between people.
Article 10.5. Murder of a mother and infant
1. Six months to three years if a mother kills her baby when she is deeply depressed
Restriction of the right to travel for up to 6 months or imprisonment for a term of 6 to 3 years
will be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Explanation: It was not more than three days after the birth of an “infant” specified in this law
understand.
Article 10.6. Careless loss of life
1. Obligations under the law, administrative norms and acts issued in accordance with it
one that has resulted in loss of life due to non-compliance or other negligent actions or omissions
restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Because 2. crimes and do more damage to the life of many people killed two years and eight years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.

CHAPTER ELEVEN
CRIMES AGAINST HUMAN HEALTH INVIOLABILITY
Article 11.1. Intentional infliction of serious harm to human health
1. Intentional damage to human health is from ten thousand to forty thousand units
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 2 togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
2. This crime:
2.1. Committed under aggravating circumstances specified in paragraph 2 of Article 10.1 of this Law;
2.2. Insulted the victim;
2.3. Committed causing physical or emotional pain or suffering;
2.4. Used weapons and specially prepared weapons;
2.5. If the victim died as a result of this crime for a period of five to twelve years
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
Explanation: -A set of “weapons and specially prepared weapons” specified in this law,
Structurally, items and equipment intended to destroy, damage, protect or signal any object
equipment and tools. Weapons are fire, cold, gas, industrial and homemade
can be. "Specially prepared weapons" means bodily injury or damage to property
means cold steel, firearms, items and tools specially prepared and adjusted to cause damage.
Article 11.2. Extreme emotional distress and severe damage to human health
1. Violence against a person close to him, threatening to use force, loss of honor and reputation
the mind as a result of the illegal or improper actions of the victim of stigma or oppression
to human health due to a sudden loss of mental state due to a sudden shock
in the case of heavy damage, in the amount of two thousand seven hundred units to fourteen thousand units
a fine of togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of six months to three years, or six
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 3 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 11.3. Causing serious harm to human health without care
1. Obligations under the law, administrative norms and acts issued in accordance with it
serious damage to human health due to non-compliance or other negligent actions or omissions
The disqualification for a period of up to two years is from two thousand seven hundred units to fourteen thousand
a fine equal to one unit of togrogs or the right to travel for a period of six months to three years
shall be punishable by restriction or imprisonment for a term of six months to three years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. Two or more persons have suffered serious damage to their health as a result of this crime
a fine of one thousand four hundred units to twenty-seven thousand units togrogs or one year
restriction of the right to travel for up to five years or imprisonment for a term of one to five years
shall be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 11.4. Intentional infliction of lesser damage to human health
1. Intentional infliction of lesser damage to human health, from four hundred and fifty to five thousand units
a fine of four hundred units togrogs or two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
the right to perform community service for up to one month or to travel for a period of one month to one year
shall be punishable by a restriction.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime:
2.1. With aggravating circumstances specified in paragraph 2 of Article 10.1 of this Law;
2.2. Insulting the victim;
2.3. In case of causing physical or emotional pain, from two thousand seven hundred units
a fine of fourteen thousand togrogs or from six months to three years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time or by imprisonment for a term of six months to three years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 11.5. Causing less serious harm to human health
1. Obligations under the law, administrative norms and acts issued in accordance with it
The long-term disruption of health in the human body due to non-compliance with labor
not more than one-third of the capacity of the four hundred and fifty units in case of negligent damage caused by the loss
a fine of two thousand seven hundred units or two hundred and forty hours and seven hundred
up to twenty hours of community service, or one to six months
shall be punished by restriction of the right to travel.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Less serious damage to the health of two or more people as a result of this crime
a fine of four hundred and fifty to five thousand four hundred units,
or to do community service for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours, or one
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of 1 month to 1 year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 11.6. Intentional infliction of minor damage to human health
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
/ The title of this article was amended by the law dated January 10, 2020 /
1. Intentional infliction of minor damage to human health from one hundred and fifty to one thousand units
a fine of three hundred and fifty units togrogs or two hundred and forty hours and seven hundred and twenty units
to do community service for up to an hour, or to travel for one to three months
shall be punished by restriction of rights.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. Aggravating conditions specified in paragraph 2 of Article 10.1 of this Law
four hundred and fifty to two thousand and seven hundred units
a fine of togrogs or a public service for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to six months.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 11.7. Domestic violence
1. A person with a family relationship is always:
1.1.
1.2. Brutal treatment, violent behavior, torture;
1.3. Infringement of the right to possess, use and dispose of scheduled and joint property six
Restriction of the right to travel for a period of one month to one year, or for a period of six months to one year
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
2. This crime:
Committed against a child, pregnant woman, elderly person or person with disabilities;
Committed by an employee of a care service provider;
2.3. For a period of six months to two years in case of protest against a person who intends to suspend
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel or by imprisonment for a term of six months to two years.
/ This article was re-edited by the law in 5 May 2017 /

CHAPTER TWELVE
CRIMES AGAINST SEXUAL FREEDOM AND INVIOLABILITY
Article 12.1. Rape
1. The use of force against the will of the victim, threatening to use force, or mental illness,
self-defense due to alcoholism, drug addiction, temporary disruption of mental activity, other diseases,
incapable of resisting or possessed due to property, position or other circumstances
forcible sexual intercourse or the use of sexual force
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
2. This crime:
Rape of a person under the age of fourteen or eighteen;
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Grouping;
Rape a person with family ties;
To make the victim pregnant;
2.5.infecting a victim with a sexually transmitted disease;
Rape two or more persons;
2.7. A person who was previously found guilty of committing a crime specified in this Chapter;
By cruel means;
2.9. Causing physical and emotional pain and suffering;
/ This provision was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
For a term of five to twelve years if the victim was mocked
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
3. A person who has had a miscarriage or is under the age of sixteen as a result of this crime
cooked; from the age of eight if the family member raped a minor under the age of sixteen
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 15 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
4. This crime was committed against a minor; If the victim died as a result of this crime
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 12 to 20 years or by life imprisonment.
Explanation: Victims of rape are of any gender whose sexual integrity has been violated
can be human.
- The crime specified in paragraph 1 of this article shall be deemed to have been committed against a minor
does not require
- "Sexual violence" means a gift to any part of the victim's body
inserted organs; the insertion of other organs or other objects into the victim's genitals.
Article 12.2. Wicked sexual desire
/ This article was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
1. The use or threat of use of force against the will of the victim, or the use of force.
The crime of rape for sexual misconduct by taking advantage of the inability to protect
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 6 months to 3 years.
2. If this crime has been committed against a person under the age of fourteen or eighteen, for more than one year
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
3. This crime is committed against a minor for a period of two to eight years
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
Explanation: Victims of sexual misconduct can be of any gender.
Article 12.3. Sexual exploitation
1. Violence and threats of violence against victims; property, position and other conditions
sexual intercourse with others without restriction of the right to travel by taking advantage of the situation under their control
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
2. In order to make a profit by prostituting the victim of this crime:
To deport a person under the age of fourteen to eighteen;
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2.2. A person who was previously found guilty of committing a crime specified in this chapter;
2.3. To use drugs and psychotropic substances for the victim;
To make the victim pregnant;
2.5 against two or more persons;
2.6. Permanent commission shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
3. Due to this crime:
Miscarriage;
3.2. Five to twelve years if a person under the age of sixteen has become pregnant
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
4. In order to make a profit by prostituting the victim of this crime:
Forcing a minor to enter;
If committed by an organized criminal group for a period of twelve to twenty years,
or imprisonment for life.
Explanation: This crime against minors is specified in paragraph 1 of this article
does not require
Article 12.4. Sexual harassment
1. Victims in terms of work, position, honor, reputation, property, emotional and other means
Motivation to engage in sexual intercourse, both verbally and physically, by creating the worst possible environment for harm.
expressed in another form, or required to have sexual intercourse for one to three months
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time or by imprisonment for a period of 1 to 3 months.
2. Victims who have committed this crime against children or in the manner specified in paragraph 1 of this article
Restricting the right to travel for a period of one month to one year if you have sexual intercourse under duress;
or imprisonment for a term of one month to one year.
/ This article was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 12.5. Having sexual intercourse with a person under the age of sixteen
1. A person who has reached the age of eighteen shall be considered a victim of the age of fourteen or sixteen
It was possible to know that he had not reached the age of four hundred and fifty
A fine of five thousand four hundred units or six months to one year
Restriction of the right to travel for up to 6 months or imprisonment for a term of 6 months to one year
will be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Due to this crime:
The victim has become pregnant;
2.2. To travel for a period of six months to three years if you have a sexually transmitted disease
shall be punishable by restriction of rights or imprisonment for a term of six months to three years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 12.6. Organizing prostitution
/ This article was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
1. For a period of six months to three years, if mediated or involved in prostitution
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel or by imprisonment for a term of six months to three years.
2. Establishment, financing, organization of prostitution and prostitution
to travel for a period of one to five years if provided with vehicles, accommodation and other items
shall be punishable by restriction of rights or imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
3. Five to twelve years if the crime was committed by an organized criminal group
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
Explanation: If this crime was committed by a prostitute under the age of eighteen
refers to the crime of human trafficking specified in the law.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN
A CRIME AGAINST THE RIGHT TO INVIOLABILITY AND FREEDOM
Article 13.1. Trafficking in human beings
1. Prostitution, other forms of sexual exploitation, violence, slavery, etc.
use of force for the purpose of keeping in similar conditions, removal of organs and organs, forced labor and exploitation
threatening to use, stealing, cheating, distrust, abuse of power, vulnerability
taking advantage of, or paying a bribe to, or bribing, a person in control
recruited; transported; sheltered; transmitted; two to eight years if received
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
2. This crime:
Knowing the child or pregnant woman;
Trafficking in two or more persons;
2.3. For a period of five to twelve years if it is committed across the border of Mongolia
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
3. This crime:
3.1. Always stable;
3.2. If committed by an organized criminal group for a period of twelve to twenty years,
or imprisonment for life.
Explanation: - This crime against a child shall be deemed to have been committed in the manner specified in paragraph 1 of this article
does not require
-If this crime is considered to have been committed, the victim shall have harmed himself in the manner specified in paragraph 1 of this article
Self-admission does not affect the classification of a crime.
Article 13.2 Kidnapping
1. Victims of violence, threats of violence, deception, or mental illness,
self-defense due to alcoholism, drug addiction, temporary disruption of mental activity, other diseases,
one to five years if he took advantage of his inability to resist
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime:
Knowing the child or pregnant woman;
Abduction of two or more persons;
2.3. Imprisonment for a term of two to eight years if committed by an organized criminal group
will be punished.
Explanation: This crime against minors is specified in paragraph 1 of this article
does not require
Article 13.3. Pledge of a person
1. As a condition of release, the state, organization,
to kill a hostage under duress for the purpose of coercion and to cause damage to health
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
2. This crime:
Knowing the child or pregnant woman;
Hostage of two or more persons;
2.3. Imprisonment for a term of five to twelve years if committed by an organized criminal group
shall be punished.
Explanation: If the act of voluntarily releasing the hostage has no other criminal elements
he shall be acquitted.
Article 13.4 Forced disappearance of a person
1. Illegal detention of a person shall not constitute a crime against the proceedings
a fine of one thousand three hundred and fifty to ten thousand togrogs or six
restriction of the right to travel for a period from one month to two years, or from six months to two years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
2. Illegal officials, prosecutors and judges authorized to conduct investigations
Detention, unlawful concealment of liberty, or detention or restraint of liberty
legitimate rights and interests of others due to concealment of information, refusal to provide information and restriction of freedom
If the damage to the interests is not of the nature of other crimes specified in a special section of this Law
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
3. This crime:
3.1. Knowing a child or a pregnant woman;
3.2. Imprisonment for a term of two to eight years if committed against two or more persons
will be punished.
4. This crime:
Organized criminal group;
4.2. If it caused serious damage to the victim's health or the victim died
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 12 years.
/ This article was re-edited by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 13.5. Threats
1. A heavy force on oneself and one's loved ones that requires others to do or not to do certain things
used, threatened to use force, or harmed their rights and legitimate interests
if threatened to disseminate facts and information, from four hundred and fifty units to two thousand seven hundred units
a fine of togrogs or in public for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a period of 1 to 6 months.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime:
Grouping;
One thousand three hundred and fifty if committed with the use of weapons and specially prepared weapons
A fine of ten thousand togrogs or six months to two years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time or by imprisonment for a term of six months to two years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
3. This crime:
3.1. An official abuses his / her official functions, powers and influence;
3.2. The right to travel for a period of one to five years if committed by an organized criminal group
shall be punishable by restriction or imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
Article 13.6. Illegal entry into other people's dwellings
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
1. The right to enter an apartment without a resident's permission and to be inviolable and free
four hundred and fifty units equivalent to five thousand four hundred units if the attacker acted arbitrarily
a fine of togrogs or a public service for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one month to one year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. The commission of this crime by force or threat of use of force, or by an authorized official
an officer entered a person's home in violation of the grounds and procedures provided by law, conducted a search, and possessed property
five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units if the property is confiscated
shall be punishable by a fine of togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Explanation: The “dwellings” specified in this law are various countries intended for permanent and temporary residence
apartments, houses, gers, huts, hotels, resorts, summer cottages and tents.
Article 13.7. Illegal search, confiscation and sealing
1. An authorized official shall violate the grounds and procedures set forth in the law and shall be responsible for the protection of a person's body, personal belongings,
five out of four hundred and fifty units if the vehicle was searched, the property was sealed or confiscated
a fine of one thousand four hundred units togrogs or seven hundred and twenty for two hundred and forty hours
the right to perform community service for up to an hour or to travel for a period of one month to one year
shall be punishable by a restriction.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Five thousand four hundred units if this crime was committed out of revenge, greed and personal motives
a fine of twenty seven thousand togrogs or one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time or by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
Article 13.8. Taking photographs, making and transmitting audio and video recordings without permission
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
1. Ambient lighting inside or outside the dwelling without the permission of the occupant
take pictures or make audio, video, audio-visual recordings and distribute them to the public or pass them on to others
A fine of four hundred and fifty units to two thousand seven hundred units or two hundred
forty to seven hundred and twenty hours of community service, or one to six months
shall be punished by restriction of the right to travel for up to
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /

/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. Photographs, audio, video, and audio-visual recordings made in the manner specified in paragraph 1 of this article
if distributed to the public, in the amount of four hundred and fifty units to two thousand seven hundred units
a fine or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to six months, or one to six months
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
/ This part was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
3. An authorized official shall enter the premises or outside in violation of the grounds and procedures provided by law
Four hundred and fifty if the indoor environment was photographed and audio, video and audio-visual recordings were made
A fine equal to two thousand seven hundred units or two hundred and forty hours
up to seven hundred and twenty hours of community service, or one to six months
shall be punished by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
4. Photographs, audio and video recordings taken by an authorized official in violation of the grounds and procedures provided by law.
The crime of divulging the secrets of the investigation of the release of audio and video recordings to the public
Imprisonment for a term of six months to one year with disqualification for up to two years without symptoms
will be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Explanation: - “Authorized official” specified in this chapter shall be investigated in accordance with the law
means a person authorized to conduct registration, investigation and resolution of violations, and to carry out executive work.
/ The explanation of this article was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 13.9. Illegal arrest and detention
1. An authorized official violates human rights and freedoms in violation of the grounds and procedures provided by law;
four hundred and fifty to five thousand four hundred units if arrested or detained
a fine of togrogs or a public service for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one month to one year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. One to five years if the crime was committed out of revenge, greed or personal motives
five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units
a fine of togrogs, restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 1 year.
Article 13.10. Infringement on personal privacy
1. Four hundred for the unlawful acquisition or transfer of a secret protected by law
a fine of fifty to five thousand four hundred units togrogs or two hundred and forty
to perform community service for a period of seven hundred and twenty hours, or from one month to one year
shall be punished by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. This crime:
2.1. Using communication and electronic means;
2.2. Five thousand four if the authorized official violated the grounds and procedures specified in the law
a fine of one hundred to twenty-seven thousand togrogs or one to five years
Restriction of the right to travel for up to 1 year or imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years
will be punished.
Article 13.11. Disclosure of personal secrets
1. A person who discloses a secret protected by private law discloses it without his or her consent
a fine of four hundred and fifty to five thousand four hundred units or two
to do community service for one hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours, or one month
shall be punishable by up to 1 year of restriction of the right to travel.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. Five thousand four hundred for disclosure of personal secrets discovered in the course of official duties
A fine in the amount of twenty seven thousand units or from one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time or by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 13.12. Illegal pursuit
1. Six months to one year if a person without the right to conduct an investigation pursues others
Restriction of the right to travel for up to 6 months or imprisonment for a term of 6 months to one year
will be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Investigation in violation of the law by an authorized official in the performance of his / her duties
five thousand four if conducted and pursued by others using official equipment for personal purposes
a fine of one hundred to twenty-seven thousand togrogs or one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
Article 13.13. Forced labor
1. The use or threat of use of force against others, the imposition of obviously damaging conditions, or
wealth, health, disability, unfavorable family environment, and other hardships
five thousand four hundred for unpaid labor under the control of the situation
shall be punishable by a fine of twenty seven thousand togrogs or seven hundred and forty hours
to perform community service for a period of one hundred and twenty hours, or for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel or by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 13.14. Dissemination of false information
/ This article was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
1. Explicitly false information that insults a person's honor, reputation or business reputation of a legal entity
if distributed to the public, in the amount of four hundred and fifty units to one thousand three hundred units
a fine, or two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours of community service;
or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to three months.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN
CRIMES AGAINST PERSONAL, POLITICAL RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS
Article 14.1 Discrimination
1. A person's ethnicity, language, race, age, sex, social origin, status, wealth, occupation,
position, religion, views, education, sexual orientation, gender orientation and health conditions
from four hundred and fifty to five thousand four if the rights and freedoms are discriminated against
a fine of one hundred units togrogs or from two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
to do community service for a period of time or to restrict the right to travel for a period of one month to one year
shall be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime:
Grouping;
Using force;
2.3. If an official abused his / her official functions, powers and influence, five thousand
a fine of four hundred to twenty-seven thousand togrogs or one to five years
Restriction of the right to travel for up to one year or imprisonment for a term of one to five years
will be punished.
Article 14.2. Obstruction of searching and receiving information
1. On issues that are not classified as secrets that should be specially protected by law from the state and its organizations
use of force or threat of use of force in the exercise of civil rights to seek and receive information
a fine of four hundred and fifty units to two thousand and seven hundred units togrogs,
or to do community service for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours, or one
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of 1 to 6 months.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 14.3. Infringement on freedom of expression and publication
1. Disseminate to the public any information affecting one's own or others' legitimate interests;
to use force in the activities of the publisher in accordance with the law in order not to distribute it
threatened, or intentionally published for a fee, or seriously harmed their rights and legitimate interests
four hundred and fifty units to two thousand seven hundred units if threatened with harm
a fine of togrogs or in public for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a period of 1 to 6 months.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 14.4. Obstruction of the exercise of freedom of religion or non-religion
1. Violence, threats of violence and serious harm to their rights and legitimate interests
threatened to obstruct the activities of a religious organization or religious practice
a fine of four hundred and fifty to two thousand seven hundred units or two
from one hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours for community service, or from one month
shall be punishable by up to 6 months of restriction of the right to travel.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Religious organizations, religious representatives, and missionaries shall impose their religious beliefs on others
coercion, coercion, deception, or propaganda of religious extremism
a fine of four hundred and fifty units to five thousand four hundred units, or
restriction of the right to travel for a period of six months to one year, or from six months to one year
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 14.5. Citizens shall exercise their voting rights and obstruct the work of election commissions
1. To exercise the right to vote, to be elected and to participate in referendums; election
four hundred and fifty units if the committee intentionally obstructed the activities carried out in accordance with the law
a fine of five thousand four hundred units or two hundred and forty hours and seven hundred
to do community service for up to twenty hours or to travel for a period of one month to one year
shall be punished by restriction of rights.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime:
Using force or threatening to use force;
2.2. To deceive;
5.3. If the vote was taken by attracting a voter with property or money, from five thousand four hundred units
a fine of twenty seven thousand togrogs or one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time or by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
Article 14.6. Voting more in elections and referendums
1. The President of Mongolia, the State Great Hural and the local Citizens 'Representatives' Khural
voted more than once in elections and referendums; Arrange to vote more than once
A fine of four hundred and fifty to five thousand four hundred togrogs, if established;
or to do community service for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours, or one
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of 1 month to 1 year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Illegal preparation and storage of ballot papers and referendum ballot papers,
five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units if transported and used
a fine of togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or for one year
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
Article 14.7. Illegal influence on elections, referendums and voting results
make a mistake
1. The chairman, member or other official of the committee organizing the election or referendum
the official advertised a political party, a coalition of parties, or a candidate; to vote,
deliberate obstruction of polling and counting; to vote on behalf of others, ballot box seals,
Deliberate damage to seals, forgery of signatures, replacement of ballot papers, invalid ballots
organized ballot box voting; stung; supported; five thousand if the voting results are changed
a fine of four hundred to twenty-seven thousand togrogs or one to five years
Restriction of the right to travel for up to one year or imprisonment for a term of one to five years
will be punished.
Article 14.8. Dissemination of obviously false information during elections
1. Defamation of political parties, coalitions of parties and candidates running in elections is a blatant lie
in case of dissemination of information, in the amount of four hundred and fifty units to five thousand four hundred units
a fine, or two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours of community service;
or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one month to one year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime was committed by a civil servant, an election committee official or an employee
one thousand three hundred and fifty, deprived of the right to be appointed to public office for a period of one to three years
A fine of ten thousand togrogs or six months to two years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time or by imprisonment for a term of six months to two years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 14.9. Organizing a conspiracy to conduct an election illegally
1. Articles 14.5, 14.6 and 14.7 of this law provide for the purpose of illegally influencing the election results
ten thousand to forty thousand units if prepared or organized to commit a crime
shall be punishable by a fine of 2 togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN
CRIMES AGAINST HEALTH
Article 15.1. Failure to provide medical care
1. Respect the duty of medical professionals to provide medical care and services
to the health of the victim due to unjustified non-compliance or improper compliance
Two thousand to four hundred and fifty units of disqualification for a period of up to two years in case of lesser damage
a fine of seven hundred units togrogs or two hundred and forty hours to seven hundred and twenty hours
the right to perform community service for a period of up to six months or to travel for a period of six months to one year
shall be punishable by a restriction.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. One to three years if the victim's health has been severely damaged as a result of this crime
Disqualification for a period of up to two thousand seven hundred units equals five thousand four hundred units
a fine of togrogs or in public for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a period of 6 months to 3 years.
3. If a victim dies as a result of this crime, he / she shall be deprived of his / her rights for a period of one to three years
a fine of five thousand four hundred units to fourteen thousand units togrogs or one
restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
/ This article was re-edited by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 15.2. Leaving in danger and not providing assistance
1. Young children, the elderly, people with disabilities, injuries and illnesses of others
in case of danger to life and health of a person in need of assistance and care in accordance with the law
Page
4
to provide
assistance and care provided by administrative acts, agreements or mutual trusts issued by administrative norms
Infliction of less serious damage to the victim's health due to intentional failure to perform his / her protective duties
a fine of two thousand seven hundred units to five thousand four hundred units, or
restriction of the right to travel for a period of six months to one year, or from six months to one year
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Due to this crime:
2.1. Caused serious damage to the victim's health;
2.2. In case of death of the victim, from five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units
shall be punishable by a fine of 1 togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 15.3 Illegal taking of human blood, cells, tissues and organs
/ The title of this article was amended by the law dated January 19, 2018 /
1. Taking human blood or cells by deception, or using force, or threatening to use force
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 19, 2018 /
2. Deception, or the use of force, or the threat of use of human organs or organs
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
3. The crime specified in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article shall be related to the victim's wealth, health and development
difficulties, unfavorable family environment, other difficult life situations, inability to defend themselves
took advantage of the situation and committed a crime against the person under his control, or the victim died as a result of this crime
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 5 to 12 years.
/ This article was re-edited by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 15.4. Preparation and transplantation of human blood, cells, tissues and organs in non-compliant conditions
/ The title of this article was amended by the law dated January 19, 2018 /
1. A medical specialist prepares human blood, cells, tissues and organs in a condition that does not meet the requirements,
ten if the victim died as a result of severe damage to the victim's health as a result of the transplant
a fine of one thousand to forty thousand togrogs or two to eight years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 19, 2018 /
Article 15.5. Illegal abortion
1. The need to protect the life and health of a pregnant woman in a hospital setting
force the pregnancy against the will of the victim, except in cases of termination of pregnancy based on
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
2. Health care for obstetrics and gynecology,
a doctor licensed to provide services in non-medical conditions; unlicensed person illegal seed
twenty to five thousand four hundred units if the victim's health was seriously damaged as a result of the interference
a fine of seven thousand togrogs or for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel or by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
3. Two to eight years if the victim died as a result of the crime specified in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 1 year.
4. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities for a period of up to three years
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1000 to 120,000 togrogs.
/ This part was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 15.6. Infectious diseases and immunodeficiency viruses that may endanger the lives of others
attack
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
1. In the event of an infectious disease that may endanger the life or health of others, the competent authority,
quarantine, restriction regime and other relevant procedures, instructions and requirements established by the official
two thousand if intentionally violated the conditions for the spread of infectious diseases or transmitted to others
a fine of seven hundred to fourteen thousand togrogs or six months
restriction of the right to travel for a period of up to three years, or for a period of six months to three years
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
/ This section was added by the law in 4/29/2020 /
2. Intentional transmission of an infectious disease or immunodeficiency virus that may endanger the lives of others
Restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated April 29, 2020 /
3. This crime:
/ This part was amended according to the law dated April 29, 2020 /
3.1. Against two or more persons;
/ This part was amended according to the law dated April 29, 2020 /
3.2. Committing against a child shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated April 29, 2020 /

CHAPTER SIXTEEN
CRIME AGAINST CHILDREN
Article 16.1 Involvement of a child in crime
1. A person who has reached the age of eighteen promises and deceives a child; to use force, to use force
threatening; victim's wealth, health, disability, unfavorable family environment,
one to five years if he is involved in committing a crime by taking advantage of other hardships of life
Restriction of the right to travel for up to 1 year or imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years
will be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. A person who has reached the age of eighteen is a child in an organized criminal group, over eight years
two to eight years, if involved in committing a crime punishable by imprisonment for a term
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 16.2. Involvement of children in alcoholism, drug addiction and addiction
1. If a child is permanently addicted to alcohol, drugs or addiction, five thousand four hundred
A fine in the amount of twenty seven thousand units or from one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time or by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
2. If the crime caused serious damage to the victim's health or the victim died
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 5 to 12 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 16.3. Abandoning, misleading or wandering a child
1. A country where a child has been abandoned in order to avoid his or her legal custody duties
If the child is deliberately left in a place where it is impossible to find a home, and the child is driven from the place of residence
a fine of five thousand four hundred units to twenty-seven thousand units togrogs or two
to perform community service for a period of one hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours, or one to five years
Restriction of the right to travel for up to one year or imprisonment for a term of one to five years
will be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. If the crime caused serious damage to the victim's health or the victim died
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 5 to 12 years.
Article 16.4. Begging for a child
1. Promising and deceiving children; use of force or threat of use of force; victim's property
size, health, disability, unfavorable family environment, and other difficult living conditions
In public for a period of two hundred and forty to four hundred and eighty hours, if the beggar regularly takes advantage
to do useful work, or to restrict the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or one
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
Article 16.5. Changing a child
1. If a child is intentionally replaced, there are twenty-seven thousand to five thousand four hundred units
a fine equal to togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years,
or imprisonment for a term of one to five years.
Article 16.6. Sale of children
1. The sale of a child born, adopted, or cared for
ten thousand to forty thousand units if there are no signs of a crime specified in Article 13.1 of this Law
shall be punishable by a fine of 2 togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
Article 16.7. Cruel treatment of children
1. A person who has reached the age of eighteen repeatedly abuses a child for any act or omission
One thousand to four hundred and fifty units if the contact caused physical or emotional distress
a fine of three hundred and fifty units togrogs or two hundred and forty hours and seven hundred and twenty units
to do community service for up to an hour, or to travel for one to three months
shall be punished by restriction of rights.
2. This crime was committed by a teacher, educator or a person in charge of guardianship
A fine of four hundred and fifty units to two thousand seven hundred units or two hundred
forty to seven hundred and twenty hours of community service, or one to six months
shall be punished by restriction of the right to travel for up to
/ This article was re-edited by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 16.8. Promoting and seducing children into pornography
1. Publications, books, pictures, movies, videos, and other items that promote pornography to children
intentionally shown, given, advertised; child pornography; child prostitution and sex
two thousand seven hundred units to five thousand four hundred units
a fine of togrogs or in public for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
to do useful work, or to restrict the right to travel for a period of six months to one year, or six
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 month to 1 year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 16.9. Promoting pornography involving children
1. Publications, books, pictures, movies, videos, etc. that promote pornography involving children
twenty-seven thousand to five thousand four hundred units if the item is prepared, sold, distributed and stored
a fine equal to one unit of togrogs or the right to travel for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction or imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
2. This crime:
Using the electronic network;
2.2. In the amount of ten thousand to forty thousand units if committed against a minor
shall be punishable by a fine of 2 togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
Article 16.10. Worst child labor
1. It is prohibited for children to work in hazardous work, which may cause harm to their health, physical or mental well-being
two thousand seven hundred units to five thousand four hundred units if the work or service is intentionally engaged
a fine of togrogs or in public for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
to do useful work, or to restrict the right to travel for a period of six months to one year, or six
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 month to 1 year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 16.11. Failure to fulfill the obligation to take care of a child
1. Parents, guardians and custodians have legal responsibilities
four hundred and fifty units in case of less serious damage to the child's health due to non-compliance
a fine of five thousand four hundred units or two hundred and forty hours and seven hundred
to do community service for up to twenty hours or to travel for a period of one month to one year
shall be punished by restriction of rights.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. If the crime caused serious damage to the child's health, five thousand four hundred
A fine in the amount of twenty seven thousand units or from one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time or by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
3. If a child dies as a result of this crime, he shall be sentenced to imprisonment for a term of two to eight years
will be punished.

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
CRIMES AGAINST PROPERTY RIGHTS
Article 17.1 Theft
1. Two hundred and forty hours if other people's property was seized without using force, secretly or illegally
up to seven hundred and twenty hours of community service, or six months to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of 6 months to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime:
2.1.Housing intended for permanent residence and operation, specially protected premises,
enter the warehouse;
2.2. Specially considered important for historical, cultural, scientific, technical and technological development
stealing protected items;
Causing serious damage and stealing a large amount of property;
2.4. To use weapons and specially prepared weapons and vehicles in order to eliminate obstacles
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
3. This crime:
3.1. Acted regularly and made a source of life;
3.2. Imprisonment for a term of five to twelve years if committed by an organized criminal group
shall be punished.
Explanation: - It is a crime to cause minor damage as a result of the actions specified in paragraph 1 of this Article

not considered a crime. This explanation does not apply to paragraphs 2 and 3 of this article.
/ The explanation of this article was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 17.2. Robbery
1. Six months to five years if the property of others is taken openly, without the use of force or illegally
restriction of the right to travel for up to 6 months or imprisonment for a term of 6 to 5 years
will be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Two years if the property of another person is attacked by force or threat of use of force
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 8 years.
3. This crime:
3.1. Acted regularly and made a source of life;
3.2. Committed with the use of weapons and specially prepared weapons;
3.3. Imprisonment for a term of five to twelve years if committed by an organized criminal group
shall be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 17.3. Fraud
1. Fraud, or the use of documents, items, or electronic devices, or the intentional fabrication
to mislead or defame others by taking advantage of religion or concealing reality;
abuse of trust created in the course of a previous relationship with the owner of the property
four hundred and fifty to fourteen thousand units if the right is transferred
a fine of togrogs or a public service for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
or restriction of the right to travel for a period of six months to three years, or for a period of six months
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 3 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime:
Using his / her official position;
2.2. From ten thousand to forty thousand units if it caused serious or significant damage to others
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 2 togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years
will be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. This crime:
3.1. Acted regularly and made a source of life;
3.2. Committed through multi-level marketing and pyramid scheme fraud;
3.3. Imprisonment for a term of five to twelve years if committed by an organized criminal group
shall be punished.
Note: - A person who has acquired other people's property by the method specified in paragraph 1 of this article shall be the owner of the property.
committing a crime of fraud if the property rights were returned to the owner or otherwise restored
not counted.
/ The interpretation of this article was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 17.4. Misappropriation of property
1. Two thousand seven hundred in case of misappropriation of property and property rights entrusted to others
a fine equal to fourteen thousand units or seven hundred and forty hours
community service for up to one hundred and twenty hours, or six months to three years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time or by imprisonment for a term of six months to three years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime:
Using his / her official position;
2.2. From ten thousand to forty thousand units if it caused serious or significant damage to others
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 2 togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years
will be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. Five to twelve years if the crime was committed by an organized criminal group
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
Explanation: - It is a crime to cause minor damage as a result of the actions specified in paragraph 1 of this Article
not considered a crime. This explanation does not apply to paragraphs 2 and 3 of this article.
/ The explanation of this article was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 17.5. Incorrect transactions, erroneous parcels, lost property, misappropriation of lost livestock
1. Incorrect settlement transactions, erroneous parcels, property, lost property, lost livestock
caused more than a small amount of damage due to knowingly misappropriating the property of others
A fine of four hundred and fifty units to two thousand seven hundred units or two hundred
forty to seven hundred and twenty hours of community service, or one to six months
shall be punished by restriction of the right to travel for up to
2. Serious or large-scale damage to others by committing the crime specified in paragraph 1 of this Article
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 6 months to 2 years.
/ This article was re-edited by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 17.6. Threatening to take other people's property
1. Demanding the transfer of property, tangible and intangible property rights to others and to himself or herself
Violence against a loved one, threat of violence, serious harm to their rights and legitimate interests
ten thousand to forty thousand units if they threaten to disseminate facts and information that could cause harm
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 2 togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
2. This crime:
2.1. Acted regularly and made a source of life;
2.2. An official has abused his / her official functions, powers and influence;
2.3. Imprisonment for a term of five to twelve years if committed by an organized criminal group
shall be punished.
Article 17.7. Carriage of motor vehicles without permission
1. Taking a vehicle without the permission of the owner or possessor without the purpose of embezzlement
from one hundred and fifty to one thousand three hundred and fifty units, if there are no signs of theft or robbery
a fine equal to togrogs or for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
a sentence of community service or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to three months
will be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 17.8. Destruction and damage to property
1. Illegally destroyed or damaged other people's property, causing more than a small amount of damage
a fine of four hundred and fifty to five thousand four hundred units or two
to do community service for one hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours, or one month
shall be punishable by up to 1 year of restriction of the right to travel.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Special for public roads, electricity, heating, communications, accidents and disasters
one thousand three hundred and fifty to ten units if special tools and equipment are destroyed or damaged
a fine of one thousand togrogs or travel for a period of six months to two years
shall be punishable by restriction of rights or imprisonment for a term of six months to two years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. This crime:
3.1. In a way that may cause harm to the life, health and property of many people;
3.2. In case of causing significant damage to others, it shall be equal to ten thousand to forty thousand units
shall be punishable by a fine of 2 togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
Article 17.9. Negligence in protecting other people's property
1. Property of others due to improper performance of duties on protection and preservation of other people's property
two thousand seven hundred to five thousand four hundred units in case of serious damage to property
a fine of togrogs or in public for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
to do useful work, or to restrict the right to travel for a period of six months to one year, or six
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 month to 1 year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 17.10. Violation of owner's rights by notary and state registrar
1. A notary shall certify a clearly illegal transaction related to the restriction or transfer of ownership rights
serious, or due to the rights of other people's property, tangible and intangible property, approved by the state registrar
in the case of large-scale damage, from five thousand four hundred units to twenty-seven thousand units
or a restriction on the right to travel for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 17.11. Careless destruction, damage or loss of property
1. Special for public roads, electricity, heating, communications, accidents and disasters
due to careless destruction, damage or loss of special tools and equipment
four hundred and fifty units to two thousand seven hundred units if the damage is more than a small amount
a fine of togrogs or in public for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a period of 1 to 6 months.
2. Four hundred in case of careless or serious damage to the property of others
a fine of fifty to five thousand four hundred units togrogs or two hundred and forty
to perform community service for a period of seven hundred and twenty hours, or from one month to one year
shall be punished by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time.
/ This article was re-edited by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 17.12 Theft of livestock
1. Restriction of the right to travel for a period of six months to five years in case of theft of other people's livestock;
or imprisonment for a term of six months to five years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 16, 2020 /
2. This crime:
Stealing a large number of livestock;
Grouping;
To cross the state border;
Using machinery;
Causing serious damage or harm;
2.6. Imprisonment for a term of two to eight years for theft of productive livestock
will be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 16, 2020 /
3. This crime:
3.1. Acted regularly and made a source of life;
3.2. Imprisonment for a term of five to twelve years if committed by an organized criminal group
shall be punished.
Explanation: “Animals” in this article include sheep, goats, horses, cattle and camels.
- “Large number of livestock” in this article means eight small, two large and more animals. Think short
When transferring, one item is counted as four items.
/ This explanation was amended according to the law dated January 16, 2020 /
/ This article was re-edited by the law in 5 May 2017 /

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
ECONOMIC CRIME
Article 18.1 Illegal use of monopoly and dominance in the market
1. Entrepreneurs with a natural monopoly in order to limit and eliminate competition in the market,
artificial shortage of goods by dominant entrepreneurs entering into collusion agreements
created, stopped the production and sale of goods, limited the volume of goods,
unreasonably high prices for products; prevent other entrepreneurs from entering the market
at a price lower than the actual cost of goods and products for the purpose of causing and expelling them from the market
sold; Competing business entities and civic enterprises are excluded from the market
from four hundred and fifty to five thousand four hundred if the choke caused great harm to others
a fine of togrogs equal to one unit, or from two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
to do community service for a period of time or to restrict the right to travel for a period of one month to one year
shall be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Disasters, natural disasters, communicable diseases, accidents, emergencies, inflation and commodity prices
if an artificial shortage is created, five thousand four hundred units equals twenty-seven thousand units
shall be punishable by a fine of togrogs.
/ This section was added by the law in 4/29/2020 /
3. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
is a fine of ten thousand to eighty thousand togrogs for a legal entity
will be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated April 29, 2020 /
Article 18.2 Influence on currency and exchange rate of national currency
1. False information for the purpose of artificially raising or lowering the exchange rate of the national currency
four hundred and fifty to ten units if distributed, currencies and currencies were sold, purchased and transactions were made
a fine of four thousand units togrogs or for a period of six months to three years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel or by imprisonment for a term of six months to three years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime:
2.1. An official abuses his / her official functions, powers and influence;
2.2. Imprisonment for a term of one to five years if committed by an organized criminal group
will be punished.
3. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
a legal entity shall be fined from twenty thousand units to one hundred and twenty thousand units togrogs
shall be punished.
Article 18.3. Tax evasion
1. A manager or executive officer of an individual or legal entity who pays taxes shall pay taxes
Deliberately false large amounts of taxable income, property, goods and services in order to avoid
four hundred and fifty units equivalent to five thousand four hundred units if identified and hidden
a fine of togrogs or a public service for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one month to one year.
/ This article was re-edited by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 18.4. Invention, product design patent, utility model certificate
Violation of owner's rights
1. Protected by invention, product design patent and utility model certificate
manufactured, stored, transported, sold, across the state border without the owner's consent
Two thousand seven hundred units to five thousand if the damage caused by the introduction of more than a small amount
a fine of four hundred units togrogs or two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
the right to perform community service for a period of up to six months or to travel for a period of six months to one year
shall be punishable by restriction or imprisonment for a term of six months to one year.
2. This crime:
Committed by an organized criminal group;
2.2. If it is done consistently, it shall be equal to two thousand seven hundred units to fourteen thousand units
a fine of togrogs or in public for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
to do useful work, or to restrict the right to travel for a period of six months to three years, or
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 6 months to 3 years.
/ This article was re-edited by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 18.5. Illegal import of goods across the state border
1. Laws and administrative norms issued in accordance with them in international treaties to which Mongolia is a party
Illegally smuggled goods, treasures and minerals across the Mongolian border and customs border
if introduced, in the amount of four hundred and fifty units to five thousand four hundred units
a fine, or two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours of community service;
or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one month to one year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. This crime:
2.1. Using his / her official position;
2.2. Firearms, ammunition, nuclear substances, radioactive waste and explosives
Twenty-seven thousand out of five thousand four hundred units were smuggled across the state border
a fine equal to one unit of togrogs or the right to travel for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction or imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
3. This crime is unique to historical and cultural monuments, museum exhibits, ancient animals and plants
Illegal transfer of rare and valuable artifacts, archeological and paleontological finds and artifacts across the state border
A fine of ten thousand to forty thousand togrogs or
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
4. Five to twelve years if the crime was committed by an organized criminal group
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
5. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities from two hundred thousand to four hundred units
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1000 units.
Explanation: It is a crime to commit a crime specified in this article and smuggle goods across the state border
who actively assisted in the detection and suppression of the crime, exposed the perpetrator, and committed a crime
A person who discovers property and income earned by committing a crime shall be released from punishment. Illegally across the state border
It is good that the introduced goods were recovered during the inspection or during the investigation
voluntary transfer is not considered.
/ The explanation of this article was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 18.6 Money laundering
1. Acquired, possessed, knowing that it is property, money or income earned as a result of a crime.
used; to any person involved in the commission of a crime, concealment of its illegal sources
modified or transferred to help avoid legal liability; its real nature and originality
one to six months if the source, location, method of disposal, and rights of the owner or property are concealed
Restriction of the right to travel for up to one year or imprisonment for a term of six months to one year
will be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime:
2.1. A crime for which the minimum term of imprisonment in a special section of this law has been set for more than five years
knowing that it is the property, money and income earned by committing the crime;
To act consistently;
2.3. For more than one year if an official abused his / her official functions, powers and influence
restriction of the right to travel for up to five years or imprisonment for a term of one to five years
shall be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. Five to twelve years if the crime was committed by an organized criminal group
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
4. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities, four out of one hundred and twenty thousand units
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 100 thousand units togrogs.
Article 18.7 Counterfeiting and use of banknotes, securities and payment instruments
1. Securities, electronic cards, other means of payment, excise tax stamps and financial documents
counterfeit, knowingly stored, used, transported or distributed
A fine of five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units togrogs or one
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
2. National and foreign currency used as a means of payment in Mongolia
forged, knowingly used, stored, transported,
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
3. Five to twelve years if the crime was committed by an organized criminal group
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
4. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities, four out of one hundred and twenty thousand units
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 100 thousand units togrogs.
Article 18.8. Illegal use of internal information of the securities market and participation in trading
1. Securities shall be issued using undisclosed internal information that affects the price of securities
sold or bought; two thousand seven hundred to ten if the internal information is passed on to others
a fine of one thousand togrogs or travel for a period of six months to two years
shall be punishable by restriction of rights or imprisonment for a term of six months to two years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime:
Grouping;
2.2. In case of abuse of office for a period of two to eight years
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
3. Five to twelve years if the crime was committed by an organized criminal group
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
4. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities from ten thousand units to eighty thousand
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1 unit.
Article 18.9. Abuse of the securities market
1. If the securities market is abused, there are two thousand seven hundred to ten thousand units
a fine equal to togrogs or the right to travel for a period of six months to two years
shall be punishable by restriction or imprisonment for a term of six months to two years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. The same crime committed in a group shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years
will be punished.
3. Five to twelve years if the crime was committed by an organized criminal group
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
4. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities from ten thousand units to eighty thousand
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1 unit.
Article 18.10. Deliberate and artificial bankruptcy
1. Assets, property rights, obligations, property information and transfer for the purpose of intentional bankruptcy
hidden traffic; represents the economic activity of a legal entity or self-employed person
two thousand seven hundred if the accounting and other accounting documents are hidden, destroyed or altered
A fine of five thousand four hundred units or six months to one year
Restriction of the right to travel for up to 6 months or imprisonment for a term of 6 months to one year
will be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Postponement of loan repayment by a senior official or founder of a legal entity;
to ease the conditions for its repayment, to reduce the interest rate on the loan, and to avoid default
Falsely notifying the client that he or she has become incompetent and filing for bankruptcy
Two thousand seven hundred to five thousand four if the bankruptcy caused significant damage to others
A fine of one hundred togrogs or travel for a period of six months to one year
shall be punishable by restriction of rights or imprisonment for a term of six months to one year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. The crime specified in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall be committed on behalf of a legal entity by a legal entity
ten thousand to eighty thousand units for a legal entity if it is done for profit
shall be punishable by a fine of togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 18.11. Illegal bankruptcy
1. Forcible, fraudulent or unavoidable, unless there are serious grounds for bankruptcy
bankrupt; disseminating false information about a legal entity, slandering it, and deliberately failing to pay its debts
led to bankruptcy; civil servants have not provided the services required by the state in accordance with the law, appropriate
from unregistered registration, unjustified revocation of a license, or issuance of a license without justification
due to refusal or unjustified delay in issuing a license to operate
If the person goes bankrupt, the amount is equal to five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units
a fine of togrogs or a public service for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 18.12. Receipt of social welfare and services illegally
1. Using fake documents and items, deliberately creating fiction and concealing reality
five thousand four if received social welfare pensions, benefits, services and social development services
a fine of one hundred to twenty-seven thousand togrogs or one hundred and forty hours
community service for a period of up to four hundred and eighty hours, or one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time or by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
2. This crime:
Using his / her official position;
2.2. Receive a large amount of social welfare pensions, benefits, services and social development services
ten thousand to forty thousand units of disqualification for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 2 togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
Article 18.13. Illegal establishment of a bank and loss of bank solvency
1. Percentage of a bank opened or operated without the permission of the competent authority
Imprisonment for a term of six months to three years for illegal fundraising
will be punished.
2. In the interests of greed or self-interest, the authorized management of the bank
failure to meet the bank's solvency requirements set by law and the bank's own capital requirements
one to five years if the bank becomes insolvent or causes significant damage
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
3. To be equal to three hundred thousand units due to the crime specified in paragraph 1 of this Article
for a period of two to eight years in case of causing damage in the amount of togrogs or more
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
4. The crime specified in this Article shall be committed on behalf of a legal entity in the interests of a legal entity
if committed for the purpose of depriving a legal entity of the right to conduct certain types of activities from ten thousand units
shall be punishable by a fine equal to eighty thousand togrogs.
/ This article was re-edited by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 18.14. Avoidance of paying social insurance premiums
1. A manager or executive officer of a legal entity paying social insurance premiums shall be a social worker
a large amount of income from social insurance premiums in order to avoid paying insurance premiums
in the amount of five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units if concealed or falsely declared
shall be punishable by a fine of togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of 1 to 5 years.
/ This article was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 18.15. Illegal insurance indemnity
1. Deliberately creating an artificial situation, concealing the reality, the reality of the insurance case,
If you received insurance indemnity by falsely reporting the amount of damage and submitting false documents
a fine of two thousand seven hundred units to five thousand four hundred units togrogs or
restriction of the right to travel for a period of six months to one year, or from six months to one year
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
2. This crime:
Using his / her official position;
Grouping;
Twenty-seven out of five thousand four hundred units if a large amount of insurance indemnity has been paid
A fine of one thousand togrogs or travel for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of rights or imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
/ This article was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 18.16. Violation of the rights of trademark owners and consumers of geographical indications
1. Misleading or misleading consumers by using other trademarks or geographical indications
less due to production, storage, transportation, sale and import of goods and products
two thousand seven hundred units to five thousand four hundred units in case of damage in excess of the amount

a fine of togrogs or in public for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
to do useful work, or to restrict the right to travel for a period of six months to one year, or six
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 month to 1 year.
2. This crime:
Constantly committed;
Page 5

2.2. From two thousand seven hundred units to fourteen thousand if committed by an organized criminal group
a fine of togrogs equal to one unit, or from two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
the right to perform community service or to travel for a period of six months to three years
shall be punishable by restriction or imprisonment for a term of six months to three years.
/ This article was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 18.17. Violation of copyright and related rights
1. Manufacture or sale of goods or products in violation of copyright or related rights;
if it caused significant damage to the author or right holder due to distribution or crossing the state border
a fine of four hundred and fifty to five thousand four hundred units or two hundred
forty to seven hundred and twenty hours of community service, or one month to one year
shall be punished by restriction of the right to travel for up to
2. This crime:
Constantly committed;
2.2. From five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand if committed by an organized criminal group
a fine equal to one unit of togrogs or the right to travel for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction or imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
/ This article was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 18.18. Illegal activities of the national payment system
conduct
/ This article was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
/ This article was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
1. Participants, operators, payment service providers, or of the national payment system
It is clear that he / she was engaged in activities related to the provision of payment services without permission
The right to engage in such activities is suspended for a period of six months to two years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 1 year.
2. National payment system participants, operators, payment service providers, or
fraudulent or forged license to engage in activities related to the provision of payment services
serious or other to the property, tangible or intangible property rights of others as a result of obtaining documents
Infliction of significant damage shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
3. To commit a crime specified in paragraph 1 of this Article and to give three hundred thousand units to others
for a period of one to five years in case of causing damage in the amount of togrogs or more
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
4. Five to twelve years if the crime was committed by an organized criminal group
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
5. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities from forty thousand to two hundred units
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1000 units.

CHAPTER NINETEEN
CRIMES AGAINST NATIONAL SECURITY
Article 19.1 Betrayal of the motherland
1. A citizen of Mongolia shall have the independence, national security and defense of Mongolia
war, hostilities, armed attacks, conflicts, for the purpose of damaging capacity;
Twelve to twenty years of support and cooperation with the enemy during the aggression
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 3 years or for life.
Article 19.2. Illegal seizure and detention of state power
1. Agree on the purpose of illegally seizing and retaining the power of the highest state authority
prepared, organized, participated in, or provided financial support for a violent seizure; state
if the use of force obstructs the exercise of the authority of the highest authority
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 2 to 20 years.
Article 19.3 Assault on a high-ranking public official
1. Political and state activities for the purpose of destroying the state of Mongolia
in connection with the intentional infliction of serious harm to the health of a high-ranking public official for more than five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 12 years.
2. Twelve years for the murder of a high-ranking public official for the purposes specified in paragraph 1 of this article
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 20 years or for life.
Article 19.4. Illegal cooperation with foreign intelligence services, organizations and citizens
1. A citizen of Mongolia has agreed to cooperate with a foreign intelligence service
worked; information, documents and items related to state secrets for the purpose of transfer to foreign organizations and citizens
for theft, collection, storage or transfer of items for a period of eight to fifteen years
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
2. This crime was committed by a high-ranking government official, a person in charge of state secrets,
for a period of twelve to twenty years, or at all, if committed by a person known for the duty
shall be punishable by life imprisonment.
Explanation: -It has been agreed to cooperate with foreign intelligence services, but it is appropriate for the government
Assist in preventing potential damage by voluntarily notifying the organization immediately
shall be released from punishment if the civil act committed is not of another criminal nature.
Article 19.5. Initiation of armed riots
1. For the purpose of undermining the territorial integrity of Mongolia and creating a civil war
for a period of twelve to twenty years, if prepared, organized or participated in an armed riot;
or imprisonment for life.
Article 19.6. Sabotage
1. National security, independence, defense and economic forces of Mongolia
buildings, roads, information, communications, and national characteristics for the purpose of weakening capacity
Destroyed, damaged or damaged the database, archives and objects that provide life for the population
defective; The spread of highly contagious diseases of humans, animals and plants is from eight to fifteen years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
2. This crime:
Causing serious damage to the life, health and property of many people;
If committed by an organized criminal group, for a period of twelve to twenty years;
or imprisonment for life.
Article 19.7. Preparation for sabotage operations
1. Organized criminal group established for the purpose of carrying out subversive activities, others
recruited, recruited, trained, trained, firearms, weapons, specially trained weapons
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 5 to 12 years.
Explanation: - A person who participated in the preparation for a sabotage operation voluntarily revealed his crime,
Real warning to government agencies and practical assistance in stopping sabotage
If the actions of the facilitator are not of another criminal nature, they shall be released from punishment.
Article 19.8. Carrying out extremist activities
1. For the purpose of illegally or forcibly altering or destroying the constitutional system and state structures
engaged in political or religious activities, established certain groups to carry out such activities, and others
Restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or one to five years, if recruited
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
Article 19.9. Destroying national unity
1. Enmity and discrimination against people on the basis of ethnicity, language, race, religion, or ideology.
incitement, incitement, discrimination, violence, restriction of rights, privilege
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 5 to 12 years if the established act is organized
will be punished.
2. If this crime was committed by an organized criminal group, from twelve to twenty years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
Article 19.10. Spying
1. Twelve years if a foreign citizen or stateless person has been spying in the territory of Mongolia
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 20 years.
Explanation: - "Intelligence" means a foreign intelligence agency that has performed a mission,
A citizen of Mongolia was persuaded to work secretly with a foreign intelligence service
The act of stealing, collecting, storing or transmitting confidential information, facts and items.
Article 19.11. Illegal acquisition of state secrets
1. Theft, collection and storage of information, documents and items related to state secrets from the homeland
the right to travel for a period of six months to three years, unless there are signs of treason or espionage
shall be punishable by restriction or imprisonment for a term of six months to three years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 19.12. Disclosure of state secrets
1. Positions, positions, entrusted with information, documents and items related to state secrets,
Disclosure by a person known in terms of duties is a betrayal of the country, foreign intelligence service, organization,
one of the disqualification for a period of up to three years if there is no evidence of illegal cooperation with a citizen
restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. The right to up to five years for committing this crime and disclosing important state secrets
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 19.13. Loss of state secrets
1. Positions, positions, entrusted with information, documents and items related to state secrets,
lost due to violation of the established procedure for dealing with them by a person who knew them in terms of duties
a fine of four hundred and fifty to fourteen thousand togrogs or six
restriction of the right to travel for a period of one month to three years, or from six months to three years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. If five thousand four hundred units of state secrets were lost due to this crime
a fine of twenty seven thousand togrogs or one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 19.14. Illegal entry of the border of Mongolia
1. Without entry or exit documents to Mongolia, or with forged documents,
or ten thousand to one thousand three hundred and fifty units crossing the border of Mongolia without proper permission
a fine of one thousand togrogs or travel for a period of six months to two years
shall be punishable by restriction of rights or imprisonment for a term of six months to two years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime:
Grouping;
2.2. Twenty to five thousand four hundred units in case of use of force or threat of use of force
a fine of seven thousand togrogs or for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel or by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
3. Two to eight years if the crime was committed by an organized criminal group
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
Explanation: - Illegally crossed the border of Mongolia by the method specified in paragraph 1 of this article
A citizen of Mongolia may be released from punishment if he / she discloses his / her crime.
-Foreigners persecuted for their views, political and other justice activities
It is a crime if a citizen or stateless person enters the territory of Mongolia in order to obtain the right to asylum in Mongolia
shall not be deemed to have been committed.
-People who are victims of human trafficking and kidnapping are undocumented and fake
This crime shall not be deemed committed if the document is crossed the border of Mongolia.
Article 19.15 Illegal acquisition of citizenship
1. The use of forged documents and items, the deliberate creation of fiction, and the concealment of reality
Mongolian citizenship is obtained from four hundred and fifty to fourteen thousand units
a fine equal to togrogs or the right to travel for a period of six months to three years
shall be punishable by restriction or imprisonment for a term of six months to three years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Illegal entry and asylum of a foreign citizen or stateless person in Mongolia, Mongolia
Fourteen thousand to fourteen thousand units were smuggled through the territory of the state
a fine equal to one unit of togrogs or the right to travel for a period of six months to three years
shall be punishable by restriction or imprisonment for a term of six months to three years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 19.16. Illegal renaming of land
1. Illegal official names of administrative and territorial units, borders and places of Mongolia
Four hundred and fifty to fourteen thousand units, if modified in official documents and geographical maps
a fine equal to togrogs or the right to travel for a period of six months to three years
shall be punishable by restriction or imprisonment for a term of six months to three years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 19.17. Destruction, damage and transfer of state border markers and facilities on the border line
1. Border signs of Mongolia, their links, engineering, technical,
destruction, damage or transfer of cross-border facilities without the permission of the competent authority;
one thousand three hundred and fifty units to ten thousand units if the state border water diversion is changed
or a restriction of the right to travel for a period of six months to two years, or
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 6 months to 2 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /

CHAPTER TWENTY
CRIMES AGAINST PUBLIC SECURITY AND INTEREST
Article 20.1 Deliberate misrepresentation of a terrorist act
/ The title of this article was amended by the law dated October 10, 2019 /
1. Explosions, arson and other acts that endanger the lives of many people and property damage
to cause harm; Deliberately misrepresenting that they are preparing to cause other harm to society
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
Article 20.2. Incitement to terrorist activity, its public justification and incitement
/ This article was amended according to the law dated October 10, 2019 /
1. Terrorist propaganda, or its spread, or terrorist activity
one year to five years in prison, or publicly justified, or stabbed by others
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 1 year.
2. If the crime specified in paragraph 1 of this Article was committed by a civil servant, five to twelve years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 1 year.
Article 20.3. Establishment and joining an organized criminal group
1. There are three or more people who have committed crimes in advance and have joined together for profit
established stable groups, recruited, recruited, firearms, weapons, specially trained
two to eight years if provided with weapons, planned or prepared to commit a crime
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
2. Imprisonment for a term of one to five years for joining an organized criminal group
will be punished.
3. If the crime specified in paragraph 1 of this Article was committed by a civil servant, five to twelve years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 1 year.
Article 20.4. Illegal possession of firearms, firearms and explosives
1. Firearms, ammunition, explosives and explosives for combat and law enforcement purposes
five thousand four if the device was illegally acquired, transferred, sold, transported or stored
a fine of one hundred to twenty-seven thousand togrogs or one to five years
Restriction of the right to travel for up to 1 year or imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years
will be punished.
2. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities from ten thousand units to eighty thousand
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1 unit.
/ This part was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Note: -Uncertified firearms, their components, explosives, firearms,
The person who illegally acquired and stored the explosive device voluntarily brought it to the appropriate authority
will be released from punishment.
Article 20.5 Illegal manufacture of firearms
1. Illegally manufactured firearms and their components, firearms, explosives,
the right to travel for a period of one to five years if the explosive device was illegally manufactured
shall be punishable by restriction or imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
2. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities from ten thousand units to eighty thousand
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1 unit.
/ This part was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 20.6. Negligence in protection of firearms, firearms and explosives
1. Firearms, ammunition, explosives and explosives for combat and law enforcement purposes
caused significant damage due to improper maintenance and protection of the equipment
a fine of five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units togrogs or one
restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. If the crime caused serious damage to human health and the victim died, two
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 8 years.
3. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities from forty thousand to two hundred units
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1000 units.
/ This part was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 20.7. Illegal use of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances
1. Sale of illicit drugs, psychotropic substances and their raw materials
one to five years if illegally prepared, stored, given to others or acquired without purpose
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time or by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. Illegal sale of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and their raw materials
two to eight years if acquired, prepared, processed, stored, transported, shipped or sold
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
3. This crime:
3.1. Always stable;
3.2. To cross the state border;
/ This provision was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
3.3. Imprisonment for a term of five to twelve years if smuggled across the state border
will be punished.
/ This provision was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
4. If this crime was committed by an organized criminal group, from twelve to twenty years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term or for life.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
5. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities from forty thousand to two hundred units
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1000 units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Explanation: - Committing a crime specified in this article, possession of drugs, psychotropic substances
voluntary transfer of identification, narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and their analogues
actively assisted in the detection and suppression of crimes related to illicit trafficking in goods,
to convict a person who has revealed the perpetrator and who has discovered the property and income earned by committing a crime
will be released. Investigation of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and similar substances
Acquired at the time of the transfer shall not be considered as voluntary transfer.
Article 20.8. Provision of accommodation for the use of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances
1. Five thousand four hundred if provided with accommodation for the use of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances
A fine in the amount of twenty seven thousand units or from one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time or by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
2. If this crime was committed by an organized criminal group, from five to twelve years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
3. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities from forty thousand to two hundred units
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1000 units.
/ This part was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 20.9 Misappropriation of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances
1. Drugs and psychotropic substances shall be administered by an official in accordance with his / her official duties, powers and influence
the right to engage in professional activities for two to five years if abused
in togrogs equal to twenty thousand seven thousand units from five thousand four hundred units minus for the period
a fine or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
Article 20.10. Illegal cultivation of narcotic plants
1. Illegal cultivation or cultivation of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances
restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
2. If this crime was committed by an organized criminal group, from five to twelve years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
3. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities from forty thousand to two hundred units
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1000 units.
Article 20.11. Disposal of hazardous waste, toxic and hazardous chemicals
1. Hazardous waste, toxic and hazardous chemicals that are harmful to human health
dumped in an unsuitable place; Deliberately incorrectly classifying waste in non-designated areas
if discarded, destroyed or smuggled across the state border, from five thousand four hundred units to twenty-seven thousand units
a fine equal to togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years,
or imprisonment for a term of one to five years.
2. Due to this crime:
2.1. Causing serious damage to human health or loss of life;
2.2. Causing significant damage shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
3. The crime specified in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be committed on behalf of a legal entity and for the benefit of a legal entity
if committed for interest, the legal entity shall be deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1000 to 120,000 togrogs.
4. The crime specified in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be committed on behalf of a legal entity, a legal entity
if the act was committed in the interests of a legal entity, the right to conduct certain types of activities shall be revoked
shall be punishable by a fine of 100 to 400 thousand togrogs.
Article 20.12. Sale and distribution of food products that do not meet hygienic requirements
1. Food or food that does not meet hygiene requirements and may cause harm to human health
Deliberate sale or distribution of food additives has caused less damage to human health,
or twenty-seven thousand units from five thousand four hundred units in case of significant damage
A fine equal to togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years
shall be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. Due to this crime:
2.1. Causing serious damage to human health or loss of life;
2.2. In case of large damage, from ten thousand units to forty thousand units
shall be punishable by a fine of 2 togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
3. The crime specified in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be committed on behalf of a legal entity and for the benefit of a legal entity
if the act was committed in the interests of a legal entity, the right to conduct certain types of activities shall be revoked
shall be punishable by a fine in togrogs equal to 1000 units to eighty thousand units.
4. The crime specified in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be committed on behalf of a legal entity, a legal entity
if it is committed in the interests of a legal entity, the right to conduct certain types of activities shall be revoked
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1000 to 120,000 togrogs.
Article 20.13. Commissioning of low quality buildings and structures
1. Without the permission of the competent authority, or other than the approved design, or quality
Severe damage to human health due to the construction, erection or commissioning of poor facilities
five thousand four hundred if there is a loss of life or property
A fine in the amount of twenty seven thousand units or from one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time or by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
2. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities from twenty thousand units to one hundred and twenty
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1000 units.
Article 20.14. Illegal production, import, sale of drugs, bio-preparations and medical devices,
distribution
1. A person engaged in the supply of drugs, drug raw materials, bio-preparations and medical devices,
Prohibited, unapproved, expired drugs, drug raw materials, bio-preparations,
from two thousand seven hundred units to ten if medical devices are manufactured, imported, sold or distributed
a fine of four thousand units togrogs or for a period of six months to three years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel or by imprisonment for a term of six months to three years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017, dated May 11, 2017
amended by the law of the day /
2. Proper production, import, sale and distribution of drugs, drug raw materials and biopreparations
five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units if sent without permission
a fine of togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or for one year
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. Due to this crime:
3.1. Causing serious damage to human health or loss of life;
3.2. In case of large damage, from ten thousand units to forty thousand units
shall be punishable by a fine of 2 togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
4. The crime specified in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall be committed by a legal entity on behalf of a legal entity
if it is committed in the interests of a legal entity, the right to conduct certain types of activities shall be revoked
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1000 to 120,000 togrogs.
5. The crime specified in paragraph 3 of this Article shall be committed on behalf of a legal entity, a legal entity
if the act was committed in the interests of a legal entity, the right to conduct certain types of activities shall be revoked
shall be punishable by a fine of 100 to 400 thousand togrogs.
Article 20.15. Proper protection of animals that may endanger the environment
1. Human health due to improper protection of animals that may pose a threat to the environment
four hundred and fifty to five thousand four hundred units in case of lesser damage
a fine of togrogs or a public service for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one month to one year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. If the crime caused serious damage to human health or the victim died, five
a fine of one thousand four hundred units to twenty-seven thousand units togrogs or one year
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
Article 20.16. Disturbing public peace
1. Violation of public order in a group, use of force against others, or destruction, damage to property, or
inciting and inciting these acts, violating the right to inviolability, liberty and property;
one that disturbs the normal operation of the business entity or organization and the public peace
restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
2. This crime:
2.1. To use weapons and specially prepared weapons;

Robbing other people's property;
2.3. Burning;
2.4. Causing serious damage to the health or life of others;
2.5 for a period of two to eight years in case of causing serious damage to the property of others
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
Article 20.17. Organizing gambling
/ This article was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
1. Cubes, cards and other items for profit in public places or using information technology
The results of using items are unpredictable and host gambling
If established, a fine of four hundred and fifty to fourteen thousand togrogs shall be imposed.
or to do community service for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours, or
restriction of the right to travel for a period of six months to three years, or from six months to three years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
2. The results are unpredictable and gambling is prohibited by law
Twenty-seven thousand to five thousand four hundred units if the playground was established or operated
a fine equal to one unit of togrogs or the right to travel for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction or imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.

CHAPTER TWENTY ONE
CRIMES AGAINST PROCEEDINGS
Article 21.1. Falsification and destruction of evidence
1. Destruction, concealment, correction of evidence relevant to the investigation and resolution of a case,
law enforcement officers knowing that the evidence has been altered, falsified, or falsified,
in the amount of two thousand seven hundred to ten thousand units, if submitted to the prosecutor or the court
shall be punishable by a fine of togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 6 months to 2 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. To keep and protect the evidence of this crime by law enforcement officers, advocates, prosecutors, judges
from five thousand four hundred units to twenty-seven thousand units if committed by a duty officer or employee
a fine equal to togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years,
or imprisonment for a term of one to five years.
Article 21.2. Lying
1. During the investigation, the witness or victim shall state that he / she shall testify truthfully in court.
five thousand four hundred to four hundred and fifty units if a deliberately false statement was made after the issuance of a guarantee
a fine of togrogs equal to one unit, or from two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
to do community service for a period of time or to restrict the right to travel for a period of one month to one year
shall be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. Deliberately lying to the court during the investigation that a witness or victim has committed a crime
five thousand four hundred to twenty seven thousand units if declared or slandered
a fine of togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or for one year
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
Article 21.3. False translation and interpretation
1. Accurate translation into court during the execution of court decisions and investigations;
Deliberately false translation or interpretation after providing a guarantee and interpretation, three to two months
The amount of deprivation of rights for a period of up to four hundred and fifty units is equal to five thousand four hundred units
a fine of togrogs or a public service for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one month to one year.
/ In this section, the law of May 11, 2017 and the law of June 9, 2017
amended accordingly /
Article 21.4. An expert shall deliberately make a false conclusion
1. The expert shall be truthful to the court during the execution of the court decision and the investigation
one year to five years if the intentional false conclusion was made after the conclusion was made and the guarantee was issued
up to five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units
a fine of togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or for one year
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated June 9, 2017 /
Article 21.5. Illegal influence on witnesses, victims, experts, translators and interpreters
1. Deliberately giving false testimony to a witness or victim, obtaining a false opinion by an expert, or acting as a translator
used force against himself or a close person for the purpose of false translation or false interpretation by an interpreter
threatened to use, or threatened to cause serious harm to their interests, or
If persuaded, promised a reward, or given, four hundred and fifty units equals five thousand four hundred units
a fine of togrogs or in public for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a period of one month to one year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. If this crime was committed by a law enforcement officer, defense counsel, prosecutor or judge, one to five years
up to five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units
a fine of togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or for one year
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
Article 21.6. Illegal influence on judges, prosecutors, advocates, investigators and citizens' representatives
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
1. Judges, prosecutors, advocates, investigators and citizens' representatives shall investigate and resolve cases
used or threatened to use force against himself or a close person in connection with his / her conduct;
or threatened to disseminate facts or information that could cause serious harm to their interests, or
A fine of five thousand four hundred to twenty seven thousand togrogs for persuasion,
or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or from one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime was committed under the pressure of high-ranking officials and politically influential persons.
ten thousand to forty thousand units, if promised and persuaded to create an advantage
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 2 togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
Explanation: - “Politically influential person” means the President of Mongolia, Member of the State Great Hural,
Prime Minister of Mongolia, Member of the Government, Deputy Minister, Member of the Constitutional Tsets, Supreme State
served as Chief Justice of the Court, Judge of the Supreme Court, Attorney General, and State Great Hural
Heads of organizations directly accountable, governors of aimags and the capital city, citizens of aimags and the capital city
Chairman of the Presidium of the House of Representatives, State Secretary of the Ministry, Government Agency
understands the boss.
Article 21.7. Obstruction or avoidance of court decision enforcement
1. The declaration of property is intentionally incorrect for the purpose of obstructing the enforcement of a court decision
issued, concealed, transferred, lost, changed residence, pretended
arbitrarily disposed of, confiscated, pledged or confiscated property
two thousand seven hundred units to five thousand four hundred units if the specified contract is concluded
or a restriction on the right to travel for a period of six months to one year, or
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 6 months to one year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017, dated June 9, 2017
amended by the law of the day /
2. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
a legal entity shall be fined from twenty thousand units to one hundred and twenty thousand units togrogs
shall be punished.
/ This part was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 21.8. Illegal use of a lawyer's professional name
1. A person who does not have the right to use the name of a lawyer has used the name of a lawyer,
Damage to the rights and legitimate interests of others due to the professional activities of a lawyer
in the amount of four hundred and fifty units to one thousand three hundred and fifty units
a fine, or two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours of community service;
or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to three months.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities from twenty thousand units to one hundred and twenty
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1000 units.
/ This part was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 21.9. Disclosure of secrets of the investigation
1. A person who discovers facts and information about the investigation and the person who discovered the investigation
to investigate without the permission of the procurator the officer or staff found out in accordance with the official duties
from four hundred and fifty to five thousand if the facts and information on the operation have been disclosed to the public
a fine of four hundred units togrogs or two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
the right to perform community service for up to one month or to travel for a period of one month to one year
shall be punishable by a restriction.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Judges, prosecutors, law enforcement officers, defense attorneys and officials shall keep the secrecy of the investigation official
deliberately disclosed confidential documents and information of the investigation by the officer or employee found out
more than one year if the disclosure and disclosure of an anonymous witness obstructed the investigation
Disqualification for a period of up to three years is equal to four hundred and fifty to fourteen thousand units
a fine of togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of six months to three years;
or imprisonment for a term of six months to three years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 21.10. Misappropriation and loss of sealed and confiscated property
1. An employee or official responsible for storing and protecting sealed and confiscated property
two thousand seven hundred if the property was destroyed, lost or damaged due to improper performance of duties
A fine of five thousand four hundred units or six months to one year
Restriction of the right to travel for up to 6 months or imprisonment for a term of 6 months to one year
will be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Officials in charge of storing and protecting sealed and confiscated property have misappropriated it
if the right to work in the public service is suspended for a period of up to two years from five thousand four hundred units to twenty
a fine of seven thousand togrogs or for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel or by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 21.11. Escape
1. An arrested, detained defendant, a defendant in custody, or sentenced to imprisonment
If a convict escapes, he shall be sentenced to imprisonment for a term of six months to three years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 21.12. Torture
1. Civil servants shall receive explanations, testimonies, confess, impose sentences, punish and discriminate
stabbing himself or other persons for the purpose of giving permission, or otherwise committing the act
five thousand if you have tormented the body and mind of others by expressing your consent to do so
a fine of four hundred to twenty-seven thousand togrogs or one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 1 year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 21.13. Violation of the law on executive work
1. The organization and official authorized to carry out executive work shall be authorized by law on executive work
five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units if prohibited activities are carried out
shall be punishable by a fine of 1 togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
2. A person who is not authorized to perform executive work has carried out executive work or special equipment for executive work
two thousand seven hundred to fourteen thousand units if acquired, used or sold
shall be punishable by a fine of 6 togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 6 months to 3 years.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 21.14. Illegal professional activity of a lawyer
1. A judge or procurator shall have an advantage over himself or others in the course of the proceedings
the right to conduct professional activities of a lawyer if a decision has been made that is clearly illegal
five thousand four hundred units minus twenty-seven thousand units for a period of up to five years
or a restriction on the right to travel for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. A prosecutor or defense counsel shall have an advantage over himself or herself or others during the course of the proceedings
if he / she has conducted his / her professional activities illegally for the purpose of establishing a legal profession
twenty-seven to five thousand four hundred units with the right to operate for a period of up to five years
A fine of one thousand togrogs or travel for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of rights or imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /

CHAPTER TWENTY TWO
CORRUPTION
Article 22.1. Abuse of power and position
1. A public official abuses his / her official duties, powers or official position, or
the right to be appointed to public office if he / she has created an advantage for himself / herself and others without intentional implementation
from five thousand four hundred units to twenty-seven thousand units, minus two to five years
a fine equal to togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years,
or imprisonment for a term of one to five years.
2. Public officials often abuse their official duties, powers and position
the right to be appointed to public office for a period of two to five years in case of causing damage
a fine of five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units, or
restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or from one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
3. If the crime specified in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article was committed by a politically influential person, it shall be public
forty to ten thousand units, with the right to be appointed to office being suspended for a period of five to eight years
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1000 togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years
will be punished.
/ This article was re-edited by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Explanation: The “official position” specified in this law includes rights and influence.
- “Abuse” specified in this law means official duty, position and right to official position
knowledge must be used against the interests of the office or for personal gain
not to act, not to act, not to exceed one's authority.
/ The explanation of this article was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 22.2. Abuse of official authority
1. For the purpose of giving an advantage to a public servant or to a person related to him / her
abuse of official authority by himself or through an official working under him
the legitimate interests of others have been harmed by the acquisition or granting of an advantage
if the
Page
6 right to be appointed to public office is revoked for a period of up to two years from four hundred and fifty to ten units
a fine of four thousand togrogs or for a period of one month to three years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel or by imprisonment for a term of 1 month to 3 years.
2. Direct and indirect advantages of public servants in response to the actions specified in paragraph 1 of this article
four hundred and fifty units, with the right to be appointed to public office for a period of up to two years
a fine of fourteen thousand togrogs or from one month to three years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time or by imprisonment for a term of 1 month to 3 years.
3. Direct or indirect advantage of a public servant in response to the actions specified in paragraph 1 of this article
upon request or acquisition, the right to be appointed to public office shall be suspended for a period of one to three years
A fine of five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units togrogs or one
restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
4. The law on the activities of business entities by public servants abusing their official powers
Significant damage to the solvency and profitability of the business entity due to non-participation
The right to be appointed to public office is suspended for a period of up to two years for five thousand four hundred
A fine in the amount of twenty seven thousand units or from one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
5. If the crime specified in paragraphs 1, 3 and 4 of this Article was committed by a politically influential person, it shall be public
from ten thousand to forty thousand units with the right to be appointed for a period of two to five years
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 2 togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years
will be punished.
/ This article was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 22.3. Officials of foreign government organizations and international organizations have the authority
abuse
1. Officials and functions of foreign government organizations and international organizations
Significant use of their rights to the detriment of official interests and the creation of advantages for themselves and others
in the amount of five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units
a fine of togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or for one year
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Explanation: -According to this law, “official of an international organization” means an international government
employees of international organizations, representing the organization, the name of the organization
means a person appointed by the organization authorized to act on its behalf.
Article 22.4. Bribery
1. In response to the performance of official duties in the interests of the bribe-giver, or
In the public service, if received or demanded to pay a bribe directly or through others in order to implement
ten to two thousand seven hundred units with the right to be appointed for a period of two to five years
a fine of four thousand units togrogs or for a period of six months to three years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel or by imprisonment for a term of six months to three years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Public officials perform their official duties in the interests of the bribe-giver
demanded a bribe in return, or directly or through others in order to enforce it;
The right to be appointed to public office shall be deducted for a period of five to eight years
a fine of four hundred to twenty-seven thousand togrogs or one to five years
Restriction of the right to travel for up to one year or imprisonment for a term of two to eight years
will be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
3. In response to the failure to perform official duties in the interests of the bribe-giver, or
in order not to perform, or to perform an action that should not be performed, or to perform directly, or
The right to be appointed to public office for two to five years, if required to pay a bribe through others
in the amount of two thousand seven hundred units to fourteen thousand units minus for a period of up to one year
a fine of togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of six months to three years, or six
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 3 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
4. Public officials perform their official duties in the interests of the bribe-giver
in return for non-implementation, or to prevent non-implementation, or to perform an action that should not be performed, or
to be required to pay a bribe directly or through others in order to be appointed to a public office
to deprive the right for a period of five to eight years, equal to ten thousand to forty thousand units
shall be punishable by a fine of 2 togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
5. The crime specified in paragraph 2 of this Article may be committed by a politically influential person or organization
the right to be appointed to public office for up to eight years if committed by a criminal group or by means of suffocation
a fine of ten thousand to forty thousand togrogs minus the term, or two
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 8 years.
6. The crime specified in paragraph 4 of this Article may be committed by a politically influential person or organization
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 5 to 12 years if committed by a criminal group or by means of suffocation
will be punished.
Article 22.5. Bribery
1. Duties, powers and positions of others in order to create an advantage for oneself and others
transferred items in connection with their condition, intangible wealth, transferred ownership rights, free of charge,
or to the public service if they have provided or promised or offered discounted services
ten to two thousand seven hundred units with the right to be appointed for a period of two to five years
a fine of four thousand units togrogs or for a period of six months to three years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel or by imprisonment for a term of six months to three years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime was committed by a public official or an organized criminal group
five thousand four hundred with the right to be appointed to public office for a period of two to five years
A fine in the amount of twenty seven thousand units or from one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time or by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities, four out of one hundred and twenty thousand units
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 100 thousand units togrogs.
/ This section was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Explanation: -As a result of being strangled, he was forced to pay a bribe and was fined by a public official.
a person who has received public services to perform his / her official duties in accordance with this authority
If he / she reveals voluntarily, he / she shall retain the public service he / she received and be released from punishment.
/ The interpretation of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
-The bribe taker was planned in advance and deliberately paid a bribe
no one shall be acquitted. The bribe-giver voluntarily disclosed this to the authorities
is a ground for commutation of his sentence.
/ The interpretation of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 22.6. Officials of foreign government organizations and international organizations
bribery
1. Profits of bribe-takers of foreign government organizations and international organizations
directly or through others for the purpose of performing any action related to his official duties in the interests of
five to twelve years if the bribe was demanded, received, or the offer of a bribe was accepted
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 1 year.
2. Official functions and responsibilities of officials of foreign government organizations and international organizations
to gain an advantage or privilege in connection with rights, positions, or international activities
tangible and intangible assets transferred for the purpose of maintaining their status, free of charge, or
to be appointed to a public office if he / she has provided or promised discounted services
from five thousand four hundred units to twenty-seven thousand units with deprivation of rights for a period of up to three years
a fine equal to togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years,
or imprisonment for a term of one to five years.
Article 22.7. Illegal use and loss of state resources
1. The right to withdraw goods and materials from the state reserve in violation of the grounds and procedures specified in the law
transferred, lent, pledged, donated, destroyed, without the permission of the competent authority
in case of sale or loss, the right to be appointed to public office shall be suspended for a period of up to three years
a fine of one thousand four hundred units to twenty-seven thousand units togrogs or one year
restriction of the right to travel for up to five years or imprisonment for a term of one to five years
shall be punished.
Article 22.8. Misappropriation of budget funds
1. The budget governor shall allocate state property and budget resources:
1.1. Misappropriated;
1.2.purchased goods, works and services at a price above the market average;
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
1.3. To purchase goods and products in excess of demand in the name of reserve and to increase the cash flow
detained;
Deliberately reducing the price of goods and products by creating artificial shortages
raised;
1.5. The property of state-owned and budgetary organizations has been sold at a price below the market average;
1.6.Buildings and equipment being built with the state budget and own investment
Create a budgeted cost by using substandard goods and products for equipment assembly
the right to be appointed to public office for up to three years in case of damage caused by misappropriation of property
a fine of five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units, or
restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or from one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Two to eight years if the crime caused significant damage
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
/ This section was added by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 22.9. Misappropriation of non-budgetary funds of state property
1. Public officials shall allocate state-owned non-budgetary assets:
1.1. Misappropriated;
1.2.purchased goods, works and services at a price above the market average;
Deliberately supplying goods and products by creating artificial shortages
raised;
1.4. Property of state-owned and budgetary organizations sold at a price below the market average
the right to work in the public service or to be elected for more than two years due to significant damage
five thousand four hundred units minus twenty-seven thousand units for a period of up to five years
or a restriction on the right to travel for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
2. Two to eight years if the crime caused significant damage
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
/ This article was re-edited by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 22.10 Unjust enrichment
1. It is legal for a public official to increase his / her assets and income by a large amount
Unjustifiably increased assets and income confiscated and transferred to the public service if not reasonably explained
The right to be appointed is suspended for a period of up to two years from two thousand seven hundred units to fourteen thousand
a fine equal to one unit of togrogs or the right to travel for a period of six months to three years
shall be punishable by restriction or imprisonment for a term of six months to three years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. If this crime was committed by a politically influential person, unjustifiably increased assets and income
confiscated and deprived of the right to be appointed or elected to public office for a period of two to five years
A fine of five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units togrogs or one
restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
Article 22.11. Acting arbitrarily
1. A public official shall exercise the powers of a position not granted to him / her on behalf of others
to be appointed to a public office if the interests of others have been seriously harmed as a result of its implementation or use
two thousand seven hundred units to fourteen thousand units with deprivation of rights for a period of up to two years
a fine of togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of six months to three years;
or imprisonment for a term of six months to three years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 22.12. Abuse of power of a legal entity
1. A managerial or executive officer of a legal entity shall establish an advantage for himself or herself and for others
by law, administrative normative acts, agreements and rules issued in accordance with it for the purpose of gaining profit
caused significant damage due to abuse of power
a fine of two thousand seven hundred units to fourteen thousand units togrogs or six
restriction of the right to travel for a period of one month to three years, or from six months to three years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /

CHAPTER TWENTY THREE
CRIME AGAINST PUBLIC INTERESTS
Article 23.1. Opposition to law enforcement officers
1. The use of force by a law enforcement officer in connection with the performance of his / her official duties
in the amount of two thousand seven hundred units to fourteen thousand units if the threat is resisted
a fine of togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of six months to three years, or six
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 3 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime:
2.1. Using firearms, weapons and specially prepared weapons;
2.2. Five thousand for attacking law enforcement equipment, buildings and facilities
a fine of four hundred to twenty-seven thousand togrogs or one to five years
Restriction of the right to travel for up to one year or imprisonment for a term of one to five years
will be punished.
Article 23.2. Preparation and use of forged documents

1. Documents, stamps, seals, printed forms of licenses, permits and exemptions,
civil, official, driver's license, education certificate, diploma, passport, state award,
to possess, use and dispose of material and non-material wealth that clarifies and certifies a person's personal status
forged documents, used or sold knowing that they were forged
a fine of four hundred and fifty to five thousand four hundred units or two
to do community service for one hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours, or one month
shall be punishable by up to 1 year of restriction of the right to travel.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Two thousand seven hundred for committing this crime and causing serious damage to the property of others
A fine of fourteen thousand togrogs or six months to three years
Restriction of the right to travel for up to 6 months or imprisonment for a term of 6 to 3 years
will be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 23.3. Theft, destruction, damage or concealment of documents, stamps, seals and printed forms
1. Authorized and released documents, stamps, seals, printed forms, civil, official,
Driver's license, passport, state award, personal identification, certificate, material,
defined the right to possess, use and dispose of intangible resources, and approved payments and settlements
from four hundred and fifty to five thousand four if the document was intentionally stolen, destroyed, damaged or hidden
A fine of one hundred togrogs or travel for a period of six months to one year
shall be punishable by restriction of rights or imprisonment for a term of six months to one year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 23.4. Intentionally entering false information or forging documents in the state registration
1. In order to create an advantage for public officials and employees for themselves and others, by law
Deliberately entering false information, deleting, altering or false information in the established state registration
The right to be appointed or elected to public office for a period of two years, provided that the documents are issued to others
minus two thousand seven hundred units to fourteen thousand units
a fine of togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of six months to three years, or six
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 3 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. To be appointed to public office if he has committed this crime and caused serious damage to the property of others;
or twenty to five thousand four hundred units with deprivation of the right to be elected for a period of two to five years
a fine of seven thousand togrogs or for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel or by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
Article 23.5. Neglect
1. An official shall perform his / her official duties as defined by law and administrative norms
in the public service, if significant damage has been caused to others due to non- compliance or improper compliance
five to two thousand seven hundred units with the right to be appointed or elected for a period of up to two years
a fine of one thousand four hundred units togrogs or for a period of six months to one year
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel or by imprisonment for a term of six months to one year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Law enforcement and medical staff, emergency services
two years for loss of life or significant damage to others due to non-performance of duties
deprivation of the right to engage in professional activities for a period of up to six months to two years
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 23.6. Use of special equipment prohibited by law
1. An employee or official of an authorized investigative organization shall have the right to life, health,
five thousand four if dangerous special equipment prohibited by law is used in the environment
a fine of one hundred to twenty-seven thousand togrogs or one to five years
Restriction of the right to travel for up to 1 year or imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years
will be punished.
Article 23.7. Threatening a public official
1. A public official shall not be allowed to make certain decisions, conduct activities or make decisions,
The use of force against him, his close relatives, to force him not to take action
threatened; facts and information that may cause serious harm to their rights and legitimate interests
five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units if threatened with distribution
a fine of togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or for one year
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
2. This crime:
2.1. An official abuses his / her official functions, powers and influence;
2.2. Imprisonment for a term of two to eight years if committed by an organized criminal group
will be punished.

CHAPTER TWENTY FOUR
CRIME AGAINST THE ENVIRONMENT
Article 24.1. Pollution of the environment
1. Toxic chemicals, hazardous substances, hazardous and noxious wastes in the air, land, subsoil and reservoirs
Sanitation of land, river runoff, source recharge area, water supply source
Adverse effects on human health, livestock, animals and plants and their offspring, at least within the protection zone
five thousand four hundred units, if the conditions are created, causing illness, death or destruction
a fine of twenty seven thousand togrogs or one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time or by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
2. Due to this crime:
2.1. Causing serious damage to human health or loss of life;
2.2. In case of large damage, from ten thousand units to forty thousand units
shall be punishable by a fine of 2 togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
3. The crime specified in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be committed on behalf of a legal entity and for the benefit of a legal entity
if committed for interest, the legal entity shall be deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1000 to 120,000 togrogs.
4. The crime specified in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be committed on behalf of a legal entity, a legal entity
forty forfeiture of the right of a legal entity to carry out certain types of activities if it is committed for profit
shall be punishable by a fine of 1000 to 200 thousand togrogs.
Article 24.2. Illegal prospecting, mining and extraction of minerals
1. Exploration, mining, processing and exploitation of minerals without a license
or illegally invaded the subsoil for purposes other than mining;
a fine of one thousand four hundred units to twenty-seven thousand units togrogs or one year
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. Carried out exploration, mining, extraction and processing of minerals with a license
Significant damage to the environment due to improper rehabilitation of the site
A fine of ten thousand to forty thousand togrogs or two years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 8 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
3. The crime specified in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be committed on behalf of a legal entity and for the benefit of a legal entity
if committed for interest, the legal entity shall be deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1000 to 120,000 togrogs.
4. The crime specified in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be committed on behalf of a legal entity, a legal entity
one of the legal entities is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities if it is committed for profit
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount of 400 to 1000 units.
Article 24.3. Illegal circulation of toxic and dangerous chemicals
1. Illegal use of toxic and dangerous chemicals at the state border
introduced, produced, stored, sold, received, transported, transferred to others, unintended
in the amount of five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units
a fine or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. Due to this crime:
2.1. Causing serious damage to human health or loss of life;
2.2. In case of large damage, from ten thousand units to forty thousand units
shall be punishable by a fine of 2 togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
3. The crime specified in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be committed on behalf of a legal entity and for the benefit of a legal entity
if committed for interest, the legal entity shall be deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1000 to 120,000 togrogs.
4. The crime specified in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be committed on behalf of a legal entity, a legal entity
forty forfeiture of the right of a legal entity to carry out certain types of activities if it is committed for profit
shall be punishable by a fine of 1000 to 200 thousand togrogs.
Article 24.4. Law on nuclear substances, radioactive waste, nuclear materials and radiation generators
non-circulation
1. Illegal acquisition of nuclear substances, radioactive waste, nuclear materials and radiation generators,
stored, used, transferred, exported, imported, sold, leased, transported,
Imprisonment for a term of five to twelve years if processed, produced or buried
will be punished.
2. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities, four out of one hundred and twenty thousand units
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 100 thousand units togrogs.
Article 24.5. Illegal hunting
1. Hunting, trapping or rare animals without permission in state special protected areas
animals hunted, captured, intentionally domesticated, bred, or licensed without a license
Stored, sold, purchased, transported, exported, rare
The collection of stuffed animals, tissues, organs and raw materials of their origin is five thousand four hundred
A fine in the amount of twenty seven thousand units or from one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time or by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
2. Unauthorized hunting, trapping, domestication and feeding of very rare animals
prepared, transported, stored, sold, purchased their raw materials that polluted the environment,
Stuffed animals, raw materials, tissues, organs and raw materials of their origin, exported abroad
A fine of ten thousand to forty thousand togrogs shall be imposed for collecting
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
3. The crime specified in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article shall be committed on behalf of a legal entity by a legal entity
forty forfeiture of the right of a legal entity to carry out certain types of activities if it is committed for profit
shall be punishable by a fine of 1000 to 200 thousand togrogs.
/ This part was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 24.6. Illegal logging
1. Unauthorized logging, timber and timber without a certificate of origin
from four hundred and fifty to five thousand four hundred units if prepared, transported, sold or purchased
a fine equal to togrogs or for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
shall be punishable by community service or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one month to one year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime:
Always stable;
Grouping;
In the forest of the state special protected area;
2.4. To restrict the right to travel for a period of one to five years if committed by a civil servant;
or imprisonment for a term of one to five years.
3. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities from twenty thousand units to one hundred and twenty
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1000 units.
Article 24.7. Setting up forest and steppe fires
1. Forest and steppe fires can occur in the human body due to careless handling of fire and flammable substances
caused serious damage or loss of life; one to five years in case of significant damage
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
2. Deliberate forest or steppe fire shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years
will be punished.
3. Due to the crime specified in paragraph 2 of this Article:
3.1. Causing serious damage to human health or loss of life;
3.2. Imprisonment for a term of five to twelve years for causing significant damage
will be punished.
Article 24.8. Illegal harvesting of natural plants
1. Very rare and endangered plants, their seeds, for purposes other than those specified in the law, without proper permission,
if the organs were collected, prepared, sold, purchased, stored, transported or processed, five thousand
a fine of four hundred to twenty-seven thousand togrogs or one to five years
Restriction of the right to travel for up to one year or imprisonment for a term of one to five years
will be punished.
2. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities from twenty thousand units to one hundred and twenty
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1000 units.
/ This part was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 24.9. Disruption of the natural balance
1. Unauthorized damage or destruction of fauna and flora, land, subsoil, atmosphere,
from eight to fifteen years if the water resources have been poisoned or the ecosystem has been disturbed in other ways
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 1 year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
in the amount of one hundred and twenty thousand to four hundred thousand units for a legal entity
shall be punishable by a fine.

CHAPTER TWENTY FIVE
CRIMES AGAINST CULTURAL HERITAGE
Article 25.1. Destruction, damage and destruction of historical and cultural monuments
1. Four hundred and fifty units in case of intentional destruction, damage or destruction of historical and cultural monuments
a fine of five thousand four hundred units or two hundred and forty hours and seven hundred
to do community service for up to twenty hours or to travel for a period of one month to one year
shall be punished by restriction of rights.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Intentionally damaging, damaging or destroying historical and cultural monuments belonging to valuable categories
a fine of one thousand seven hundred units to fourteen thousand togrogs or six
restriction of the right to travel for a period of one month to three years, or from six months to three years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. Intentional destruction, damage or destruction of historical and cultural monuments belonging to a unique value category
a fine of five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units togrogs or one
restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
Article 25.2. Destruction, damage and destruction of immovable historical and cultural monuments
1. In case of intentional destruction, damage or destruction of immovable historical and cultural monuments, from four hundred and fifty units
a fine of five thousand four hundred units or two hundred and forty hours and seven hundred
to do community service for up to twenty hours or to travel for a period of one month to one year
shall be punished by restriction of rights.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Deliberately destroying or damaging historical and cultural immovable monuments taken under state and local protection,
destroyed, or in a manner that could result in damage to the life, health, or property of many people
a fine of five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units togrogs,
or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or from one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
3. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
is a fine of ten thousand to eighty thousand togrogs for a legal entity
will be punished.
Article 25.3 Misappropriation and loss of tangible cultural heritage
1. In case of misappropriation or loss of tangible cultural heritage, from two thousand seven hundred units to fourteen thousand
a fine equal to one unit of togrogs or the right to travel for a period of six months to three years
shall be punishable by restriction or imprisonment for a term of six months to three years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
is a fine of ten thousand to eighty thousand togrogs for a legal entity
will be punished.
/ This part was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 25.4. Illegal archeological and paleontological exploration and excavation
1. Two thousand seven hundred for illegal archeological and paleontological exploration, excavation and research
A fine of fourteen thousand togrogs or six months to three years
Restriction of the right to travel for up to 6 months or imprisonment for a term of 6 to 3 years
will be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Five thousand if illegal archeological and paleontological exploration, excavation and research have been funded
a fine of four hundred to twenty-seven thousand togrogs or one to five years
Restriction of the right to travel for up to one year or imprisonment for a term of one to five years
will be punished.
3. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
is a fine of ten thousand to eighty thousand togrogs for a legal entity
will be punished.
Article 25.5. Organizing and brokering illegal trade in tangible cultural heritage
1. Five thousand four hundred units in case of illegal trade and intermediation of tangible cultural heritage
a fine of twenty seven thousand togrogs or one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time or by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
2. This crime is committed by an organized criminal group for two to eight years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
3. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities from ten thousand units to eighty thousand
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1 unit.
/ This part was annulled by the law in 5 May 2017 /
Article 25.6. Failure to import historical and cultural monuments within the specified time
1. Historical and cultural monuments shall be transported across the state border within the period established by law
if not imported, in the amount of two thousand seven hundred units to fourteen thousand units
a fine or restriction of the right to travel for a period of six months to three years, or for a period of six months
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 3 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Unique and valuable historical and cultural monuments have been identified in accordance with the procedures established by law
Tens of thousands of items that have not been imported or misappropriated during the period
A fine of togrogs equal to forty thousand units or from two to eight years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.

CHAPTER TWENTY SIX
CRIMES AGAINST E-INFORMATION SECURITY
Article 26.1. Illegal intrusion into electronic information
1. Illegal attack on electronic devices and information networks, computer data and systems
in the amount of two thousand seven hundred units to ten thousand units togrogs
a fine or restriction of the right to travel for a period of six months to two years, or six months to two years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 1 year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Unauthorized access to electronic devices and information networks, destruction or damage of information,
modify, edit, copy, add information, use software and network
made it impossible or disrupted; The computer data is hidden and accessed
Restrictions imposed, intentional transfer of illegal information to a computer system, activities
limited; the legitimate benefit of others due to the destruction or damage to the device on which the information is stored
in the event of damage to interest in the amount of five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units
a fine of togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or for one year
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
3. Normal activities of a state organization due to the crime specified in paragraph 2 of this Article
lost; ten thousand units if the crime was committed by attacking a life support facility
a fine of forty thousand togrogs or for a term of two to eight years
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
4. The offenses specified in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article:
Committed by an organized criminal group;
4.2. Computer data related to state secrets, critical information network, computer
Intrusion into the network is punishable by imprisonment for a term of 5 to 12 years.
Article 26.2. Preparation of software and hardware for illegal intrusion into electronic information network,
sell
1. Special software and techniques for illegal access to electronic devices and information-protected networks
five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units if the instrument is prepared and sold
or a restriction on the right to travel for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
Article 26.3. Development, use and distribution of malicious software
1. Unauthorized destruction, damage, alteration of information stored on electronic devices,
copy, retrieve information, use software, devices and networks where information is stored
Malware designed to disable or disrupt normal operation
Twenty-seven out of five thousand four hundred units if specially designed, intentionally used or intentionally distributed
A fine of one thousand togrogs or travel for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of rights or imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.

CHAPTER TWENTY SEVEN
AGAINST TRAFFIC SAFETY AND VEHICLE OPERATION PROCEDURES
CRIME
Article 27.1. Dangerous for railway rolling stock, ships and aircraft
attack
1. Vehicles intended for transportation and their parts are destroyed, damaged or unusable
cooked, disrupted normal operation, gave incorrect signals and warnings, and similarly dangerous
for the safety of railway rolling stock, ships and aircraft by taking action
affecting, endangering human health or life, or causing serious damage to the property of others
five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units if the conditions are met
a fine of togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or for one year
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
2. Deliberately creating conditions for an accident, concealing another crime, or committing another crime
The safety of railway rolling stock, ships and aircraft to perform
forty to ten thousand units if it affected the operation and caused less damage to human health
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1000 togrogs or imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years
will be punished.
3. Four hundred and fifty units if the actions specified in paragraph 1 of this Article were committed carelessly
a fine of five thousand four hundred units or two hundred and forty hours and seven hundred
to do community service for up to twenty hours or to travel for a period of one month to one year
shall be punished by restriction of rights.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 27.2 Danger to the movement of railway rolling stock, ships and aircraft
cause
1. Own due to alcohol, drug use, illness or other circumstances
railway rolling stock, ships and aircraft when unable to steer
drove; train driver, pilot, ship captain and person responsible for security
Serious violation of traffic safety rules and regulations, serious damage to human health
caused, loss of life; five thousand four hundred if the property of others is severely damaged
A fine in the amount of twenty seven thousand units or from one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time or by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
Article 27.3. Traffic and operational safety of railway, air and water transport
Violation of the rules of conduct
1.Regulations on railway, air and water transport and traffic safety and operation
Deterioration of human health due to improper performance of duties by the person in charge
damage, loss of life; five thousand for causing significant damage to the property of others
a fine of four hundred to twenty-seven thousand togrogs or one to five years
Restriction of the right to travel for up to one year or imprisonment for a term of one to five years
will be punished.
Article 27.4. Interference in the activities of the flight crew
1. Interfering with the activities of the flight crew during the flight of the aircraft
in the event of a delay of four hundred and fifty units to one thousand three hundred and fifty units
a fine of togrogs or a public service for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours
or restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to three months.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. The flight crew who obstructed the flight operations during the flight of the passenger aircraft
human health, life and property of others due to improper contact with members and other passengers
four hundred if the flight was delayed for a long time, causing damage
a fine of fifty to two thousand seven hundred units or two hundred and forty hours
up to seven hundred and twenty hours of community service, or one to six months
shall be punished by restriction of the right to travel for a period of time.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Explanation: “Flight” referred to in this article means the closing of all external doors after loading the aircraft.
The aircraft is considered to be in flight until the person or cargo is unloaded and one of the doors is opened. Special
in the event of an accidental landing, the appropriate authorized person of the aircraft, its occupants and property
The flight shall be deemed to have continued until the transfer of responsibility for the transfer.
Article 27.5. Destruction or damage of the actual control equipment of the aircraft affected by the accident or violation
1. To obtain and analyze information on aircraft accidents and incidents affected by accidents and violations
technical data, cabin conversations and images placed on the aircraft for use in operations
twenty to five thousand four hundred units if the recording device and its recording were intentionally destroyed or damaged
a fine of seven thousand togrogs or for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel or by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
2. The actual means of control of the aircraft for concealment of a crime or the commission of another crime
a fine of ten thousand to forty thousand togrogs for destruction or damage, or
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
Article 27.6. Destroying or damaging air navigation equipment or obstructing air traffic
cause
1. Destroying or damaging air navigation equipment or obstructing air traffic
A fine of five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units togrogs or one
restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, or for a period of one to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
2. This crime has caused serious damage to human health or loss of life; much
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
Article 27.7. Infringement on air traffic safety
1. Committing an unauthorized commercial flight without a valid reason and violating the specified route
the right to conduct certain types of activities in the event of an arbitrary change of flight, airspace or landing site
two thousand seven hundred units minus ten thousand units for a period of up to one year
a fine of togrogs or restriction of the right to travel for a period of six months to two years, or six
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 2 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. If this crime is committed in violation of international flight regulations, it is a specific type of act
twenty-seven to five thousand four hundred units with the right to operate for a period of up to two years
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 1000 units or imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years
will be punished.
3. As a result of this crime, the plane crashed, resulting in loss of life and significant damage
In this case, the right to conduct certain types of activities is suspended for a period of up to five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 12 years.
Article 27.8. Escape of an aircraft
1. Five to twelve years if the aircraft was captured or flown in order to escape
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
2. This crime:
2.1. Using methods and weapons dangerous to many lives;
Committed by an organized criminal group;

2.3. If the crime caused serious damage to human health or loss of life
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 12 to 20 years.
Article 27.9. Violation of safety rules for operation and maintenance of road facilities
1. Violation of safety regulations for the operation and maintenance of roads and road facilities
causing
serious damage to health, or loss of life, or significant damage
Page
7
A fine of five thousand four hundred units to twenty seven thousand units togrogs or one
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
2. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
is a fine of ten thousand to eighty thousand togrogs for a legal entity
will be punished.
Article 27.10. Violation of traffic safety and operation rules of motor vehicles
1. Drivers of motor vehicles in accordance with the Law on Traffic Safety
caused less serious damage to human health due to violation of the issued administrative normative act
a fine of four hundred and fifty to five thousand four hundred units or two
to do community service for one hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours, or one month
shall be punishable by up to 1 year of restriction of the right to travel.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime:
When intoxicated or intoxicated;
A person who is not licensed to drive a vehicle;
Causing serious damage to human health;
2.4. The right to drive a vehicle for a period of one to three years in case of causing significant damage
restricting the right to travel for a period of six months to three years, or for a period of up to one year
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 6 months to 3 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. If a person is killed as a result of this crime, the right to drive a vehicle shall be revoked
Restriction of the right to travel for a period of one to five years, minus one to five years;
or imprisonment for a term of one to five years.
4. The crime specified in paragraph 3 of this article:
Committed while intoxicated or intoxicated;
4.2. If two or more people have lost their lives as a result of this crime
The driver's license is suspended for a period of five to eight years, from two to eight years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
Article 27.11. A driver who has committed a motor vehicle crime shall flee
1. A driver who has committed a crime specified in Article 27.10 of this Law shall intentionally leave the crime scene
A fine of four hundred and fifty to two thousand seven hundred units shall be imposed for evasion.
or to do community service for a period of two hundred and forty to seven hundred and twenty hours, or one
shall be punishable by restriction of the right to travel for a period of 1 to 6 months.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /

CHAPTER TWENTY EIGHT
CRIMES AGAINST MILITARY SERVICE
Article 28.1. Failure to comply with the order
1. In accordance with the military rules, the order of the commander or commander is not complied with by the subordinate
Infliction of harm to official interests shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 6 months to 1 year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime:
Grouping;
2.2. From one to five years if committed during a state of war or when a state of emergency was declared
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
Explanation: “Crimes against military service” means the armed forces of Mongolia and the border guards
Mongolian citizens serving in the armed forces, military mobilization, schools,
A conscript shall be deemed to have committed a crime specified in this Chapter.
Article 28.2. Opposition to the chairman and governor
1. The chairman and commander in connection with the conduct of military service in accordance with the law and regulations
for a period of one to five years in the event of a violent attack or threat of use of force
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
Article 28.3. The boss and commander shall use force against their subordinates
1. If a commander or commander beats or subjugates a subordinate in a non-military manner
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 6 months to one year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 28.4. Violation of the rules of conduct when dealing with military servicemen who are not subordinate to each other
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
1. Non-subordinate military personnel who have fought or otherwise used force
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 6 months to 1 year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime:
Grouping;
2.2. One to five years if committed with the use of weapons and specially prepared weapons
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
Article 28.5. Escape from military service
1. A military serviceman is serving in a military unit or organization in order to avoid military service
left the place arbitrarily, or after the end of a business trip or vacation, or after discharge from the hospital
failure to return shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 6 months to 1 year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime :
2.1. In case of transition to a state of war or declaration of a state of emergency;
2.2. Committed by an officer or captain shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
Article 28.6. Infliction of bodily harm or evasion of military service by other means
1. A military serviceman may inflict bodily harm, become ill, or use false documents
imprisonment for a term of six months to one year for fraudulently evading military service
will be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime is committed during a state of war or when a state of emergency is declared
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 1 year.
Article 28.7. Sale of military property, ammunition, explosives,
to lose, to misappropriate
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2017 /
1. A military serviceman may transfer to others military clothing, tools, and items provided for his use
obligations to sell, trade, gift, pledge, care for, protect and use them
in case of non-compliance, the right to travel shall be restricted for a period of six months to one year, or for a period of six months
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 1 year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Weapons, firearms and explosives entrusted to a serviceman
misappropriated, lost, misappropriated, or military equipment, vehicles,
one to five years for failure to perform the duty to protect vehicles and military property
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. Two years if the crime was committed during the transition to war or the declaration of a state of emergency
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 8 years.
Article 28.8. Intentional destruction or damage of military property
1. Weapons, firearms, vehicles, vehicles, machinery and equipment
Intentional destruction or damage shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
2. If this crime was committed during a state of war or a state of emergency, more than five years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 12 years.
Article 28.9. Dealing with weapons, firearms and other devices that may endanger the environment
breaking the rules
1. Weapons, firearms, explosives and other devices and objects that may endanger the environment,
Violation of the rules for handling radioactive waste is less serious or serious damage to human health
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
2. If the victim dies as a result of this crime, imprisonment for a term of two to eight years
will be punished.
Article 28.10. Violation of the rules for driving and operating military vehicles
1. Violation of the rules for driving and using special purpose and military vehicles
Imprisonment for a period of six months to two years due to less serious damage to human health
shall be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime:
Committed under the influence of alcohol;
2.2. If the crime caused serious damage to human health or the victim died
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
Article 28.11. Violation of the rules for conducting and preparing for combat and school flights
1. Six months in case of violation of the rules for conducting and preparing for combat and school flights
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 1 year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. One to five years if the plane crashes or the victim dies as a result of this crime
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
Article 28.12. Violation of the rules of combat duty
1. A military serviceman who is responsible for the timely detection of foreign military aggression
Violation of the duty duty shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. If this crime was committed during a state of war or a state of emergency, more than two years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 8 years.
Article 28.13. Violation of internal service regulations
1. Military service serving as a day guard (in addition to a guard) of a military unit or organization
Violation of internal service regulations shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 6 months to 1 year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime is committed during a state of war or when a state of emergency is declared
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 1 year.
Article 28.14. Violation of the rules of the guard service
1. In case of violation of the rules of the guard service, orders and decrees of the governor issued in accordance with them, six
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 month to 1 year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. This crime is committed during a state of war or when a state of emergency is declared
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 1 year.
Article 28.15. Violation of border service regulations
1. Border protection law for military servicemen who are members of the Mongolian Border Guard,
Violation of the rules and regulations issued in accordance with it shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 6 months to 1 year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. If this crime was committed by a border guard officer, captain or contract military serviceman, within one year
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
3. Due to this crime, the territorial integrity of Mongolia and the inviolability of the state border shall be protected
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 2 to 8 years.
Article 28.16. Arbitrary abandonment of the battlefield and avoidance of taking up arms against the enemy
1. A serviceman who left the battlefield arbitrarily during a war, or an order of a commander
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 12 to 20 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Article 28.17. Voluntary surrender to the enemy?
1. Five to twelve years if a serviceman surrenders voluntarily to the enemy
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
2. Eight to fifteen years if the crime was committed by a senior or senior officer
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
3. The commander intentionally surrenders a military unit or organization to the enemy, on the battlefield, or
fortifications when units and formations are left unmanaged in combat or when martial law does not require them;
twelve to twenty years, when military equipment and other means were left in the hands of the enemy
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
Article 28.18. Robbery on the battlefield
1. One to five years if the property of a person killed or wounded on the battlefield is confiscated
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
Article 28.19. Illegal wearing and abuse of the Red Cross sign on the battlefield
1. Unauthorized person on the battlefield to remove the flag, emblem and flag of the Red Cross
Imprisonment for a term of six months to one year if medical vehicle paint is used
shall be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /

CHAPTER TWENTY NINE
CRIMES AGAINST HUMAN SECURITY AND PEACE
Article 29.1. Planning, preparing, inciting or inciting aggression or war
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2020 /
1. Eight to fifteen years if aggression or war was planned, prepared, or provoked.
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 01, 2020 /
2. In the event of aggression or war, for a period of twelve to twenty years, or at all.
shall be punishable by life imprisonment.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 01, 2020 /
Article 29.2. Public incitement to aggression or war
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2020 /
1. For a period of six months to one year if there is a public call for aggression or incitement to war
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 01, 2020 /
2. This crime:
Using mass media;
2.2. Committed by a politically influential person shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 5 years.
Article 29.3. Proliferation of weapons of mass destruction
/ This article was amended according to the law dated April 26, 2018 /
1. All types of chemical, biological or mass killings prohibited by international treaties to which Mongolia is a party
developed and manufactured weapons, their raw materials, items, equipment and technology,
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 5 to 12 years if accumulated, acquired or sold.
2. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities, four out of one hundred and twenty thousand units
shall be punishable by a fine equal to 100 thousand units togrogs.
Article 29.4. Use of prohibited methods and tools in war
1. Cruel treatment of prisoners of war or civilians; deportation of civilians;
looting of national property in the occupied territories; Prohibited by international treaties to which Mongolia is a party
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 8 to 15 years.
2. Twelve if Mongolia has used weapons of mass destruction prohibited by international treaties
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 1 to 20 years or for life.
Article 29.5. Destruction by type
1. Killing or killing a person for the purpose of exterminating a certain ethnic group, race, color or religion
causing serious damage to health, or forcibly terminating the birth, or transferring the child to another group
transferred, deported, or by creating different living conditions for them as a whole , or
twelve to twenty years, which led to its partial extinction or forcible disappearance
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 3 years or for life.
Article 29.6. Use of mercenaries
1. Armed conflict, armed conflict, rewarding money and property for military operations,
or not a citizen of Mongolia and not permanently residing in the territory of Mongolia during hostilities
used or trained by a person or a foreign mercenary who did not perform official duties;
for a period of five to twelve years, if funded or otherwise supported
shall be punishable by imprisonment.
2. This crime:
2.1. An official abuses his / her official functions, powers and influence;
2.2. Imprisonment for a term of twelve to twenty years if committed with the involvement of a child
will be punished.
3. Twelve to twenty years if a mercenary has been involved in an armed conflict or war
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 5 years.
Article 29.7. Assault on a person under international protection
1. Diplomats from abroad to Mongolia in order to provoke a war and intensify relations between the two countries
Embassy staff, diplomatic envoys and foreign dignitaries paid official and working visits to Mongolia
a foreign head of state, his family, acting on behalf of the state of his country in Mongolia
authorized persons to conduct operations, employees of international organizations, their offices, accommodation and transport
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 5 to 12 years.
2. In the commission of this crime, a person under international protection has been killed, taken hostage, or committed a large-scale crime
imprisonment for a term of twelve to twenty years or life imprisonment for causing damage
will be punished.
Article 29.8. Committing a terrorist act
/ The title of this article was amended by the law dated October 10, 2019 /
1. To make certain decisions by state and international organizations, to change the decisions made, decisions
firearms, explosives, nuclear materials, radioactive waste, chemicals,
biological toxic and hazardous substances, electronic networks, equipment and specially prepared weapons
intimidation of the population by using or threatening to use the item; burned, kidnapped, man,
object taken hostage, killed, caused damage to health; adversary in the context of armed conflict
twelve to twenty years for the life and physical assault of a person who has not been actively involved in any of the parties
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 3 years or for life.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated October 10, 2019 /
2. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is forcibly liquidated.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Explanation: - “Pledged object” specified in this article means a vehicle, building or population
life-sustaining and internationally protected objects.
/ The explanation of this article was added by the law in October 10, 2019 /
Article 29.9. Preparation for a terrorist act
/ The title of this article was amended by the law dated October 10, 2019 /
1. Organized criminal group established for the purpose of carrying out terrorist activities, others
recruited, recruited, trained, trained, firearms, weapons, specially trained weapons
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of 12 to 20 years.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated October 10, 2019 /
2. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is forcibly liquidated.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 11, 2017 /
Explanation: - A person who participated in the preparation of a terrorist act voluntarily disclosed his crime to the state
provided timely warning to the organization and provided practical assistance in stopping terrorist acts
if the person's actions are not of another criminal nature, he shall be released from punishment.
/ The interpretation of this article was amended by the law dated October 10, 2019 /
Article 29.10. Financing of terrorism
/ This article was amended according to the law dated October 10, 2019 /
1. Directly knowing in advance that a terrorist will be used for terrorist acts and activities
and indirectly from five to twelve years if the property has been accumulated, modified, transferred, or spent
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of up to 1 year.
2. If this crime is committed in violation of sanctions, from eight to fifteen years
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
3. Profit of a legal entity on behalf of a legal entity in violation of the sanctions for this crime
if it is done for interest, the legal entity shall be forcibly liquidated.
4. The crime specified in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be committed on behalf of a legal entity and for the benefit of a legal entity
if committed for profit, the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities for one hundred
shall be fined in the amount of twenty thousand to four hundred thousand units.
Note: - The "sanctions" referred to in this article are those of the United Nations Security Council
related to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the fight against terrorism, as approved by the Council
financial sanctions, as well as government anti-terrorism agencies
to impose financial sanctions on persons and legal entities included in the list approved on the basis of proposals
understand the implementation.
- Voluntary notification of the relevant state body about the crime specified in this article
A civil act that assists in the prevention of potential harm is not of another criminal nature
will be released from punishment. This explanation does not apply to paragraphs 2 and 3 of this article.
Article 29.11. Financing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction
/ This article was added by the law in 4/26/2018 /
1. All types of chemical, biological or mass killings prohibited by international treaties to which Mongolia is a party
development, production and accumulation of weapons, their raw materials, equipment and technology,
direct or indirect property knowing that it will be used for acquisition and sale
imprisonment for a term of five to twelve years if accumulated, changed, transferred or spent
shall be punished.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated October 10, 2019 /
2. This crime was committed on behalf of a legal entity and in the interests of a legal entity
if the legal entity is deprived of the right to conduct certain types of activities, four out of one hundred and twenty thousand units
A fine equal to one hundred thousand units shall be imposed and a legal entity shall be forcibly liquidated.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated October 10, 2019 /

CHAPTER THIRTY
OTHER
Article 30.1 Entry into force of the law
1. This law shall come into force on July 1, 2017.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated August 30, 2016 /

CHAIRMAN OF THE PARLIAMENT OF MONGOLIA

Z.ENKHBOLD

