Page 1

LAW OF MONGOLIA
December 1, 2016

Ulaanbaatar city

ON STATE AND OFFICIAL SECRETS

CHAPTER ONE
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1 The purpose of the law
1.1. The purpose of this law is to protect the state system and official secrets of Mongolia
to determine the legal basis and to regulate relations related to the confidentiality and protection of information.
Article 2. Legislation on state and official secrecy
Legislation on state and official secrecy shall be in accordance with the Constitution of Mongolia and the National Constitution
security law, this law and other legislation enacted in accordance with these laws
consists of an act.
Article 3 Scope of the law
3.1. This law shall be followed by organizations, business entities, officials and citizens of Mongolia.
3.2. This is a foreign citizen or stateless person who has become acquainted with the state and official secrets of Mongolia
is obliged to comply with the law.
3.3. Unless otherwise provided by an international treaty to which Mongolia is a party, by a foreign country or international organization
The procedure set forth in this law for the protection of transferred information related to state and official secrets
The same applies.
Article 4. Principles of classifying and classifying information as state and official secrets
4.1. To classify and classify information as state and official secrets shall be lawful, reasonable and timely
guided by the principle of being found.
Article 5 Definition of legal terminology
The following terms used in this law shall have the following meanings:
5.1.1. “State secret” means a state secret in accordance with the legislation of Mongolia;
Threats, threats and damage to national security and national interests in case of disclosure or loss
information that is under state protection;
5.1.2. In case of disclosure or loss of “official secret”, sectoral and state organizations,
information under state protection that may cause harm to the interests of other legal entities;
5.1.3. “State and official secrets carrier” means state and official secrets in the form of text, symbols, images,
material items contained in the form of signals, technical solutions and activities;
5.1.4. “Confidentiality of information” means access to information classified as state and official secrets;
or restrictive measures;
5.1.5. “Confidentiality level” means the level of confidentiality of state and official secret information
markings on the expression, secret media or accompanying documents;
5.1.6. “Right to access state and official secrets” means an official specified in this law;
Citizens have access to state and official secrets, and legal entities use state and official secrets
the right to conduct activities;
5.1.7. State and official secret protection officer (hereinafter referred to as “secret protection officer”)
to organize protection of state and official secrets in state organizations and other legal entities
an employee of the unit in charge of implementation and control, or an employee in charge of this function;
5.1.8. “Means of protection of state and official secrets” means protection of state and official secrets
technical, software, cryptographic and other tools to be used for the purpose;
5.1.9. “Protection of state and official secrets” means disclosure of state and official secrets;
legal, organizational, technical, cryptographic and
a set of other measures;
5.1.10. “Disclosure of state and official secrets” means in accordance with the grounds and procedures specified in this law
to revoke the protection of state and official secrets, the period and secrecy of secrecy;
5.1.11. “Disclosure of state and official secrets” means reporting, transmitting, showing and publishing
to reach a person who does not have the right to get acquainted with state and official secrets by publishing or other means;
5.1.12. Due to violation of the regime and procedure established as “loss of state and official secrets”
State or official secrets from the possession and use of organizations, officials and citizens temporarily or permanently
out.
Article 6. Common duty to protect state and official secrets
6.1. Government organizations and officials shall be obliged to protect state and official secrets.
6.2. State organizations, administrations and territories of Mongolia that have been acquainted with state and official secrets
Management of territorial units and other legal entities (hereinafter referred to as “government organizations and other legal entities”), state
state party, movement, non-governmental organization, official, civil servant, citizen of Mongolia, foreign country
Citizens and stateless persons shall be obliged not to disclose them.
6.3. The state organization has implemented in the field of protection and protection of state and official secrets
Information on the work shall be submitted to the intelligence service by January of each year.
6.4. Knowing that state and official secrets may be leaked or lost, as well as lost,
Any official or citizen who finds a lost carrier shall immediately notify the intelligence service
responsible for notifying.
6.5. Prevents the disclosure or loss of state and official secrets, and real security
contributed, provided information on illegal activities or other forms of intelligence, law
Procedures for rewarding legal entities and citizens who have provided assistance and support to law enforcement agencies shall be approved by the Government
place.
Article 7 Ownership of state and official secrets and transfer to foreign countries and international organizations
7.1. Mongolia is a state and official secret, except for extradition from foreign countries and international organizations
It is state property.
7.2. Government organization, other legal entity, official, citizen in charge or own
to possess, use and protect state and official secrets in accordance with the legislation.
7.3. National interests and national security owned by citizens and legal entities
that is necessary to ensure the confidentiality or damage of information and the need to keep its carrier confidential
with or without compensation on the basis of a contract concluded with the owner in consultation with the owner
can be taken over by the state.
7.4. By mutual agreement on the amount of compensation to be paid to the owner specified in 7.3 of this Article
Failure to do so will result in an evaluation by an external expert and compensation will be calculated at a confirmed price.
7.5. To take the information of citizens and legal entities specified in 7.3 of this Article and its carriers into state property
whether based on the opinion of the competent authority and the conclusion of the intelligence agency of the Government
resolve.
7.6. State secrets and official secrets of a category other than “top secret” shall be classified as foreign or international
agreements and agreements on mutual protection of confidential information concluded with the organization and the intelligence organization
can be transferred based on the proposal.
7.7. Officials of foreign countries and international organizations that have not concluded the agreements and negotiations specified in 7.6 of this Article
If it is necessary to transfer the secret, the management of the organization shall follow the relevant procedures
resolve.

CHAPTER TWO
GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATIONS AND OFFICES FOR THE PROTECTION OF STATE AND OFFICIAL SECRETS
POWER OF THE ORDER
Article 8. Powers of the State Great Hural
The State Great Hural shall exercise the following powers to protect state and official secrets:
8.1.1.Approve the state policy and legislation on protection of state and official secrets,
to monitor their implementation;
8.1.2. Programs, projects and activities aimed at protecting state and official secrets
To reflect and approve the funds to be spent for implementation in the state budget.
Article 9. Powers of the President of Mongolia
The President of Mongolia and the Chairman of the National Security Council shall exercise their powers
Within the framework of monitoring the protection of state and official secrets, the relevant government agencies in this regard
exercise the right to hear reports and information and provide guidance to the Government.
Article 10. Powers of the government
10.1. The Government shall coordinate activities to protect state and official secrets at the national level
exercise the following powers:
10.1.1. To organize the implementation of the legislation on state and official secrecy, this
to give duties and directions to relevant organizations and officials;
10.1.2. State policy, projects, programs and legal documents to protect state and official secrets
develop and implement the document;
10.1.3 approve procedures and instructions related to state and official secrets;
10.1.4. Intergovernmental agreement on mutual exchange and protection of state and official secrets
to conclude agreements and negotiations;
10.1.5. To classify information as state and official secrets, transfer and disclose secrets;
to classify, change and extend the secrecy of secrecy.
Article 11 Powers of organizations and officials
11.1. An organization or official shall have the following powers to protect state and official secrets:
Implement:
11.1.1. To protect state and official secrets within the branch or affiliated organization
to organize and ensure the implementation of the legislation on;
11.1.2. State and official secrets within the branch or affiliated organization
monitor protection;
11.1.3. It is necessary to improve methods and tools to protect state and official secrets
to submit a proposal for financing to the authorized body for inclusion in the budget;
11.1.4. A plan to protect state and official secrets in case of emergency
to develop and approve and ensure the readiness of measures to be taken at that time.
Article 12 Powers of the intelligence service
12.1. The intelligence organization shall have the following powers to protect state and official secrets
Implement:
12.1.1. To take measures to prevent the disclosure of state and official secrets;
12.1.2. Organizations and officials in charge of state and official secrets shall keep secrets
to monitor and inspect the use and protection;
12.1.3. Experiments on techniques and cryptographic tools to protect state and official secrets,
to organize analysis and verification work;
12.1.4. Organizations and officials shall organize work to protect state and official secrets
to provide professional and methodological assistance in establishing;
12.1.5. Legislation on state and official secrecy, the President of Mongolia and the Government
to cooperate with relevant organizations on the implementation of land decisions, government and official
to submit proposals to the Government on improving the protection, protection and use of secrets;
12.1.6. To classify information as state and official secrets, transfer and disclose secrets, 12.1.6.
to develop and submit to the Government proposals on the classification, alteration and extension of secrecy;
12.1.7. To establish and use a unified database of state and official secrets;
12.1.8. To conduct security inspections of officials and citizens who are acquainted with state secrets;
and to study and inspect legal entities that operate or perform work using official secrets;
12.1.9. Information to be transmitted or sent by state and official secrets, postal communication
to organize and monitor network and cipher communication nationwide and abroad;
12.1.10. Training, research and protection work to protect state and official secrets
to organize;
12.1.11. To establish an international organization for the exchange and protection of state and official secrets
to give comments and conclusions on draft agreements and negotiations.
12.2 The Government shall approve the procedure for establishing and using the database specified in 12.1.7 of this Article.

CHAPTER THREE
INFORMATION RELATED TO STATE AND OFFICIAL SECRETS
Article 13 Information classified as state secrets
13.1. State secrets shall include the following information:
13.1.1. Within the framework of state policy:
13.1.1.a. National security, foreign policy concept and mission of Mongolia
the part to be kept secret;
13.1.1.b. Session of the State Great Hural, National Security Council, Government
information classified as state secrets by this law discussed at the meeting;
13.1.1.c. Details the policy and position of Mongolia in its relations with any country
information, information obtained from foreign countries in the form of accreditation;
13.1.1.d. In the financial sector by the Government and the Central Bank with foreign countries and international organizations
cooperation and draft agreements related to debt, loans and assistance and their development
information related to the stage;
13.1.1. High-level reciprocal state visits, bilateral and multilateral talks and negotiations
detailed information about;
13.1.1.e. The Government of a foreign country on matters referred to as state secrets by this law;
on international treaties, agreements and protocols concluded with organizations, their drafts and implementation
detailed information;
13.1.1. The special circumstances of the diplomatic mission operating abroad
work plan and terms of reference when created;
13.1.1. At international conferences and forums on issues related to state secrets by this law
Directions and guidelines for participating delegates.
13.1.1.3.Industrial and very important enterprises of national defense and economy
taken from the competent authorities in case of criminal attacks, accidents, catastrophes and emergencies at the facility
the part of the information on the work and activities being implemented and related information that should be kept confidential.
13.1.2. In the field of economy, science and technology:
13.1.2. Information related to economic security policies and activities
the part to be kept secret;
13.1.2.b. about the state treasury, currency reserves and the location of the reserve fund,
information on their protection;
13.1.2.c. Scientific and technological achievements important for ensuring national security,
information on research, research work, research experiments, assembly, project work and technology;
13.1.2.d. creation, production, destruction of banknotes, supply of banknotes,
information on exchanges and withdrawals.
13.1.3. Within the framework of defense:
13.1.3.a. Information to be kept confidential on defense policy and state military mission;
13.1.3.b. The scheme of organization of the armed forces in peacetime and wartime,
Consolidation of state military organizations, unit combat time, real name, organization, structure,
integrated indicators and information determining their combat capability and combat readiness;
13.1.3.c. Strategic guidelines, readiness plans of state military organizations and their
implementation, calculation, strengthening and use of the armed forces and strategic planning documents, ready
rank, combat readiness, resettlement plan, armed attack,
information on tactics of protection against aggression;
13.1.3.d. information on combat and border protection readiness, combat orders and decrees,
information related to the equipment of the battlefield and country;
13.1.3. E. For defense and state border protection purposes and in accordance with this law
topographic maps containing confidential information;
13.1.3.e. State and military mobilization tasks, plans, reserves, reimbursement estimates, state
supply of military equipment, materials, firearms, orders and resources of military organizations
information about;
13.1.3. Census of personnel of the state military organization, conscripts and soldiers
Consolidated information on conscription and discharge, classification of military professions, imposed
human and technical sum, calculation / at the national, capital city and aimag level /;
13.1.3. Automated and covert state military organization / management and communication /
information on the structure, organization and supply of the management system;
13.1.3.3. Location of the headquarters of the state military organization, information and communication network,
information on radio frequency allocation;
13.1.3. The purpose, scope and types of measures to be taken for state and military mobilization;
Capacity, methods, integrated state mobilization plan, state central administrative body, aimag,
information on mobilization tasks and plans of the capital city;
13.1.3. To organize activities and supplies of the state border protection and inspection service
information related to the establishment;
13.1.3. Actual size, location, report and financing of state and defense resources
information about;
13.1.3. Annual, medium and long-term base of state and defense reserves
Estimates, justifications and implementation of the project are issued by the state authority
documents;
13.1.3.m. A plan to turn the country into a state of war, in case of war or war
work plan of the state organization and related information;
13.1.3. Emergency action plan, communication and warning activities
organization of operations, information on the use of infrastructure for this purpose, management shelters,
information on budget, location and capacity.
13.1.3. Confidential information related to the income and expenditure of the Armed Forces Development Fund.
/ This sub-clause was added by the law in January 29, 2021 /
13.1.4. Within the scope of intelligence, counterintelligence and law enforcement activities:
13.1.4.a. Intelligence, counterintelligence, sources of information on executive work and their cover
related information;
13.1.4.b. information on the unified statistics and special fund of the work to be performed;
13.1.4.c. The database of information and special equipment for the work to be performed and its
special technology, software, secret codes, keys, data, etc.
information on confidential media;
13.1.4. To carry out reconnaissance, counterintelligence and executive work whose personnel should be kept secret
branches of the competent authority, their facilities, location and state of the vehicle
number and information on special equipment to be performed;
13.1.4.d. materials and documents of the case investigated and being investigated by the line of enforcement,
information;
13.1.4.e. Related to the implementation of the work to be performed by the management of the authorized organization
decisions, instructions, procedures and other documents issued on the issue;
13.1.4. The main action plan, report and workplace of the executive officer
reference information;
13.1.4. E. Intelligence, counterintelligence and other authorized organizations
information on organizational structure and staffing;
13.1.4.3. The budget of the intelligence organization and other organizations authorized to carry out executive work
information on the cost of work to be performed and their performance report;
13.1.4.i. the personal file of the executive officer and the secret executive officer and their official work
related information;
13.1.4. Authorized by the intelligence organization on issues related to national security
information sent to the organization or official;
13.1.4.k.accounts, records and items of the special archives of the organization authorized to carry out executive work;
13.1.4.l. In the high readiness of the organization authorized to carry out executive work
transfer plans, combating terrorism, sabotage and organized crime
action plan, guidelines and signals to be used;
13.1.4.m. By an intelligence agency for the purpose of ensuring the national security of Mongolia
ongoing activities;
13.1.4. For the security of the organization authorized to conduct intelligence, counterintelligence and executive work
information on the organization, methods, tactics, forces, tools and plans of the work to ensure the situation;
13.1.4.o. executive work of an organization authorized to conduct intelligence, counterintelligence and executive work
information on intended weapons, special equipment, materials and technical supply and resources;
13.1.4. Cooperation established by the intelligence organization with the special services of a foreign country
information about;
13.1.4.p. Resettlement documents specified in the Law on Protection of Witnesses and Victims
The process of replacement and change of appearance shall be kept confidential by the person protected by the measure
information.
/ This sub-clause was amended according to the law dated April 24, 2020 /
13.1.5. In the field of information security and other:
13.1.5.a. Structure and organization of state special use information and communication network,
software, data encryption hardware, principles of their operation, radio waves
frequency allocation information;
13.1.5.b. Special purpose hardware and software of the state information network management center
supply;
13.1.5.c. State cryptographic communication policy, state special use information, federal and
development of cryptographic cryptography, libraries, resources, cryptographic operations, methodologies, instructions for their use,
code, key and related information;
13.1.5.d. State cipher information, cipher communication rules, instructions, registration of cipher materials;
13.1.5. Information on handing over, transferring and inspecting the state secret carrier;
13.1.5.e. Information related to state secrets, books and textbooks prepared using secret media,
works, research, research work, reports, presentations, information, conclusions, meetings, conferences, lectures, performances
work training program and lesson notes;
13.1.5. Inquiry and investigation of issues classified as state secrets by this law
documents and information to be kept confidential during interrogations, cases and disputes;
13.1.5. An official protected by the first level of special state protection by law
information on the health status of the officer;
13.1.5. Location of critical and special objects of the state, name of the allocated land, map, protection
information on organization and means;
13.1.5.i. Location map of fresh water supply source;
13.1.5. By sealing information, documents and items classified as state secrets by this law
delivery of state special and diplomatic mail, activities from sealing to consumers;
13.1.5.k. A closed meeting to discuss issues classified as state secrets by this law
notes and documents;
13.1.5. Officials, citizens and meetings and assemblies under special state protection by law,
organization and force of permanent and timely protection of measures, vehicles and other items,
organizational structure, staffing and budget of instrumental and state special protection organizations
information about;
/ This sub-clause was amended according to the law dated May 14, 2020 /
13.1.5. Procedures for covering critical and special state objects and activities.
13.2. Government organizations and other legal entities shall establish branches, within the list specified in 13.1 of this Article.
Develop a list of information related to state secrets to be kept secret within the organization and intelligence
The proposal of the organization shall be approved by the Government.
13.3. To keep the information confidential in the list of information to be kept confidential at the branch and organization level
The duration and degree of secrecy.
Article 14 Information related to official secrets
14.1. The list of information related to official secrecy shall be developed by the responsible organization and issues
Approved by the decision of the member of the Government in charge and the head of the organization.
14.2. The opinion of the intelligence organization shall be taken into account when approving the list specified in 14.1 of this Article.

CHAPTER FOUR
CONFIDENTIAL AND DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION
Article 15 Confidentiality of information
15.1. Law on classifying information as a state or official secret
shall be implemented by relevant organizations and officials from the date of entry into force.
15.2. By strengthening the information by placing classifications and other markings specified in this law
Confidential.
15.3 The Government shall take measures to cover objects and certain activities in secret
shall be implemented in accordance with the approved procedures.
15.4. Information prepared or received by an organization or official shall be in accordance with Article 13.2.
If it is not included in the list specified in 14.1 but needs to be kept secret, the organization or official
take measures to maintain confidentiality and immediately submit a proposal for inclusion in the list of confidential information to management
will be introduced.
15.5. The official who received the proposal specified in 15.4 of this Article shall analyze the information and
whether to amend the list or to refuse to keep it confidential
will be decided according to.
Article 16 Rating of information related to state and official secrets and its criteria
16.1. In case of disclosure or loss, Mongolia's national security, interests,
to be classified as state or official secrets depending on the amount of threat, threat and damage to organizations and citizens
The information has the following categories:
16.1.1. Critical secrets;
Top secret;
16.1.3.secret.
16.2. Information related to state secrets, “top secret”, “top secret”, information related to official secrets
Has a "secret" rating.
16.3. Classification of information related to state and official secrets other than those specified in this law
Do not use.
16.4. In case of disclosure or loss, the independence, sovereignty and territory of Mongolia
It poses a threat to the integrity of the territory and has serious consequences for national interests
Information that poses a threat to human life shall be classified as “top secret”.
16.5. In case of disclosure or loss, there are serious consequences for the national interests of Mongolia
Information on the weakening of defense capabilities is classified as "top secret".
16.6. In case of disclosure or loss, the branch or state organization shall be responsible for other legal entities
conditions for harming interests and activities, or disclosure of information related to state secrets
The information to be generated will be classified as “confidential”.
16.7 The Government shall approve the procedure for classifying state and official secrets.
Article 17 Information confidentiality period
State and official secrets other than those specified in Articles 17.4 and 17.5 of this Article shall be kept confidential for the following periods:
17.1.1. Information classified as “top secret” - 30 years;
17.1.2. Information classified as “top secret” - 20 years;
17.1.3. Information classified as “confidential” - 10 years.
17.2. The period of confidentiality of information shall be marked with a seal or other mark
calculated from the date of consolidation.
17.3. In case of changing the state secret rating, it shall be calculated for the period of the changed secret.
17.4. Secret executive officer of the organization authorized to conduct intelligence, counterintelligence and executive work,
a person who has secretly collaborated with or is cooperating with these organizations, a Witness,
Regularly keep confidential information about the person protected under the Law on Victim Protection
Confidential.

17.5. It is not possible to set a time limit for information related to state and official secrets and certain actions
The period of secrecy shall be calculated in accordance with the circumstances, if it is discovered or disclosed as an event.
17.6. Information related to state and official secrets shall be national security and national interest
is responsible for maintaining confidentiality in the event of further confidentiality
The organization or official shall, based on the proposal of the intelligence agency, specified in Article 17.1
will be kept secret for a period of time.
17.7. Confidentiality of information related to state and official secrets has expired, but the information is confidential
The information will be kept confidential until a decision is made on whether to disclose it.
17.8. Confidentiality of a foreign country or international organization, unless otherwise provided by an international treaty to which Mongolia is a party
The time limits specified in this law shall apply to the information.
Article 18 Markings for state and official secrets
18.1. Measures to keep information confidential shall be marked on appropriate documents and other confidential media
Implemented by strengthening:
18.1.1. Degree of secrecy;
Registration number;
18.1.3. The date and time of confidentiality of the information;
18.1.4. Position of the official who kept the information confidential, name, patronymic and signature of the parent.
18.2. Confidentiality seal shall be marked in the document by clicking in the upper right corner of each page and
Each page is numbered. If the document consists of several copies, the first of each copy
The page shall indicate its number along with the total number of pages in the document.
18.3. Documents and other items containing information of different classifications specified in 17.1 of this Law
All will be marked with the highest level of secrecy.
18.4. In case it is not possible to put a secret seal on state and official secret media
The seal of secrecy shall be affixed to its accompanying documents and physical objects on the outside of it.
18.5. Confidentiality seal shall be used on information carriers that are not classified as state or official secrets
prohibited.
Article 19 Grounds and procedures for disclosure of state and official secrets
19.1. State and official secrets shall be disclosed on the following grounds:
19.1.1. The confidentiality period has expired;
19.1.2. It is classified as a state or official secret due to a change in circumstances
the information no longer needs to be kept confidential;
19.1.3. A law has been approved to make the information not a state or official secret
entered into force;
19.1.4. It was established that the information was classified without grounds.
State and official secrets shall be disclosed in accordance with the procedures set forth in Article 19.6 of this Article.
19.3. Confidentiality of information related to state and official secrets on the grounds specified in 19.1.2 of this Article
The Government shall decide on the basis of the proposal of the intelligence agency whether to disclose it before the expiration of the term.
19.4. If the period of confidentiality of information has not been extended in accordance with this Law, upon expiration of the established period
The information shall be confidential or disclosed by the responsible government organization or official in accordance with relevant procedures.
19.5. Historical, scientific, research, practical and reference information disclosed in accordance with this law
Insignificant data carriers shall be destroyed in accordance with appropriate procedures.
The Government shall approve the procedure for disclosure of state and official secrets.

CHAPTER FIVE
GET TO KNOW GOVERNMENT AND OFFICIAL SECRETS
Article 20 Conditions for access to state and official secrets
20.1. It is safe to get acquainted with state secrets and positions other than those specified in Article 21 of this Law
Based on the results of the state inspection, a citizen authorized to get acquainted with a certain level of secrecy shall be employed.
20.2. State secrets related to inspection, inspection and implementation of certain works and duties
The requirements set forth in Article 20.1 of this Article shall also apply to citizens and officials to be acquainted.
20.3. Government organizations and other legal entities shall be involved in work and positions to get acquainted with official secrets
by the decision of the management, an official authorized to access the secret shall be employed, and they shall:
ensure that confidentiality is not disclosed immediately after election or appointment.
20.4. Management of state organizations and other legal entities shall be the responsibility of the state organization in charge of that organization
The list of secret officials shall be approved by the intelligence agency.
Article 21 Special conditions for access to state and official secrets
21.1. The President of Mongolia, the Speaker of the State Great Hural and the Prime Minister, unless prohibited by law
Get acquainted with state and official secrets regardless of rank.
21.2. If it is not prohibited by law, it shall be discussed by a member of the State Great Hural and the Government
to get acquainted with state and official secrets regardless of their rank.
21.3. The State Great Hural for the purpose of inspecting issues related to state and official secrets
a member of the working group established or a person specially authorized for this purpose to investigate the matter
regardless of state or official secrecy, except as prohibited by law
get acquainted.
21.4. To be connected to the source of information to be performed and to be included in the unified inventory
Special information of the State Great Hural with the consent of the State Great Hural only within the scope of the issues under investigation
The chairman and members of the control subcommittee shall get acquainted and other persons shall not be allowed to get acquainted.
21.5. Members of the Constitutional Tsets, judges, prosecutors and investigators shall investigate and decide only
to get acquainted with state and official secrets related to certain cases and disputes in accordance with the procedures established by law.
21.6. The official specified in Articles 21.1-21.5 of this Article, the Governor of the Bank of Mongolia and the State Great Hural
The head of the established organization, the head of the agency and the governor of all levels are subject to security inspections
and not to divulge state or official secrets.
Article 22 Granting access to state secrets
The right to get acquainted with state secrets shall be granted to citizens who meet the following requirements:
22.1.1. To conduct security inspections in connection with granting access to state secrets
self-written consent;
22.1.2. Has passed and passed the security inspection of the authorized organization;
22.1.3. A written guarantee not to divulge state secrets has been issued.
Article 23 The right to access state and official secrets
The right to get acquainted with state and official secrets depends on the degree of the secret
and the protection of state and official secrets of relations related to its issuance
regulated by the procedure.
Article 24 Grounds for refusing to grant the right to access state secrets to officials and citizens
24.1. Officials and citizens shall be denied the right to access state secrets on the following grounds:
24.1.1. The requirements and conditions for getting acquainted with state secrets have not been met;
24.1.2. A guarantee to participate in security inspections and protect state and official secrets
refusal to provide in writing;
24.1.3. Information about himself / herself and other relevant information during the security inspection
not introduced or falsely reported;
24.1.4. Repeatedly or seriously violated the procedure for protection of state and official secrets;
24.1.5. Has committed a crime intentionally and has been held criminally liable, or in a criminal case
being checked;
24.1.6. Submitted a request to renounce Mongolian citizenship;
24.1.7. Has been diagnosed with a mental illness;
24.1.8. Depends on narcotic and psychotropic substances and alcohol.
Article 25 Suspension or revocation of the right to access state and official secrets
25.1. Procedure for protection of state and official secrets of a person suspected or accused of a crime or 25.1.
If the violation is investigated, the court decision will come into force or the official inspection
The right of officials and citizens to access state and official secrets of intelligence until the results are released
The organization may suspend.
25.2. The right of an official or citizen to get acquainted with state and official secrets shall be deprived of his / her job or position
released, dismissed, the circumstances specified in Article 24 of this law are revealed, the contract for performance of work
The procedures and obligations for the protection of state and official secrets, which have expired, are repeated and
In the event of a serious violation, the intelligence agency shall revoke it.
Article 26 Conduct security inspections
26.1. State secrets of state organizations and legal entities other than those specified in Articles 21.6 and 26.3 of this Law
The intelligence agency shall conduct security inspections of the officials and citizens to be acquainted.
26.2 The head of the intelligence organization shall follow the procedure for conducting the security inspection specified in 26.1 of this Article
batalna.
26.3. To be selected for the position of an employee of an organization authorized to carry out executive work
Citizens shall be examined and examined in accordance with the relevant legislation.
Article 27 Duties of officials and citizens
27.1. Officials and citizens authorized to get acquainted with state and official secrets shall have the following common duties
Wait:
27.1.1. To comply with the legislation on protection of state and official secrets;
27.1.2. State and official secrets that he / she got acquainted with and learned in the course of performing his / her duties
shall not be disclosed during the period of protection, employment, dismissal or dismissal until disclosure
to be;
27.1.3. Measures to prevent disclosure or loss of state and official secrets
to take;
27.1.4. Confidentiality or secrecy situation has arisen, or lost, decomposed, secret protection
to immediately notify the secret protection officer in case of violation of the rules;
27.1.5. Transfer to another job or position where official and labor relations have been terminated
to properly hand over the state and official secret media entrusted to him / her in the case of
to issue a written guarantee not to divulge state and official secrets that he / she has become acquainted with in terms of official duties;
27.1.6. Unless otherwise provided by law, to the organization in case of travel abroad for personal reasons
advance written notice.
Article 28 Duties of employees to protect state and official secrets
A state and official secrecy officer shall have the responsibilities specified in Article 27 of this law
In addition to its responsibilities, it has the following responsibilities:
28.1.1. To ensure the implementation of the legislation on protection of state and official secrets, secret service
to organize and implement record keeping;
28.1.2. To use and protect state and official secrets by officials and employees
to provide professional and methodological assistance;
28.1.3. Preservation and protection of state and official secrets within the branch and affiliated organization
to monitor and organize inspections and censuses;
28.1.4. Confidentiality from the official or citizen authorized to get acquainted with state and official secrets
to obtain a guarantee of protection;
28.1.5. If he / she has established informal relations with a foreign citizen or organization, the intelligence service shall notify him / her
notify the organization;
28.1.6. On the movement of officials authorized to inspect state secrets
to notify the intelligence service;
28.1.7. Official inspection in case of violation of regulations on protection of state and official secrets
Carry out the results to the management of the organization and, if necessary, present them to the intelligence service, to identify violations and shortcomings
to take immediate remedial measures;
28.1.8. In case of disclosure or loss of state or official secrets, immediately the management of the organization and
notify the intelligence service.
Article 29 Legal and economic guarantees for security guards
29.1. Government organizations and other legal entities shall have the right to release a security guard, other work or office
The transfer shall be subject to the consent of the intelligence service.
29.2. Taking into account the degree of secrecy and the period of secrecy in dealing with the security guard
Salary increments shall be paid in accordance with government regulations.

CHAPTER SIX
PROTECTION OF STATE AND OFFICIAL SECRETS
Article 30 Organization of work to protect state and official secrets
30.1 The Government shall coordinate activities to protect state and official secrets of Mongolia
handles.
30.2. Intelligence organization shall protect state and official secrets within the scope of its authority
Implement operations and protect state and official secrets of intelligence agencies nationwide
has a structural unit to organize, implement, monitor and provide professional and methodological guidance
is.
30.3. Organize work to protect state and official secrets from government organizations and other legal entities
Their management shall be responsible for establishing the establishment.
30.4. The scope of work of state organizations and other legal entities related to state and official secrets
units for protection of state and official secrets, which are directly subordinated to their management depending on their scope and workload;
or have an employee.
30.5. The functions and legal status of the unit for protection of state and official secrets shall be determined by the state and official
the general rules of confidentiality and the internal rules of the organization approved in accordance with its specifics
procedure.
30.6. Activities to protect state and official secrets have been carried out in accordance with this law and law
legal, organizational, technical and other methods in accordance with other legislative acts
will be implemented with the help of
Article 31 Creation, processing, storage and use of state and official secrets and their carriers,
transfer, register, transport, send, destroy
31.1. Creation, processing, storage, use and transfer of state and official secrets and their carriers;
transfer, transportation, dispatch, registration, destruction, integrity and other related matters
activities in accordance with this law and general regulations on protection of state and official secrets approved by the Government
shall be implemented in accordance with
31.2. Government organizations and other legal entities in connection with the specifics of their activities
state and official secrets to be followed internally in accordance with the general procedure set forth in Article 31.1
protection procedures may be established.
31.3. Sending and receiving state secrets to Mongolian organizations and officials abroad
A special courier can be used to deliver it in person.
31.4 Delivery and receipt of special mail to Mongolian organizations and officials abroad
Member of the Government in charge of foreign affairs and the Armed Forces
By a special order approved by a joint order of the Chief of General Staff and the Chief of Intelligence
Page 2
handles.
Article 32 Transfer of state and official secrets to state organizations and other legal entities
Authorized state organizations and other legal entities in charge of state and official secrets
State and official secrets shall be transferred to other state organizations and legal entities by the decision of the management
transferred according to.
32.2. To take or use state and official secrets as specified in 32.1 of this Article
state organizations and other legal entities in accordance with this law and other legislation enacted in conformity therewith
The conditions and requirements for the protection of the specified secrets shall be met.
Article 33 Transfer of state and official secrets in connection with the performance of work
33.1. Work by the decision of the management of the organization in charge of state and official secrets
only the amount required for a legal entity or individual to perform the work in connection with the execution of the work,
within the limits of which may be transferred in accordance with the general rules for the protection of state and official secrets.
33.2. A legal entity that transfers secrets in accordance with Article 33.1 of this Law shall comply with this law and its provisions
a citizen who meets the conditions and requirements for protection of secrecy specified in other legislation issued in accordance with it
have access to state and official secrets.
33.3. The contractor shall be obliged to protect state and official secrets while performing the work
In case of non-compliance or insufficient compliance, the procuring entity shall submit to the state and the public until the violation is remedied
take measures to stop the use of official secrets and to withdraw state and official secrets.
Article 34 State and official secret techniques and cryptographic protection
34.1. State and official technical and cryptographic measures to protect state and official secrets
in accordance with the general rules for the protection of secrecy.
34.2. Techniques and cryptographic means for protection of state and official secrets shall protect information
ensure that the appropriate requirements are met.
34.3 The Government shall decide on the use of cryptographic means to protect state and official secrets
shall be regulated by the approved state code of cipher relations.
Article 35 In case of change of legal status of government organizations and other legal entities
protection of state and official secrets
35.1. State organizations and other legal entities shall be reorganized, liquidated, or state and
If the work related to the use of official secrets has been completed, the organization or legal entity shall have it
to take measures to protect state and official secret media.
35.2. In case specified in 35.1 of this Article, the organization or legal entity shall have state and official secrets
take measures to destroy the carrier in accordance with the established procedures or transfer it to the following organizations:
35.2.1. To transfer to the successor of the state organization or other legal entity;
35.2.2. To transfer to the state organization in charge of the secret and other legal entities;
35.2.3. To transfer to the National Central Archive.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated April 24, 2020 /
35.3. Measures to destroy or transfer state and official secret media specified in 35.2 of this Article
The intelligence agency shall monitor the acquisition.
Article 36 Protect state and official secrets in resolving cases and disputes
36.1. State and official secrets in reviewing and resolving civil, criminal and administrative cases and disputes
protection shall be regulated in accordance with this law and other relevant legislation.
Article 37 Funding for the protection of state and official secrets
37.1. Protection of state and official secrets of organizations financed from the state and local budgets
Operations shall be financed from the relevant budget and other organizations and legal entities from their own funds.
Article 38 Control over protection of state and official secrets
38.1. Management of state organizations and other legal entities, their secret protection units and employees
Supervise the protection of state and official secrets within its affiliated branches and organizations.
38.2. The procuring entity shall perform work related to the performance of the work
shall be responsible for overseeing the protection of state and official secrets transferred to the Contractor.
38.3 Intelligence organizations shall be state-owned regardless of their form of ownership and jurisdiction
Inspect the protection of state and official secrets of organizations and other legal entities,
to give a timely obligation to eliminate the shortcomings and ensure its fulfillment.
38.4. An official request issued as a result of an inspection by an intelligence organization shall be submitted to the organization or office
The officer is obliged to comply and respond.
38.5 The Government shall approve the procedure for organizing and conducting inspections specified in 38.3 of this Article.

CHAPTER SEVEN
OTHER THINGS
Article 39 Liability for violators of state and official secrecy legislation
39.1. Legislation related to the person who violated the legislation on state and official secrecy
shall be subject to criminal, violation and disciplinary liability in accordance with
39.2. Criminal actions shall be taken against an official who violates the legislation on state and official secrecy
If not liable, the intelligence agency shall be liable for the following:
to make proposals to higher level organizations and officials for resolution:
39.2.1. An official who has not fulfilled his / her obligations specified in Articles 6.2, 6.3, 15.1 and Articles 27 and 28 of this Law
to reduce the salary of an official by up to 20 percent for a period of up to three months;
39.2.2. Repeatedly fulfill the obligations specified in Articles 6.2, 6.3, 15.1 and Articles 27 and 28 of this Law
to demote an official who has not fulfilled his / her duties as specified in Article 38.4
dismissal from office or dismissal from public service.
39.3. The higher level organization and official shall report to the relevant official this law
The responsibility specified in Article 39.2 shall be imposed and the intelligence agency shall be notified within 14 days.
39.4. Failure to comply with Article 39.2 of this Law or unreasonable refusal to comply
to appoint and dismiss the intelligence agency with a proposal to hold the official accountable
to the competent authority or official for resolution.
39.5. Requirements and decisions made by the intelligence organization within the scope of its powers specified in this law
The receiving organization, official or citizen shall take appropriate measures and notify in response
responsible for.
39.6. Liability specified in the Law on Violations for a person or legal entity that violated Article 39.5 of this Law
will wait.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
39.7. A fine shall be imposed on a violator of the Law on State and Official Secrecy
elimination and compensation for damage caused to others as a result of the violation shall not be grounds for release from liability.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 40 Entry into force of the law
40.1. This law shall enter into force on September 1, 2017.

CHAIRMAN OF THE PARLIAMENT OF MONGOLIA

M.ENKHBOLD

