GENERAL LAW


ABOUT EDUCATION AND UPBRINGING


(Published in " Sl. RCG list", no. 64 of 28. November 2002, 31/05, 49/07, " fig. list of montenegro", br. 4 of 17. januara 2008, 21/09, 45/10, 40/11, 45/11, 36/13, 39/13, 44/13)


AND THE MAIN PROVISIONS
Content of the Law


Member 1
This Law regulates the organizations and conditions for conducting educational and educational work in the following areas: pre-school education and education, primary education and education, general secondary education, vocational education, education and education of persons with special needs, and adult education.




Member 2
Education and upbringing are aimed at ensuring that: 1) provide the opportunity for universal human development, regardless of gender, age of life, social and cultural origin, national and religious affiliation and physical and psychological constitution; 2) meet the needs, interests, desires and ambitions of a person for lifelong learning; 3) ensure the achievement of an international comparative level of knowledge, skills and competence; 4) develop awareness, need and ability to preserve and improve human rights, legal states, natural and social multiethicity and diversity; 5) develops awareness of the nationality of Montenegro and its culture, traditions and history; 6) allows the individual in accordance with his own capabilities, to enable and to participate in all levels of work and activities; 7) develop awareness of national identity, culture, history, and tradition; 8) contributes to the achievement of the strategic objectives of Montenegro.
Education and upbringing


Member 3
Education and upbringing are carried out in a preschool institution, a school, a training center, a resource center, organizers of adult education and in a student's home (hereinafter: the institution), in accordance with this law, as well as in accordance with the conditions provided for by a special law. The institution from position 1 of this member is founded as a public institution or a private institution.
Public interest


Member 4
Education and upbringing is an activity of public interest.
Public education


Member 5
In a public institution and in an institution where a concession has been assigned to carry out a well-known educational program, Education and upbringing are of a Mundane nature. Religious activities are not allowed in an institution under regulation 1 of this member, except for institutions licensed as higher religious schools.
Member 5a
Secondary religious schools that perform public educational programs have the status of a secondary school. Public documents (diplomas) issued by institutions from position 1 of this member are publicly available and are recognized in continuing education.




Member 6
The institution is autonomous in carrying out its activities in accordance with the law. Political (party) organization, activity and use of the space of the institution for these purposes are not allowed in the institution.
Unprofitability


Member 7
The activities of the state institution are non-commercial.
Availability


Member 8
The location of institutions on the territory of the Republic provides citizens with equal access to education and upbringing.
Equality


Member 9
Montenegrin citizens are equal in the exercise of their rights to education, regardless of nationality, race, gender, language, religion, social origin or other personal property. Foreign citizens who have temporary residence or permanent residence in Montenegro are equal in the exercise of their rights to education with Montenegrin citizens in accordance with special legislation.




Member 9a
The institution does not allow: physical, psychological and social violence; abuse and neglect of children and students; physical punishment and personal insult, namely sexual abuse of children and students or employees, and any other form of discrimination from the point of view of the law.
School mediation


Member 9b
In the process of resolving conflicts between children, students, parents and employees of the institution, intermediaries can participate in accordance with the law.
Conducting educational work


Member 10
Educational and educational work in the institution is carried out by: teachers, educators, professional associates, teaching associates and other performers of educational and educational work in accordance with the law (hereinafter-teachers).
Using the language


Member 11
Classes at the institution are conducted in the official Montenegrin language. Education at the institution is also conducted in languages in official use : - bearing in mind the same linguistic basis - in Serbian; - respecting the rights of minorities - in Bosnian, Albanian and Croatian; the public administration body responsible for education directs a more closely prescribed unique learning process. Classes for persons using sign language, i.e. special writing or other technical solutions, are performed in sign language and using the means of this language.
Teaching in a foreign language


Member 12
Classes at the institution may also be conducted in a foreign language for educational programs for which the institution is licensed, according to the approval of the state administration body responsible for education affairs (hereinafter referred to as the Ministry).
Textbooks


Member 13
In an institution that implements public educational programs, textbooks and teaching aids are used, which are provided in accordance with this Law. Private institutions are required to use textbooks from position 1 of this member, only for compulsory subjects established by the educational program, that is, by law.
The process of obtaining, evaluation, approval and preparation of textbooks and teaching aids has been performed in accordance with the regulations of the Ministry.
Public document


Article 14
An institution that generates public valid educational programs issued by a public document, in accordance with this law.
Health care


Article 15
The institution is collaborating with health care providers in delivering health care of children, or students, especially at the implementation of the compulsory medical examination, regular systematic health examination and vaccine regimen.
Disposal of assets


Article 15a
(Ceased to be valid).
Supervision


Article 16
Supervision over the implementation of the provisions of this law, the Ministry shall perform, in accordance with the law. Inspection of the work of the institution is conducted in charge prosvjetna inspection.
Providing and improving the quality of


Article 17
Providing and improving the quality of the educational-vaspitnog work performed institutions (samoevaluacija) each year in certain areas, and every two years as a whole. Providing and improving the quality of the educational-vaspitnog work of the institution, at least every four years, does the Center for professional education (hereinafter: the Center) and the Institute for education (evaluation). Methodology for providing and improving the quality of the educational-vaspitnog work in the facility (samoevaluacija and evaluation) provides for the Ministry, at the proposal of the Institute for education and the Center.
Glossary


Article 18
Some terms in this law shall have the meaning: 1) "preschool" are: kindergarten, nursery and other institutions of preschool education, which are organized in accordance with a special law; 2) "school" means an elementary school, high schools, vocational schools and schools for adult education; 3) "the school for art education" means a school in which to achieve primary or secondary art education; 4) the "higher professional school" means a school in which generates more vocational education; 5) "education center" is a facility which generates a variety of educational programs from the higher level of education; 6) the "resource centre" is an institution which exercises the upbringing and education of children with special needs (disabilities); 7) "home students" is a facility that provides shelter, nutrition and education of students; 8) "network of institutions" is an act of the Government Of Montenegro (hereinafter: the Government) which defines a species, the activity and the schedule of public institutions; 9) "teaching years" is a period in which generates regular classes; 10) "school year" is a period in which generates regular classes and other forms of educational-vaspitnog work; 11) "educational program" is a program on the basis of which achieved education and learning and whose ending is acquired level of education and professional qualifications, in accordance with the law; 12) "public applicable educational program" is an educational program that brings or approved by the competent authority; 13) "student" is a person who acquires education in school; 14) "trainee" is a grown-up person who acquires education at the organisers of education; 15) "social partners" the chamber of Economy Of Montenegro, association of employers and trade unions; 16) "katalogom knowledge of the case" to determine the objectives, content and learning outcomes of the teaching cases; 17) "test catalogs" is defined standards of knowledge, i.e. learning outcomes that are checked and assessed on the exams at the end of level of education(practical, final, prom, senior, and graduate), i.e., to check the knowledge of students of the elementary school at the end of the educational cycle, benchmarks and criteria checks and other issues; 18) "standard knowledge of students, i.e. students" is the level of knowledge, skill and but to develop that need to possess a student or a trainee from a certain of a subject, area or module.
The use of gender-sensitive language


Article 18a
All terms in this law, the uses for natural persons in the masculine gender include the same words in the feminine gender.
II EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS
Educational programs


Article 19
Education and learning is realized on the basis of the educational program (curriculum).
Public the importance of the educational program


Article 20
The education program became the public valid when it is passed, i.e., approved by the Ministry.
The content of the educational program


Article 21
The educational program consists of general and special part. The general part includes: 1) the name of the program; 2) the name of the level of education; 3) curriculum (courses and modules, and their representation and the schedule, the classes and number of credits for individual courses and modules, and the total number of hours for all forms of teaching); 4) goals of the educational program; 5) the conditions for admission, or participation in the program; 6) duration of education (including credit valuation); 7) the required ways of checking and grading students; 8) conditions for the progress and completion of education; 9) the level of education or professional qualifications, which is gained; 10) the conditions for the completion of certain parts of the programme, i.e. the modules of the program. The special part of it includes: 1) the subject programs, or the catalogs of knowledge objects (with the objectives of the courses, content and standards of the skills and learning outcomes, dividing the department into groups, teaching aids, framework list literature material conditions for teaching, connection objects); 2) an examination catalogs; 3) the manner of adjustment of the program students with special educational needs; 4) the manner of adjustment of the program for adult education; 5) the manner of presentation of educational programs (for programmes in vocational education in special part contains the scope and contents of practical education which is implemented by an employer); 6) other issues of importance for the implementation of the educational program.
Making public of the educational program


Article 22
Public applicable educational program adopted by the Ministry, at the proposal of the National council for education (hereinafter: National council). The general part of the public of the educational program defines the Ministry, at the proposal of the National council. The special part of the public of the educational programme for pre-school upbringing and education, primary education and education, general secondary education, vocational education, adult education and vaspitni work in the homes of the students determined by the National council. The ministry can't change the special part of the public of the educational program to be determined by the National council. The ministry can go back to the National council established a special part of the public of the educational program on re-consideration and determination.
The adoption of educational programs at private institutions


Article 23
The content and process of education program at a private institution is determined in the act on the establishment of the institution. The education program referred to in paragraph 1 of this article becomes publicly valid program when the National council determined that corresponds to the public at the program for the respective area of education and learning. The benchmarks for determining the punovažnosti and equal to the value of the educational program of a private institution with a public the applicable educational program brings National council, at the proposal of the Institute for education, i.e. the Center.
Admit educational programs


Article 24
Educational program that takes the private institutions, according to the special pedagogical principles, gets public importance when the National council determined that is recognized by the appropriate international organizations and to provide the minimum knowledge that enable the successful completion of education.
Publishing program


Article 25
The ministry publishes a public valid educational programs, as a rule, three months before the beginning of their application. Facilities in which to implement the programmes referred to in paragraph 1 of this article shall publish information about the educational programs with explanations and instructions for application.
Experimental verification


Article 26
New public current education programs and new textbooks, before the application of the rule to experimental testing (pilot program). The ministry, at the proposal of the Institute for education and the Center determines an institution which takes the experimental program. The institutions referred to in paragraph 2 of this article may deviate from the established organization of educational-vaspitnog of work, ways of assessment, the department and secondly, upon the approval of the Ministry.
Contractors


Member 27
Pre-school education and education are provided by pre-school institutions in accordance with the law. Primary education and education are provided in primary schools in accordance with the law. Pre-school education and primary education and upbringing may be conducted at home in accordance with the law. Art education is provided by schools of primary and secondary art education in accordance with the law. General secondary education is provided by gymnasiums in accordance with the law. Vocational education is provided by vocational schools or vocational schools together with the employer in accordance with the law. More vocational education is provided by several vocational schools in accordance with the law. A vocational school may also provide general secondary education (mixed school). In the training center, you can run several different educational programs from several levels of education. The education of children with special educational needs is carried out by preschool institutions, schools and resource centers in accordance with the law. Adult education is provided by schools and other educational organizations in accordance with the law. Accommodation, meals and education of students who receive education outside of their place of residence are provided by student dormitories.
III NATIONAL COUNCIL
Hint


Member 28
(Brisan)
Establishment of the National Council


Member 29
The National Council is established by the Government to address professional issues and provide professional assistance in the decision-making process and the preparation of rules in the field of education and upbringing. The National Council is elected for four years. The National Council takes decisions by a majority vote of the total number of members. Funds for the work of the National Council are provided from the budget of Montenegro. Members of the National Council are entitled to compensation for their work in accordance with the establishment decision. The Constitution of the National Council defines the closer composition, the number of members, the mode of work and decision-making, and other matters of importance to
the work of the Council.


Member 30
The National Council establishes permanent and temporary working bodies to deal with issues of its jurisdiction. The permanent working bodies are: 1) committee on general education; 2) committee on vocational education; 3) committee on adult education. Temporary working bodies are: commissions, expert groups and other working bodies. Administrative and technical tasks for the needs of the National Council are carried out by the Department of Education. Exclusively from the relation 4 of this member, administrative and technical work related to vocational and adult education for the purposes of the National Council, carried out by the center. The Act for the formation of working bodies from St. Louis. 2 and 3 of this member define the tasks and tasks, the composition and the way they work.
Work Manager


Member 31
The organization and working methods of the National Council are more closely linked to the Labour Office.




Member 31a
The members of the National Council propose: 1) one third-the ministry and educational institution of a number of teachers in the field of preschool education and education, primary education and upbringing, secondary general and vocational education, adult education, the home of students and students and representatives of minorities and other minorities of national communities; 2) one third-a higher educational institution for the education of teachers from a number of teachers with academic professions and researchers; 3) one third-the representative association of employers, the center, the Employment Office of Montenegro, the representative Union of educational workers, the professional professional association of teachers and the Student Parliament.
The competence of the National Council


Member 31b
National Council: 1) brings: - educational program for teaching children with special educational needs; - educational program for students ' homes; - individual educational programs for adult education; - test catalogs for testing national professional qualifications ; - standards for the preparation of textbooks for preschool education and education, basic education and upbringing, secondary general and vocational education, and for children with special educational needs ; - professional training and training program for directors of institutions; - the program of work of professional assistants; - instructions for creating an educational program; - instructions for adapting an educational program to achieve the level of adult education; 2) establishes: - a special section of the educational program for preschool education and education, primary education and education, and secondary general and professional education; - an equally valuable educational standard in educational fields (professions) and in the educational programs of educational organizers; - the completeness and equal value of the educational programs of private institutions in the field of preschool education and education, primary education and upbringing, secondary general and vocational education and adult education with the corresponding state-operated educational programs; 3) offers: - the general part of the educational program for basic education and upbringing and secondary general and vocational education; - special training programs, retraining, pre-qualification, training and specialization of persons employed and unemployed; - standards of school space, textbooks and equipment for the work of institutions that implement pre-school education and education, primary education and upbringing, and secondary general and vocational education; - the profile of the level of education for teachers of primary education and upbringing; - the list of mandatory electives for primary school and gymnasium; 4) approves: - textbooks and teaching aids for preschool education and education, primary education and upbringing, secondary and vocational education and for children with special educational needs; 5) gives an opinion on: - general issues of education and upbringing; - compliance with the standards of qualification and the educational program; - the compatibility of the educational system with the educational systems in developed democratic countries; - the state and development of education and upbringing; 6) gives instructions on the implementation of individual educational programs; 7) performs other tasks in accordance with the law and the act on the establishment of the National Council.
Composition of councils for general education


Member 32. to 37.
(Deleted).
IV EXTERNAL DEFINITION AND QUALITY ASSURANCE
Institute of Education


Member 38
The Institute of Education establishes and ensures the quality of educational and educational work in institutions and performs developmental, advisory, research and professional work in the field of: preschool education and education, basic education and upbringing, secondary general education, general education in the field of vocational education, education and upbringing of children with special needs and upbringing in the homes of students. The Institute of Education is the governing body.
Professional Education Center


Member 39
The development, advisory, research, professional work and the definition and quality assurance of educational and educational work in the field of vocational education and adult education is carried out by the Center. The center from position 1 of this member, as a public institution, is based on the government. The Act on the establishment of the Center regulates: the bodies of the Center, jurisdiction, composition, mandate and other issues relevant to the work of the Center.




Member 40
Institute of Education in the field of Preschool Education and Education, Primary Education and Upbringing, Secondary General Education, General Education in the field of vocational education, Education and Upbringing of Children with Special Needs and Upbringing in Students ' Homes: 1) in cooperation with the institution, establishes the quality of implementation of standards of educational and educational work in institutions; 2) in cooperation with the institution, works to improve educational and educational work in institutions; 3) performs professional tasks for monitoring, analyzing and developing the educational system; 4) prepares professional tasks on issues decided by the National Council and the Ministry; 5) prepares educational and pedagogical standards of textbooks and manuals for secondary general education and for general educational institutions in the field of vocational education; 6) performs professional tasks in the preparation of: educational programs, catalogs and standards of knowledge, normative and standards of educational resources and equipment; 7) conducts research; 8) conducts advisory work; 9) organizes professional training of teachers and training of directors; 10) propose measures for the development of individual levels of education, new educational technologies and their application; 11) monitor experiments; 12) perform other tasks in accordance with the law and the law on the establishment of the bureau. The content, forms and method of determining the quality of educational work in institutions provided by the Ministry, at the suggestion of the National Council.
The jurisdiction of the Center


Member 41
Center for Professional and Adult Education: 1) performs professional tasks on monitoring, analysis and development of the educational system; 2) in cooperation with the institution, works on improving educational and educational work and establishes the quality of implementation of standards of educational and educational work; 3) prepares professional tasks on issues resolved by the National Council and the Ministry; 4) performs professional tasks in the preparation of: educational programs, catalogs and standards of knowledge, standards of the profession, standards and standards of educational institutions.; 6) conducts advisory work in institutions in the field of vocational education and adult education and institutions related to education and education; 7) prepares educational and pedagogical standards for textbooks and manuals on professional subjects in vocational education; 8) prepares professional standards for teaching and educational staff; 9) organizes professional training of teachers and training of directors; 10) suggests measures for the development and implementation of new teaching technologies and their application; 11) monitors experiments; 12) performs other work in accordance with the law and the act on the establishment of the Center.




Member 41a
External verification of the achieved standard of knowledge and skills of students, that is, the student performs a test center. The test center from position 1 of this member, as a public institution, is founded by the Government.
Jurisdiction of the test center


Member 41b
Test Center: 1) preparing a job, organizes and conducts the examinations in accordance with the law; 2) institution teaches the preparation of external exams; 3)consults and provides services for external validation of knowledge; 4) research and development external examination of pupils and students; 5) carry out an international comparison of the quality of the educational system; 5a) provides international test; 5b) organized a state competition of students; 6) performs other tasks in accordance with the law and the law On the establishment.
V EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
Network of institutions


Member 42
State institutions are established in accordance with the network of institutions. The network of institutions is implemented by the Government on the basis of criteria and criteria. The criteria and criteria for determining the network of institutions are: 1) The number and age of children in a particular area; 2) the specifics of the area; 3) the specifics of the development of the area; 4) ensuring equal conditions for achieving education; 5) the financial opportunities
of Montenegro.


Member 43
The founder of a public institution can be a state, namely, the abundance, the capital, or the Preston (in the distant text: abundance). A private institution can create a domestic or foreign legal entity or individual. A gymnasium, as a public institution, can be created by the state or the capital, that is, by prestige.
Private-public partnership


Member 43a
The institution can be created according to the model of private and public partnership for the field of education. Regulation 1 of this member regulates the management and administration of the institution.
Making a decision


Member 44
The act of establishing and canceling an institution is passed by the founder. The act of establishing and abolishing a public institution is carried out by the Government, that is, by the competent public authority.
Content of the creation act


Member 45
The Act of establishment determines, in particular:: 1) the name, that is, the name and place of residence of the founder; 2) the name and location of institution; 3) the activities of the institution; 4) the means for creating and working companies and the way they support; 5) a temporary government and management; 6) date of adoption of the Charter; 7) other matters relevant to the establishment and operation of enterprises.
The conditions for the establishment


Member 46
An institution can be founded if: 1) has a sufficient number of children, students or students; 2) an educational program has been adopted or approved in accordance with this law, or an educational program has been adopted, or a foreign educational program has been approved; 3) your assistance, i.e. teaching and other professional personnel, has been provided in accordance with a specific prescription; 4) appropriate space, educational facilities, equipment and others have been provided, in accordance with regulatory requirements and standards; 5) ; 6) hygienic and technical conditions are provided, in accordance with specific rules. Closer to the condition from position 1 of Tac. 1 and 4 of this member, as well as the standards for premises and equipment are prescribed by the Ministry, at the suggestion of the National Council.
Financial guarantees


Member 46a
The founder of a private institution must, in addition to proving that the conditions stipulated in Article 46 of this Code have been met, also provide proof of the fundamental role paid, transferred for three years to the account of a commercial bank, or a guarantee that commercial banks have provided funding in the amount of the necessary funds for the implementation of the educational program. The certificate of the paid fundamental role or the guarantee of the commercial bank from position 1 of this member will be activated if the founder decides to cancel or terminate the work of the institution before the end of the students ' education in the educational program at the request of the public administration body responsible for the budget. The funds from this member's position 2 will be used to complete the students ' initial education.
Regional institutions


Member 47
The institution may contain a local institution, i.e. your division.
The organization of a regional institution


Member 48
The decision to organize a district institution, that is, your division of a private institution, is made by the founder. The decision on the organization of a district institution, that is, your division of a state institution, is made by the Ministry.
Gyms


Member 48a
Institutions that fulfill the necessary personnel, pedagogical and material conditions can be organized as educational institutions where employed school teachers are trained, that is, pedagogical and methodological practices of students of the Faculty of teacher education are conducted. The decision to determine the school for internships was made by the Ministry, at the suggestion of teachers of the Faculty of Education. The relationship between teachers and educational institutions is regulated by the contract.




Member 49
The founder of the institution is obliged to submit an application for licensing of the institution to the Ministry before starting work. With a request for licensing of the institution, the founder submits the act of establishment and proof of compliance with the conditions of the CL. 46 and 46a of this law. A licensing requirement is also applied when an institution makes a change in status, changes a location, i.e. a facility, organizes a regional institution, or introduces new educational programs.
Other activities of the institution


Member 49a
An institution that has a licensed solution may also perform other activities that are in the function of education and upbringing in accordance with the condition that it does not interfere with the educational activities of the institution. Other activities of the institution in relation to 1 of this member may be the provision of services, production, sales and other activities that contribute to the improvement or promotion of more rational and high-quality educational work. The decision on other activities is made by the management body of the institution, with the consent of the Ministry. The decision on other activities of a public institution includes both a revenue plan and a plan for using the funds realized to improve the educational and educational work of institutions in accordance with the specific rules governing this area.




Member 50
An institution can start working when the Ministry determines that the institution meets the conditions for creation and decides on licensing. The decision on the licensing of the institution is published in the "official list of Montenegro".




Member 51
An institution based outside of Montenegro may operate in Montenegro on the basis of the approval of the Ministry. The rules of Montenegro apply to the work of institutions from position 1 of this member.
Register


Member 52
The Ministry heads the register of licensed institutions. The method of maintaining the register from the position of 1 of this member and the procedure for licensing the institution is strictly regulated by the Ministry's regulation.




Member 53
The institution, having received a license decision, is enrolled in the Central Register of Business Entities. Registration in the register in accordance with regulation 1 of this member of the institution acquires the property of a legal entity.




Member 54
When the relevant inspection determines that the institution does not comply with the conditions or does not perform activities in accordance with the law, it temporarily prohibits the work of the institution and sets a period during which the institution and the founder must eliminate the identified defects. If the defects are not corrected in accordance with regulation 1 of this member, the Ministry will prohibit the work of the institution and inform the founder about it. The institution and the founder, in the event of a ban on work from regulation 2 of this member, are obliged to provide children, pupils, or students, or students, with the opportunity to resume their education and upbringing in another relevant institution.
Termination of the institution


Member 55
The institution ceases its activities if: 1) there is no need for its existence; 2) does not fulfill the prescribed conditions for carrying out the activity; 3) does not perform the activity for which it was created. The founder is obliged, in the case of provision 1 of paragraph 1 of this article, at least one year before the termination of the work of the institution, to declare its termination of work.
Stop mode


Member 56
The institution can stop working immediately or gradually. The act of termination of the work of the institution establishes the day of termination of the work of the institution. The institution stops working, as a rule, at the end of the school year. The founder of the institution, who stops working immediately, is obliged to provide children, pupils or students with the opportunity to complete the educational program (Education) that has been started. The decision to terminate the work of the institution is published in the "official list of Montenegro".




Member 57
The institution can make changes to the status. The decision to change the status of the institution is made by the founder. Changes to the status of the institution cannot be made during the school year. Changes in the status of an institution in accordance with the provisions of this Code are subject to the provisions governing the establishment and operation of the institution.




Member 58
The institution can change its name and location. The decision to change the name and headquarters of a State Institution is made by the Ministry. The name of the private institution must also contain a note that the institution is private.
Protecting the institution's name


Member 58a
Organizations (legal entities) that do not have a license and are registered in the register of licensed institutions of the Ministry may not use in their name the name for institutions from Article 3 of this Code.




Member 59
The institution has a charter. The charter of the institution contains in particular: 1) the name and place of the institution; 2) representation and representation; 3) the method and procedure for decision - making by the governing bodies; 4) the tasks and scope of work of the professional bodies of the institution; 5) the conditions for the dismissal of the assistant director; 6) the organization and implementation of educational and educational work, that is, the annual work program of the institution; 7) the method of maintaining pedagogical records; 8) the method of using and storing seals and stamps; 9) the implementation of the work of parents, children and the institution; 10) the method of adopting the acts of the institution; 11) the protection of the means of subsistence; 12) the implementation of the state and cultural activities of the institution; 13) the method of carrying out public work; 14) other issues relevant to the work of the institution.




Member 60
The internal organization and systematization of the institution's workplaces are regulated by a special act of the institution. In the charter and the Act on the Internal Organization and Systematization of vacancies of a state institution, the Ministry gives consonance.
Organization training time


Member 61
The academic and academic year usually begins on 1. September.
School calendar


Member 62
Educational work (academic year) includes two semesters or four classification periods. The beginning of the school year, the time of organization of educational work and classification periods during the school year are determined by the school calendar, which, at the beginning of the school year, is brought by the Minister responsible for education (hereinafter: the Minister).
Duration of the school year


Member 63
The academic year takes at least 180 working days, i.e. 220 working days with practical education, and 165 working days for graduates. If, in accordance with regulation 1 of this member, the number of training sessions in individual subjects established by the curriculum is not realized, the academic year is extended until the set number of classes is reached, but not more than 10 working days.
Termination of educational work


Member 64
Educational and educational work in the institution can be stopped only in particularly justified cases (epidemic, natural disasters, etc.). To stop the work of the institution in the event of an epidemic, it is necessary to obtain the opinion of the relevant medical institution. The decision to terminate educational work in cases from the position of 1 of this member, lasting up to five days, is made by the director of the institution, and after five days by the ministry, and for a private institution-by the founder.
YOU CARRY OUT EDUCATIONAL ACTIVITIES ON THE BASIS OF A CONCESSION
Concessionaires


Member 65
For the implementation of a public educational program, a concession may be assigned to a private institution, a domestic or foreign legal entity or individual who fulfills the conditions for the implementation of education and upbringing provided for by law.
Assignment of the concession


Member 66
If it is not possible to provide pre-school education and primary education and upbringing in public institutions in accordance with regulatory requirements and standards, the Ministry is obliged to provide an announcement of the provision of benefits.
Application of the special law


Member 67
The provisions of the concession law shall apply to the implementation of educational and educational activities on the basis of a concession, unless otherwise provided for in this legislation.




Member 68 to 70
(Deleted).
Shodna application


Member 71
The rules governing the operation of a public institution generally apply to the work of concessionaires.


School, or board of directors


Member 72
The institution is governed by the school board. Exclusively from position 1 of this member, an institution in the field of preschool education and education, higher professional education, a House of Students, a House of Students and Students, or a house of students and an adult education organization is governed by a board of directors. The number of members of a school, that is, the board of directors of a public institution, may not be less than five, and not more than seven members.
Structure of the school board or board of directors
Member 73
The school board of directors, respectively, of institutions in the field of pre-school education and upbringing, primary education and education, general secondary education and the education of children with special educational needs consists of: three representatives of the Ministry, respectively, three representatives of the municipality, for which the institution is the founder-the municipality, one representative of employees and a representative of parents. The school, i.e. the steering committee of vocational education institutions, consists of: one representative of the staff, four representatives of the ministry, or four representatives of the general institution of which the municipality is the founder, one representative of the social partners, and one representative of the parents. The exclusive relation of 2 of this member, the board of governors of several vocational schools consists of: two representatives of the staff, four representatives of the ministry and one representative of the social partners. The Board of Governors of student houses, student houses, and student and student houses consists of: three representatives of the Ministry, or three representatives of the general for the institution of which the municipality is the founder, one representative of the employees, and one representative of the customer service (tenants). The school board, that is, the board of directors of mixed secondary schools and educational centers, consists of: two representatives of the staff, four representatives of the ministry, or four representatives of the general for institutions whose founder is the general and one representative of the social partners. The Board of Governors of adult education institutions consists of three representatives of the Ministry, that is, common to the institutions of which the municipality is the founder, and one representative of the employees and social partners. Representatives of the Ministry elect and dismiss the Minister. The staff representatives choose the teaching staff, i.e. the expert council, by secret ballot. Parents ' representatives choose the parent council by secret ballot. Meetings of the school board or the board of directors may be attended by a representative of the student parliament, that is, a student and a student representative. The method of selecting and dismissing members of the board of directors from among the employees in the House of Students, the House of Students, the House of Students and Students and educational institutions for adults is determined by the charter of the institution. The provisions of this member do not apply to a private institution.




Member 74
The members of the school board or board of directors are elected for a four-year term, with the exception of the parent representatives, who are elected for a two-year term. The school board, that is, the board of directors was formed at the first session, is convened by the director of the institution. The procedure for drawing up the school, i.e. the board of governors, is launched no later than two months before the end of the term of the school, i.e. the board of directors. If the school or administrative committee of a public institution is not formed within 30 days after the expiration of the term, the Minister, on the proposal of the director or the competent inspectorate, may appoint a school, that is, a board of directors, but the longest for a period of up to six months. The President and members of the school board or board of directors perform work from their jurisdiction free of charge.




Member 75
If the school or administrative committee of a public institution is not responsible or does not perform its function, the Minister, on the proposal of the director or the competent inspectorate, may dissolve the school, that is, the board of directors, and set a time limit for drawing up a new one. If, in accordance with regulation 1 of this member, no new school, that is, a board of directors, is formed, the Minister may appoint a school, that is, a board of directors, but the longest for a period of up to six months.
Jurisdiction


Member 76
The school board, that is, the board of directors of the institution: 1) adopt a development program; 2) adopt an annual work plan and report on its implementation (implementation); 3) review the programs and results of extracurricular activities; 3a) decide on the organization of the school sports society, that is, the club; 4) adopt the charter, the act on the internal organization and systematization of workplaces and other general acts; 5) adopt an annual financial plan; 6) adopt a periodic and annual account; 7) propose to change the name and place of the institution; 8) authorizes, as another step-by-step body, the rights of students, that is, users of services, in accordance with the law; 9) performs other tasks, in accordance with the law and the Charter. The school board, that is, the board of directors decides by a majority vote of the total number of members, unless the charter of the institution provides that individual issues are decided by another majority. Members of the school board or board of directors are required to represent the interests and relationships of the bodies that elected them.
VIII MANUAL
Director


Member 77
The management of the institution is managed by the director. The director of the institution is also the teaching director.
Conditions


Member 78
For the director of a preschool institution, primary school, or educational center, a person who: 1) fulfills the conditions for a teacher or professional assistant (teacher, psychologist or defectologist)in accordance with the law; 2) has passed a professional exam for work in educational institutions; 3) has five years of experience in education and upbringing. For the director of a gymnasium, vocational school, resource center, or adult education organizer, a person who has the following qualifications may be selected:: 1) the seventh level of the national qualification structure; 2) passed a professional exam for work in educational institutions; 3) five years of experience in education and upbringing. For the director of the House of Students, the House of Students, or the house of students and students, a person who has: 1) the seventh level of the national qualification of personnel; 2) passed the relevant professional exam; 3) five years of work experience.
Director's mandate


Member 78a
The director of a Public Institution is elected within four years. The director of a Public Institution stands idle in a working relationship during the first term in the workplace with which he was elected.
Training of directors


Member 79
The person selected for the director must complete the appropriate form of training and training for the director of the institution. Education and training from position 1 of this member is organized by the Institute of Education and the Center.
Selection and dismissal of the director


Member 80
The director of a State Institution is elected on the basis of a public competition and the submitted development program of the state institution. The competitive selection of the principal is credited by the school board, that is, the board of directors, two months before the end of the principal's term of office. The candidate for the position of director must, in addition to submitting an application for participation in the competition, attach the development program of the state institution. The program of development of the state institution is submitted by the candidate for the position of director on the basis of reports on the assessment and self-assessment of the educational work of the state institution. The director of a private institution selects and dismisses the founder. The Director of a Public Institution selects and dismisses the Minister. The State institution provides the full documentation to the Minister within seven days after the end of the competition.
Acting Director


Member 81
If the director of a Public Institution terminates his or her duties and a director is not selected at the competition, the Minister appoints the head of the director's duties for a period of up to six months. The acting director of a public institution is idle in the employment relationship at the workplaces with which he was appointed.
Director's jurisdiction


Member 82
Director of the institution: 1) plans, organizes and manages the work of the institution; 2) organizes the rational and effective implementation of the educational program; 3) ensures equality of students in the exercise of their rights to education and upbringing in accordance with their abilities; 4) prepares a proposal for an annual work plan and is responsible for its implementation; 5) manages the work of the teacher, that is, the expert council; 6) selects teachers, professional assistants and other employees of the institution; 7) proposes an act of organization and systematization; 8) carries out expert and pedagogical supervision; 9) decides on the rights and obligations of employees in accordance with the law; 10) supports professional education and training of teachers and offers their promotion; 11) adopts a plan to improve the quality of educational and educational work of the institution; 12) represents and represents the institution and is responsible for the legality of the work of the institution; 13) cooperates with parents and in the middle; 14) trains the commission to verify the knowledge of students during training, at the request of; 15) performs other tasks in accordance with the law and the charter of the institution. The director is obliged to train the commission from position 1 of paragraph 14 of this member within 24 hours from the moment of submitting the application for the student knowledge test. A request to test students ' knowledge may require the relevant teacher to be released from the commission. The commission must have at least one member who does not work in this institution. The commission rating is final. The director of the institution submits a report on the work to the school or administrative board as necessary and at least once a year.
Termination of the Director's duties


Member 82a
The duty of the director of the institution is terminated: 1) upon expiration of the mandate; 2) upon personal request; 3) upon settlement; 4) termination of employment relations.
Replacement of the director


Member 82b
In the case of temporary disability, the director of a public institution replaces the employee in the institution appointed by the director. If the principal cannot appoint an employee to replace him, he is determined by the school board or the board of directors.
Conditions of dismissal


Member 83
The Director of a Public Institution may, in addition to the cases provided for by law, authorize, if: 1) does not implement the development program of the institution; 2) does not take measures in relation to an employee who does not perform work tasks, that is, commits a violation of work duties, or abuses his position; 3) determines that the institution does not implement the annual work plan; 4) does not perform work tasks, that is, performs a violation of work duties; 5) abuses his position; 6) chooses a teacher or; 6a) hire a new teacher, and prior to that not, in accordance with Article 109 of this Code, by agreement took a teacher from another institution that meets the requirements of that place of work; 8) the institution does not keep the prescribed records; 9) the institution does not provide the public with work; 10) does not decide to cancel the exam, in accordance with the law; 11) does not comply with the decision of the inspection body; 12) does not bring a plan to improve the quality of educational work of the institution; 13) due to the institution, staff and customer service; 14) allow political organization and activities or religious activities in the public education institution; 14a) failed to provide timely and accurate data entry to the Education Information System of Montenegro (MEIS); 15) in other cases prescribed by law and the institution's charter.
Rights from employment relations


Member 84
The director of a Public institution who, after the expiration of the second term for which he was elected, will not be re-elected, is appointed to a workplace corresponding to his level of education, and if there is no such place, he exercises the rights as an employee whose work has ceased to be necessary, in accordance with the law. The right from position 1 of this member is also exercised by the Assistant Director, who will not be re-elected at the end of the term. The director of a public institution, that is, an assistant director who has been released in accordance with this law, may be assigned to a workplace corresponding to his or her level of education, and if there is no such place, he or she terminates his or her working relationship.




Member 85
A public institution that has more than 600 students, meaning children can have an assistant principal. The assistant director of the institution helps the director in the organization of educational work. The work and tasks of the assistant director of the institute are determined by the charter of the institution.




Member 86
For the assistant director of the institution, a person who fulfills the conditions for the director can be selected. The Assistant director of the institution selects and dismisses the director. The Assistant director of the institution is selected for four years. The Assistant Director of a public institution stands idle in a working relationship during the first term in the workplace with which he was elected.
IX PROFESSIONAL BODIES
Types of professional bodies


Member 87
The institution trains professional bodies: the council of teachers, the council of the department, the professional asset of teachers, the department of elders and other bodies provided for by the charter of the institution. Exclusively from the provision 1 of this member, in the institution in the field of preschool education and education, that is, in the home of students, professional bodies are trained: the expert council, the professional asset and other bodies provided for by the charter of the institution. In a mixed school, a Board of Teachers is formed specifically for the vocational school, especially for the secondary school (gymnasium). The educational center trains teachers and professional councils on the level of education.
The composition of professional bodies


Member 88
The Teaching Council consists of teachers, educators, principals, assistant principals, and professional assistants. The Board of the department consists of teachers, educators and professional partners who are involved in the educational work in the department. The professional asset of teachers consists of teachers of the same training course or two, that is, more related training courses. The Expert Council consists of directors, assistant directors, supervisors, your assistants, your speech pathologists, professional assistants and associates. Professional activists in preschool institutions are usually educators, flaw detection educators, assistant assistants, and associates of groups of educators of children of approximately the same age who participate in the implementation of certain programs.
The jurisdiction of the teaching or expert council


Member 89
Teachers ' council, i.e. the expert council of the institution: 1) selects the representatives employed in the school, that is, the board of directors; 2) sets the final final rating at the end of the school year in accordance with the law; 3) considers and makes decisions on expert issues of pedagogical and educational work; 4) suggests the introduction of non-standard programs and activities; 5) gives an opinion on the annual work plan of the institution; 5a) accepts the program of organizing student excursions; 6) gives an opinion on; 7) gives an opinion on the forms of professional training of teachers and their promotion; 8) decides on your measures in accordance with their jurisdiction; 9) performs other tasks in accordance with the law and the charter
of the institution.


Member 90
The Board of the department reviews the educational work in the department, establishes a program of work with talented students and students who strive for progress, sets final grades at the end of classification periods, decides on your measures and performs other tasks in accordance with the law and the charter of the institution.
Professional aktiv


Member 91
The professional asset reviews educational and educational work on subjects, that is, groups of education, gives suggestions for improving educational and educational work, considers the comments of parents and performs other tasks in accordance with the charter and the annual work plan of the institution.
Odjeljenjski elder


Member 92
The department elder analyzes your and the department's learning outcomes, takes care of individual students ' parenting and teaching issues, cooperates with parents, expresses cautions and suggests other measures, and performs other tasks in accordance with the law and the Charter. The Elder Department is required to notify the student of the rating set by the Department Board within 24 hours after the rating is set. The Department of Elders determines the board of teachers, at the suggestion of the principal.
Jurisdiction


Member 93
The jurisdiction and mode of operation of the professional bodies of the institution are determined by the charter of the institution.
X PARENT COUNCIL
Parents ' advice


Member 94
For the organizational implementation of the interests of parents in the institution, the Parents ' Council is formed. The council from position 1 of this member consists of parents of children of different groups, that is, from parents of students of different classes, who are selected at the parent meeting, in the order and in the order established by the charter of the institution.




Member 95
Parents ' Advice: 1) elects representatives of parents to the school, i.e. the board of directors; 2) gives an opinion on the proposal of the annual work plan of the institution; 3) reviews the report on the work of the institution; 3a) participates in the proposal process for elective cases; 3b) gives an opinion on the program of organizing student excursions; 3c) reviews internal and external reports on determining the quality of educational and educational work of the institution; 4) considers complaints from parents and students in connection with educational and educational work; 5) fulfills the charter of the institution. The way parents ' councils work is more closely determined by the institution's charter.
XI RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF STUDENTS
Student Parliament


Member 96
Students of one department of the school teach the community of the department. Students from all departments of the school teach the student parliament. The powers and way of working of the student parliament are closer to the established charter of the school.
Student rights


Member 97
The school grants the student the following rights: 1) at the beginning of the school year, receive instructions containing the rights and obligations of students; 2) for high-quality educational work (classes); 3) express an opinion about the work of the teacher; 4) ask for a commission check of their knowledge during the training period; 5) file a complaint about the assessment at the end of the classification period, school year or exam; 5a) participate in a competition for academic subjects or subjects; 6) participate in the creation of instructions containing their rights and obligations; 7) for a time and full information about their rights and obligations; 8) Protection from all types of school violence, discrimination, abuse and neglect; 9) exclusion from school, with the announcement of parents or guardians, for a period of five working days during the school year; 10) participation in the formation of the content of professional excursions and other forms of educational work; 11) other rights established by the charter of the institution. Representatives of the Student Parliament have the right to participate in the work of the professional bodies of the school when discussing issues of interest to students (student level, free activity, etc.). The level of competition, the order and conditions of the organization and rules of the competition, as well as the content and form of the diploma assigned by the ministry, at the suggestion of the test center.
Objection to the final assessment


Member 97a
The student or their parent or guardian has the right to object because of the final grade at the end of the school year or academic year in the academic subject or board. The complaint is submitted to the Board of teachers within two days from the date of receipt of the certificate or notification of success. According to the Teacher Evaluation Board complaint, within three days of receiving the complaint, it trains a three-hour commission that will determine whether the assessment was performed in accordance with the rules, i.e. checked and re-evaluated by written or other work, or interrogate the student. The complaint may require the relevant teacher to be released from the commission. Depending on the position 3 of this member, the commission must have at least one member who does not work in this institution. The commission rating is final. An administrative dispute cannot be conducted against the final rating
of the commission.


Member 98
The student has a duty: 1) regularly, diligently and conscientiously work on the adoption of knowledge and the acquisition of a common culture; 2) comply with school rules, advice, instructions and decisions of teachers, principals and school bodies; 3) attend classes carefully; 4) timely justice of absence; 5) do not interfere with classes and work in the department for an hour; 6) do not leave the classroom for an hour without first obtaining the approval of teachers; 7) according to teachers, the personality of other students and foster friendly and humane relationships; 9) protects the property of the school; 10) cultivates the cleanliness and aesthetic appearance of the school premises; 11) takes part in school duties; 12) observes the rules of school or home order; 13) other duties established by the charter of the institution.
Liability for damage caused


Member 98a
The student is responsible for compensating for the damage he or she causes in the institution. The procedure for determining the responsibility of students and the method of compensation of damage closer regulated by the Charter of the institution.
TEACHERS XII
Teacher autonomy


Member 99
Teachers have professional freedom in how they organize classes, apply teaching methods, choose the forms of work with students, and choose the tasks that they set for students within the established educational program.
Temporary ban on performing lessons


Member 99a
A teacher against whom the process of a criminal offense against field freedom has been initiated, the director of the institution may temporarily prohibit the performance of educational work.
Professional associations of teachers


Member 99b
Teachers can contact each other in the professional association of teachers. Professional associations of teachers can give opinions and suggestions on the promotion of educational work, on educational programs, on strategic documents and rules in the field of education, and perform other tasks in accordance with the charter. Professional associations of teachers, established in accordance with the law, unite the code of ethics of teachers. The rules of NGOs should be applied to the establishment, organization, registration and removal from the register, status, management, funding and other issues that are important for the work of professional associations of teachers.




Member 100
A teacher convicted under the law for a criminal offense against field freedom cannot perform educational work.
Employment conditions


Member 100a
A teacher may establish an employment relationship that, in addition to the general conditions provided for by the labor legislation, has: 1) relevant education in accordance with specific rules; 2) Montenegrin citizenship; 3) passed expert examinations for work in educational institutions, that is, a work permit. A foreigner with permanent residence in Montenegro can establish a working relationship as a teacher, under the conditions established by a special law.
Hiring teachers


Member 101
A teacher in a public institution works on the basis of a public competition, in accordance with the law. The competition from position 1 of this member is appointed by the director of the institution and lasts for 15 days. Teachers in institutions or a special department of an institution teaching a minority language must, in addition to the conditions provided for by law, have an active knowledge of the language and writing, as well as of the minority and Montenegrin language. The decision to hire teachers is made by the director of the institution within 15 days from the date of the deadline for submitting applications. A special condition for hiring teachers is trial work. The duration of the trial work, the method of conducting and evaluating the results of the trial work are determined by the order of the Ministry. The teacher who does not satisfy the employment relationship during the trial period is terminated with the expiration of the period established by the probationary contract.
Design of the contest


Member 101a
A government agency may appoint a teacher employment competition if: 1) it is not possible by agreement to take a teacher from another state institution from the list of employees in accordance with this Law; 2) has a systematized and approved workplace; 3) has proof of the Ministry of Secured Financial Resources. The list of item 1 of this member and the schedule of teachers is set by the Ministry, until 5. September of the current year for the academic year, based on the reports of state institutions.
Hiring teachers at specific times


Member 101b
A teacher can be hired without a public competition for up to 30 days, in the following cases:: 1) replacing a temporarily absent teacher; 2) temporarily increasing the amount of work; 3) working on a specific project.
Intern


Member 102
A trainee teacher is a person who, for the first time, establishes a working relationship in an institution to teach self-employment in the appropriate level of education. Training of teachers with the sixth and seventh levels of the national qualification structure takes a year, and with the fourth level of the national qualification structure-six months. The intern terminates their working relationship after the end of the internship.
Mentor


Member 103
The internship is conducted according to the established program of educational work in the institution under the direct supervision of an authorized teacher (mentor) who has at least the same level of education as the trainee. The mentor from position 1 of this member is determined by the director of the institution, at the suggestion of a professional asset. The tasks and tasks of the mentor are determined by the order
of the Ministry.


Member 104
The content, program, and method of monitoring and evaluating the internship are also regulated by the Ministry's regulation.
Internship recognition


Member 105
A teacher who is an internship or part of an internship performed abroad may be granted an internship or part of an internship, provided that the internship program abroad does not significantly deviate from the internship program adopted under this law. The decision on the recognition of the internship in respect of 1 of this member is made by the body where the expert examination is conducted.




Member 106
After completing the internship, the teacher passes a professional exam. A teacher who has not completed an internship and who, after completing a certain level of education provided for by law, has at least one year of experience in teaching has the right
to take a professional exam.


Member 107
The professional examination is submitted to the competent commission. The content, conditions, method and place of passing the expert examination, as well as the education and composition of the commission and the height of the costs of the examination are regulated by the regulation of the Ministry.




Member 107a
The work of teachers, directors and assistant directors may be performed by a person who, in addition to the conditions provided for by the Labor Law and this law, has a work permit (hereinafter referred to as a license). The license is a public document confirming the necessary level of general and professional competence of teachers, directors and assistant directors. The license is issued after passing the professional exam for work in educational institutions for a period of five years. The license from position 3 of this member is renewed every five years (relicencing) in accordance with the teacher training program. A teacher, director, or assistant director who does not have a license or has not renewed the license is not allowed to work in the institution.




Member 107b
Licensing and reviewing is carried out by the commission of the Institute of Education, that is, the Center. Closer conditions, the method and procedure for obtaining, issuing and renewing the license of teachers, directors and assistant directors of institutions, as well as the content and form of the license provided by the Ministry.
Violation of the norm


Member 108
For a teacher who has spent at least 35 years working in the field of education and upbringing, the hours of work in the field of education and upbringing can be reduced for two hours on Sunday. For the teacher from position 1 of this member, the earnings are calculated in full.
Hiring teachers by agreement


Member 109
A teacher who does not have a statutory standard of lessons, that is, whose work is no longer necessary due to a change in the educational program, that is, standards and regulations, or a reduction in the volume of registration, can be based on an employment relationship in another institution until the full standard of lessons is based on the agreement of the director of the institution. A teacher working in an institution may be admitted to another institution by agreement, if he meets the requirements established by the law and the act of systematization of workplaces, with the consent of the teachers.
Additional teacher activities


Member 110
A teacher can, for a fee, prepare a student for an exam and achieve better success from a certain subject, provided that the student does not attend regular classes, and also does not take exams at the school where the teacher works. A person who fulfills the conditions for performing the work of teachers, and not in an employment relationship, can engage in the training of students as a primary activity. A teacher who performs his activities from st. 1 and 2 of this member are required to contact the competent authority of the general and competent educational inspection. The conditions for carrying out activities from the point of view of position 2 of this member are prescribed by the Ministry.
Performance assessment


Member 110a
If there is an established suspicion that the health of a teacher is impaired to the extent that it significantly reduces his ability to work, the director of the institution will submit a reasonable request to the school, that is, to the board of directors, in order to send teachers to assess the performance of a competent medical institution. If the school board or the board of directors determines that the principal's proposal is justified, they will decide to contact the teacher to assess the performance of the competent medical facility. If a teacher refuses to assess the ability to work from position 2 of this member, he is assigned to a workplace corresponding to his level and profile of education and residual working ability, and if there is no such workplace, he exercises rights as an employee whose work has ceased to be necessary, in accordance with the law.
Termination of employment relations


Member 111
The teacher, in addition to the cases provided for by the labor legislation, terminates the employment relationship if: 1) the educational program is not implemented in accordance with the established norms; 2) organizes students, that is, those engaged in political or religious purposes; 3) does not participate in the work of the professional bodies of the institution; 4) abuses his position; 5) leads to treason or unnatural fornication of a student, that is, an employee in the institution; 6) refuses to provide an order from the employer who issued the license to; 7) does not allow the employee to work during the strike; 8) participates in a strike organized in violation of the rules; 9) humiliates, insults or physically punishes the student; 10) causes national and religious intolerance; 11) the competent educational inspectorate determines that the Teacher trains the student for a fee from the institution in which he works; 12) trains the student as the main activity; 13) The Commission for the examination of students ' knowledge from member 82 paragraph 1 paragraph 14 of this Code establishes that the teacher during the period of study during one academic year is twice biased by the student or is not evaluated in accordance with the established procedure. A teacher who has terminated an employment relationship in the case of tach. 2, 5, 9 and 10 of this member cannot perform educational work.
XIII TEACHER TRAINING AND PROMOTION
Professional training


Member 112
Teachers have the right and the duty to improve professionally in various fields through vocational training programs. Teacher training programs are brought by the National Council, at the suggestion of the Institute of Education, that is, the Center. The author of the teacher training program can be a legal entity or an individual engaged in educational and educational or research activities, licensed higher educational institutions and professional associations of teachers. Solely on the basis of relation 3 of this member, the author of the teacher training program may not be a person working in the Ministry, Institute of Education, center, testing center, or a member of the National Council. The priority of the field of professional training of teachers for five years is determined by the Ministry, at the suggestion of institutions, the Institute of Education and the Center. The organization of professional training of teachers and the method of selecting the authors of the program from position 3 of this member are prescribed by the Ministry.
Promotion


Member 113
The teacher can move to the appropriate professions. The rank from position 1 of this member is awarded by the commission of the Ministry. The types of vocations, conditions, method and procedure for granting and assigning teacher vocations are prescribed by the Ministry, at the suggestion of the National Council.
XIV PEDAGOGICAL RECORDS AND PUBLIC DOCUMENTS
Teacher records


Member 114
The school maintains unique pedagogical records, namely: registration (mother's book), a divided book (work diary with an invitation), records of exams and student success, that is, students at the end of the school year, issued certificates and diplomas, records of the division of subjects into teachers, the chronicle of the school, etc. In a school where teaching is conducted in the language of members of minorities and other national minority communities, pedagogical records are printed and conducted in the Montenegrin language and in the language of members of minorities and other national minority communities. The unique pedagogical record from position 1 of this member is kept in the form of notes on paper, with the exception of the split book, which is also kept in electronic form. The school is obliged to keep the registration (registration book) and records of issued certificates and diplomas at all times.
Public documents


Member 115
Based on the data of the pedagogical documentation, the school that implements public programs issues public documents. Public documents related to regulation 1 of this member include: school booklet, certificate, diploma and diploma supplement for professional schools, translators, i.e. printed publications and other public documents issued in accordance with the law. In schools where teaching is conducted in the language of members of minorities and other national minority communities, public documents are printed and issued in the Montenegrin language and in the language of members of minorities and other national minority communities.
Issuance of public documents


Member 116
At the end of the second classification period, the School issues the Student a school book with grades. Exclusively from position 1 of this member, the primary school issues a report to the student of the first cycle at the end of the second classification period. At the end of the school year, the school issues a certificate to the Student, regardless of the success achieved. The School gives the Student a diploma of passing the practical, final, professional, final, master's and final exams. When printing from primary school, the student is given a translator, and when printing from secondary school, the student is given a printout. The educational organizer issues the student a certificate, diploma or other public certificate of the completed educational program in accordance with the law and the Fundamental Act.




Member 117
The authenticity of the public document of the institution is certified by the seal. The seal of the institution has a round shape and contains the name of the state, the name and the name and place of the institution. In the center of the seal is the coat of arms of Montenegro.
Database


Member 117a
The institution manages a database within the Montenegro Education Information System (MEIS), managed by the Ministry. Personal data entered in the database from regulation 1 of this member is collected, processed, stored and used for the purposes of educational work of institutions and ministries in accordance with the law. All types of data collection, storage, processing, publication and use are carried out in accordance with the law governing the protection of personal data.




Member 118
The form and method of maintaining pedagogical records and the content of public documents from CL. 114, 115 and 116 of this Code are prescribed by the Ministry.
XV COSTRIFICATION, I.E. EQUIVALENCE


Member 119 to 128
(Stopped working).
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE XVI IN THE FIELD OF STUDENT STANDARDS
Student rights


Member 129
The rights in the field of student standards are implemented in accordance with this Law. The rights in the student standard area are personal and cannot be transferred.




Member 130
The student has the right to: 1) accommodation and meals in the House; 2) a scholarship for the talented; 2a) a scholarship for the deficient qualifications; 3) Participation in transportation. Closer to the criteria for the participation of students in transportation is prescribed by the Ministry.
Rights to accommodation and food


Member 131
Accommodation and meals for students are organized in the Students ' House, i.e. in the House of Students and students and the resource, i.e. the training center (hereinafter referred to as the house). The right to food, i.e. to food and accommodation in the house, is granted to a regular primary and secondary school student who is studying outside of the place of residence. The criteria, method and procedure for admission of students, as well as the cost of accommodation and meals in the house of the teacher are regulated by the Ministry's regulation.




Member 132
The competition for the admission of students to the house is appointed by the founder, at least two months before the start of the academic year. The allocation of space and immigration of students to the house is handled by a commission appointed by the House Board of Directors. The commission from position 2 of this member is required to carry out the allocation of places and immigration of students by the beginning of the academic year. If the student, or the parent of the student, is dissatisfied with the decision of the commission from position 2 of this member, has the right to object to the board of directors of the house within three days from the date of distribution.




Member 133
A talented student, proposed by the school's Board of Teachers, based on the opinion of the relevant teacher, is eligible for the scholarship. The teacher in question from position 1 of this member is determined by the school's Board of Teachers. A talented student, in terms of the ratio 1 of this member, is considered to be a student who, from the individual training courses, that is, the field, shows special meaning, interest, curiosity and ability to think and creative processes and achieves outstanding results, having overall success at least very well. The decision to grant the scholarship and terminate the scholarships is made by a commission appointed by the Ministry. Closer to the criteria, height and conditions for awarding a scholarship from position 1 of this member and a scholarship from member 134a provided by the Ministry.
Termination of the scholarship


Member 134
The student terminates the scholarship if: 1) the school board of teachers does not offer to extend the scholarship; 2) is not successful based on who is eligible for the scholarship; 3) arbitrarily changes the school.
The scholarship is for lack of qualifications


Member 134a
A regular student of a vocational school who is receiving an education under the education program for a deficient qualification is eligible for a scholarship for a deficient qualification. The qualification gap from position 1 of this member is determined by the Ministry, in cooperation with the Department of Employment, in the process of planning admission to a vocational school. The decision to grant a scholarship from position 1 of this member, based on public advertising, is made by a commission appointed by the Ministry.
XVII FINANCING
Sources of funding


Member 135
Education and the issue are funded from: 1) state revenues (budgets of Montenegro and general use); 2) founders ' funds; 3) education in private institutions; 4) benefits paid by parents; 5) income from property (rent); 6) funds from the sale of services and products; 7) donations, sponsorships and legates; 8) other sources. A State institution is prohibited from financing from political parties.
Ensuring security


Member 136
The state institution, from the network of institutions, is provided with funds from the budget of Montenegro for: 1) gross salaries and other personal income of employees; 2) current investment services; 3) investments in institutions; 4) material costs and electricity costs; 5) permanent training of teachers; 6) additional basic education of Montenegrin citizens in temporary work abroad; 7) primary education of adults; 8) external examination of students 'knowledge provided for by law (examination of students' knowledge at the end of the third cycle, other exams); 9) scholarships for talented students; 10) student competition;
11) experimental training; 12) accommodation and meals for students in the home, that is, in the department; 13) subsidizing textbooks with a small circulation and textbooks for the education of national, that is, ethnic groups; 14) expenses for the food of children in preschool, whose parents are beneficiaries of the material support of the family in accordance with specific rules; 15) training and training of directors and the work of expert consultations; 16) development, advisory and research work in the field of education and upbringing; 17) Development of an information system; 18) subsidizing the solution of housing needs of employees of the institution; 19) other obligations established by law; 20) participation in the transportation of students. Exclusively from the position of position 1 of this member, to finance the needs from Tac. 2, 3 and 4 of this position, in public institutions from a network of institutions whose founder is common, funds are provided in the budget for public viewing. Funds for the financing of public institutions that are not located in the network of institutions, and the founder is the general public, provided in the budget for general public.




Member 136a
The institution may receive funds from the public budget for: 1) material costs (hygiene maintenance, disinfection and disinfection, telephone and postal services, Internet); 2) investments in institutions whose founders are communities; 3) insurance of the institution's facilities; 4) mandatory medical and sanitary examinations of teachers and children, namely students; 5) transportation of primary school students; 6) fire protection; 7) taxes and other duties prescribed by the local government; 8) use of utilities and utilities; 9) land and firmarine fees.
Restriction on participation in finance


Member 137
An institution that is funded by state revenue may not require students or participants to participate to cover the costs of education (academic and extracurricular activities). The exclusive position of 1 of this member in higher professional education in terms of practical education costs can be determined by participating in up to 20% of the cost of training students for this educational program in a public institution. An art school may charge students to contribute to the cost of education. Consent to the level of participation in St. Louis. 2 and 3 of this member is given by the Ministry.
Funding mode


Member 138
A public institution receives funding from the budget of Montenegro for one academic year based on the economic cost of student tuition for a particular educational program, the number of students or children, the coefficient of the program into which the educational program is classified, and other criteria specific to the educational program, institution, and specific area. Based on the criteria of position 1 of this member, the Ministry brings a methodology for calculating the economic cost of student tuition for each educational program in accordance with regulatory requirements and standards. The regulations and regulations from position 2 of this member are made by the Ministry, with the previously received opinion of the National Council. The regulations and standards provide standards for: the formation of departments and groups, the organization of an advisory service, a library, administrative, accounting and technical services, and the assessment of material costs.
Conditions for financing a private institution


Member 139
An individual institution that carries out publicly operating educational programs may be finansira from the budget of Montenegro in accordance with this law, if: 1) operates an educational program from the first to the last class of study; 2) operates an educational program for preschool children for at least one year; 3) has at least two first-class departments registered, and at least 35 students enrolled in an art school; 4) has the staff, teachers, and staff required to complete the educational program, in accordance with the law and other regulations. The Ministry determines whether a private institution meets the requirements of position 1 of this member. The mutual rights and obligations between a private institution and the State are regulated by a contract.
Member 140
(Brisan).
Funding restrictions


Member 141
Private primary schools do not belong to the funds from the budget of Montenegro, if due to the admission of students to a private school, the existence of the (only) state institution founded by the state in the same area is threatened. In the case of position 1 of this member, the private institution ceases to be financed from state revenues, based on the decision of the Ministry.
Tuition fees


Member 142
The tuition fee per student or child in a private institution is determined by the founder. Exclusive ratio 1 of this member, the tuition fee per student or child in a private institution funded from the budget of Montenegro may be 10% higher than the funds provided by the student or child in a public institution. If the tuition fee is charged contrary to the provisions of relation 2 of this member, the private institution will stop funding from the budget of Montenegro.
Member 143
(Brisan)
Provision of funds to the concessionaire


Member 144
The concessionaire provides funds from the budget of Montenegro for the implementation of the public educational program in accordance with the contract.
Completion of the education started


Member 145.
The State is obliged to provide children, pupils or students with the completion of the education they have started, that is, an exemption from a private institution that, due to the termination of the financing of state revenues, does not fulfill the state-operated educational program.
XVIII CRIMINAL PROVISIONS
Penalties for violations


Member 146
A fine in the amount of twenty to a hundredfold of the minimum cost of labor in Montenegro will be punished for violating the institution if: 1) allow political organization and action contrary to the provisions of Member 6 of this Code; 2) use textbooks and teaching aids contrary to the provisions of Member 13 of this Code; 3) not implement prescribed educational programs in accordance with status 19 of this Code; 4) enter into action without a licensing permit (Member 50); 5) make status changes in violation of the provisions of member 57 of this Code; 6) change the name and place of the institution contrary to the provisions of member 58 of this Code; 7) do not obtain consent to the charter and the act on the internal organization and systematization of workplaces in accordance with Article 60 of this Code; 8) hire a teacher contrary to the provisions of member 101 of this Code; 9) enter into an agreement on labor relations with a teacher contrary to the provisions of member 109 of this Code; 10) do not keep the established pedagogical records in accordance with Article 114 of this Code; 11) issue an employment certificate.; 12) the commission does not carry out the distribution and immigration of students to the house within the period established by Article 132 of this Code. For violation of the position 1 of the member shall be punished and the person responsible in the institution by a fine of 100 euros to 1500 euros.
THE CONDITIONS OF TRANSITION AND THE END OF THE XIX
Alignment of institutions


Member 147
Existing institutions and other organizations that carry out educational activities in accordance with the current norms, harmonize their organization, work and general acts with the provisions of this law within one year from the date of entry into force of this law. The adoption of general acts in accordance with regulation 1 of this member applies to the existing acts, if they do not contradict the law. An organization (legal entity) that does not have a license and is registered in the register of licensed institutions of the Ministry, and in its name uses the name of the institution from Member 3 of this Code, is obliged to harmonize its organization and work in accordance with this law within six months from the date of entry into force of this law.




Member 147a
A state institution that does not have a licensing permit on the date of entry into force of this law is recognized as a license for educational programs implemented before the entry into force of this law.




Member 147b
Teachers and assistant directors who have passed the professional examination for work in educational institutions before the date of entry into force of this law are considered to have a work license. Managers who have laid down a professional exam to work in educational-vaspitnim institutions and have completed training and advanced training in accordance with the law, before the date of entry into force of this law, are considered to have a license to work. Faces from St. Louis. 1 and 2 of this member of the Institute of Education, that is, the center issues a license within one year from the date of entry into force of this law. Teachers, principals and assistant principals who are licensed under Relation 3 of this member, and have 60 years of life on the date of entry into force of this law, are not required to renew the license.




Member 148
The network of institutions of the members of 42 of this Code will be adopted within one year from the date of entry into force of this law. Until the adoption of the network of institutions from position 1 of this member, the actions established by the state institution, that is, the organization provided for by the rules brought to the entry into force of this Law, continue.




Member 149
The rules for the implementation of this law will be adopted within a year from the date of entry into force of this law. The adoption of the provisions established by this law will be subject to the rules applicable to the entry into force of this law, if they do not contradict this Law.




Member 149a
The rules for the implementation of this law will be adopted within a year from the date of entry into force of this law. The adoption of the provisions established by this law will be subject to the rules applicable to the entry into force of this law, if they do not contradict this Law.
Creating a Center


Member 149b
The Center will be established in accordance with this law within three months from the date of entry into force of this law. The Center for Vocational Education was established by the decision to participate in the creation of the center for vocational education ("official document of the RCG", No. 26/03) continues its work until the foundation of the center from position 1 of this member.
Creating tips


Member 150
The Councils for General Education of Montenegro, the Councils for Vocational Education of Montenegro and the Councils for Adult Education of Montenegro will begin no later than 90 days from the date of entry into force of this law.




Member 150a
The National Council will be established within 60 days of the entry into force of this law. On the day of the creation of the National Council, they stop working: general education councils, vocational education councils, and adult education councils.
Termination of the work of the Councils


Member 151
On the day of the foundation of the Council, the work of consultations on changes in the education of the Republic of Montenegro is terminated from Member 150 of this Code.




Member 152
The Institute of Education and the center for vocational education will be established within six months from the date of entry into force of this law.




Member 152a
The test center will be established within six months from the date of entry into force of this law.
Status of previous management and management bodies


Member 153
The director, that is, the assistant director, who was elected, that is, appointed before the entry into force of this law, continues his work until the expiration of the time during which he was elected, that is, appointed. A school or administrative committee that was elected or appointed in accordance with the rules prior to the entry into force of the General Law on Education and Upbringing ("RCG Official Document", No. 64/02) shall cease its activities within 60 days from the date of entry into force of this law. The procedure for selecting principals and assistant principals, that is, the appointment of a school or steering committee initiated prior to the entry into force of this Act, will be completed in accordance with the rules in force prior to the entry into force of this Act.
Member 153a
The selection, that is, the appointment of a school or steering committee, in accordance with this law, will be carried out within 90 days from the date of entry into force of this Law. Prior to the election, that is, the appointment of the school board, that is, the board of directors, in accordance with regulation 1 of that member, the function of the governing bodies will still be exercised by the school board, that is, the board of directors, which was elected, that is, appointed in accordance with the rules in force prior to the entry into force of this law. Directors of institutions who were selected in accordance with the rules in force prior to the entry into force of this law continue to work until the expiration of the time during which they were selected.
Selection of controls


Member 153b
The choice of an educational institution, or an administrative committee in all state institutions, in accordance with this law, is made within three months from the date of entry into force of this law. Prior to the election of the school board, or the board of directors according to that member's ratio 1, the functioning of the governing bodies will be carried out by the current school or administrative committees.
Selection of controls


Member 153c
The selection of directors in all state institutions, in accordance with this law, will be carried out within six months from the date of entry into force of this law. Prior to the election of the director in accordance with the ratio of 1 of this member, the functions of the governing bodies are performed by the current directors
of public institutions.


Member 153d
The Private and Public Partnership Program for Education from Member 43a of this Act will be adopted within six months from the date of entry into force of this Act. The constituent rights of existing institutions may be transferred to other legal entities within a certain period of time in accordance with the law on concessions. The act on the transfer of fundamental rights, from the point of view of relation 2 of this member, for State institutions is carried out by the Government, that is, by the competent authority of general use.




Member 153e
Institutions are obliged to coordinate their organization, work and general actions with this law within six months from the date of entry into force of this law. For the adoption of general acts in accordance with regulation 1 of this member, the existing acts are applied, if they do not contradict
the law.


Member 154
The Parents ' Council of member 94 of this Code will be formed in all institutions up to the age of 31. October 2003. years.
Start the hiring process


Member 155
The recruitment process for teachers initiated before the entry into force of this law will be completed in accordance with the rules in force before the entry into force of this law.




Member 156
A teacher who started an internship before the entry into force of this law completes the internship and passes a professional exam in accordance with the rules in force before the entry into force of this law.




Member 157
A teacher who has passed or accepted his examination in accordance with the previous rules is allowed a professional examination in accordance with this law.
Recognition of acquired vocations


Member 158
A teacher who has received the title of teacher consultant or senior teacher consultant before the date of entry into force of this law retains this vocation.
Start the procedure for nostrification or equivalence


Member 159
A nostrification or equivalence procedure initiated prior to the entry into force of this law will be completed in accordance with the rules under which it was initiated.
Member 159a
Members of the Council for Professional Education and Adult Education Advice who were selected in accordance with the rules in force prior to the entry into force of this law continue to serve until the end of the term for which they were selected.
Textbooks and teaching aids


Member 160
Textbooks and other teaching aids approved prior to the entry into force of this law may continue to be used until textbooks and other teaching aids are approved and issued in accordance with this law. The process of receiving, evaluating and approving handwritten input of textbooks and other teaching aids initiated before the date of entry into force of this law will be terminated in accordance with the rules in force before the date of entry into force of this law.




Member 160a
The provision of Member 138 of this Code will apply starting from the school year 2013/2014 for a certain number of state institutions determined by the Ministry, and starting from the school year 2015/2016. years for all government agencies.
Removing the application of individual provisions


Member 161
The provisions of the member of the 80th century. 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of this Code will be applied starting from School Years 2003/2004. Provisions of the CL. From 135 to 145 of this Federal Law concerning financing will be initiated from the fiscal year 2003.
Member 161a
The rules for the implementation of this law shall be consistent with this law within six months from the date of entry into force of this law. Prior to the adoption of the rules, in accordance with this law, the rules applicable to the entry into force of this law will apply, if they do not contradict this law.




Member 162
On the date of entry into force of this law, they cease to apply: the law on the improvement of teaching and educational personnel ("official newspaper of the SRCG", no. 26/87); the law on the financing of needs in the field of education and training, culture and physical culture ("official journal of the SRCG", no. 29/90 and 7/92); the provisions of the law on the sterilization and equivalence of certificates and diplomas obtained abroad ("official document of the SRCG", no. 6/87), relating to the neutering and equivalence of certificates of completed basic, secondary education, or the acquired degree of professional training and about the completed individual classes; Provisions of Member 110 of the Primary School Act ("RCG Official Document", no. 34/91, 56/92, 32/93 and 20/95); provisions of Member 103 of the Secondary School Act ("SRCG Official Sheet", no. 28/91 and "RCG Official Document", no. 56/92 and 27/94); provisions of Member 29 of the Preschool Education and Education Act ("RCG Official Document", no. 56/92); provisions of the Student and Student Standards Fundamental Rights Act ("RCG Official Document", no. 6/94 and 27/94) relating to the rights of students; The provisions of the chapter "III issuance of textbooks and teaching aids", with the exception of the provisions of Article 14 of the Law on Publishing ("official document of the RCG", no. 20/95) and the provisions of the Law on Education ("official document of the RCG", no. 20/95), related to the supervision of the organization and conduct of educational work in pre-school institutions, primary, secondary and special schools, student homes and other organizations engaged in education and upbringing.
Termination


Member 162a
On the date of entry into force of this law, Article 21 of the Law on Amendments to the Law Providing for Fines for Violations ("official list of the KG", No. 40/11) will expire.




Member 163
This law comes into force on the eighth day from the date of publication in the "Official Journal of the Republic of Montenegro".