Page 1

|

HOME

FREE

CONTACT

FREE | Regulations of Montenegro / Register of Official Gazettes / Non-working days of Montenegro
* Provisions of Article 78 of the Law on Higher Education ("Official Gazette of Montenegro", No. 44/2014, 52/2014 - amended, 47/2015, 40/2016, 42/2017, 71/2017, 55/2018 and 3/2019) ceased to be valid on the day
entry into force of the Law on Academic Integrity ("Official Gazette of Montenegro", No. 17/2019), ie on March 27, 2019.

THIS REGULATION IS UPDATED ON 31.3.2021. YEARS.

THE LAW
ABOUT HIGHER EDUCATION
("Official Gazette of Montenegro", No. 44/2014, 52/2014 - corrected, 47/2015, 40/2016, 42/2017, 71/2017, 55/2018, 3/2019, 17/2019 - dr Law, 47/2019, 72/2019 and 74/2020)

AND BASIC PROVISIONS
Subject of the law
Article 1
This law regulates the basics of higher education, conditions for performing activities, types of study programs, principles of organization of institutions that perform this activity, rights and
obligations of academic staff and students, quality assurance, financing of higher education, as well as other issues of importance for performing higher education activities.
Goals of higher education
Article 2
The goals of higher education are:
1) acquisition, improvement and development of knowledge, scientific research, art and culture;
2) transfer of general, scientific and professional knowledge and skills through teaching and research;
3) development of research-oriented higher education;
4) providing opportunities for acquiring higher education throughout life;
5) establishing and developing cooperation in the field of teaching, research, art and culture;
6) providing conditions for unhindered access to higher education.
Public interest
Article 3
Higher education is an activity of public interest.

Institutional autonomy
Article 4
The institution of higher education is autonomous in performing its activities, in accordance with this law.
Code of Ethics
Article 5
The Code of Ethics of Higher Education Institutions defines the basic and general principles of values ​based on ethical rights and obligations in higher education and protects the most
values ​of higher education through the application of appropriate norms that regulate academic relations within the university community.
Availability of higher education
Article 6
Higher education is available to all persons and may not be directly or indirectly restricted on the basis of: sex, race, marital status, color, language, religion, political or other belief,
national, ethnic or other origin, property status, disability or other similar basis, position or circumstances, in accordance with a special law.
Quality assurance and improvement
Article 7
Ensuring and improving the quality of higher education is achieved through accreditation, self-evaluation and re-accreditation.
Supervision
Article 8
Supervision over the implementation of the provisions of this Law shall be performed by the state administration body responsible for education (hereinafter: the Ministry), in accordance with the law.
Inspection supervision over the work of higher education institutions is performed by the competent educational inspection.
Use of gender sensitive language
Article 9
All terms used in this law for natural persons in the masculine gender include the same terms in the feminine gender.
The meaning of the expression
Article 10
The terms used in this law have the following meanings:
1) The European Higher Education Area includes higher education institutions of the signatory countries of the Joint Declaration of the European Ministers of Higher Education in Bologna
(1999);
2) ECTS is a European credit transfer system;
3) one ECTS credit refers to 30 hours of student work required for one or more of the following activities: contact teaching, learning, practical work, preparation and defense of independent papers,
taking colloquia and exams;
4) study program is a basic unit for the classification of higher education with a defined structure and number of ECTS credits that provides the individual with the learning outcomes necessary for
acquiring knowledge, skills and competencies for the field of work from the levels of higher education defined in the national framework of qualifications and issuing diplomas;
4a) integrated study program is a combination of basic and master studies of 300 ECTS credits;
4b) module is a functional unit that defines learning outcomes, goals, methods and content of teaching, as well as the conditions that a student must meet to access the module;
5) publicly valid study program is an accredited study program;
6) Diploma supplement is a public document that is attached to a certain diploma of a higher education institution for a more detailed insight into the level, nature, content, system and rules.
studies and results achieved during the studies of the person to whom the diploma was issued, which is based on the basic model established for the single European Higher Education Area;
7) lifelong learning is the overall lifelong learning activity with the aim of improving knowledge, skills and competencies related to personal, civic, social perspective and / or
employment perspective. It includes learning in all periods of life (from early youth to old age) and in all forms in which it is realized (formal, informal and informal);
8) lifelong learning program is a part of the study program, ie module, with a defined structure that provides learning outcomes for acquiring competencies and issuing
certificates for performing related tasks in the fields of work from higher education activities defined in the national qualifications framework;
9) affirmative action implies the introduction of special measures aimed at creating conditions for the realization of equality and protection of the rights of persons who are on any basis in
unequal position in education;
10) a person or student with a disability is a person who has long-term physical, mental, intellectual, sensory or combined impairment that with various barriers in high
education can be hampered by their full and effective participation on the basis of equality with others;
11) a foreigner is a citizen of another state, a stateless person, an asylum seeker and an emigrant;
12) expert is a person who possesses exceptional knowledge and skills in a certain field or subject to the extent that is important in establishing facts, solving problems or understanding situations.

II COUNCIL AND AGENCY FOR QUALITY ASSURANCE IN HIGHER EDUCATION
Jurisdiction of the Council for Higher Education
Article 11
The activities for the promotion and development of higher education are performed by the Council for Higher Education (hereinafter: the Council).
In performing the tasks referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the Council:
1) analyzes the situation and achievements in higher education and makes expert proposals to the Ministry and the Government of Montenegro (hereinafter: the Government);
2) give an opinion on the proposal of the strategy for the development of higher education;
3) prescribe the conditions and criteria for election to academic titles;
4) give an opinion on the amount of funds for financing public institutions of higher education and students at those institutions for each academic year;
5) gives an opinion on the number of students and the amount of funds for financing students in study programs of public interest at private higher education institutions for each
study year;
6) give an opinion on regulations in the field of higher education;
7) cooperates with higher education institutions in ensuring and improving quality;
8) perform other tasks prescribed by law.
Composition and appointment of the Council
Article 12
The Council is appointed and dismissed by the Parliament of Montenegro (hereinafter: the Parliament), at the proposal of the Government.
The Council has seven members who are appointed for a period of four years.
The members of the Council are appointed from among prominent experts in the field of higher education, science, art, students and the field of economy, social activities and other relevant
areas.
Notwithstanding paragraph 2 of this Article, student representatives shall be appointed for a period of two years.
Student members of the Council are nominated by the student parliaments of higher education institutions.
The work of the Council
Article 13
The work of the Council is public.
The Council may establish working bodies, commissions and independent expert groups for certain areas of its activity.
The Council shall publish its conclusions, recommendations, opinions and reports of the body referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article on the website of the Council.
A member of the Council cannot be a member of the accreditation commission. Funds for the work of the Council are provided in the budget of Montenegro.
Professional and administrative-technical tasks for the needs of the Council are performed by the Ministry. The organization and manner of work are regulated by the Council's Rules of Procedure.
Agency for Control and Quality Assurance of Higher Education
Article 13a
Quality assurance in higher education is performed by the Agency for Control and Quality Assurance of Higher Education (hereinafter: the Agency) in accordance with European
standards and guidelines.
Agency:
1) conducts the procedure of accreditation of the study program and issues a certificate of accreditation of the study program;
2) conducts the procedure of external evaluation of the higher education institution (hereinafter: reaccreditation of the institution) and issues a certificate on reaccreditation of the higher education institution at
basis of reaccreditation report;
2a) adopt standards for evaluation in accordance with the standards in the European Higher Education Area;
3) conduct periodic assessment of the quality of work of licensed higher education institutions at the request of the authorized body of the institution or the Ministry;
4) determine the list of experts for accreditation of study programs, ie re-accreditation of institutions on the basis of a public invitation;
5) cooperates with higher education institutions in ensuring and improving quality;
6) analyze reports on self-evaluation of institutions and reports on external evaluation of institutions;
7) propose measures for improving the quality of higher education on the basis of recommendations from the report on reaccreditation of higher education institutions and submit them to the Ministry and the Government;
8) keep a register of accredited study programs and re-accredited institutions;
9) determines the methodology of ranking of institutions and ranks higher education institutions;
10) perform other tasks prescribed by this Law.
The Agency is established by the Government.
The Agency has the status of a legal entity and performs activities of public interest.
Funds for the work of the Agency are provided from the Budget of Montenegro and its own revenues.
Agency bodies
Article 13b
The bodies of the Agency are the Management Board and the Director.
The Board of Directors has a president and two members.
The Steering Board is appointed and dismissed by the Government for a period of four years, at the proposal of the Ministry.
The composition, competence, manner of work and decision-making of the Management Board are regulated by the statute of the Agency.
Director
Article 13c
The work of the Agency is managed by the director.
The Director of the Agency is appointed by the Government on the proposal of the Ministry, on the basis of a public competition, for a period of four years.
Competence of the director
Article 13h
Director of the Agency:
1) represents the Agency;
2) manage the work and operations of the Agency and be responsible for the legality of the work of the Agency;
3) prepares reports on the work of the Agency and the annual financial report;
4) execute the decisions of the Management Board;
5) propose an act on the internal organization and systematization of the Agency;
6) perform other tasks determined by the law and the statute of the Agency.
Employment rights
Article 13ć
The Director and employees of the Agency shall exercise the rights and obligations arising from the employment relationship in accordance with the law governing the rights and obligations of civil servants and employees.
Work report
Article 13d
The Agency submits to the Government and the Ministry a report on its work and an annual financial report with the opinion of an independent auditor.
Supervision
Article 13x
The Ministry supervises the work of the Agency.

III INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER EDUCATION
Achieving higher education
Article 14
Higher education is provided by higher education institutions (hereinafter: institutions) that are licensed, in accordance with this Law.
Types of institutions
Article 15
Institutions are: university, faculty, art academy and high school. The institution referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be established as a public or private institution.
The institution acquires the status of a legal entity by registering in the Central Register of Business Entities, unless otherwise prescribed by this Law.
Name of institution
Article 16
The name of the institution is determined by the founder, in accordance with this law.
Freedom of institution
Article 17
The institution is autonomous in the field of teaching, research and artistic work, within its license, in accordance with this law.
The scientific-research work of the institution is regulated by a special law.
Determining and ranking scientific journals that encourage scientific productivity, as well as other issues, is regulated by a regulation of the Ministry.
Institutional rights
Article 18
The institution has the right to:
1) determines the study programs to be performed and the subjects to be studied;
2) independently develops and implements study programs;
3) determines the methods of teaching and testing students' knowledge;
4) elect management and governing bodies, determine their composition, scope of work and mandate;
5) regulate the internal organization, in accordance with this law and the statute of the institution;
6) elects academic staff;
7) concludes agreements with other institutions in Montenegro and institutions at the international level;
8) awards honorary titles, in accordance with its general act;
9) exercise property rights and dispose of funds, in accordance with the law; i
10) has other rights in accordance with this law and the statute of the institution.
Inviolability of space
Article 19
The premises of the institution are inviolable, except in the case of prevention of an impending criminal offense, an ongoing criminal offense, in the event of a natural disaster, other accident or in other
cases provided by law, with the approval of the governing body of the institution.
Academic freedoms and protection
Article 20
The institution is obliged to guarantee to the academic staff the freedom of thought, ideas, verification of acquired knowledge, ie to provide the freedom of organization and association and protection
academic staff against discrimination on any grounds, in accordance with a special law.
Freedom of research
Article 21
The academic staff of the institution has the freedom to publish the results of its research, in
in accordance with a special law and acts of the institution.
Establishment of an institution
Article 22
A public institution is established by the state.
A private institution may be established by a domestic or foreign legal or natural person.
Conditions for establishing and performing activities
Article 23
An institution may be established and perform its activity if it has:
1) certificate of accreditation of the study program;
2) provided adequate space owned or leased (classrooms, laboratories, library, rooms for extracurricular activities of students), teaching aids, equipment and
other means necessary for performing the activity;
3) provided conditions and unimpeded access for persons with disabilities;
4) provided academic staff who have been elected to an academic title according to the regulations of Montenegro, of which at least three are teachers for basic studies, or two teachers for
master studies, with an academic title, who are employed full-time;
5) provided one half of the associates from the total number of associates required for teaching in each study subject in each academic year, with whom there are
concluded employment contract;
6) provided financial resources for the establishment and performance of activities; i
7) provided hygienic and technical conditions, in accordance with special regulations. Closer conditions from paragraph 1 point. 2 and 3 of this Article shall be prescribed by the Ministry.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1, item 4 of this Article, it is considered that the institution has provided academic staff in the field of medical sciences for clinical subjects, who are employed in
health institution as a teaching base of the institution.
Contents of the founding act
Article 24
The act on the establishment of the institution contains:
1) name and seat, ie name and residence of the founder;
2) name and seat of the institution;
3) activity of the institution;
4) funds for the establishment and performance of activities and the manner of their provision;
5) temporary governing and management bodies;
6) deadline for adoption of the statute; i
7) other issues of importance for performing the activities of the institution.
Adoption of an act
Article 25
The act on the establishment and abolition of a public institution is passed by the Government.
The act on the establishment and abolition of a private institution is issued by the founder.
Financial guarantee
Article 26
The founder of a public institution is obliged to, in addition to proof of fulfillment of the conditions referred to in Article 23 of this Law, submit proof from the state administration body responsible for finance that
provided financial resources in the amount of funds needed for the implementation of the study program.
The founder of a private institution is obliged to, in addition to proof of fulfillment of the conditions referred to in Article 23 of this Law, submit a guarantee of a commercial bank on term financial resources in the amount of
necessary funds for the implementation of the study program for a period of one year.
Necessary funds for the implementation of the study program from para. 1 and 2 of this article, are calculated based on the cost of student education for a particular study program and the number
the student for whom the license is sought.
Before the expiration of the financial guarantee referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the institution is obliged to submit to the Ministry, by the beginning of the next academic year, proof of the provided
financial resources for performing activities for the next academic year.
The commercial bank guarantee referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be activated in the event that the founder makes a decision to terminate or terminate the work of the institution or study program before completion.
education of students according to the study program, at the request of the state administration body responsible for finance.
Funds from Art. 1, 2 and 4 of this article can be used only for the completion of student education.
Performing activities outside the headquarters
Article 27
The institution may perform activities outside its headquarters.
The decision to perform activities outside the seat of a public institution is made by the Government at the proposal of the governing body of the institution.
The decision to perform activities outside the seat of a private institution is made by the founder.
Accreditation of the study program
Article 28
The institution is obliged to submit an application for accreditation of the study program to the Agency, at least six months before submitting the application for licensing.
In the process of accreditation of the study program, the quality of the study program and its compliance with professional needs and adopted standards and comparability with
the same or similar programs abroad, as well as the representation and credit evaluation of practical classes.
Accreditation of the study program is issued for a maximum period of five years.
Notwithstanding paragraph 3 of this Article, accreditation for study programs lasting more than five years shall be issued for the period of that study program.
The Agency forms a commission for the accreditation of study programs.
The Commission is formed from the ranks of independent experts from Montenegro and abroad from the list of experts.
The list of experts referred to in paragraph 6 of this Article shall be determined by the Agency after a public call.
The costs of accreditation of study programs are financed by the institution.
The funds referred to in paragraph 8 of this Article shall be paid to the Agency.
The procedure for accreditation of study programs, the content and form of the accreditation certificate are prescribed by the Ministry, at the proposal of the Agency.
Licensing
Article 29
The institution is obliged to submit an application for licensing to the Ministry, at least six months before the start of its activities.
Along with the request for licensing of the institution, the founder shall submit the founding act and evidence of fulfillment of the conditions referred to in Article 23 of this Law.
An application for licensing is submitted by an institution when: it makes status changes; changes the seat or space; performs activities outside the headquarters or introduces new study programs.
Start of business
Article 30
The institution may perform activities and enroll students when the Ministry determines that the institution meets the requirements prescribed by this law and makes a decision on licensing.
The license determines the type of institution, accredited study programs, the maximum number of students who can enroll in individual study programs, levels of education and diplomas that
are acquired at the institution.
The decision on licensing, referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, shall be issued by the Ministry and published in the "Official Gazette of Montenegro".
An administrative dispute may be initiated against the decision referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article.
Register
Article 31
After receiving the decision on licensing, the institution is entered in the Register of Higher Education Institutions kept by the Ministry.
The licensing procedure and the manner of keeping the register referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be regulated by a regulation of the Ministry.
Prohibition of work
Article 32
When the competent inspection determines that the institution does not meet the conditions for performing the activity or does not perform the activity in accordance with the Law, or does not submit the financial guarantee referred to in Article 26
paragraph 4 of this law, will temporarily prohibit the work of the institution and determine the deadline within which the institution and the founder must eliminate the identified deficiencies.
If the deficiencies are not eliminated within the deadline referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the Ministry shall prohibit the performance of the activities of that institution and notify the founder thereof.
The institution and the founder, in case of prohibition to perform the activities referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, are obliged to enable students to continue their education at another appropriate institution.
Status changes
Article 33
The institution can make status changes.
The decision on the status change of the institution is made by the founder.
Status changes of the institution cannot be made during the academic year.
The provisions of this Law which regulate the establishment and performance of the institution's activities shall apply accordingly to the status changes of the institution.
Abolition of the study program
Article 34
The decision to cancel the study program at the institution is made by the governing body of the institution with the consent of the founder.
In case of cancellation of the study program, the institution is obliged to enable the found students to complete their studies within the deadline determined by the act on the cancellation of the study program.
The decision referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be submitted to the Ministry for the purpose of making changes to the Register of Higher Education Institutions.
Abolition of the institution
Article 35
The institution is terminated if:
1) there is no need for its existence;
2) does not meet the prescribed conditions for performing the activity; i
3) does not perform the activity for which it was established.
In case of termination of the institution, the study year is determined in which the institution stops enrolling students in the first year of study.
In case of liquidation of the institution, the founder is obliged to enable the students to complete their studies within the deadline determined by the act on the liquidation of the institution.
The founder submits the decision on the abolition of the institution to the Ministry in order to make changes to the Register of Higher Education Institutions.
Statute of the institution
Article 36
The statute of the institution regulates in more detail:
1) organization of the institution;
2) bodies of the institution and manner of work;
3) obtaining a diploma of academic and applied studies;
4) performing research, scientific and artistic work;
5) manner of exercising the rights and obligations of employees and students;
6) the manner of adopting the code of ethics of academic staff;
7) financial control;
8) records; i
9) other issues of importance for performing the activities of the institution.
The statute of the institution is adopted by the governing body of the institution. The statute of a public institution is approved by the Government.

Name protection
Article 37
The name for institutions referred to in Article 15 of this Law may be used only by an institution that is licensed and entered in the Register of Higher Education Institutions.
University
Article 38
The University is an autonomous institution that combines educational, scientific research and artistic work as part of a unique process of higher education.
The University provides the development of higher education, science, profession and art, creative abilities and preparation of students for professional activities, as well as promotion
human rights and freedoms, civil and national rights and the achievement of the highest standards of teaching and learning.
Scientific-research, ie artistic work is performed and organized in accordance with a special law and a general act of the university.
University organization
Article 39
An institution may have the status of a university if it implements at least five different study programs in undergraduate studies, of which at least one study program is realized as
basic and postgraduate.
The study programs referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article must be from at least three of the following seven areas: natural, technical-technological, medical, social, humanistic, agricultural and
interdisciplinary.
The university carries out its activities through: faculties, art academies, institutes and colleges, as organizational units.
The university has the status of a legal entity.
The organizational unit of a state university does not have the status of a legal entity.
The state university may transfer to the organizational unit referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article certain authorizations for entering into legal transactions, in accordance with the statute of the university.
An organizational unit of a private university may have the status of a legal entity.
The classification of the areas referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be prescribed by the Ministry and the state administration body responsible for science.
Other ways of organizing studies
Article 40
A public institution may, with the consent of the Government, organize studies in cooperation with a domestic or foreign higher education institution.
A private institution may organize studies in cooperation with a domestic or foreign higher education institution.
In organizing the studies from para. 1 and 2 of this Article, the institution has the right to implement a program of double or joint diplomas.
The double diploma is obtained upon completion of the study program at two institutions of higher education and is confirmed with two diplomas from the institutions.
A joint diploma is issued by at least two or more institutions of higher education, on the basis of a study program for obtaining a joint diploma, which have a work permit for
appropriate study program.
National Agency for European Union Programs
Article 40a
For the implementation and promotion of European Union programs and other international programs in the field of science, education, training and youth, the Government establishes the National Agency for
European Union programs.
The organization and manner of work of the agency referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be regulated by the founding act.

IV QUALITY ASSURANCE
Self-evaluation and quality assessment
Article 41
The institution conducts a procedure of self-evaluation of the quality of study programs, teaching and working conditions at the end of each academic year, in accordance with the statute of the institution.
In the process of self-evaluation, students are surveyed at all levels, at least once a year about study programs, classes, conditions and work of academic staff.
Student participation in the survey is mandatory.
The poll is anonymous.
The results of the student survey are published on the institution's website.
Reports on the self-evaluation of the institution are adopted by the governing body of the institution.
The institution submits the self-evaluation report to the Ministry and the Agency.
Manner and criteria of self-evaluation for study programs, teaching equipment, qualifications of academic staff, manner of teaching, student enrollment, percentage of passing
exams, the percentage of graduates and the content of the survey is regulated in more detail by an act of the Agency.
Reaccreditation of the institution
Article 42
Reaccreditation of the institution is performed by the Agency.
Reaccreditation of the institution is carried out every five years.
The Agency evaluates the institution in accordance with the standards for evaluation of institutions, in accordance with this law.
In the re-accreditation procedure, the institution prepares a self-evaluation report for a maximum period of five years.
Based on the self-evaluation report and the conducted evaluation procedure, the re-accreditation commission, appointed by the Agency, prepares a report on the re-accreditation of the institution.
The re-accreditation report referred to in paragraph 5 of this Article shall be submitted to the Agency, the institution and the Ministry.
Based on the positive report of the commission referred to in paragraph 5 of this Article, the Agency shall issue a certificate of reaccreditation of the institution.
The form of the certificate referred to in paragraph 7 of this Article shall be determined by the Ministry and published on its website.
Evaluation costs are financed by the institution.
Temporary validity of the license
Article 42a
If the institution does not receive a certificate of reaccreditation, the license is valid for a maximum period of one year, without the possibility of enrolling students in that year.
If the institution does not receive the reaccreditation certificate after the expiration of the deadline referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the Ministry shall revoke the license of the institution by a decision.
An administrative dispute may be initiated against the decision referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article.
Exception
Article 43
During the period of validity of accreditation, ie re-accreditation, the licensed institution may make changes to the study program in undergraduate studies up to a maximum of 30 ECTS credits without
conducting the accreditation and licensing process.
Labor market research
Article 44
The institution is obliged to conduct labor market research at least once in five years by surveying graduates, employers' associations, business entities and entrepreneurs on
applicability of acquired knowledge, skills and competencies necessary for the labor market.
The results of the research referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be considered during the preparation of the report on self-evaluation and re-accreditation and shall be published on the website of the institution.

V MANAGEMENT AND MANAGEMENT
University governing body
Article 45
The governing body of the university is the governing board.
The governing board determines the business policy of the university.
State University Governing Body
Article 46
The board of directors of the state university has 15 members and consists of representatives: academic staff, other employees, students and representatives of the founders.
Representatives of the founders in the board of directors of the state university make up 1/3 of the total number of members of the board of directors.
Student representatives on the governing board of the state university are elected by the Student Parliament in accordance with its rules.
The board of directors is elected for a period of four years, except for the student representative who is elected for a period of two years.
Jurisdiction, the manner of election and dismissal, as well as the manner of work and decision-making of the governing board are regulated in more detail by the statute of the state university.
The governing body of a private university
Article 47
The board of directors of a private university elects the founder.
Student representatives must be elected to the composition of the board of directors referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article.
Competence, number of members, composition, manner of election and dismissal, manner of work and decision-making of the board of directors, as well as the period for which the board of directors of a private university is elected is determined by the founder,
in accordance with its statute.
The governing body of a non-university institution
Article 48
The governing body of a non-university institution is determined by the statute of the institution.
Representatives of academic staff, other employees and students must be represented in the management body referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article.
Competence, number, composition, duration of mandate, manner of election and dismissal, as well as the manner of work and decision-making of the governing body of the institution referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be regulated by the statute of the institution.
University governing body
Article 49
The governing body of the university is the rector.
The Rector is responsible for the work of the University, as well as for the management within the business policy determined by the University Board.
A university may have vice-rectors.
Election of the rector of the state university
Article 50
The rector of a state university is elected for a period of three years on the basis of a public competition and a submitted university development program.
The Rector of the State University is elected by the Board of Directors from among the full professors of the State University.
The same person may be elected rector of a state university twice in a row.
The manner and procedure of electing the rector, ie vice-rector, their powers, the duration of the vice-rector's mandate and other issues are regulated by the statute of the state university.
Election of the rector of a private university
Article 51
The rector of a private university is elected by the founder from among full professors, in accordance with his statute.
The manner of electing the rector or vice-rector of a private university, powers, term of office and other issues are regulated by the statute of the private university.
The governing body of the organizational unit of the state university
Article 52
The governing body of the organizational unit of the state university is the dean, ie the director, who is elected by the governing board of the university in accordance with the statute.
The manner of election of the dean, ie director, authorizations, term of office and other issues are regulated by the statute of the state university.
The governing body of an institution other than a university
Article 53
The governing body of an institution other than a university is determined by the statute of that institution.
The manner of election of the governing body, authority, duration of the mandate and other issues are regulated by the statute of the institution.

University professional body
Article 54
The professional body of the university is the senate.
The Senate consists of: the rector, vice-rectors, representatives of the academic staff and student representatives, in accordance with the statute of the university.
Of the total number of senate members, at least 50% of the members must be full professors of the university.
Jurisdiction, number, composition, term of office, manner of election and dismissal, as well as the manner of work and decision-making of the senate are regulated by the statute of the university.
Professional body of an institution that is not a university
Article 55
The professional body of a non-university institution is the council of the institution.
The council of the institution consists of academic staff and student representatives, in accordance with the statute of the institution.
The detailed composition, competence, duration of the mandate, manner of work and decision-making of the council shall be regulated by the statute of the institution.
Professional body of the organizational unit of the state university
Article 56
The professional body of the organizational unit of the state university is the council.
The Council referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article consists of: Dean, Vice-Deans, persons with academic title, representatives of associates and students, in accordance with the statute of the state university.
The competence, duration of the mandate, the manner of work and decision-making of the council are regulated by the statute of the state university.

VI FINANCING
Sources of funding
Article 57
The institution can be financed from:
1) funds of the founder;
2) tuition and other fees paid by students;
3) intellectual and other services;
4) donations, gifts and bequests;
5) income from property (lease);
6) projects and agreements with international, state or private entities for the purpose of promoting teaching, research and consulting activities; i
7) other sources in accordance with the law.
Responsibility of governing bodies
Article 58
The governing body of the institution is responsible for the lawful and purposeful use of funds provided in accordance with this law.
Audit
Article 59
Independent external and internal financial control is provided in the operation of the institution. The manner of performing internal financial control is regulated by the statute of the institution.
Independent audit
Article 60
In performing external control, the Government may appoint an independent certified auditor to examine the financial condition of the institution that receives funds from the budget of Montenegro.
The managing body of the institution is obliged to ensure cooperation during the financial control referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article.
Refund
Article 61
The Government shall request from the institution that receives funds from the budget of Montenegro the return of the allocated funds, if the findings of the independent and certified auditor have established an illegal and
misuse of funds.
Powers of the public institution
Article 62
A public institution may invest funds for educational or research purposes, with the consent of the Government, provided that:
1) that the contract does not charge funds from the budget of Montenegro; i
Page 2

2) that funds from the budget of Montenegro are not exposed to risk.
Temporary funding
Article 63
If the public institution does not receive a certificate of re-accreditation in accordance with this law, the founder may provide funds for financing the institution, for a period of up to one year
without the possibility of enrolling students in that year.
Funding norms and standards
Article 64
The founder provides funds to the public institution for:
1) material costs, current and investment maintenance;
2) salaries of employees in accordance with the law, collective agreement and the act on the organization and systematization of jobs;
3) equipment and library fund;
4) performing scientific research, ie artistic work, which is in the function of raising the quality of teaching;
5) scientific and professional training of employees;
6) databases and information system;
7) work of the Student Parliament and extracurricular activities of students;
8) establishing equal study conditions for all students (unhindered access, residence and work);
9) other purposes in accordance with the law.
Norms and standards for financing public institutions referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be adopted by the Government.
Financing of public institutions
Article 64a
The public institution acquires funds from the Budget of Montenegro on the basis of norms and standards for financing public institutions referred to in Article 64 of this Law, taking into account the number of students determined
license, the cost of the student for a particular study program and the assessment of the quality of work of the institution from the report on external evaluation.
Mutual rights and obligations between the public institution and the Government for the implementation of study programs of the I and II cycle of studies are regulated by the financing agreement.
The contract referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be concluded for at least one fiscal year.
The contract referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall contain in particular: objectives, activities and measures for achieving the objectives, indicators for monitoring the implementation of the contract, the dynamics of submitting reports on the implementation
contracts and other issues of importance for financing.
The content of the contract referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article shall be determined by the Ministry and published on its website.
Determining the number of students
Article 65
The Government determines the number of students that will be financed from the budget of Montenegro for a certain study program, in accordance with the number prescribed in the license of the public institution.
The decision referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be made by the Government, at the proposal of the governing body of the public institution, in the procedure of giving consent to the competition for enrollment in study programs.
Revenue generation of a public institution on the market
Article 66
The activity of a public institution is, as a rule, unprofitable.
A public institution may, in accordance with this law, promote and use educational and research activities on the market in order to generate income for the realization of the goals of the high
education, which is used to improve teaching and research activities, in accordance with its financial plan.
The public institution is obliged to obtain the prior consent of the Government, when that activity includes or could involve the use of the rights of any significant intellectual property, in any
literary, artistic or scientific works, scientific discoveries, projects, inventions, goods or services which, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, are also provided from
funds from the budget of Montenegro.
Innovation activities
Article 66a
A public institution may establish an innovation center, a center of excellence, a technology transfer center, a science and technology park and other organizations for performing innovation activities, and
providing infrastructural support for the development of innovations and the commercialization of research and artistic results.
Special financing conditions
Article 67
The Government may, for the funds allocated to a public institution for teaching and research, prescribe certain conditions for their use, which relate to:
1) acquisition, use and disposal of land, buildings and equipment;
2) the amount and use of tuition and other payments prescribed to students;
3) transfer of funds allocated for study programs.
Student funding at private institutions
Article 68
Funds in the budget of Montenegro can be provided for the financing of students at private institutions in study programs of public interest and which are not realized at a public institution.
Up.
Criteria for determining study programs of public interest at private institutions and which are not implemented at a public institution shall be prescribed by the Government, with a previously obtained opinion.
Tips.
Based on the criteria referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, the Government shall make a decision on study programs of public interest in private institutions and which are not implemented in a public institution for each
study year.
The Government, based on the decision referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article, with the opinion of the Council, determines the number of students and the amount of funds for financing students in study programs of public interest
at private institutions and which are not realized at a public institution for each academic year.
The amount of funds referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article shall be determined on the basis of norms and standards for financing study programs of public interest at private institutions and which are not
implemented at a public institution, adopted by the Government.
Conditions for the use of funds
Article 69
The government, for the funds allocated to a private institution, prescribes certain conditions for their use and requires the private institution to submit the budget proposed for
performing its activities for the next fiscal year.
The private institution is responsible for the lawful and purposeful use of funds allocated by the Government and is obliged to provide the Government with access to financial books and records.
Study fee
Article 69a
Students of the I and II cycle of studies at public institutions do not pay a study fee.
Students of the third cycle of studies at public institutions pay a tuition fee.
Students of the I, II and III cycle of studies at private institutions pay a tuition fee.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1 of this Article, students of the I and II cycle pay a study fee for studies conducted in English.
The amount of compensation referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article shall be determined by the governing body of the public institution, with the consent of the Ministry.
Determining tuition fees
Article 70
The amount of the fee paid by students at the institutions is determined by the governing body of the institution. Notwithstanding paragraph 1 of this Article, the amount of the fee paid by students of the I and II cycle who do not
realize 45 ECTS credits, at public institutions determined by the managing authority, with the consent of the Ministry.
The amount of the fee referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article may be determined in a different amount depending on the costs of realization of the study program.
Students with disabilities at public and private institutions are exempt from paying the fee.

VII ACADEMIC STAFF
Academic staff
Article 71
Academic staff, in terms of this law, are persons with an academic title and associates who directly implement the study program at the institution.
Academic titles
Article 72
Academic titles, in terms of this law, are:
1) full professor;
2) associate professor;
3) assistant professor;
4) high school professor and lecturer.
Persons in academic titles referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be elected by the University Senate, on the basis of a public competition, for a period of five years, except for a full professor who is elected indefinitely.
time.
Election to a higher rank is made after the expiration of the time for election to a lower rank.
The procedure for election to academic titles referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article must be completed within six months from the day of announcing the competition.
Conditions for election to an academic title
Article 73
A person who has a doctorate of science and proven pedagogical abilities may be elected to the academic titles referred to in Article 72, paragraph 1 of this Law.
A person may be elected to academic titles for art and related subjects at the Faculty and Academy of Fine, Applied, Music, Dramatic Arts and Architecture.
who has higher education, recognized works of art and proven pedagogical abilities.
Academic staff referred to in Article 72 of this Law, in addition to the conditions referred to in para. 1 and 2 of this Article, must meet the conditions for election to the title for the relevant scientific / artistic discipline, which must
be internationally comparable.
Selection procedure
Article 74
The procedure for election to academic titles, as well as other issues related to election, are regulated by the statute of the university.
When participating in academic titles, the participation of international experts may be enabled, in accordance with the statute of the university.
Associates
Article 75
A teaching assistant can be:
- master's student who has completed basic or specialist studies with the lowest average grade of B (8.50);
- doctoral student, ie doctoral student who has completed a master's degree with the lowest average grade of B (8.50);
- a person who has acquired the scientific title of Doctor of Science.
The person referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be elected, on the basis of a public competition, announced by the institution in accordance with the statute of the institution.
The contract with the associates referred to in paragraph 1, line 1 of this Article shall be concluded for a period of one year, but not longer than four years.
The contract with the associates referred to in paragraph 1, line 2 of this Article shall be concluded for a period of three years, but not longer than seven years.
The contract with an associate who has acquired the scientific title of Doctor of Science is concluded for a period of up to five years.
A teaching associate cannot independently conduct theoretical classes, conduct examinations and assess students.
Detailed conditions, manner and procedure of selection of associates are determined by the statute of the institution.
Visiting professor
Article 76
An institution without a public competition, based on the decision of the competent body of the institution, may hire a person with an academic title from another institution outside the territory of Montenegro as
visiting professor.
The rights and obligations between the visiting professor and the institution are regulated by a contract, in accordance with the statute of the institution.
Professor emeritus
Article 77
The University may award the title of professor emeritus to a retired full professor who has particularly distinguished himself with his scientific or artistic work.
Detailed conditions and procedure for awarding the title of professor emeritus are determined by the general act of the university.
Plagiarism protection
Article 78 *
(expired)

VIII ORGANIZATION OF STUDIES
Study programs
Article 79
Studies at institutions are realized on the basis of an accredited study program.
Upon completion of the study program, a certain level of education and qualifications is acquired, in accordance with the law.
Article 80
The institution of higher education, within the program it implements, provides students with the conditions for acquiring knowledge of at least one foreign language at a higher advanced level.
Types of study programs
Article 81
Study programs that can be realized at institutions are: basic, master (postgraduate) and doctoral.
Study programs referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article may be interdisciplinary and are organized from at least two areas.
Undergraduate and graduate study programs can be accredited as academic and applied.
Doctoral study programs can be accredited as academic.
The study program must contain practical classes, as well as learning outcomes for the scientific field to which the study program belongs, ie competencies for performing activities.
The study program must contain learning outcomes for the scientific field to which the study program and practical teaching belong.
The practical classes referred to in paragraph 5 of this Article amount to at least 25% in relation to the total student workload by subjects, ie years, depending on the learning outcomes for individual
study program.
Undergraduate programs contain at least two elective modules.
European Credit Transfer System
Article 82
Study programs for obtaining the level of education and higher education diplomas must be harmonized with the European Credit Transfer System (ECTS European Credit Transfer)
System).
The scope of the study program that is performed in one academic year is 60 (ECTS) credits.
Transfer of ECTS credits can be realized between different study programs, ie institutions.
Criteria and conditions for the transfer of ECTS credits are prescribed by the general act of the institution, ie the contract between the institutions.
Types of diplomas
Article 83
Diplomas obtained at the institution are:
1) diploma of applied undergraduate studies after completion of the applied study program, scope 180 ECTS;

2) diploma of academic basic studies, after the completion of the academic study program, in the amount of 180 ECTS;
3) diploma of completed integrated basic and master studies of 300 and 360 ECTS, respectively;
4) diploma of applied master studies, after the completion of the applied master program, volume 120 ECTS, and after obtaining diplomas of applied basic studies and defense master
work or after the completion of the integrated basic and master study program of 300 ECTS and the defense of the master's work;
5) diploma of academic master studies, after the completion of the academic master program, volume 120 ECTS after obtaining the diploma of academic basic studies and defense of the master's thesis
or after completing an integrated basic and master study program of 300 ECTS and defending a master's thesis.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1 of this Article, diplomas in the field of regulated professions shall be acquired in accordance with a special regulation of the European Union which regulates regulated professions.
The diploma of academic doctoral studies can be obtained by a person who has the academic title of master of science and has completed the study program of doctoral studies of 180 ECTS and defended
doctoral dissertation.
Notwithstanding paragraph 3 of this Article, a diploma of academic doctoral studies may be obtained by a person who has completed an integrated basic and master study program of at least 300 ECTS,
completed the study program of doctoral studies of 180 ECTS and the defense of the doctoral dissertation.
Diplomas from Art. 3 and 4 of this article are acquired at the university.

IX STUDY RULES
Study year and teaching organization
Article 84
The institution conducts classes during the academic year, which, as a rule, begins on September 1, in accordance with the academic calendar.
Classes in the study year can be realized in two semesters, each of which lasts 15 weeks.
Teaching of individual subjects is realized during one semester, in accordance with the study program.
Distance learning
Article 85
Classes can also be organized as distance learning, and exams are held on the premises of the institution.
The conditions and manner of organizing classes and taking exams, referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, shall be prescribed by the Ministry, with the previously obtained opinion of the Council.

Organization of studies
Article 86
The institution is obliged to organize lectures, exercises, practical classes and other forms of teaching for all students, except for distance learning, in accordance with the study program for
achieving learning outcomes.
Practical knowledge, skills and competencies, ie practical classes can be acquired in the premises of the institution and outside the institution.
Practical classes outside the institution are realized with legal entities on the basis of a contract on practical classes.
The manner and time of organizing the form of teaching referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be regulated by the institution in a general act.
At the beginning of the academic year, the institution is obliged to inform the students in an appropriate manner about the manner, time and place of teaching, testing of knowledge and exams, exam results and
other issues of importance for the organization of studies.
Study rules
Article 87
When enrolling in an institution, a student decides to enroll in a specific study program.
The study program determines the subjects for each year of study.
By taking the exam in the subject, from paragraph 2 of this article, the student acquires a certain number of ECTS credits in accordance with the study program.
The institution may grant a student, who has not achieved at least 45 ECTS credits for a certain study program, enrollment in the next academic year if he has not passed one exam in the subject
which is valued with more than 15 ECTS credits, in accordance with the statute of the institution.
A student who does not pass the elective course may re-opt for the same or another elective course.
The rules of study are determined in more detail by the general act of the institution.
Changing the way students are financed
Article 88
A student who is financed from the budget of Montenegro and has at least 45 ECTS credits realized in the first enrolled academic year has the right to be financed in the next academic year from
budget.
A student who is financed from the budget of Montenegro and has less than 45 ECTS credits in the first enrolled academic year can continue his / her studies in the status of a self-financed student.
A student from paragraph 2 of this article who passes all exams, ie realizes 60 ECTS credits, has the right to be financed from the budget in the next year.
Grading
Article 89
The student takes the exam at the end of the teaching of that study subject in the manner provided by the study program, in accordance with the statute of the institution.
The success of students in mastering the subject and all forms of knowledge testing before the exam is evaluated and expressed in points.
The total number of points that a student can gain through all pre-examination forms of knowledge testing, ie learning outcomes is from 30 to 70 points, in accordance with the rules of study.
Based on all pre-examination forms of knowledge testing, ie learning outcomes and passing the exam, the student can achieve a maximum of 100 points, in accordance with the rules of study.
The success of students in the exam and other forms of knowledge testing is expressed in letters, namely: A, B, C, D, E and F.
A grade of F is an insufficient grade.
The letter grades referred to in paragraph 5 of this Article are equivalent to numerical grades, as follows:
1) grade A (excellent) is equivalent to grade 10
2) grade B (very good) is equivalent to grade 9
3) grade C (good) is equivalent to grade 8
4) grade D (satisfies) is equivalent to grade 7
5) grade E (sufficient) is equivalent to grade 6.
The average grade during the studies is determined as the quotient of the sum of the products of the numerical grade and ECTS credits for each subject and the total number of acquired ECTS credits.
Exams
Article 90
The exam is public.
The student takes the exam on the premises of the institution.
Notwithstanding paragraph 2 of this Article, the examination may be taken outside the premises of the institution only if it is an examination of a study subject whose character so requires.
The student takes the exam immediately after the end of classes in that subject.
A student with a disability has the right to take the exam in a place and manner adapted to his / her abilities in accordance with the statute of the institution.
A student may take only one colloquium or final exam in one day, and no more than two colloquia or final exams in a week.
Examination period
Article 91
Exam deadlines are January, June and September.
The examination deadlines referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article have two examination terms.
In the September exam period, the student has the right to take all exams and pre-exam tests (colloquia and final exams) that he registered in that academic year and which he did not take,
that is, passed in January or June, in accordance with a special act of the institution.
A student who does not pass the exam in the first exam period has the right to take it in the second term of the same exam period.
Terms for the organization of the exam from para. 1, 2 and 4 of this article, this article, are determined by the academic calendar for the academic year adopted by the institution, in accordance with the statute.
Objection
Article 92
The student has the right to file an objection to the assessment of the governing body of the institution if he considers that the exam was not conducted in accordance with the law and the general act of the institution within 48 hours of
obtaining a grade.
The managing body is obliged to form a commission upon the complaint, within three days, which will determine, in accordance with the request from the complaint, whether the assessment was performed contrary to the regulations,
review and re-evaluate written or other work or examine a student.
The assessment of the commission referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article is final.
If a student requests the disqualification of the subject teacher, that teacher cannot be a member of the commission referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article.

X STUDENTS
Enrollment in undergraduate studies
Article 93
The right to enroll in basic academic and applied studies has a person who has acquired the appropriate level of education IV-1 sub-level of the National Qualifications Framework.
Enrollment in the studies referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be made on the basis of:
1) general success at the completion of individual grades for acquiring IV-1 sub-level of the National Qualifications Framework;
2) results achieved at the external Matura, ie professional exam;
3) achieved success in two subjects of the third and fourth grade that are important for continuing education;
3a) success in national or international competitions in subjects that are important for continuing education; i
4) Luca diplomas.
An entrance exam can be introduced for enrollment in certain study programs.
For persons with disabilities, the principle of affirmative action is applied when enrolling in the study program.
Matura, ie professional exam referred to in paragraph 2, item 2 of this Article shall be evaluated with at least 15% of the total number of points acquired upon enrollment by evaluating all criteria from paragraph 2 and 3
of this article.
Notwithstanding paragraph 1 of this Article, a candidate without completed high school may enroll in professional and artistic study programs of basic studies at faculties and academies of arts.
if he passes the entrance exam in accordance with this law.
More detailed conditions and criteria, manner and procedure of enrollment in the first year of basic academic and applied studies are prescribed by the Ministry.
Enrollment in specialist studies
Article 94
(deleted)
Enrollment in master studies
Article 95
Enrollment in master's academic and applied studies is done on a competitive basis in accordance with the results achieved in basic or applied studies of at least 180 ECTS
and the entrance exam in accordance with this law and the statute of the institution.
Content, manner and procedure of taking the entrance exam and more detailed criteria and their evaluation, as well as the manner and procedure, and the level of harmonization of study programs of basic studies for enrollment in
the first year of master's academic and applied studies are determined by an act of the institution.
Enrollment in doctoral studies
Article 96
Enrollment in doctoral studies is done on a competitive basis, in accordance with the results achieved in master's academic studies, in accordance with this law and the statute of the institution.
Detailed conditions, criteria, manner, procedure and level of harmonization of study programs of master studies for enrollment in the first year of doctoral studies are prescribed by the professional body of the institution.
Lifelong learning
Article 97
Institutions can implement special training programs in the field of higher education for the needs of lifelong learning in order to acquire a professional qualification or part of a professional
qualifications, ie other qualifications in accordance with the law and special regulations of the institution.
The special training program referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall not be considered a study program.
The programs referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be accredited by the Agency, except for programs adopted by the competent authorities in accordance with the law, and may be implemented at licensed institutions, in accordance with
with a special law.
The institution referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall issue a document to the person who completes the training program.
Examination of knowledge, skills and competencies of persons who complete special programs is performed in accordance with a special act of the institution.
Enrollment competition
Article 98
The competition for enrollment in studies is announced by the institution, in accordance with the license and the statute.
The competition for enrollment in studies in a public institution is announced by the governing body, in accordance with the license, with the prior consent of the founder.
Number of students to enroll
Article 99
The institution determines the number of students who enroll in the study programs it organizes, which cannot be higher than the number determined in the license.
In cases where the number of qualified candidates for enrollment is greater than the number of publicly funded places in any study program, candidates may enroll in places for which
pays tuition fees, based on the criteria from Article 93 of this Law, up to the number determined in the competition.
Notwithstanding paragraph 2 of this Article, if the candidate is a person with a disability, the principle of affirmative action shall be implemented.
Registration of foreign nationals
Article 100
A foreigner has the right to enroll in study programs in Montenegro under the same conditions as Montenegrin citizens, in accordance with this law and the statute of the institution.
Student status
Article 101
Student status is acquired by enrolling in the appropriate study program at the institution.
Study contract
Article 102
The student and the institution conclude a study agreement, which regulates their mutual rights and obligations in more detail.
In addition to the study contract, students also sign statements of respect for the principles of academic ethics. The content of the contract for public institutions referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be determined by the Ministry and published on
your website.
The contract referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article contains the obligation of the institution to ensure the continuation and completion of education in the event of termination of the institution or study program.
Student rights
Article 103
The student has the right to:
1) quality education and objective assessment;
2) to declare the quality of work of academic staff;
3) on appeal in case of violation of his right determined by the general act of the institution;
4) to the suspension of rights and obligations during pregnancy, parental leave, prolonged illness and in other justified cases in accordance with the statute of the institution;
5) to attend lectures, seminars and other types of classes;
6) to use libraries, computer rooms and other services provided by the institution to students;
7) to elect and be elected to the bodies of the institution, in accordance with this law and the statute of the institution;
8) representation of at least 20% in relation to the total number of members in professional bodies and management bodies;
9) to exercise rights in the field of student standards;
10) equality and protection against discrimination; i
11) to exercise other rights in accordance with this law and the statute of the institution.
The manner of exercising the rights referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be regulated in more detail by the statute of the institution.
Student obligations
Article 104
The student has the obligation to:
1) respects the study regime and duly fulfills student obligations;
2) respects the general acts issued by the institution;
3) participates in the academic activities of the institution;
4) respects the rights of employees and other students.
Protection of student rights
Article 105
The student has the right to challenge any decision of the institution, which violated his right established by law, statute or other act, before the competent court.
Termination of student status
Article 106
Student status ends:
1) by obtaining a diploma of the appropriate level of education;
2) printing;
2a) if he does not complete the study program within the period prescribed by law and the statute of the institution;
3) expulsion from the institution.
Conditions under which the student status ceases from paragraph 1 item. 2, 2a and 3 of this Article, as well as the appeal procedures shall be regulated by the statute of the institution.
Exclusion of a student
Article 107
A student may be expelled from the institution, for a maximum of two academic years, by the senate, ie another professional body, in accordance with the statute of the institution.
An appeal against the decision referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be lodged with the governing body of the institution.
The decision of the body referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article is final.
Student standard
Article 108
Student standard rights are personal and non-transferable.
Rights from the student standard
Article 109
The student has the right to:
1) accommodation and meals in the home;
2) student loan;
3) scholarship for the best students;
4) participation of transport in suburban and intercity traffic;
5) health care in accordance with a special law;
6) establishment of sports associations in accordance with the law.
Criteria, manner, conditions and amount of compensation for exercising the rights referred to in paragraph 1, item 1, 2, 3 and 4 of this Article shall be prescribed by the Ministry.
Dorm
Article 110
Accommodation and meals for students are organized in student dormitories, ie dormitories for students (hereinafter: student dormitory).
On the establishment, organization, internal organization and work, status changes, manner of management and administration, financing, representation and representation and other issues of importance for
the provisions of the General Law on Education apply accordingly to the work of the student dormitory.
Student organizations
Article 111
The statute of the institution provides for the establishment of one or more organizations that represent students and contribute to meeting social, cultural and academic needs and the need for physical
student recreation.
Student Parliament
Article 112
The Student Parliament is an institutional form of student organization, which is autonomous in its work and authorized to represent and protect the rights and interests of students.
The student parliament is formed in the institution, and it consists of student representatives.
The competence, the manner of election, as well as the organization of the work of the student parliament are regulated by the statute of the student parliament.
Financial assistance to student organizations
Article 113
The institution may provide financial assistance for the establishment and operation of student organizations, including funds for investment and current costs of space and equipment.

XI RECORDS AND PUBLIC DOCUMENTS
Records
Article 114
The institution keeps: student register, records on issued diplomas and diploma supplements and records on exams.
The student's registry book and records of issued diplomas are permanently kept.
The records referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be kept in the form of records on paper and in electronic form. Personal data entered in the records referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be collected, processed, stored and used
for the needs of the institution and the Ministry, in accordance with the law.
All types of collection, holding, processing, publishing and use of data referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article shall be carried out in accordance with the law governing the protection of personal data.
Public documents
Article 115
Based on the data from the records, the institution issues public documents.
Public documents, in terms of this law, are: index, diploma and diploma supplement, certificate of study, certificate of passed exams and certificate of completed studies.
The manner of keeping the registry book, records and the content of public documents shall be prescribed by the Ministry.
Nullity of a public document
Article 116
Public documents are declared null and void if:
1) they were issued by an unlicensed institution;
2) they were signed by an unauthorized person;
3) the holder of the public document has not fulfilled all examination obligations in the study program in the manner and according to the procedure determined by law, by-laws and the study program.
The procedure of declaring public documents null and void is carried out by the Ministry.
The decision on annulment of public documents is final in the administrative procedure and is published in the "Official Gazette of Montenegro".

XII PENAL PROVISIONS
Penalties for misdemeanors
Article 117
A fine of 2,000 euros to 20,000 euros will be imposed on a legal entity - institution, if:
1) starts operating and performs the activity and does not meet the prescribed conditions, ie does not have a decision on licensing (Article 30, paragraph 1);
2) in case of termination of the study program, does not enable the students to complete their studies (Article 34, paragraph 2);
3) in case of termination of the institution, does not enable the students to complete their studies (Article 35, paragraph 3);
4) apply the statute to which the Government has not given its consent (Article 36, paragraph 3);
5) invests funds for educational or research purposes without the consent of the Government (Article 62);
6) without previously obtained consent of the Government, provides funds from the budget of Montenegro when that activity includes or could include the use of the rights of any significant
intellectual property, in any literary, artistic or scientific works, scientific discoveries, projects, inventions, goods or services (Article 66, paragraph 3);
7) collect tuition fees higher than the tuition fees approved by the Ministry (Article 70, paragraph 2);
8) elect persons to academic titles who do not meet the conditions for election to the academic title referred to in Article 73, para. 1, 2 and 3 of this Law;
9) select persons for teaching associates who do not meet the conditions prescribed by Article 75 para. 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of this Law;
10) issue diplomas to persons who do not meet the conditions prescribed by Article 83 of this Law;
11) enroll students in undergraduate studies who do not meet the requirements prescribed in Article 93 of this Law;
12) enrolls students through the number determined in the license (Article 99, paragraph 1);
13) does not conclude a study contract with the student (Article 102, paragraph 1);
14) does not keep the student's register, records on issued diplomas and diploma supplements and records on exams (Article 114, paragraph 1);
15) does not issue public documents on the basis of data from the records (Article 115, paragraph 1).
For the misdemeanor referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the management body and the responsible person at the institution shall be fined in the amount of 200 euros to 2,000 euros.

XIII TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS
Deadline for adoption of bylaws
Article 118
Regulations for the implementation of this law shall be adopted no later than one year from the day this law enters into force.
Until the enactment of the regulations determined by this Law, the regulations that were valid until the entry into force of this Law shall apply, if they are not in conflict with this Law.
Deadline for adoption of bylaws
Article 118a
Regulations for the implementation of this law shall be adopted no later than one year from the day this law enters into force.
Until the enactment of regulations in accordance with this Law, the regulations that were valid until the entry into force of this Law shall apply, if they are not in conflict with this Law.
Financing
Article 118b
Funding of public institutions for the implementation of new study programs and study cycles begins in the 2017/2018 academic year. years.
Funding of public institutions for the implementation of new study programs of the second cycle of studies begins in the 2020/2021 academic year. years.
Article 118c
Regulations for the implementation of this law shall be adopted no later than one year from the day this law enters into force.
Until the enactment of the regulations referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the applicable bylaws shall be applied, if they are not in conflict with this Law.
Harmonization of acts of institutions
Article 119
Institutions are obliged to harmonize their organization, work and general acts with this law within six months from the day this law enters into force.
Until the adoption of general acts referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the existing general acts shall apply, if they are not in conflict with this Law.
Harmonization of acts of institutions
Article 119a
Institutions are obliged to harmonize the organization, work and acts with this law within one year from the day of its entry into force.
Until the adoption of the acts referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the existing acts shall be applied, if they are not in conflict with this Law.
Diploma equivalence
Article 119b
Diplomas of completed higher education lasting four, five or six years obtained according to the curricula adopted before the entry into force
Law on Higher Education ("Official Gazette of the Republic of Montenegro", No. 60/03 and "Official Gazette of Montenegro", No. 45/10, 47/11 and 48/13) are equivalent to master's degrees in terms of the right to
employment.
Diplomas on completed postgraduate academic and applied specialist studies obtained under the Law on Higher Education ("Official Gazette of the Republic of Montenegro", No. 60/03 and
"Official Gazette of Montenegro", no. 45/10, 47/11 and 48/13) and according to the Law on Higher Education ("Official Gazette of Montenegro", no. 44/14, 47/15 and 40/16) are equivalent to master's degrees in law
on employment.
Diplomas referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and diplomas on completed postgraduate academic specialist studies referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be recognized for enrollment in the second year of master studies in
in accordance with this law.
Article 119c
The diploma of the acquired scientific title of Master of Science according to the regulations according to which it was acquired has the same value (equivalent) as the diploma of completed master studies in terms of
the right to continue studies and the right to employment.
Article 119d
Institutions are obliged to harmonize the organization, work and acts with this law within one year from the day of passing bylaws in accordance with this law.
Until the enactment of the acts referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the valid bylaws shall be applied, if they are not in conflict with this Law.
Start the accreditation and licensing process
Article 120
The procedure of accreditation and licensing of institutions, ie study programs, which has started by the day this law enters into force, will be completed according to the regulations according to which it was started.
Deadline for reaccreditation of study programs
Article 120a
Public and private higher education institutions that have been accredited, ie re-accredited by the day this Law enters into force, are obliged to submit a request for re-accreditation.
Agency by the end of 2018.
Deadline to complete the license
Article 121
For study programs for which the University of Montenegro does not have a license, the prescribed number of students for enrollment in the first year of study is valid until the day this law enters into force.
procedure for supplementing the license for determining the number of students, until April 30, 2015.
Deadline for harmonization of study programs and reaccreditation of institutions
Article 121a
Institutions are obliged to harmonize study programs with this law within one year from the day this law enters into force.
Public and private higher education institutions that are accredited, ie re-accredited according to the new model of study, in accordance with the law, are not obliged to submit a request
Agency before the expiration of the validity of the accreditation of study programs, ie re-accreditation of institutions.
Article 121b
Institutions of higher education that have accredited undergraduate, master's and doctoral programs (3 + 2 + 3) after January 1, 2016, for a period of three years, the accreditation is valid until
end of study 2021/2022. years.
Deadline for harmonization of study programs
Article 122
Institutions are obliged to harmonize study programs with Article 81, paragraph 6 of this Law, within one year from the day this Law enters into force.
Deadline for completion of education
Article 122a
Students enrolled at the University of Montenegro who have started their studies according to the study programs adopted on the basis of the Law on the University ("Official Gazette of the Republic of Montenegro", No. 37/92 and 6/94), have
the right to complete studies according to the curriculum that was valid at the time of enrollment in the first year of study, until the end of the academic year 2016/2017. years.

Deadline for harmonization of study programs
Article 122b
Institutions are obliged to harmonize study programs with this law within two years from the day this law enters into force.
Enrollment in undergraduate studies
Page 3

Article 122c
Enrollment in undergraduate studies according to the new study programs implemented by public institutions begins in the 2017/2018 academic year. years.
Enrollment in undergraduate studies in new study programs implemented by private institutions begins after the harmonization of study programs in accordance with this law, and no later than
study 2020/2021. years.
Enrollment in specialist studies
Article 122h
Enrollment in specialist studies at public institutions can be done until the 2019/2020 academic year. years.
Enrollment in master studies
Article 122
Enrollment in master's academic and applied studies in public institutions can be done until the study year 2020/21. years.
Enrollment of students in previous study programs
Article 122d
Institutions can enroll students in the current accredited study programs of basic, specialist and master studies according to the programs that are accredited, ie
re-accredited until the completion of the procedure of re-accreditation of those study programs, in accordance with this law.
Student status
Article 122dž
Students who are enrolled in undergraduate, specialist, master's and doctoral studies before the entry into force of this law, have the right to complete their studies according to the study
program that was valid at the time of enrollment, according to the law under which they were enrolled, and no later than the end of the study 2020/2021.
Students enrolled at the University of Montenegro according to the programs adopted on the basis of the Law on the University ("Official Gazette of the Republic of Montenegro", No. 37/92 and 6/94), have the right to complete their studies according to
program that was valid at the time of enrollment in the first year of study, until the end of the study 2021/2022. years.
Students from st. 1 and 2 of this Article may be included in study programs organized in accordance with this Law in the manner and under the conditions prescribed by a special act issued by
the senate of the university, ie the professional body of the institution.
Students from st. 1 and 2 of this Article pay tuition fees in public institutions determined by the governing body of the institution with the consent of the Ministry.
Issuance of diplomas
Article 122
Students who complete their studies according to the programs adopted in accordance with the Law on the University ("Official Gazette of the Republic of Montenegro", No. 37/92 and 6/94), the public institution issues diplomas at special
forms, which are determined by the public institution, in accordance with this law.
Enrollment in specialist studies
Article 122e
Institutions that have accredited study programs of specialist studies until the day of entry into force of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Higher Education ("Official Gazette
CG ", number 42/17) can enroll students in specialist studies until the academic year 2021/2022.
Students who are enrolled in specialist studies until the date of entry into force of this Law and students referred to in paragraph I of this Article, have the right to complete their studies according to the study program that
was valid for enrollment, according to the law under which they are enrolled, and no later than the end of the study 2023/2024. years.
Student status
Article 122f
Students, enrolled in master's studies at public institutions until the day this law enters into force, and who have paid or are paying tuition fees in accordance with the study contract,
they are not obliged to pay the costs for the master's thesis, if those studies are completed by the end of the 2020/2021 academic year. years.
Status of teachers and associates
Article 123
Teachers and associates who are elected before the entry into force of this law shall continue to work until the expiration of the term for which they were elected.
The procedures for the selection of teachers and associates initiated before the entry into force of this Law shall be completed in accordance with this Law.
Status of the Council for Higher Education
Article 124
The Council for Higher Education, which has been appointed until the day this law enters into force, shall continue to operate until the expiration of the term for which it was appointed.
Deadline for establishing the Agency
Article 124a
The Agency shall be established within three months from the date of entry into force of this Law.
Procedures for accreditation of study programs and re-accreditation of institutions initiated by the Council by the date of entry into force of this Law shall be completed by the Agency referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, according to
regulations that were in force until the day this law came into force.
Deadline for appointment of the Council
Article 124b
The Council, in accordance with this law, shall be appointed within three months from the day this law enters into force.
On the day of the beginning of the work of the Council referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the Council, appointed in accordance with the Law on Higher Education ("Official Gazette of Montenegro", No. 44/14, 47/15 and 40/16), shall cease to function.
Article 124c
The National Agency for European Union Programs will be established after Montenegro's accession to the European Union.
Status of the Board of Directors
Article 125
The Governing Board of the University of Montenegro, which has been appointed until the day this Law enters into force, shall continue its work until the expiration of the term for which it was appointed.
Termination
Article 126
On the day this Law enters into force, the Law on Higher Education ("Official Gazette of the Republic of Montenegro", No. 60/03 and "Official Gazette of Montenegro", No. 47/10, 47/11 and 48/13) and Article 24 of the Law on Higher Education shall cease to be valid.
amendments to the law prescribing fines for misdemeanors ("Official Gazette of Montenegro", No. 40/11).
Article 127
Article 80 will apply starting from January 1, 2018.
Entry into force
Article 128
This Law shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the "Official Gazette of Montenegro".

Independent member of the Law on Amendments
Law on Higher Education
("Official Gazette of Montenegro", No. 47/2015)

Article 2
This Law shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication in the "Official Gazette of Montenegro".

Independent member of the Law on Amendments
Law on Higher Education
("Official Gazette of Montenegro", No. 42/2017)

Article 42
This Law shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the "Official Gazette of Montenegro".

Independent member of the Law on Amendment
Law on Higher Education
("Official Gazette of Montenegro", No. 55/2018)

Article 2
This Law shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication in the "Official Gazette of Montenegro".

Independent member of the Law on Amendments
Law on Higher Education
("Official Gazette of Montenegro", No. 72/2019)

Article 4
This Law shall enter into force on the day of its publication in the "Official Gazette of Montenegro".

Independent member of the Law on Amendment
Law on Higher Education
("Official Gazette of Montenegro", No. 74/2020)

Article 2
This Law shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication in the "Official Gazette of Montenegro".

Home

Paragraph Lex MNE doo

Regulations of Montenegro
Contact

Dear visitors, the site will no longer be updated due to the decision of Paragraf Lex to temporarily withdraw from the Montenegrin market.
All regulations on the site as well as other information were updated as of March 31, 2021.

Back to top ↑

