Page 1

Consolidated version of Law No. 24-96
relating to post and telecommunications,
as amended and supplemented
To facilitate the reading of the texts of laws governing the sector of
telecommunications in the Kingdom of Morocco, this compilation of the eight
texts governing the sector to date, is reproduced in this document:
• Law

n ° 24-96 relating to the post and telecommunications promulgated by the
dahir n ° 1-97-162 of 2 rabii II 1418 (August 7, 1997).

• Law

n ° 79-99 amending and supplementing law n ° 24-96 relating to the post office and
telecommunications, promulgated by dahir n ° 1-01-123 of 29 rabii I 1422 (20
June 2001).

• Decree-law

n ° 2-02-663 of 2 Rejeb 1423 (September 10, 2002) abolishing
State monopoly in broadcasting and television.

• Law

n ° 55-01 amending and supplementing law n ° 24-96 relating to the post office and
telecommunications, promulgated by dahir n ° 1-04-154 of 25 Ramadan 1425
(November 4, 2004).

• Law

n ° 29-06 amending and supplementing law n ° 24-96 relating to the post office and
telecommunications, promulgated by dahir n ° 1-07-43 of 28 rabii I 1428 (17
April 2007).

• Law

n ° 59-10 supplementing law n ° 24-96 relating to the post office and
telecommunications, promulgated by dahir n ° 1-11-86 of 29 rejeb 1432 (2
July 2011)

• Law

n ° 93-12 amending Law n ° 24-96 relating to the post office and
telecommunications, promulgated by dahir n ° 1-13-57 of 8 chaaban 1434
(June 17, 2013)

• Law

n ° 121-12 amending and supplementing law n ° 24-96 relating to the post office and
telecommunications, promulgated by dahir n ° 1-19-08 of 18 joumada I 1440
(January 25, 2019).

This text can in no way replace the original versions of the texts.
of the aforementioned laws and published in the Official Bulletin of the Kingdom and not
represents by the reference text to use . The reader is invited to download
also the texts of these Laws on the website: http://www.anrt.ma (section
regulations).

Page 1 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 2

PREAMBLE
Modified by article 1 of law n ° 121-12.
The post and telecommunications sector, in its broadest definition,
constitutes a driving force for the economic and social development of the country and
promotes the development and dissemination of its civilizational and cultural heritage.
The efforts pursued for economic development and the rapid evolution of
telecommunications technologies associated with space and computer techniques,
audiovisual and electronic will allow Moroccan companies to develop
and operate an ever-changing telecommunications industry.
This evolution of electronic communications is accompanied by an exchange, Also
fast as reliable, physical objects that represent letters and packages.
The expansion of new services in both post and telecommunications has
led to an almost universal questioning of the mode of management and organization of
these two activities.
The trend observed around the world aims, among other things:
- The separation of the activities of the post from those of telecommunications;
- separation of regulatory and operational functions;
- the establishment of regulatory, control and arbitration bodies for the sector
telecommunications.
This sector must then adapt to the socio-economic changes resulting from
general development of the country and, at the same time, integrate into a set of
international networks characterized by an increasingly close association of the sector
private to their installation and operation in a commercial and competitive environment.
It is therefore essential to provide the sector with a legal and regulatory framework in perfect
harmony with the international treaties and arrangements to which the Kingdom of
Morocco subscribes, capable of encouraging private initiatives to extend networks and
postal and telecommunications services to the entire territory of the Kingdom and
to all layers of the population on the one hand, and to put the operators
in a favorable position in the competitive situations prevailing in the
international communications on the other hand.
The new structure of the sector sets itself the following objectives:
- provide the telecommunications sector with an effective regulatory framework and
transparent, promoting fair competition for the benefit of users of
telecommunications networks and services;
- continue to develop these networks and services by promoting
initiatives to adapt them to technological developments and progress
scientist ;
- to provide a public service throughout the territory of the Kingdom and to all
layers of the population, as part of the development plan
Economic and Social ;
- to offer the national economy the means of communication based on
constantly evolving technologies in order to increase its openness and
Page 2 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 3

integration into the world economy;
- to boost the postal sector by introducing competition in the
international expedited mail;
- promote the creation of jobs directly or indirectly linked to the sector.
The purpose of this law is to define the legal framework specifying the new landscape of
the post and telecommunications sector, in particular that of the networks of
Telecommunications that can be operated by private individuals
a license that will be granted by decree, knowing that the State sets the guidelines
of the postal and telecommunications sector, and the
competent government ensures their respect and application.

Page 3 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 4

TITLE 1
Of the legal regime of telecommunications
First chapter
Definitions
First article :
Modified and supplemented by article 1 of law n ° 55-01 and by article 1 of law n ° 121-12.
For the purposes of this law, we mean:
1) Competent government authority: the government authority designated by
regulatory channel, responsible on behalf of the State, for the application of the
postal, telecommunications and economic legislation and regulation
digital.
2) Public telecommunications network operator: any legal person who
operates a public telecommunications network or which provides the public with a
telecommunications.
3) Terminal equipment: any equipment intended to be connected directly or
indirectly to an endpoint of a network and which emits, receives or processes
telecommunications signals. Equipment allowing
to access broadcasting and television services.
4) Telecommunications license: right granted by decree to establish and / or operate
a telecommunications network and / or services. Within the framework of the legislation and
of the regulations in force, this right is accompanied by guarantees over time and
the conditions of establishment and / or operation and commitments of the holder to
abide by the terms and conditions of the license.
5) Radio waves or radio frequencies: Electromagnetic waves
propagating in space without an artificial guide.
6) Value-added services: Services that add value to
information provided by the customer by improving their form or content or by
providing for their storage and research, necessarily using the capacities of
licensed public telecommunications networks.
7) Endpoints: The physical connection points responding to
technical specifications necessary to have access to a network of
telecommunications and communicate effectively through it. They are part of
part of the network.
When a telecommunications network is connected to a foreign network, the points
of connection to this network are considered as termination point.
8) Telecommunications network: Any installation, any set of installations
ensuring either the transmission or the transmission and routing of
telecommunications, as well as the exchange of control and management information
associated with it, between the endpoints of that network.
Page 4 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 5

9) Independent network: A telecommunications network necessarily and
exclusively reserved for private or shared use, without commercial purpose and of which
the use is intended exclusively for the specific needs for which the network has
been established.
An independent network is called:
- for private use, when it is reserved for the use of the natural or legal person who
establishes it for its own needs;
- for shared use, when it is reserved for the own use of legal persons of
public law or of a company or its subsidiaries and branches or of a closed group
users, with a view to exchanging internal communications intended for
needs of the people or entity that establishes it.
9bis) Closed user group: Group of natural or legal persons
constituting a community of interest expressly identifiable by its stability,
permanence and its precedence to the effective use of the telecommunications network
independent.
10) Internal network: An independent network entirely established on the same property,
without borrowing either the public domain, including wireless, or third party property.
11) Public telecommunications network: All the networks of
telecommunications established and / or operated for the needs of the public.
12) Fixed public telecommunications network: Telecommunications network offering
services exclusively from irremovable endpoints and located in
fixed and determined places, accessible by means of terminal equipment.
13) Radio network, installation or terminal equipment: A network, a
installation or terminal equipment that uses radio frequencies for the
propagation of waves in free space. Among the radio networks,
These include networks using satellite capacity.
14) Telecommunications service: Any service including the transmission or
the routing of signals or a combination of these functions by methods of
telecommunications. Broadcasting and television services are excluded.
15) Telephone service: Commercial operation for public direct transport
voice in real time, through one or more public switched networks, allowing
any user, whether fixed or mobile, to use the equipment connected to a point of
termination of a network to communicate with another user, whether fixed or
mobile using equipment connected to another endpoint.
16) Telex service: The commercial exploitation of direct transfer in real time, by
exchange of signals of a telegraphic nature, of typed messages, between
users connected to the termination points of a telecommunications network.
17) Radio frequency spectrum: All the radio waves of which
the frequency is between 3 KHz and 3,000 GHz.
Page 5 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 6

18) Telecommunication: Any transmission, emission or reception of signs, signals,
writings, images, sounds or information of any kind, by wire, optical,
radioelectricity or other electromagnetic systems.
19) Open telecommunications network: Open access to public networks of
telecommunications and, where applicable, the telecommunications services offered by
these networks and the efficient use of these networks and services.
20) Interconnection: The reciprocal services offered by two network operators
open to the public, or the services offered by a network operator open to the public
to a public telephone service provider, which enables all
users to communicate freely with each other, regardless of the networks to which they
are connected or the services they use.
21) Universal service: Universal service includes services whose content is fixed
by this law and services related to land use planning and / or value
added.
The content, conditions and methods of performance of the universal service are
fixed in the specifications of the operators of public
telecommunications or under conventions or contracts.
Universal service provided by operators of public telecommunications networks
includes a minimum service consisting of a telecommunications service of
specified quality at an affordable price.
22) Alternative infrastructures: Any installation or set of installations that can
ensure or contribute to ensure either the transmission, or the transmission and routing
telecommunications signals.
23) Operators of alternative infrastructures: Legal persons governed by public law
authorized in accordance with the legislation in force and legal persons governed by private law
public service concessionaires or any other person governed by private law, having
infrastructure or rights that can support or help support networks of
telecommunications without being able to carry out the activities themselves
public telecommunications network operator within the meaning of Article 1 (2) of
this law.
24) Local loop: The segment of the wired or radio network existing between the
of the subscriber and the subscriber switch to which it is attached.
25) Access: Any provision by a public network operator of
telecommunications to other operators of means, materials, software or services
to enable them to provide telecommunications services.
26) National roaming: Service allowing a mobile subscriber of an operator of a
public telecommunications network to use the mobile network of another operator of
public telecommunications networks.
27) Internet exchange point: Infrastructure to ensure the routing of
internet traffic and the exchange of said traffic between the operators and / or users of said
Page 6 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 7

infrastructure.
28) Verification office: Legal person approved by the National Agency for
telecommunications regulation to ensure the existence of infrastructure
telecommunications and their compliance with specifications, technical requirements
and operational requirements provided for in article 22ter of this law.
29) Infrastructures of vital importance: Installations, works and systems which are
essential for maintaining the vital functions of society, health and safety,
security and economic or social well-being, and the damage or
the unavailability or destruction would have an impact inducing the failure of these
functions.
Chapter II
General principles
Article 2:
The establishment and operation of all public networks of
telecommunications in the public domain or using the frequency spectrum
radioelectric.
Article 3:
The establishment and operation of independent networks at
the exception of internal networks.
Article 4:
Are subject to approval:
- radio installations;
- terminal equipment which is intended to be connected to a public network
telecommunications;
- laboratories for testing and measuring telecommunications equipment.
Article 5:
The supply of value-added services, fixed by way of declaration, is subject to declaration.
regulatory, using the available capacities of the telecommunications networks
referred to in Article 2 above.

Article 6:
Internal networks and radio installations are freely established
exclusively composed of devices of low power and short range.
Article 7:
The establishment and / or operation of networks is carried out under the conditions of a
fair competition, and with respect, by the operators of public networks, of the
principle of equal treatment of users. Their access to public networks
must be provided under objective, transparent and non-discriminatory conditions.

Page 7 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 8

Article 7Bis:
Added by article 3 of law n ° 55-01, then amended and completed by article 1 of the law
n ° 121-12.
Operators of alternative infrastructure may lease or transfer to an operator of
licensed public telecommunications network or to persons who
establish telecommunications equipment for the needs provided for in Article
21 of this law, in compliance with the legislation relating to the occupations of
public domain, the excess capacity they might have after having
deployed infrastructure for their own needs and / or rights of way
on the public domain, easements, rights-of-way, civil engineering works, arteries
and pipelines and the high points available to them.
The refusal of the rental or transfer request must be justified.
The rental or transfer contract must be communicated in its entirety to
the National Telecommunications Regulatory Agency established under
article 27 of this law and hereinafter referred to as "ANRT", both by the operator of
relevant public telecommunications networks that the infrastructure operator
alternative, each as far as it is concerned, within ten (10) days of the date
of his signature. The ANRT ensures its compliance with this law and the texts adopted for
its application and may, by reasoned decision, impose its review, in particular when
that the said contract contains discriminatory clauses vis-à-vis other operators of
public telecommunications networks.
The receipts and expenses relating to this transfer or rental are tracked in a
separate accounting from the alternative infrastructure operator.
The rental or transfer of alternative infrastructure must not infringe the rights
passage that other public network operators are entitled to obtain.
telecommunications.
Article 8:
Modified and supplemented by article 1 of law n ° 121-12.
Interconnection and access to the various public telecommunications networks must be
be carried out under acceptable regulatory, technical and financial conditions,
objective and non-discriminatory which guarantee fair competition.
The terms of interconnection and access are set by regulation.
The ANRT is responsible for ensuring compliance with the preceding provisions and settles the
related disputes.
When this is essential to preserve the rules of competition, in particular
in the interest of users and in order to guarantee the interoperability of services, the ANRT
may impose, by reasoned decision, in a transparent and proportionate manner, the
terms of interconnection and access, in particular technical and tariff, including
including, where applicable, the multi-year framework for the tariffs of one or more
related services.
Page 8 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 9

Article 8Bis:
Added by article 3 of law n ° 55-01, then amended and completed by article 1 of the law
n ° 121-12.
The ANRT applies the provisions of the legislation relating to freedom of prices and
competition in anti-competitive practices and transactions
of economic concentration in the telecommunications sector.
To this end, the Agency implements the procedures provided for by the said legislation under
subject to the following provisions:
- The general rapporteur is appointed by decision of the board of directors of
the ANRT among Agency staff with experience in the
economic, legal, competition and consumer areas.
- The periodic penalty payments, fines and financial penalties provided for
anti-competitive practices and economic concentration operations are
pronounced by the offenses established the Committee under article 31 bis of the
this law.
- The investigations necessary for the application of this article are carried out by the
sworn agents of the ANRT referred to in article 85 of this law.
Appeals against decisions taken in matters of anti-competitive practices and
of economic concentration operations in the telecommunications sector
are trained, instructed and judged in accordance with free pricing legislation and
competition.
The ANRT informs the Competition Council of the decisions taken under this
article.
Article 8Ter:
Added by article 3 of law n ° 121-12.
The operators of public telecommunications networks follow up, within the framework of
of an agreement freely concluded, known as a roaming agreement, to requests from
other operators of public telecommunications networks for subscriber access
from the latter to the mobile telecommunications networks of the former, in the
localities and road axes covered within the framework of the missions relating to the universal service
or for the purposes of national land use planning determined by the ANRT.
This agreement must be concluded under objective, transparent conditions and not
discriminatory. The implementation of this service must not give rise to any
additional cost for the subscriber benefiting from roaming pursuant to the provisions of
this article.
The aforementioned agreement sets all the conditions relating to the provision of the service
of national roaming, in particular the technical and tariff conditions. His conclusion
occurs within sixty (60) days of the filing date of the
roaming request.
The contract is communicated to the ANRT in its entirety no later than ten (10) days after
Page 9 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 10

the date of signature. The ANRT ensures its compliance with the regulations in force
and may, by reasoned decision, impose its review.
The ANRT is responsible for settling disputes relating to the conclusion or execution of
national roaming agreements.
Article 8c:
Added by article 3 of law n ° 121-12.
Operators of public telecommunications networks are required to route and
to exchange national internet traffic passing through their networks, through a point
internet exchange, created on the national territory.
The conditions for creating, managing and operating the internet exchange point are
fixed by regulation.
Article 9:
The radio frequency spectrum is part of the public domain of the State.
The assignment of radio frequencies is subject to the payment of a fee
In accordance with the regulations.
Article 9Bis:
Added by article 3 of law n ° 55-01.
The ANRT assigns numbers to the operators of public telecommunications networks,
blocks of numbers and prefixes under objective, transparent and non-transparent conditions
discriminatory.
The conditions of use of these numbers, blocks of numbers and prefixes are specified.
by allocation decisions drawn up and notified to operators by the ANRT.
The ANRT ensures the correct use of the assigned numbers. Numbers, blocks of numbers
and prefixes cannot be protected by industrial or intellectual property rights.
They are not transferable and can only be transferred after agreement from the ANRT. The
terms and conditions for implementing number portability are set by
the ANRT.
Chapter III
Of the licensing regime
Article 10:
Modified by article 1 of law n ° 55-01.
The license to establish and operate public telecommunications networks
borrowing from the public domain or using the radio frequency spectrum,
referred to in Article 2 above, is issued to any legal person awarding a call
to the competition and who undertakes to respect the general operating conditions and
the clauses of a specification regulating the general conditions
establishment and operation of telecommunications networks and services.

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 10 of 52

Page 11

It is subject to the payment of a financial contribution, the terms of which will be
specified in the aforementioned specifications.
The general operating conditions referred to in the previous paragraph concern:
- fair competition;
- the obligation to keep independent financial accounts for each network and
service operated;
- the conditions of confidentiality and neutrality of the service with regard to
messages transmitted;
- the prescriptions required by national defense and public security and the
prerogatives of the judicial authority;
- the modalities of contribution to the general missions of the State and in particular to
universal service missions and charges;
- the conditions for providing the information necessary for carrying out
the general directory of subscribers;
- the obligation to respect international agreements and conventions ratified by
the Kingdom of Morocco;
- the obligation to make emergency calls free of charge;
- contribution to research, training and standardization in the field of
telecommunications.
Article 10Bis:
Added by article 3 of law n ° 55-01, then amended and completed by article 1 of the law
n ° 121-12.
The contribution of the operators of public telecommunications networks, provided for by
Article 10 above for training and standardization is set at 0.75% of
their annual turnover excluding tax from their licenses, net of the following:
- Income from the sale of terminal equipment;
- The costs of the national roaming service borne within the framework of the
coverage of the areas benefiting from this service as part of the
universal service;
- Interconnection and access costs and repayments for the benefit of
value-added service providers for shared revenue services.
This amount is paid directly by the operators to the ANRT budget.
The contribution of exhibitors for research is set at 0.25% of the figure
business as defined in the first paragraph of this article.
It is paid into a research trust account created
in accordance with the legislation in force.
Are released from this contribution, the operators of public networks of
telecommunications which carry out, for an equivalent amount, programs of
research within the framework of agreements to be made with research organizations
the list of which will be fixed by regulation.
The terms of application of this article are set by regulation.
Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 11 of 52

Page 12

Article 11:
Modified and supplemented by article 1 of law n ° 121-12.
For each call for competition aimed at proposing the establishment and / or
the operation of a specific telecommunications network or service, a commission
administrative, whose composition is fixed by regulation, approves a notebook
charges which specifies:
1) the conditions for establishing the network
2) the conditions for providing the service
3) the coverage area of ​said service and the implementation schedule
4) the radio frequencies and numbering blocks allocated as well as the
conditions of access to high points forming part of the public domain;
5) minimum professional and technical qualifications as well as guarantees
financial requirements of applicants;
6) the operating conditions of the service, in particular the conditions of supply of the
universal service and the principle of respect for equal treatment of users;
7) the terms of payment of the fee referred to in paragraph 2 of article 9 below.
above ;
8) the period of validity of the license and its renewal conditions
9) the terms of payment of the financial contribution referred to in the first subparagraph
of Article 10 The call for competition determines the conditions of access and
interconnection to public telecommunications networks and, possibly,
the rental conditions for the elements of these networks which are necessary for
the establishment of the new network or the provision of the service object of the call
offers. In this case, obtaining the license automatically entails access to
interconnection or rental required.
The successful tenderer is declared to be the candidate whose offer is deemed to be the best in relation to
all the prescriptions of the call for competition and after opinion of the ANRT referred to in
article 27 below.
The auction is subject to a public report.
Article 12:
The licenses issued by decree in application of this chapter are personal.
They can only be transferred to a third party by decree. This assignment involves the
continued compliance with all the provisions of the license.
The decree must be notified within a maximum of two months. Any refusal of approval
must be motivated.
Article 13:
Operators of public telecommunications networks have an obligation to respect
the conditions for providing an open telecommunications network. These conditions
are set by regulation and concern:
• adaptation of technical interfaces including, where applicable, the definition and
the implementation of network termination points;
• the conditions of use including, where applicable, access to frequencies
radioelectric;
• the principles of pricing.
Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 12 of 52

Page 13

Article 13Bis:
Added by article 3 of law n ° 55-01, then amended and completed by article 1 of the law
n ° 121-12.
1) Are part of the universal service and are compulsory for network operators
public telecommunications, the routing of emergency calls, the provision of a
information service and a directory in printed or electronic form.
2) Are considered as missions relating to regional planning, service,
especially in peripheral urban areas, industrial areas and in
rural areas, in telecommunications infrastructure and services allowing, in
in particular, access to high and very high speed broadband and support for the development of
telecommunications technology and services.
3) The list of value-added services falling within the framework of the universal service is fixed
in the specifications and includes in particular the services allowing access to
the Internet.
The procedures for carrying out the universal service missions are set out in a booklet
particular charges for operators of public telecommunications networks
in accordance with the laws and regulations in force.
The operators of public telecommunications networks contribute annually to the
financing of universal service missions up to a limit of 2% of turnover as
as defined in the first paragraph of article 10bis of this law, net of turnover
registered under the universal service programs carried out in accordance with the specifications
of the aforementioned charges.
The specifications provided for in the previous paragraph, known as the specifications of the service
universal, is concluded for a fixed period and renewed according to the terms
fixed. It is approved by decree.
However, operators can either carry out the universal service missions themselves
provided for in the aforementioned special specifications, or free themselves from them by paying the
related contribution to be paid to a trust account to be created
in accordance with the organic finance law and the texts adopted for its application.
Operators who carry out universal telecommunications service programs,
validated in accordance with the procedures set by regulation, the total amount of which exceeds,
in respect of a financial year, the amount due for their contributions to missions and expenses
universal service for the financial year in question, may collect from the account
of the aforementioned special allocation the difference between the amount of the realized achievements
and the amount for which they are liable for the said financial year.
Likewise, in the event of incomplete performance of the said missions by the operators, these
last pay to audit account the difference between the amount of the achievements and the
amount of which they remain liable in respect of the contribution to the missions of the service
universal and are liable to a fine calculated in accordance with the clauses of the cahier
charges.
Page 13 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 14

However, the mandatory services referred to in 1) above do not enter into the calculation of the
contribution to the costs of universal service missions.
The terms of application of this article are set by regulation.
Article 13Ter:
Added by article 3 of law n ° 55-01, then amended and completed by article 1 of the law
n ° 121-12.
Special licenses can be issued, after a call for competition
in accordance with Article 10, for the performance of the universal service missions referred to in
paragraphs 2 and 3 of article 13Bis above.
Specific specifications approved by regulation must in particular:
- define the obligations relating to regional planning;
- set the terms of application of paragraph 3 of Article 13Bis relating to
value-added services.
- determine, where applicable, the amount of the allowance granted to
the contracting operator for the performance of universal service missions, subject
of the call for competition.
It also specifies the terms of implementation of the universal service by the operator.
and sets the financial penalties applicable in the event of non-compliance by the latter with
universal service obligations.
When the call for competition for the award of the license for the realization
universal service missions are unsuccessful, the State designates, for the realization
of said missions, within the framework of an agreement, a public network operator of
telecommunications with a market share of at least 20% of a service
telecommunications.
The operator selected or appointed to provide the universal service is not subject to the
payment of the financial contribution referred to in the first paragraph of Article 10 and of the
contribution to the universal service missions referred to in Article 13Bis on the part of the figure
business carried out under the license provided for in this article.
When the operator selected after a call for competition does not hold a license
on national territory, the conditions for interconnection to existing networks are subject to
an agreement between the said operator and the operator (s) offering the services
interconnection. The interconnection tariffs must be those in force between the
existing operators.
The specifications provided for in this article are concluded for a period, determined and
renewed according to the terms it fixes. It is approved by decree.
Chapter IV
Of the Authorizations Regime
Article 14:
Independent networks can be established and operated by any natural person
or legal subject to obtaining the authorization provided for by the provisions of
Page 14 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 15

article 3 above, issued by the ANRT.
This authorization can only be issued if the said networks do not interfere with the
technical operation of existing networks. It is subject to the payment of
royalty fee.
The ANRT specifies, on a case-by-case basis, the conditions under which the independent networks
mentioned above can be, if necessary, connected to a public network of
telecommunications without allowing the exchange of communications between
persons other than those for whom the use of the network is reserved.
The authorization must be notified within a period not exceeding two months. Any refusal
authorization must be justified.
Chapter V
Of the Approvals Regime
Article 15:
Terminal equipment is provided freely, without prior authorization. However,
when they are intended to be connected to a public telecommunications network, they
must be subject to prior approval issued by the ANRT or by a laboratory
tests and measurements of telecommunications equipment itself approved by
the agency. Approval of equipment is required in all cases for installations
radio, whether or not they are intended for connection to a public network
telecommunications.
The approval must be notified within a period not exceeding two months. Any refusal
approval must be motivated.
Article 16:
Supplemented by article 1 of law n ° 121-12.
Terminal equipment or installations subject to the above-mentioned approval shall not
can be manufactured for the domestic market, imported, held for sale,
offered for sale, distributed free of charge or against payment, connected to a public network of
telecommunications or be advertised only if they are approved in advance by
the ANRT or by a test and measurement laboratory duly approved for this purpose by the said
agency under the conditions set by the administration.
Approval of terminal equipment and radio installations referred to in paragraph
The purpose of this precedent is to guarantee, in the general interest, the safety of users and
operator personnel, protection of telecommunications networks,
compatibility of this equipment to operate, on the one hand, with the public networks of
telecommunications and, on the other hand, with other terminal equipment allowing
to access the same service, as well as the proper use of the radio spectrum.
Installers of terminal equipment for their own account or for third parties are
held accountable for breaches of telecommunications regulations in the
framework of the legislation in force and according to the provisions of this law.

Page 15 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 16

In addition, they are responsible for offenses when committed by their agents.
and the payment of the related fines.
Radio installations and terminal equipment must at all times
remain in conformity with the approved model.
Subject to the requirements of national defense and public security and
the prerogatives of the judicial authority, and except in exceptional cases where the ANRT
authorize, import, advertise, transfer free of charge or against payment, installation and
the use of any device intended to render inoperative, both for the emission and for the
reception, telecommunications devices of all types are prohibited.
Chapter VI
Regime of Declarations
Article 17:
Repealed and replaced by article 2 of law n ° 55-01, then amended and supplemented by article
1 of law n ° 121-12.
The supply and / or commercial exploitation of value-added services, the list of which
is set by regulation on a proposal from the ANRT, can be freely provided by
any natural or legal person after having filed with the ANRT a
declaration of intention to open the service. This declaration must contain the
following information:
- the procedures for opening the service;
- geographic coverage;
- the conditions of access;
- the nature of the services covered by the service;
- the tariffs which will be applied to users.
The aforementioned declaration may be accompanied, for certain categories of valuable services
added, special conditions set by regulation, on a proposal from
the ANRT, relating in particular to minimum professional and technical qualifications
required, under the technical and operational conditions for the supply and operation
service and, where applicable, the financial commitments to be met.
The list referred to in the first paragraph of this article indicates the value-added services
subject to the special conditions provided for in the second paragraph above.
The value-added service must use, in the form of a rental or as part of a
resale offer, the linking capacities of one or more public networks of
existing telecommunications, unless the provider of this service is the licensee
referred to in Article 2 above and wishes to use the connection capacities of the network subject to its
Licence.
These capabilities must be used exclusively to connect customers to a point of presence and
between the point of presence and the network of the public network operator
telecommunications, except exemption granted by the ANRT to a service provider to
added value allowing it to use said capacities to connect its own customers
under the technical conditions of installation and use that it sets.
Page 16 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 17

Any changes made to the initial conditions of the declaration, with the exception of
tariff changes, is brought to the attention of the ANRT one month before the date
planned for its implementation.
In the event of a transfer, the new supplier of the value-added service is required to inform
the ANRT of this change no later than 30 days from the date of transfer and
file with the ANRT an opening declaration as specified in the first
paragraph above.
Article 18:
Repealed and replaced by article 2 of law n ° 55-01, then amended and supplemented by article
1 of law n ° 121-12.
The ANRT acknowledges receipt of the declaration if it turns out that the service (s) of
added declared comply with the relevant regulations in force.
The list of the aforementioned declarations is sent at the end of each quarter by the ANRT to
the competent government authority or any other administrative authority which
would expressly request.
Without prejudice to criminal penalties, if it appears, following the provision of the service
object of the declaration, whether the latter infringes public safety or order or
is contrary to morality and good morals, the ANRT, on written request from the authorities
competent authorities, immediately cancel said declaration.
Chapter VII
Regime of Free Networks and Installations
Article 19:
Subject to the conformity of radio installations and, where applicable,
terminal equipment to the provisions of Article 16 above, can be established
freely:
- internal networks
- radio installations exclusively made up of devices with low
power and low range, the categories of which are determined by the ANRT.
The technical conditions of use of the networks and installations referred to above are
also determined by the ANRT.
The categories of radio installations as well as the technical conditions
aforementioned are only enforceable against third parties after their publication in the Official Bulletin.
Article 20:
Establishment of a telecommunications network by a commercial enterprise
comprising several legal entities such as companies or their subsidiaries or branches
is free, provided that these legal entities are all located on the national territory. AT
default, an authorization is prescribed in accordance with the provisions of Article 3 below.
above.
The use of this network is reserved exclusively for the specific needs of said
Page 17 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 18

business.
The infrastructure of the aforementioned network must be obligatorily and entirely leased to one or
several public telecommunications network operators holding the license
cited in article 2 above.
Chapter VIII
Common Provisions
Article 21:
Subject to the provisions of article 9 above, are not affected by the
this law the telecommunications installations established for the needs of the
national defense and public security. A decree will set the regulations which are
applicable to said installations.
Article 22:
Repealed and replaced by article 2 of law n ° 121-12.
In order to ensure the provision of telecommunications services, operators of
public telecommunications networks may occupy the public domain, including
setting up works, supports and infrastructures intended for the establishment and
the operation of telecommunications networks, subject to legislative texts and
regulations in force for the protection of natural and cultural heritage,
in particular the provisions of Law No. 22.80 relating to the conservation of monuments
historical and sites, inscriptions, works of art and antiquity promulgated by the
dahir n ° 1-80-341 of 17 safar 1401 (25 December 1980).
The temporary occupation of the public domain gives rise to the payment of a fee
in accordance with the laws and regulations in force.
When it is observed that the passage of the operator of public networks of
telecommunications can be provided by the use of existing facilities of another
occupying the public domain, the managing authority may invite the two parties to
reconcile to agree on the technical and financial conditions of use
shared facilities. In this case, and unless otherwise agreed, the occupant
of the public domain, owner of the facilities, assumes, within the limits of the contract concluded
between him and the operator of public telecommunications networks, the maintenance of
infrastructure and equipment that use its facilities and that are placed under
its liability, in return for payment of a contribution negotiated with the operator
intended to remunerate the use of the facilities of the occupant of the public domain.
Article 22Bis:
Added by article 3 of law n ° 55-01, then repealed and replaced by article 2 of the law
n ° 121-12.
Legal persons governed by public law, public service concessionaires and
operators of public telecommunications networks have an obligation to follow up
to the requests of any operator of public telecommunications networks for the
sharing of the infrastructures at their disposal in order to enable it to install and / or
to operate telecommunications equipment insofar as these do not
Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 18 of 52

Page 19

not interfere with public use.
This provision may relate in particular to easements, rights-of-way,
civil engineering works, arteries and pipelines, high points, and lines of
telecommunications available to legal persons governed by public law,
utility concessionaires and utility network operators
telecommunications.
Operators of public telecommunications networks are required to publish offers
reference point for the provision of the infrastructures mentioned in the second paragraph below.
above they have.
This obligation also applies:
- subsidiaries of public telecommunications network operators;
- to persons on whom an operator of public networks of
telecommunications directly or indirectly exercises control or
influence within the meaning of the regulations in force;
- to persons exercising control or influence within the meaning of
regulations in force on a public network operator
telecommunications;
- to any person who manages infrastructures on behalf of an operator of
public telecommunications networks.
The provision must be made under technical and financial conditions,
objective, proportionate and non-discriminatory that ensure conditions of
fair competition. It is the subject of a contract concluded between the parties concerned.
The ANRT is responsible for ensuring compliance with the preceding provisions and settles the
related disputes.
In the event that an operator of public telecommunications networks uses,
individually or in a shared manner, the infrastructures mentioned in the second paragraph below.
above made available to him, he cannot oppose, in any way, the conclusion of a
agreement between the owner of this infrastructure and another network operator
public telecommunications, allowing the latter to use it in a shared way.
The installation of infrastructure and equipment must be carried out in accordance with the
legislative and regulatory provisions in force, in the preservation of
the environment, historic buildings and archaeological sites and under the conditions
the least damaging to private property and the public domain.
The persons referred to in this article are required to communicate to the authority
competent government and to the ANRT, at their request, all information
relating to the aforementioned infrastructures which they have or which they operate. A base
data comprising data relating to said infrastructures is put in place.
The rules for its management are set by the ANRT.
The income and expenditure of the persons referred to in the first paragraph of this article,
relating to the provision of their infrastructures, are traced in a
separate accounting.
Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 19 of 52

Page 20

The terms of application of this article are set by regulation.
Article 22Ter:
Added by article 3 of law n ° 121-12.
Notwithstanding any contrary provisions, any building project, whatever the
nature or use, as well as any subdivision project intended to receive buildings,
whatever the nature or use, must provide for the installation of
wired telecommunications necessary to connect said building or said
subdivision to public telecommunications networks.
The granting of a building permit or authorization to subdivide must be refused if the project does not
does not provide for the installation of said infrastructure.
These infrastructures, carried out under the responsibility of a design office mandated to
effect by the petitioner or the developer, must comply with the specifications and
minimum technical requirements provided for in specific specifications.
Verification of the existence and compliance of the infrastructure carried out with
specifications and minimum technical requirements referred to above is ensured by
verification offices approved for this purpose by the agency. The verification office called
to carry out said verification must be separate from the service provider who carried out the
feasibility and implementation of the aforementioned infrastructures. The petitioner or the developer
designates, at its own expense, an audit office and informs the chairman of the board
competent municipal authority.
From the declaration of conformity of the established infrastructures to the specifications and
technical requirements and the minimum requirements referred to above, an operator of
public telecommunications networks is designated by the petitioner or the developer
among the operators appearing on a list drawn up for this purpose by the ANRT to take into
is responsible for the management and maintenance of said infrastructures. The designated operator gives
access to the infrastructure made available to it under tariff conditions and
objective, transparent and non-discriminatory techniques, to all operators of
public telecommunications networks which so request. The costs
investments linked to the establishment of the infrastructure carried out must be excluded from
the cost base used to determine the remuneration of the services
relating to the provision of this infrastructure for the benefit of third-party operators.
The residence permit, the certificate of conformity or the provisional acceptance of the work
can only be issued upon presentation of a certificate of conformity issued by
the aforementioned verification office. This certificate must be issued within fifteen days
following the declaration of completion of construction or work.
In the event that no operator of public telecommunications networks expresses
his interest in taking charge of the management and maintenance of infrastructures
established, the developer immediately informs the ANRT and the president of the municipal council
concerned.
The provisions of this article do not apply to dispersed rural housing located in
Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 20 of 52

Page 21

outside the urban perimeter, as well as in the perimeters of irregular subdivisions requiring
restructuring as fixed by the laws or regulations in force.
The terms of application of this article are set by regulation.
Article 22c:
Added by article 3 of law n ° 121-12.
Operators of public telecommunications networks have the right to establish
supports, outside the walls or facades facing the public thoroughfare.
The operators of public telecommunications networks may, after agreement of the
owners, co-owners, trustees or their agents, establish and operate
telecommunications equipment and infrastructure, in parts of buildings
collectives and subdivisions assigned to common use, on the ground and in the basement
undeveloped properties and above private properties with the exception of buildings
religious and historical and archaeological sites of all kinds.
They also have the right to establish conduits or supports on the ground or under the ground of the
unbuilt properties, which are not closed with walls or other fencing
equivalent.
The right to establish supports outside the walls or facades as well as the installation of
conduits and pipes in open land does not lead to dispossession and
does not interfere with the right of owners to demolish, repair, raise or
close them.
However, the owners or co-owners must, at least three months before
to undertake demolition, repair, raising or fencing of
likely to affect telecommunications equipment, notify the operator
concerned.
The operator is held responsible for all damage caused by the
network equipment. He is required to compensate all direct damage caused
both by installation and maintenance work and by the existence or operation
of his works.
Article 23 :
Repealed and replaced by article 2 of law n ° 121-12.
1- Any natural or legal person can benefit, at his request, from a subscription
services offered by operators of public telecommunications networks.
The owner of a building, the trustee, the manager or their representative cannot
oppose the installation of means or infrastructure allowing the provision of services
telecommunications requested by the tenant or the co-owner for their
own uses.
The establishment of the identity of the applicant must be required by the network operator
public telecommunications, under penalty of the penalties provided for in Article 30 below.
below. The operator retains responsibility for identifying subscribers to his
Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 21 of 52

Page 22

network carried out by any subcontractors, distributors, resellers or agents
commercial. To this end, all customers must be clearly identified.
Each operator sets up and maintains a database, including under
electronic format, containing information relating to the identification of its customers.
This database is made available to the ANRT, at its request, in compliance with
the provisions of Law No. 09-08 relating to the protection of individuals with regard to
the processing of personal data and the texts taken for its application.
2- Subscriber rights are defined in the specifications and contracts
subscription from operators and providers of value-added services. Conditions
contractual agreements are communicated, on request, to the ANRT, which may require the
modification or revision of service subscription contracts with a view to their
in accordance with the laws and regulations in force.
The ANRT ensures that the conditions of supply by the operators of public networks
telecommunications and value-added service providers of offers and
services to their clients are objective, transparent and non-abusive.
Public telecommunications network operators and service providers
value-added follow up any request from the ANRT for the implementation and
compliance with the preceding provisions. ANRT's decisions must be motivated.
Article 24:
Amended by article 1 of law n ° 55-01, then repealed and replaced by article 2 of the law
n ° 121-12.
Public telecommunications network operators and service providers
value-added are required to make available to the ANRT, within the deadlines set by
its director, the information or documents necessary for the accomplishment of
missions assigned to it and to ensure compliance by these operators and suppliers
obligations imposed on them by laws and regulations as well as
by their license, authorization, approval or declaration, as the case may be.
The ANRT is authorized to proceed with these operators and service providers to
added value, to surveys that require direct interventions or
connections of external equipment on their own networks or those relating to
the evolution of the sector, measuring and evaluating the quality of service of
services offered and networks operated.
The information held by the ANRT is transmitted to the government authority
competent authority and to any other administrative authority which requests it.
The ANRT can make public information communicated to it by
the operator, with the exception of those identified by mutual agreement between the operator and
the ANRT as confidential or representing sensitive commercial data.
It can request the verification, by an expert, of any information which it may
communicated under this article.

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 22 of 52

Page 23

The operators of public telecommunications networks make available to the
public by any means, in particular on their websites, in a legible, accessible and
clear, the information relating to the general conditions of supply of the services of
telecommunications they offer as well as the tariffs applied.
They publish in particular on their websites and update regularly, and at least
every six (6) months, the status of the coverage of their networks and
telecommunications, as well as the list of localities and roads covered and, if
where applicable, localities affected by national roaming agreements.
The methods of publication by the operators of public networks of
telecommunications of information relating to the general conditions of supply of
telecommunications services and network coverage are fixed by way
regulatory.
Article 24Bis:
Added by article 3 of law n ° 121-12.
Each operator is required to take all measures to comply with the
prescriptions required by national defense and public security and the prerogatives
of judicial authority.
To this end, it is required:
a) ensure the regular operation of its network installations and their
protection, in particular by the installation, of means of telecommunications
or appropriate means and mechanisms against risks, threats and
assaults of any kind. It guarantees the implementation, in the
as soon as possible, technical and human resources likely to overcome the
consequences of failures, neutralization or destruction of its
facilities;
b) meet the needs of national defense and public security
in accordance with the laws and regulations in force;
c) to make available to the competent authorities the means of
telecommunications and the mechanisms necessary for the accomplishment of their
missions and in particular, to deploy, at its own expense and on behalf of said
authorities, equipment, means of telecommunications and mechanisms required
to this end, taking into account technological developments and the nature of the risks,
threats and assaults;
d) inform the authorities concerned and the ANRT, within a period that cannot be
more than one (1) year, nor less than three (3) months, of any development project of its
networks or services offered, which may require upgrading of
used by said authorities or made available to them and to take charge of
this upgrade, by integrating it into the said project and respecting the
prescriptions drawn up in consultation with the said authorities;
e) to establish, in times of crisis or in the event of imperative necessity,
specially reserved for national defense or public security, according to
the modalities agreed with the relevant State services;
f) develop and implement established emergency relief plans
periodically in consultation with the organizations responsible for rescue
emergency and local authorities. These plans must be sent annually to
Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 23 of 52

Page 24

the ANRT and made available to the organizations concerned at their request. The
triggering of these plans is made at the request of said bodies or
the ANRT according to terms agreed between the parties concerned;
g) make every effort to guarantee, in the event of a crisis, the maintenance of the service at
all users. As long as these crises last, they give priority to
measures necessary to safeguard the operational safety of the network
and in particular that used for the needs of national defense, security
public and infrastructure of vital importance, the list of which will be determined by
regulatory.
At the request of the ANRT or the government authority responsible for the safety of
information systems, operators of public telecommunications networks
provide assistance to the said authority, in order to enable it to carry out the missions which
are vested in him.
The ANRT can require any operator to submit its facilities, networks or services
to a control of their safety and their integrity carried out by a State service or a
independent qualified body appointed by the Agency and communicate to it the
results. To this end, the operator provides the State service or the body responsible for
controls all the necessary information and access to its equipment, to assess the
security and integrity of its services and networks, including documents relating to its
security policies. The cost of the control is the responsibility of the operator.
The State service or the body in charge of the control guarantees the confidentiality of
information collected from operators.
The conditions of application of this article, in particular the methods of designation
of the body in charge of control, are set by regulation.
Article 25 :
Repealed and replaced by article 2 of law n ° 121-12.
The operators of public telecommunications networks are authorized to establish and
provide the telephone directory, in paper and / or electronic format, of subscribers to
their own network.
Directories containing exclusively the
numbers of subscribers linked to each other of commercial, industrial or
professional in general.
The ANRT may authorize, in accordance with the terms set out in a specification, any
person to establish and provide, free of charge or against remuneration, a directory
subscribers in paper and / or electronic format, and / or an information service.
The operators of public telecommunications networks put in
technical and financial, reasonable and non-discriminatory, the data of their
subscribers as well as the information necessary for the production of directories or
the aforesaid information services available to authorized persons.
Authorized persons are required to:
Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 25

- only use the data made available to them for the purpose of providing

Page 24 of 52

the directory and / or the information service;
- respect the principle of non-discrimination in the treatment of said
data;
- comply with the laws and regulations in force relating to the
protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data
personal character.
Article 26:
Supplemented by article 1 of law n ° 121-12.
Operators of public telecommunications networks, service providers
telecommunications, as well as their employees are required to respect the secrecy of
correspondence by telecommunications and the conditions for the protection of
the privacy and personal data of users, under penalty of the penalties provided for
in Article 92 below.
Public telecommunications network operators and service providers
telecommunications companies take the necessary measures to comply with
provisions of the laws and regulations in force relating to the protection
of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data.

TITLE 2
From the National Telecommunications Regulatory Agency
Article 27:
A public establishment called the "Agence
national telecommunications regulator ", having legal personality
and financial autonomy.
This agency is subject to the supervision of the State, the purpose of which is to enforce
the provisions of this law by the competent bodies of the agency, in particular
for everything relating to the missions assigned to it.

Article 28:
Modified by article 1 of law n ° 79-99.
Notwithstanding the provisions of dahir n ° 1-59-271 of 17 Chaoual 1379 (April 14, 1960)
organizing the financial control of the State on offices, public establishments and companies
dealers as well as companies and organizations benefiting from the assistance
State or public authority finance, as amended and supplemented,
the agency is subject to State financial control, aimed at assessing the compliance of
the management of this establishment with the mission and objectives assigned to it, its
technical and financial performance as well as the regularity of the acts of management of the
director.
The control referred to above is carried out by a commission made up of experts and by a
accountant appointed by the minister in charge of finance.
Page 25 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 26

Are, every six months, subject to the assessment of the committee of experts, the measures
execution of the budget, the procedures for awarding and carrying out
works, supplies or services concluded by the agency, the conditions of acquisitions
real estate carried out by it, the agreements made with third parties, the use of
subsidies it has received and the application of the staff regulations.
For the performance of its mission, the committee may at any time exercise all powers
on-site investigation. It can carry out all inquiries, request
communication or take cognizance of any documents or securities held by
the agency.
The commission draws up reports on its work which are communicated to the First
Minister in charge of finance and members of the board of directors.
The accounting officer ensures the regularity of commitments, settlements and
payments decided by the authorizing officer and may oppose them. In this case, he informs the
director who can order him to endorse the deed or proceed with the expenditure.
The accountant immediately reports this procedure to the minister responsible
finance, the chairman of the board of directors and the committee of experts.
Article 28Bis :
Added by article 2 of law n ° 79-99.
Before their presentation to the board of directors, the ANRT's accounts must be
the subject of an external audit carried out by one or more accountants, making it possible to
formulate an opinion on the quality of internal control and certify that the
synthesis give a true picture of the assets, the financial situation and
ANRT results.
Audit reports are sent to the Prime Minister, the Minister responsible for finance and
privatization and members of the board of directors.

Article 29:
Modified and supplemented by article 1 of law n ° 29-06, article 1 of law n ° 93-12 and article
1 of law n ° 121-12.
The ANRT prepares studies and regulatory acts relating to the
telecommunications.
It ensures the control of the application of the regulations and also ensures the
compliance with the general operating conditions referred to in article 10 of this law.
To this end, the ANRT is responsible in particular:
1) to develop, at the request of the competent governmental authority or at
the agency's initiative, proposals to adapt the legal framework,
economic and security in which the activities of
Page 26 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 27

telecommunications. As such, it prepares draft laws, decrees and
ministerial decrees relating to the regime of the activities of the various operators
intervening in the telecommunications sector;
2) to prepare and keep up to date, in conjunction with other ministerial departments
concerned and public security organizations, the text of the specifications
fixing the rights and obligations of the operators of the public
telecommunications;
3) to investigate license applications, to prepare and implement the
licensing procedures through competitive bidding, receiving
prior declarations for telecommunications activities under the
licensing regime. The ANRT issues authorizations and prepares licenses and
corresponding specifications and also monitors compliance with
terms of the licenses granted to the various operators or any other stakeholder in the
domain;
4) to propose specifications and technical approval procedures for
testing and measurement laboratories;
5) to set the technical and administrative specifications for the approval of
terminal equipment and radio installations and the technical rules or
methodological applicable to networks of all kinds that can be
connected to public telecommunications networks and to any
telecommunications open to the public. These specifications and rules are not
enforceable against third parties only after their publication in the Official Bulletin;
6) to ensure the implementation and compliance with laws and regulations
relating to universal service, including monitoring the performance of missions and
universal service programs, and to propose, where appropriate, the maximum tariffs
for the related services. For this purpose, it bears all the costs
relating to the analyzes, studies and controls associated with the implementation of the missions
and universal service programs;
7) to participate with the competent government authority in the committee
permanent radio station created by Royal Decree n ° 675-66 of 6
Ramadan 1386 (December 19, 1966), and to international meetings dealing with the
management of the radio frequency spectrum and regulation of
telecommunications. It also participates in the work of organizations
nationals or foreigners whose purpose is to study and improve
telecommunications regulation and management;
8) to ensure, on behalf of the State, the management and monitoring of the spectrum of
radio frequencies. As such, it allocates the frequencies
radio stations related to the license and authorization provided for in Articles 2 and 3 of
this law and to all radio terminal equipment, subject to
the payment by the beneficiary of the royalty mentioned in article 9 of this
law, proposes and implements the rearrangements of the frequency spectrum in
view of the release of certain frequency bands, ensures the control of
radio transmissions and maintains the national plan and file of
frequencies;
9) to monitor, on behalf of the State, compliance with the regulations in force and
the terms of licenses, authorizations and approvals granted in the
telecommunications. To this end, the ANRT receives and analyzes all the information and
documentation required from network operators and
telecommunications within the framework of their license and their specifications
and, if necessary, request all the details and information
Page 27 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 28

additional necessary;
10) to follow, on behalf of the State, the development of
information and lead, at the request of the government, projects and
programs falling within this framework;
11) to propose to the government legislation and regulations relating to
the use of Internet domain names designated under the extension ".ma" and ". ‫" برﻐﻣﻟا‬,
making it possible to identify Internet addresses corresponding to the national territory;
12) to assign the domain names ".ma" and ". ‫" برﻐﻣﻟا‬, to define the terms of their
administrative, technical and commercial management under conditions
transparent and non-discriminatory and to represent the holders of these addresses
with international governmental or non-governmental bodies
governments in charge of the international management of domain names
Internet.
13) to implement, within the framework of the provisions provided for by this law,
objective, proportionate, transparent and non-discriminatory measures
aimed at facilitating the introduction of new services and promoting the adaptation of
telecommunications markets with technological developments;
14) to ensure that operators of public networks comply with
telecommunications and telecommunications service providers of rights
users, in accordance with the laws and regulations in
force in the matter;
15) to approve the verification offices referred to in article 22Ter of this law.
Article 29Bis:
Added by article 3 of law n ° 55-01, then amended and completed by article 1 of the law
n ° 121-12.
1- Are liable to financial penalties of a maximum of five hundred thousand (500,000)
dirhams telecommunications network operators who do not respect:
- the obligations to supply the ANRT with the information required by the
regulations in force or by the Agency with regard to interconnection
and access to public telecommunications networks;
- the obligations relating to the provision to the ANRT of information concerning the
cost accounting and auditing of accounts required by regulations in
force or by the ANRT;
- obligations relating to the notification and publication of tariff offers, as well
than to the publication and updating of the coverage situation of their
networks, as defined in article 24 of this law.
2- Are liable to financial penalties of a maximum of two hundred and fifty thousand
(250,000) dirhams, telecommunications network operators and suppliers of
telecommunications services that do not respect:
- the obligations to provide the ANRT with the information required by the
regulations in force or by the Agency with regard to the use of
telecommunications equipment and resources in terms of frequencies and
numbering, including those relating to number portability;
- the obligations to provide the ANRT with the information required by the
regulations in force or by the Agency in matters of universal service,
sharing of infrastructures and data relating to the infrastructures of which they
have or operate in accordance with Articles 22bis and 22ter of the
Page 28 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 29

this law;
- the deadlines for providing the ANRT with the information required by the regulations in
force or by the Agency, with regard to the quality of service and
blanket.
- the obligations relating to the provision to the ANRT of information concerning:
o research and training;
o subscriber directories.
3- Are liable to financial penalties of a maximum of one hundred thousand (100,000) dirhams,
telecommunications network operators and service providers
telecommunications which do not comply with the obligations relating to the supply to the ANRT
information required other than that provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 above.
These sanctions are pronounced by the director of the ANRT according to a procedure set by
regulatory route.
In the event of a repeat offense, the ANRT may double the aforementioned financial penalties
when the offender has been the subject, during the previous five years, of a
similar sanction become final.
Article 30:
Repealed and replaced by article 2 of law n ° 55-01, then amended and supplemented by article
1 of law n ° 121-12.
Without prejudice to the provisions of article 29Bis above, when the holder of a license
establishment and operation of public telecommunications networks does not respect
not the conditions imposed on it by the relevant legislative and regulatory texts
to its activity or by its specifications or the decisions taken to ensure its implementation
implemented, the director of the ANRT gives him formal notice to cease the infringement within a
that he determines, without this period being less than eight (8) days, nor greater than
sixty (60) days.
This formal notice may be made public and be accompanied by obligations to comply.
comply with intermediate steps within the same timeframe.
The director of the ANRT may also subject the operator concerned to a fine.
equal, per day of delay, to 1% of the average daily turnover excluding tax of the last
closed financial year, carried out under the license (s) under which the
breach is noted.
If the holder does not comply with the formal notice sent to him, he will be
liable:

a) a warning sent to him by the director of the ANRT the warning,
after notification to the interested party, may be published in the Official Bulletin.
The director of the ANRT immediately informs the chairman of the board
administration of the agency.
b) a financial penalty, the amount of which is set by the infringement committee
provided for in Article 31Bis of this law and is proportionate to the seriousness of the
Page 29 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 30

shortcomings and the benefits derived from them. This amount cannot exceed
2% of turnover excluding tax for the last closed financial year, achieved within the framework of
of the license (s) under which the breach is noted. This rate is
increased to 5% in the event of a further violation of the same obligation. In the absence of activity
used to determine this ceiling, the amount of the penalty may not exceed
two (2) million dirhams, increased to five (5) million dirhams in the event of new
violation of the same obligation.
The director of the ANRT immediately informs the chairman of the board of directors
of the Agency of the sanction pronounced.
The appeal against the decisions of the infringements committee taken in application of the
this article is not suspensive. However, the stay of execution of the decision
can be ordered if it is likely to have consequences
manifestly excessive for the operator concerned.
The product of the sanction pronounced in application of point b) and the periodic penalty payment
referred to in paragraph 3 of this article is paid into the public treasury. Their recovery
is carried out in accordance with the legislation on debt collection
public.
Subject to the provisions in force relating to the limitation period, the
sanctions provided for in points a) and b) above are implemented even when
it is an offense whose effect has ceased or a practice which has been terminated
by the operator concerned.
c) - the total or partial suspension of the license for a period of thirty days at
more ;
- the temporary suspension of the license or the reduction of its duration within the limit
one year;
- or the final withdrawal of the license.
The license suspension is pronounced by the competent government authority,
on the proposal of the director of the ANRT and the license is withdrawn by decree
on the proposal of the director of the ANRT.
The sanctions provided for in this article are only pronounced when the grievances accepted
against the person concerned were notified to him and that he was able to consult the file and
present its written justifications, within the time limit set by the director of the ANRT.
The sanctions imposed by virtue of c) above do not give rise to any right to
compensation for the benefit of the offender and the ANRT takes or proposes
to the administration the necessary measures to ensure the continuity of the service and
protect the interests of users.
In the event of breach of the requirements of national defense and security
public, the director of the ANRT is empowered, by reasoned decision, after having informed
the competent government authority, to immediately suspend the license, authorization
or the operation of value-added services, mentioned in Articles 2 to 5 of the
this law.

Page 30 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 31

In addition, the equipment, subject to the license, authorization or operation
aforementioned are immediately entered.
The terms of application of this article are set by regulation.
Article 31:
Amended by article 1 of law n ° 55-01, then amended and supplemented by article 1 of law
n ° 121-12.
When the holder of a license for the allocation of radio frequencies, of a
authorization or a value-added service declaration does not comply with the
obligations imposed on it by laws and regulations or by its
specifications or the decisions taken to ensure their implementation, as well as by
the conditions set on the occasion of the allocation of radio frequencies or by
authorization or declaration, the director of the ANRT gives him formal notice to comply with it
within a period that it determines, without this period not being less than eight (8) days, nor
greater than sixty (60) days.
If the holder of the authorization or license or declaration cited in the previous paragraph, does not
not in accordance with the formal notice sent to him, the director of the ANRT may
pronounce against him the sanctions decreed in articles 29Bis or 30 above.
These sanctions are only pronounced when the grievances against the holder have
been notified and that he was able to consult the file and present his observations
written or verbal.
Article 31Bis:
Added by article 3 of law n ° 121-12.
An infringements committee has been set up with the ANRT, responsible for deciding, through its
deliberations on the facts referred to him by the general rapporteur, relating to the implementation
implementation of the provisions of articles 8bis and 30 (point b) of this law.
The infringements committee is chaired by the director of the ANRT and comprises three
members including a magistrate appointed on the proposal of the Supreme Council of Power
judiciary and two personalities chosen from the public and private sectors for their
technical, legal or economic competence in the field of
telecommunications and information technology and having no interest in
the telecommunications sector.
Members of the Offenses Committee are appointed by the Board of Directors to
a period of five years renewable only once.
The organizational and operating methods of the Offenses Committee and the
procedure followed are set by regulation.
Article 31Ter:
Added by article 3 of law n ° 121-12.
For the application of articles 30 and 31 of this law, as soon as an operator of a network
Page 31 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 32

telecommunications public or telecommunications service provider, including
including value-added service, violates a legislative or regulatory provision
relating to its activity or does not take into account a decision of the ANRT or following
a breach reported by an ANRT service and the expiry of the deadline for
in default, the director of the ANRT transmits the file to the rapporteur
general in order to initiate the investigation procedure.
The director of the ANRT, on a reasoned proposal from the general rapporteur, notifies the grievances to
the operator of the public telecommunications network or the provider of
telecommunications involved.
The general rapporteur proceeds with the investigation of the case with the assistance of the services
of the ANRT. The accused person is invited to present their written observations,
within a time limit set by the ANRT. It is also heard at its request or if the rapporteur
general considers it necessary. She can be assisted or represented by any person
Of his choice. The general rapporteur can also hear any other person
likely to contribute to its information.
Having regard to the factual and legal circumstances and the explanations of the person charged
cause, the director, on the proposal of the general rapporteur, may, at any time during the
investigation procedure, decide to close the file. The relevant decision is notified
to the person implicated.
When the grievances, the general rapporteur draws up a report containing the statement of the facts and
the charges against the accused person. This report is transmitted,
as the case may be, to the director of the ANRT or to the infringements committee for the application of
sanctions provided for in articles 30 and 31 of this law.
Article 32:
Supplemented by article 1 of law n ° 121-12.
ANRT's administrative and management bodies include the board
administration, the management committee, the infringement committee and the director.
Article 33:
The ANRT's board of directors is made up, in addition to its chairman, of representatives
of the State and of personalities appointed by decree for a period of five years and
chosen in the public and private sectors for their technical, legal and
economy in the field of telecommunications technologies and
information.
With regard to representatives of the public and private sectors, membership
of the Board of Directors is incompatible with any personal interest related to the field
telecommunications and information technology.
Article 34:
The board of directors has all the powers and duties necessary for the
carrying out the missions assigned to the ANRT by the provisions of this law.
It deliberates validly when at least two-thirds of its members are present and
Page 32 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 33

takes its decisions by majority vote of the members present or represented.
Cannot be represented, members designated intuitu personae.
The board of directors deliberates on the general orientations of the ANRT and sets its
annual activity program.
It can decide the creation of any committee of which it fixes the composition and the modalities of
functioning and to which it can delegate part of its powers.
He exercises the powers referred to in the 2nd paragraph of Article 8 above and may delegate them
to the management committee provided for in Article 35 below.
It examines the ANRT activity report presented to it by the director.
It meets as often as circumstances require and at least twice a year:
- to stop the summary statements for the closed financial year
- to adopt the budget for the following financial year.
Article 35:
The board of directors is assisted by a management committee which regulates, through its
deliberations the questions for which it has been delegated by the board of directors
and in particular those relating to the settlement of disputes related to interconnection, referred to in
article 8 above.
The members of the management committee are appointed by the board of directors for a
renewable period of five years.
Article 36:
The ANRT is managed by a director appointed in accordance with the legislation in force.
The director holds all the powers and responsibilities necessary for the management of the ANRT.
In addition, he may receive delegation from the board of directors for the settlement of
certain cases whose technicality or urgency require a rapid response and
technically appropriate.
He attends, in an advisory capacity, the meetings of the board of directors and of the
management and plays the role of rapporteur.
He represents the ANRT vis-à-vis the State, public administrations and third parties. He exerse
legal actions in demand and defense.
He may delegate, for specific questions, part of his powers and
attributions to executives occupying managerial positions in the ANRT.
Article 36Bis:
Added by article 3 of law n ° 55-01.
Appeals for excess of power against the decisions of the ANRT are brought before the
Page 33 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 34

Rabat administrative court.
Article 37:
Modified and supplemented by article 1 of law n ° 121-12.
At the end of the financial year, the director of the ANRT draws up an annual report on the activities of
agency in the past year. This report also sets out the situation
overview of information technologies in Morocco from the point of view of application
of the legislation and regulations in force.
This report is transmitted to the Head of Government. It is made public and published in
"Official Bulletin".
Article 37Bis:
Added by article 3 of law n ° 55-01, then completed by article 1 of law n ° 121-12.
ANRT decisions taken for the application of this law shall not come into force.
only from their publication in the official bulletin.
Decisions relating to interconnection and access, approval of tariff offers,
the settlement of disputes and the processing of referrals take effect as soon as they are notified
to the parties concerned.
Article 38:
Amended by article 1 of law n ° 55-01, then amended and supplemented by article 1 of law
n ° 121-12.
The ANRT's budget is set by the board of directors.
He understands :
In recipes:
- income from royalties collected during the study of files relating to
the assignment of radio frequencies, for the approval of equipment
terminals, declaration of value-added services, naming
domain ".ma" and ".‫"برﻐﻣﻟا‬, and more generally, the product of any
royalty in relation to the ANRT's missions;
- income from royalties for assignment of radio frequencies
provided for in article 9 of this law;
- a percentage of the proceeds of the financial contribution due under the
license referred to in article 10, the amount of which is set by the finance law according to the
real needs of the ANRT;
- income and income from movable and immovable property or from
financial investments ;
- the amount of contributions from public network operators
telecommunications for training and standardization;
- the product of the fines provided for in article 29Bis above;
- repayable advances from the Treasury, public or private organizations as well as
loans authorized in accordance with the legislation in force;
- grants, donations, bequests and any other income related to its activity.
Page 34 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 35

In expenses:
- operating and equipment expenses;
- repayment of advances and loans;
- all other expenses related to the subject of the ANRT.
Article 38Bis:
The collection of ANRT debts is carried out in accordance with the legislation
relating to the recovery of State debts.

TITLE 3
From The Itissalat Al-Maghrib Company
First chapter
Name and Missions
Article 39:
A public limited company, called "Itissalat Al-Maghrib" is responsible in particular for
missions provided for in article 40 below.
Article 40:
Modified by article 1 of law n ° 55-01.
Itissalat Al-Maghrib has for mission, concurrently with the operators who will have
the license referred to in article 10 above has been issued:
- to ensure the universal service or to participate in its financing in accordance with
the provisions of Articles 13Bis and 13Ter above,
- to establish and / or operate one or more public telecommunications networks.
Article 41:
Telecommunications networks and services operated by the National Post Office
and telecommunications on the date of entry into force of this law are transferred into
full ownership in Itissalat Al-Maghrib.
Itissalat Al-Maghrib has full rights to operate the networks and services mentioned
in the previous paragraph. A specification, approved by decree, will set the conditions
in which the corresponding telecommunications services will be provided.
Article 42:
Itissalat Al-Maghrib enjoys rights to use radio frequencies
relating to the operation of the networks and services mentioned in article 41 above. In
counterpart, Itissalat Al-Maghrib is subject to payment of the royalties referred to in
Articles 9 and 10 above.
For all networks or services other than those referred to in article 41 above, Itissalat AlMaghrib must submit to the competent government authority or to the ANRT, depending on the
cases, applications for licenses to establish and operate networks and
provision of service or requests for allocation of radio frequencies which
are needed.
Page 35 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 36

Article 43:
The ownership of the State's participations in the capital of Itissalat Al-Maghrib can be
transferred to the private sector under the conditions provided for by Law No.39-89 authorizing the
transfer of public enterprises to the private sector promulgated by dahir n ° 1-90-01 of 15
ramadan 1410 (April 11, 1990) as amended and supplemented.
Article 44:
Itissalat Al-Maghrib is not subject to the provisions of dahir n ° 1-59-271 of 17 Chaoual
1379 (April 14, 1960) organizing the financial control of the State over public establishments
and concessionary companies as well as companies and organizations benefiting from
financial assistance from the State or public authorities.
Chapter II
Heritage Constitution
Article 45:
For the constitution of the initial patrimony of Itissalat Al-Maghrib, the ownership of
furniture and buildings of the National Post and Telecommunications Office affected
telecommunications activities falling under the missions of Itissalat Al-Maghrib, is
transferred to the latter.
The terms of transfer will be determined by government authorities
competent.
Are also transferred to Itissalat Al-Maghrib on the date of entry into force of the
this law:
- holdings held by the National Post and Telecommunications Office;
- the right to use radio frequency bands or frequencies
radio stations assigned or assigned to the services of the National Office
post and telecommunications.

TITLE 4
From the public establishment called "Barid Al-Maghrib"
First chapter
Name and Missions
Article 46:
It is created, under the name "Barid Al-Maghrib", a public establishment endowed with the
legal personality and financial autonomy.
Article 47:
Barid Al-Maghrib is subject to the supervision of the State, which aims to enforce,
by the competent bodies of the said establishment, the provisions of this law,
in particular those relating to the missions assigned to it and in general
ensure, as far as he is concerned, the application of laws and regulations
relating to public establishments.

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 37

Article 48:
Barid Al-Maghrib's mission is to exercise on behalf of the State:
- the issuance of postage stamps and all other franking marks;
- activities falling under the State monopoly in the field of mail service under
all its forms, in internal and international relations;
- the collection of savings through the National Savings Bank defined in
chapter IV of this title.

Page 36 of 52

For this purpose, Barid Al-Maghrib is authorized to open sight or term deposit accounts.
for any natural or legal person, in whose name or through which funds
are paid into the fund as savings.
Article 49:
Barid Al-Maghrib ensures the service of money orders of the internal and external regimes, he
is also responsible for managing the postal check current accounts service
in accordance with the legislation in force. Issuance and payment transactions as well
than those of withdrawal and deposit carried out by Barid Al-Maghrib, for the services
aforementioned, are charged to the current account of the general treasurer opened at Bank Al-Maghrib.
Barid Al-Maghrib also provides all other services listed by the State in
consideration of the needs of the public treasury for the accomplishment of its missions. A
agreement concluded between the State and Barid Al-Maghrib fixes the conditions of execution and
fair remuneration for said services.
Article 50:
By way of derogation from the legislation in force relating to the State monopoly and according to the
conditions set by the competent government authority, are open to
competition and subject to authorization by the competent government authority.
collection, transport and distribution of incoming goods and goods,
by their shapes, their weight, their dimensions in the categories of objects and
goods governed by the provisions of conventions of the Universal Postal Union
when they are made according to the forms of international expedited mail.
This authorization gives rise to the collection of royalties.
Barid Al-Maghrib is fully authorized to provide the services mentioned in the above paragraph.
The authorization mentioned in this article is issued when the service, on the one hand,
meets a need in the general interest, and on the other hand, is compatible with the right
fulfillment by Barid AI-Maghrib of the public service missions entrusted to it
with the resulting pricing and geographic service constraints.
Applicants for authorization must undertake to comply with the obligations set by
the competent government authority and which concern:
- the conditions of confidentiality and neutrality of the service with regard to
messages transmitted;
- the nature, characteristics and coverage area of ​the service;
- the conditions of continuity and quality of service;
- professional and technical qualifications as well as financial guarantees
required from the authorization applicant;
Page 37 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 38

- service standards and specifications;
- the operating conditions of the service, in particular the principle of compliance with
equal treatment of users as well as the rules for respecting a
fair competition between all operators;
- the operator's contribution to research, training and standardization
in terms of post;
- the required fees;
- the duration, conditions of termination and renewal of the authorization.
The terms of application of these obligations will be set out in the authorization issued.
by the competent government authority. The aforementioned authorization is personal to its
holder and cannot be transferred to a third party.
Any decision to refuse authorization must be justified.
Article 51:
Barid Al-Maghrib is authorized to conclude with the State or any other legal body
public or private agreements allowing the use by the State or the said bodies of
the infrastructure it has.
Article 52:
Barid Al-Maghrib ensures the application of the conventions, regulations and arrangements of
the Universal Postal Union and regional postal organizations to which
Morocco, provided that the application of said conventions, regulations and arrangements
does not imply the enactment of legislative or regulatory texts.
Article 53:
Barid Al-Maghrib can create subsidiaries and take financial stakes in
all companies entering by their object within the framework of its missions, in accordance with
provisions of Law No. 39-89 cited in article 43 above.
Article 54:
Barid Al-Maghrib can create institutions for the training of executives and training
professional in the field of post and postal financial services.
Chapter II
Section One - Organization, Management And Administration
Article 55:
Barid Al-Maghrib is administered by a board of directors which includes, in addition to
representatives of the State, a representative of Bank Al-Maghrib, a representative of the Caisse
depository and management and a representative of legal persons governed by public law and
companies whose capital is fully or partially subscribed by the State.
Article 56:
The board of directors is vested with all the powers and duties necessary to
the administration of Barid Al-Maghrib. It defines and leads the general policy of
establishment within the framework of the guidelines set by the government and for this purpose,
it is notably responsible for:
- to decide on the program of technical and financial operations, the budget,
Page 38 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 39

depreciation regime, operating accounts and allocation of
results;
- stop the acquisition, extension or reduction of financial holdings;
- to draw up the staff regulations which are approved under the conditions provided for by
the regulations in force for the staff of public establishments;
- to decide on the procedures for awarding contracts;
- to fix the prices of the services rendered;
- to choose the auditors provided for in article 64 below and to fix their fees.
Article 57:
The board of directors validly deliberates when at least two-thirds of its
members are present. Decisions are taken by majority vote. In case of sharing
equal votes, that of the president is preponderant.
Article 58:
The board of directors may decide to create any committee, in particular a
management committee, of which it sets the composition and operating procedures and
to which he can delegate part of his powers.
Article 59:
Barid Al-Maghrib is managed by a director appointed in accordance with the legislation in
force which has all the powers and duties necessary for the management of
establishment.
The director executes the decisions of the board of directors and, where applicable, of the
aforementioned committee, and also performs the missions for which it receives delegation from the
board of directors.
He may delegate, under his responsibility, part of his powers and attributions to the
personnel placed under its authority.
Article 60:
Decisions of the director of Barid Al-Maghrib regarding the opening or closing
total of an international postal relationship or the closure of a postal establishment
on the national territory as well as those relating to the issue of postage stamps are not
enforceable only after agreement of the competent governmental authority.
Article 61:
Barid Al-Maghrib's budget includes in:
1) Resources:
- operating income and profits, as well as those from its operations
and its heritage;
- the product of the fees collected in return for the authorizations referred to in
article 50 above;
- donations, legacies and various products;
- advances and reimbursable loans from the State, public bodies or
private as well as loans authorized in accordance with the legislation in force
all other income related to its activities any contributions from the State.

Page 39 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 40

2) Charges:
- operating and investment costs;
- reimbursement of advances, loans and borrowings;
- the possible payment to the State of the profits made;
- all other expenses related to the activities of the establishment.
Article 61Bis:
The debt collection of Barid Al-Maghrib is carried out in accordance with the
legislation relating to the recovery of State debts.
Article 62:
Are transferred to the director of Barid Al-Maghrib, the powers recognized to the power
public by the laws and regulations in force, which are necessary for
respect of the monopoly in matters of post and the exercise of its control by the agents
of the establishment.
Article 63:
Barid Al-Maghrib is subject to the provisions of Dahir n '1-63-012 of 12 Ramadan 1382 (6
February 1963) concerning the conditions for depositing available funds from institutions
public and concessionary companies.
Section II- Financial control
Article 64:
Barid Al-Maghrib is subject to state financial control in accordance with the law
in force.
In addition, Barid Al-Maghrib must submit its annual financial statements to an external audit.
The role of auditors is to formulate an opinion on the quality of internal control
of the establishment. They also ensure that the financial statements give a picture
faithful to the assets, the financial situation and the results of the establishment.
The reports prepared by the auditors are communicated to the members of the board
administration.
Chapter III
Heritage Constitution
Article 65:
For the constitution of the initial patrimony of Barid Al-Maghrib, the ownership of property
furniture and buildings of the National Post and Telecommunications Office, assigned
the activities of the post office and postal financial services and the Savings Bank
national under the missions of Barid AI-Maghrib, is transferred to the latter.
Are also transferred to Barid Al-Maghrib on the date of entry into force of the
this law sets out the assets of the National Savings Bank.

Page 40 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 41

Chapter IV
Special provisions relating to the Caisse d'Epargne Nationale
Article 66:
A "National Savings Bank" service is created within Barid Al-Maghrib.
under the authority of the director of Barid Al-Maghrib.
Section One - Financial and fiscal provisions
Article 67:
The State guarantees the reimbursement of funds deposited in the Savings Bank
national tax as well as the payment of interest thereon.
Article 68:
The National Savings Bank is required to deposit with public law bodies
authorized to receive deposits from the National Savings Bank, all sums it
receives depositors, subject to what is necessary to provide the service of
reimbursement as well as the services provided for in article 71 below.
Article 69:
Barid Al-Maghrib may enter into agreements with the organizations referred to in article 68 below.
above in order to benefit its depositors from housing loans.
Article 70:
The terms and conditions for opening and remunerating deposit accounts as well
that the system of advances provided for respectively by Articles 48 and 71 of this
law are set by the administration.
Article 71:
The National Savings Bank is also empowered to agree to civil pensions
and military personnel, the list of which is drawn up by the administration and in accordance with the procedures set by
this, advances representing arrears accrued for a maximum of two months
benefit of residents in Morocco benefiting from said pensions.
Article 72:
By way of derogation from the provisions of the dahir relating to law no.l-76-292 of 25 chaoual 1397 (9
October 1977) relating to the presentation of insurance and reinsurance operations
and / or capitalization and the exercise of the profession of insurance intermediary,
in particular its first article, Barid AI-Maghrib is authorized to propose to depositors
of the National Savings Bank for personal insurance contracts, issued by the
public or private law insurance companies or organizations.
These proposals are the subject of agreements, subject to the approval of the administration,
that Barid Al-Maghrib can take out with companies or insurance organizations
interested parties in order to determine the terms and conditions of its intervention.
In no case does this intervention entitle the fund to use the title of intermediary.
as defined in the dahir establishing law n ° 1-76-292 of 25 chaoual 1397 (October 9, 1977)
above.

Page 41 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 42

Article 73:
The interest produced by deposits made by natural persons with the
National Savings Bank are exempt from all taxes and duties.
Legal persons remain, for these interests, subject to tax legislation in
force.
Article 74:
The National Savings Bank is exempt from all taxes and duties. The operations of the
cash register and the documents it uses for this purpose are exempt from all registration fees
and stamp.
Section II - Miscellaneous provisions
Article 75:
Minors are allowed to have savings accounts opened without the intervention of their
legal representative. They can withdraw without this intervention, but only after age
of 16 years, the sums appearing on the accounts thus opened, except opposition of
their legal representative.
This opposition is notified to the National Savings Bank in the form of deeds
extrajudicial.
It produces the same effects with regard to the Fund as the objections provided for in the code.
of civil procedure.
Article 76:
When a period of fifteen years has elapsed from either the payment or
reimbursement that of any transaction carried out at the request of the depositors, the
sums held by the National Savings Bank in their accounts are
prescribed in their regard.
The National Savings Bank is required to send, within six months before
the expiration of the aforementioned period, a recommended notice to the holder of any account
likely to be affected by prescription and whose capital and interest is
greater than or equal to two hundred dirhams (200 DH).
If the beneficiary cannot be known or if, for any reason, the reimbursement
cannot be operated, the amount credited to it is prescribed.
The sums thus prescribed are paid in equal parts to the Treasury and to social works
charities designated by the administration.
With regard to payments made under the condition stipulated by the donor or the testator
that the holder can only dispose of it after a specific date, the period of 15 years
runs only from that date.
Article 77:
Garnishments and oppositions of any kind filed with the Savings Bank
national regulations only have effect for five years from the date of their
Page 42 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 43

notification to said Fund.
If they have not been renewed in the meantime, they are automatically canceled on expiry.
of this period.
No garnishment or opposition, no transfer or assignment, no service, having
intended to stop payment, cannot have effect if they are notified after the
the service holding the account has authorized the post office or the agency responsible for
payment to follow up on the withdrawal requested of them.
Article 78:
It is forbidden to give as a main designation, as a sub-title or with a
any qualification the name of "Savings Bank" to any establishment or
private body claiming to have or having a similar character.
The use of procedures such as: counterfeiting of booklets, prospectuses, posters or
others, likely to create confusion with the National Savings Bank.
The founders, directors or administrators of establishments that contravene the
provisions of this article are prosecuted and punished in accordance with the laws and
regulations in force.
Article 79:
The National Savings Bank is authorized to destroy reimbursement receipts,
reimbursement files after death, current account files referred to in article
76 above, number registers, passbook requests and special payment registers
and repayment having more than fifteen years of date. This period is reduced to ten years
for the other registers and at five years for the accounts paid or replaced.
Article 80:
The provisions of the dahir relating to law nl-93-147 of 15 Moharrem 1414 (6 July 1993) relating to
the exercise of the activities of credit institutions and their supervision are not
applicable to Barid AI-Maghrib for its operations relating to the Savings Bank
national.

TITLE 5
Criminal offenses and penalties
First chapter
Criminal offenses and penalties relating to the telecommunications sector
Article 81:
1- Will be punished with a fine of 1,500 to 5,000 dirhams whoever has, by imprudence
or unintentionally:
- committed a material fact that could compromise the service of
telecommunications;
- will have degraded or deteriorated, in any way whatsoever, the overhead lines
or underground or telecommunications devices and any work therein
reporting.

Page 43 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 44

2- Will be punished with a fine of 3,000 to 10,000 dirhams per terminal equipment
anyone who has manufactured for the domestic market, imported or held for sale,
distribution for payment or free of charge or offers for sale or has sold equipment
terminals referred to in Articles 15 and 16 above as well as their connection to the public network
of telecommunications in violation of the approval or in the absence of approval
prior.
Anyone who advertises in favor of the sale will be punished with the same fine.
equipment that has not received prior approval.
3- Will be punished with a fine of 10,000 to 200,000 dirhams whoever has provided or made
provide a value-added service in violation of the provisions or the declaration
provided for in article 5 above.
Article 82:
Will be punished with imprisonment of one month to one year and a fine of 10,000 to 100,000
dirhams or only one of these two penalties:
1- anyone who has made radio transmissions using
knowingly a call sign from the international series assigned to a state station,
at a station in the public telecommunications network or at any other private station
authorized by the ANRT;
2- any person who has carried out or caused to be carried out diversion of
telecommunications or operates hijacked telecommunications lines;
3- any agent of a telecommunications network operator or supplier of
telecommunications service that refused to provide the information or documents
or obstructs the conduct of the inquiries mentioned in article 24 above.
Article 83:
Supplemented by article 1 of law n ° 121-12.
Will be punished by imprisonment from one month to two years and a fine of 10,000 to
200,000 dirhams anyone who:
1- will have established or caused to be established a telecommunications network without the license provided for in
Article 2 above or will have maintained it in violation of a decision to suspend or
withdrawal of this license;
2- will have provided or caused to be provided a telecommunications service without the license provided for in
article 2 above or in violation of a decision to suspend or withdraw this
Licence ;
3- will have implemented radio networks or installations referred to in article 19 of the
this law in contravention of the conditions defined by the ANRT;
4- will have used a radio frequency that has not been previously assigned
by the ANRT;

Page 44 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 45

5- will have established or operated or caused to be established or operated an independent network, without
the authorization provided for in article 14 above or will have maintained it in violation of a decision
suspension or withdrawal of this authorization, or will have established or operated or caused to be established
or operate an independent network disrupting the operation of existing networks
or will have established or caused to be established a link borrowing the public domain without the license
prerequisite referred to in Article 2;
5bis - will have manufactured for the domestic market, imported or held for sale to
free or expensive title, installed, used or advertised in favor of the sale of
equipment referred to in paragraph 6 of article 16 above;
6- anyone who will have, by the breakage of wires or cables, by the destruction or
damage to devices or by any other means, intentionally caused the interruption
telecommunications;
7- will, in territorial waters or on the continental shelf contiguous to the territory of
Kingdom of Morocco, willfully broken a submarine cable or will have caused it or
attempted to cause deterioration of such a nature as to interrupt all or part of the
telecommunications.
Article 84:
Damage to submarine cables committed in territorial waters or on the
continental shelf contiguous to the territory of the Kingdom of Morocco by a member of
the crew of a Moroccan or foreign ship will be judged by the court whose
territorial jurisdiction extends over the maritime extension of the place of offense.
The infringements provided for in this title may be noted by official reports.
drawn up by judicial police officers and law enforcement officers as well as
by employees sworn in and commissioned for this purpose by the ANRT.
The ANRT will be able to take immediately and with the offender all the measures
temporary and urgent that would be essential to stop the damage
resulting from breaches of this article.
When on an already established telecommunications line, the transmission of signals is
prevented or hampered either by trees or by the interposition of any object
permanently placed, the president of the municipal council will prescribe by decree the measures
necessary to remove the obstacle that hinders or prevents the transmission of
telecommunications signals when it is likely to be moved.
The movement of the obstacle will be the responsibility of its author if the line of
telecommunications was already established before it was permanently placed. He is dependent
from the owner of the telecommunications line otherwise.
Article 85:
Modified and supplemented by article 1 of law n ° 121-12.
In addition to judicial police officers and agents, sworn and commissioned agents
to this end, the ANRT can search for and record, by report, the infringements
to the provisions of Articles 81 to 83 above. Their minutes are sent to the
Page 45 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 46

public prosecutor as soon as the investigation operations are closed.
The minutes drawn up by the employees referred to in the first paragraph of this article
are binding until proven otherwise.
These employees can access the premises, land or means of transport used
professional, request the communication of any professional document and
take a copy, collect, upon convocation or on site, the information and justifications.
They can also, with the authorization of the public prosecutor, proceed to the seizure of
material subject to the contravention.
The request for the aforementioned authorization must include all the information from
nature to justify the seizure. This is carried out under the authority and control of the public prosecutor
King who authorized it.
The seized materials are immediately inventoried. The inventory is annexed to the trial
verbal drawn up on the premises. The originals of the report and the inventory are given to the
Public prosecutor who ordered the seizure and the seized equipment are placed at his disposal.
Article 85Bis:
Added by article 3 of law n ° 121-12.
Without prejudice to the provisions of article 85 above, the ANRT has the right to
deal with the accused persons for the offenses provided for in Articles 81 (2 ° and
3 °) and 83 (3 °, 4 ° and 5 °) above before the final judgment.
This transaction is recorded in writing. It relates to the sums due in respect of the rights
payable for the provision of a value-added service, the establishment of a network
independent, the approval of telecommunications equipment or the use of a
radio frequency.
The transaction irrevocably binds the parties and is not subject to any appeal. It
extinguishes public action.

Article 86:
In the event of conviction for one of the offenses provided for in Articles 81, 82 and 83 below
above, the court may, in addition, pronounce in favor of the ANRT, the confiscation of
equipment and installations constituting the telecommunications network or allowing
provision of the telecommunications service or ordering its destruction upon request
of the ANRT at the expense of the convicted person.
The court can pronounce against the offender, for one of the offenses
provided for in Articles 81, 82 and 83 the prohibition to exercise, for a period of one to five
years, any activity related to the telecommunications sector.
The fine will be applied as many times as there are distinct offenses found, either
in a single report, or in several successive reports, against the
same offender.

Page 46 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 47

The accomplices of the offenses referred to above will be liable to the same penalties as the
main authors.
In the event of a repeat offense, the penalties provided for in Articles 81, 82 and 83 above are increased to
double.
A repeat offense occurs when the offender has suffered, in the five preceding years,
first irrevocable conviction for one of the offenses punishable by said articles.
Chapter II
Criminal offenses and penalties relating to the postal sector
Article 87:
Any infringement of the State monopoly as defined in article 48 of this law is
punished by a fine of 5,000 to 10,000 dirhams.
In the event of a repeat offense, the offender is punished with a prison sentence of 6 months to
one year and a fine of 10,000 to 100,000 dirhams.
A repeat offense occurs when the offender has suffered, in the five preceding years,
first irrevocable conviction for infringement of the State monopoly in matters
mail service.
Article 88:
In addition to officers and agents of the judicial police, employees of the administration or
Barid AI-Maghrib, sworn in and commissioned by the administration, can search
and record by report the infringements of the provisions of this law and of the
texts taken for its application. The minutes must contain the enumeration of
letters and packages seized as well as the addresses of their recipients. They notify the
receiver of the nearest post office to which the seized mail is delivered and a
copy of the minutes.
Article 89:
The royal gendarmerie and the judicial police officers having the capacity to note the
tickets relating to the transport of persons and goods may, in
case of violation of the provisions of article 48 of this law, carry out seizures and
searches on all persons who, by reason of their profession or their trade,
usually do ground transportation from one place to another.
Article 90:
Customs officers at the borders and judicial police officers having the capacity
to ascertain the infringements of transport by sea or air ensure, to
the occasion of visits to ships or airplanes, if the captain and members of the crew
are not carriers of letters or parcels falling within the State's monopoly in matters
mail service.
In the event of a contravention, the said officers draw up a report and notify the recipient.
the nearest post office to which the seized mail is delivered and a copy of the
minutes.

Page 47 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 48

Article 91:
Carriers are personally responsible for paying fines and
damages pronounced against their employees. They can turn around
against their employees or any other person who committed the offense for the
reimbursement of amounts paid.
Chapter III
Common criminal offenses and sanctions
Article 92:
Will be punished with a prison sentence of 3 months to 5 years and a fine of 5,000 to
100,000 dirhams anyone authorized to provide rapid post service
international or any agent employed by it, who within the framework of the exercise of its
functions open, divert or destroy mail, violate the secrecy of correspondence or which
helps to accomplish these acts.
Will be liable to the same penalties, any person authorized to provide a service of
telecommunications and any employed by network operators of
telecommunications or telecommunications service providers, who in the
within the framework of the exercise of its functions and outside the cases provided for by law, violates
in any way whatsoever, the secrecy of correspondence sent, transmitted or received
by means of telecommunications or who ordered it or who assisted in
the performance of these acts.
Will be punished with imprisonment from one month to one year and a fine of 5,000 to
100,000 dirhams or by one of these two penalties only, any person other than
those mentioned in the two previous paragraphs who committed one of the acts punishable by
the said paragraphs.
In addition to the penalties provided for in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above, the offender is prohibited
to exercise any activity or profession in the telecommunications sector or that
of the post office or in relation to said sectors for a period of one to five years.
Article 93:
Without prejudice to the penalties applied in matters of rebellion, any refusal to comply with
a search request, any attack or resistance with violence or threat
towards the agents having the capacity to note the infringements of this law and the texts
taken for its application are punished with imprisonment of 6 months to 1 year and
a fine of 10,000 to 100,000 dirhams.
Article 94:
Notwithstanding the provisions of article 55 of the penal code, the fine may not be subject to
of reprieve.

Page 48 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 49

TITLE 6
Common Provisions
First chapter
Heritage
Article 95:
The assets of the National Post and Telecommunications Office other than
those mentioned in Articles 45 and 65 as well as its holdings in bank accounts, the CCP and the
general treasury are transferred to ANRT, Itissalat Al-Maghrib and Barid Al-Maghrib.
Article 96:
A commission, the composition of which and the terms of designation of members are
determined by the administration, will be responsible for the distribution of the resources cited
article 95 above between the ANRT, Itissalat Al-Maghrib and Barid Al-Maghrib.

Article 97:
Movable and immovable property in the private domain of the State necessary for
functioning of the ANRT, Itissalat Al-Maghrib and Barid Al-Maghrib are theirs
transferred in full ownership.
The goods in the public domain necessary for the functioning of the ANRT, Itissalat AlMaghrib and Barid Al-Maghrib are at their disposal.
The terms of the transfers and provision referred to above are determined by
regulatory route.
Article 98:
The transfers referred to above do not give rise to the collection of any duty or tax.
Transfers in favor of Itissalat Al-Maghrib, less the obligations and charges of the ONPT
on the date of entry into force of this law, constitute the contribution of the State to the capital
of Itissalat Al-Maghrib.
Chapter II
Staff
Article 99:
The staff working at the National Post and Telecommunications Office on the date
entry into force of this law are transferred to the ANRT, Itissalat Al-Maghrib and
Barid Al-Maghrib and this depending on the activity to which they are assigned subject to the
provisions of article 103 paragraph 3 below.
Article 100:
The situation conferred by the special statutes of the ANRT, Itissalat Al-Maghrib and Barid
Al-Maghrib to the personnel transferred under article 99 above cannot, under any circumstances
case, be less favorable than that held by the interested parties on the date of their transfer.
Article 101:
The services carried out by said personnel at the National Post Office and
Page 49 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 50

telecommunications are considered to have been carried out within the ANRT,
of Itissalat Al-Maghrib and Barid Al-Maghrib.
Article 102:
Notwithstanding any provisions to the contrary, the personnel transferred to the ANRT, to Itissalat AlMaghrib and Barid Al-Maghrib continue to be affiliated, for the pension scheme, to the
funds to which they were contributing on the date of entry into force of this Act.
Article 103:
The staff or trainees assigned on the date of entry into force of this present
law within the ministry in charge of posts and telecommunications in the services
whose responsibilities are assumed by the ANRT, with the exception of staff whose
maintenance is deemed necessary within the ministry, are seconded to the ANRT.
The permanent temporary staff of the ministry responsible for posts and
telecommunications assigned on the date of entry into force of this law in the
services whose attributions are taken over by the ANRT is transferred to this
last, with the exception of staff whose retention is deemed necessary for the
functioning of this ministry.
Staff of the National Post and Telecommunications Office assigned
exclusively for the approval of telecommunications equipment and
control of radio stations is also transferred to the ANRT.
Staff, trainee and temporary staff seconded or transferred will be integrated into the
ANRT executives under the conditions to be set by the special staff regulations
of the agency.
Article 104:
The statutory situation conferred by the special statute of the ANRT to the integrated staff concerned
by the first and the third paragraph of article 103 above cannot, in any case,
be less favorable than that held by the interested parties on the date of their integration.
Services performed by the staff referred to in the fourth paragraph of article 103 above
in the administration or at the ONPT before their transfer to the ANRT, are considered
as having been carried out within the ANRT.
Section III - Miscellaneous provisions
Article 105:
Modified and supplemented by article 1 of law n ° 121-12.
For the acquisition of real estate necessary for the performance of their activities
of a public utility nature, the ANRT, Barid Al-Maghrib and the operators of
public telecommunications networks, as part of the performance of
universal service incumbent on said operators, exercise, by delegation, the rights
of the public authorities in matters of expropriation for public utility reasons and
temporary occupation in compliance with the provisions of the legislation in force.

Page 50 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 51

Article 106:
The ANRT, Itissalat Al-Maghrib and Barid Al-Maghrib are subrogated in the rights and obligations
of the ONPT for all study, works, supplies and transport contracts as well as
that all other contracts and agreements, in particular financial agreements concluded before the
entry into force of this law and relating to telecommunications activities for
the ANRT and Itissalat Al-Maghrib and to the postal services and postal financial services as well
than those of the National Savings Bank for Barid AI-Maghrib.
Article 107:
Completed by the unique article of Law No. 59-10.
The National Institute of Posts and Telecommunications is attached to the ANRT. The Agency may
enter into agreements with Itissalat AI-Maghrib and other operators for the use
of the institute's facilities and equipment.
The modalities of reorganization of the National Institute of Posts and Telecommunications
are fixed by regulation, subject to the following and notwithstanding all
contrary provisions:
a) the National Institute of Posts and Telecommunications may, in the forms provided by
its internal regulations, establish establishment diplomas, particularly in the
field of continuing education after consultation of the coordination council and agreement of the
Board of Directors of the National Agency for the Regulation of
telecommunications;
b) the National Institute of Posts and Telecommunications is run for a period of
four years renewable once by a director assisted by deputy directors and a
secretary general, all appointed by the director of the National
telecommunications regulations, in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down by
regulatory;
c) The teaching and research structures of the National Post Office and
telecommunications, as well as their organization are fixed by regulation, on
proposal from the school board and after consulting the coordination board and
agreement of the board of directors of the National Agency for
telecommunications.
Article 108:
Movable and immovable property in the private domain of the State as well as those
belonging to the National Post and Telecommunications Office, which are at the date
entry into force of this law, assigned to the social works of the staff of
ONPT, are transferred for assignment for the same purposes to the ministry responsible for
post and telecommunications, at ANRT, Itissalat Al-Maghrib and Barid Al-Maghrib in
pro rata to the number of staff transferred to these bodies, seconded or assigned to
of them in application of the provisions of articles 99 and 103 of this law.
The transfers referred to in the above paragraph do not give rise to the collection of any tax,
tax or duty of any kind.
They are carried out by the commission provided for in article 96 above after consultation of the
Page 51 of 52

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 52

presidents of the associations referred to in paragraph 2 of article 109 below.
Article 109:
It will be carried out simultaneously with the dissolution of the associations of the social works of
ONPT, existing on the date of entry into force of this law, and the constitution of
associations of social works of staff of the ministry in charge of posts and
telecommunications, ANRT, Itissalat Al-Maghrib and Barid Al-Maghrib.
The movable and immovable property belonging to the dissolved associations will be distributed
notwithstanding the provisions of Dahir n '1-58-376 of 3 joumada 1 1378 (15 November
1958) regulating the right of association, by a joint committee composed of
representatives of the administration and bodies referred to in the first paragraph above of a
on the one hand, and on the other hand associations of social works created within
administration and said bodies.
The transfers referred to in the above paragraph do not give rise to the collection of any tax,
tax or duty of any kind.
Article 110:
The State, represented by the Minister for Posts and Telecommunications, ANRT, Itissalat
Al-Maghrib and Barid Al-Maghrib will conclude between themselves and with the associations created in
application of article 109 above of the conventions for a fair use of
social works of staff members of these associations in order to enable the said
staff to continue to benefit from the services of any kind that were available to them
served on the date of entry into force of this Act.
Article 111:
Modified by article 1 of decree-law n ° 2-06-663 of September 10, 2002.
The provisions relating to the matters governed by this law are repealed and
in particular the following texts as they have been modified or supplemented:
- the provisions of the dahir of 2 chaabane 1356 (October 8, 1937) on conservation
and police of telecommunications lines and stations;
- the provisions of the dahir, bearing law n ° 1-84-8 of 6 rabii Il 1404 (January 10, 1984)
establishing the National Post and Telecommunications Office;
- the provisions of Law No. 05-83 on the reorganization of the Savings Bank
national law promulgated by dahir n ° 1-87-118 of 28 Ramadan 1412 (April 2, 1992).
Addendum
Article 4 of law n ° 121-12:
The provisions of article 22ter added by virtue of this law to law n ° 24-96
aforementioned come into force on the first day of the sixth month following that of publication
in the Official Bulletin of the regulatory text provided for in the last paragraph of said article.
Article 5 of law n ° 121-12:
Are abrogated the provisions of the Dahir of 21chaoual 1333 (1 st September 1915) on
establishment of telegraph and telephone lines.
_________________________________

Compiled version of Law No. 24-96, as amended and supplemented

Page 52 of 52

