Page 1

REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER

DECRET N ° 2020-309 / PRN / MJ

---------------------------Fraternité-Travail-Progrès
---------------------------PRESIDENCE DE LA REPUBLIQUE

on April 30, 2020
fix the modalities of the application
n ° 2017-28 du 03 mai 2017, relative à la
Character protection of donors
personnel modification and completion by the loi
n ° 2019-71 from 24 December 2019.

---------------------------MINISTER DE LA JUSTICE

THE PRESIDENT OF LA REPUBLIQUE,

See the Constitution of 25 November 2010;
You see, from 2011-20 to August 08, 2011, the General Organization was formed.
The civil administration of the state and its agents missions;
Vu la loi n ° 2017-28 du 03 May 2017, relative à la protection des données à character
personnel, modification and compilation by the loi n ° 2019-71 from 24 December 2019;
See the letter ° 2016-161 / PRN from 02 April 2016, port nomination from Premier
Ministries, Chef du Gouvernement;
You read on ° 2016-623 / PM from 14 November 2016, portable organization
Government and fix the attributes of the Ministries of Etat, the Ministries et des
Ministries Dialogue, Modification and Completion by the Declaration n ° 2018-475 / PRN du
July 09, 2018;
You will find the date 2016-624 / PM on 14 November 2016, following the attributes
Members of the Government, modified and completed by the Declaration of ° 2018-476 / PM
du 09 July 2018;
See the letter 2018 90 2018-908 / PRN / MJ from 28 December 2018, the main organization
Ministry of Justice, modified by decryption ° 2020-143PRN / MJ du 7 February
2020;
Report to the Ministry of Justice, Garde des Sceaux;
LE CONSEIL DES MINISTRES ENTENDU;
DECRETE:
CHAPITER PREMIER : DES DISPOSITIONS GENERALES
1

Page 2

First article : The first few fixes to the modalities of the application lo n 2017-28
du 03 May 2017, relative to the protection of donations of character, modified and
Compiled by Loi n ° 2019-71 from 24 December 2019.

CHAPTER II: DES PROCEDURES DE DECLARATION OU
D'OCTROI DES AUTORIZATIONS
Article 2: To facilitate the simplification of a declaration, the treatments of donors
personnel Character personnel mis en uvre:
1) on public and private organizations for the management of personal affairs;
2) on the lieu of travel for the control of local accounts, des
Horror and restoration;
3) In the cadre of the utility service of telephone fix and mobile on les lieux
de travel.
Article 3: The Haute Authority for the Protection of Human Rights nel Personal Character (HAPDP)
Definition of simplified formulas for the demands of avis, homologation
des chartes d'utilisation, de declaration et d'autorisation, assortis, au besoin, d'annexes
destinées à compléter les information.
Safe dispositions contracts, the formulas are still free to retrieve
APPRESS OF HAPDP.
Article 4: Authorization requests, presentations in articles 7 and 9 of
la loi n ° 2017-28 du 03 mai 2017, relative à la protection des données à character
Personal, modified and compliant par loi n ° 2019-71 from 24 December 2019 evening
comporter, the cashier, in annexe, the active regulator authorizes the treatment
envisagé.
Article 5: Since the declaration satisfies the prescriptions of the donkey on the donkeys
Character personnel, HAPDP deliver a receipt.
The formalities soc reputations accomplished à compare de la deliverance du
Receipt of the article presented in the previous article. The treatment can be different
paruvre par le declarant sous sa responsabilité.
Article 6: A Charter of Utilization of Donors Can Make Information Between Activists
Intervening in utilization and treatment of donations of character and
Homeopathy for HAPDP.
The demands of homologation des utilization are presented by
Representative of parties to the chart.

2

Page 3

The charging utility charter, the cashier, the dossier on demand.
Article 7 : Lorsque the responsiveness of the treatment is a person physically agile pour
compute the morale of a person, the authority does not relate to it.
Article 8: The declarations and demands of homogeneity, the homologation of charts
The utilization, which addresses HAPDP, is recommended by letter with accusation
Reception, so you have electronic access with reception.
The demands of declaring the first agreement directly with the appraisals
from HAPDP download.
The date of the reception or the discharge constitutes the point of departure
Dalai dont dispose of HAPDP to notify its avis and its authorizations.
Article 9: The HAPDP proves to be a maximum of one month computer de la
Reception of declaration, of demand d'avis, of homologation or authorization.
Toutefois, this dalai peut être prorogé d'un mois supplementaire par une disision
motivation of HAPDP.
In this case, the HAPDP notifies the respondents
Treatment concerning.
The response of the HAPDP to the impartiality received is a result of
declaration or demand. In this case, the responsiveness of the treatment can exert a
recours devant le Conseil d'Etat.
Article 10: From the Declaration of the Declaration or the Demands of Authorization, the
HAPDP assures that:
- The treatment of donors whose character is envisaged is smooth and loyal;
- The donations to the character personnel are collected for the finals
Determinations, explicits and legitimes, and not the ultimate treatment deals
Manage incompatible with these finals;
- The donors are treated like advocates, patients and non-excesses regardless of
final for their treatment is invisible;
- The period of conservation of donkeys à Character personnel n'excède pas la
The final process for finalizing the treatment is invisible;
- The person responsible for the treatment of a person who has four people
Concerns, an obligation and clear information on the donors and collectors
Guarantee the respect of your friends;
3

Page 4

- The treatment of donkey characters by confidential and protg,
Notably the treatment of these donors compares to transmissions
donations on electronic communications;
- since the treatment of donors is characterized by personnel is misunderstood for
compte du responsable du traitement, celui-ci choisit un sous-traitant qui
Support guarantees for the protection and confidentiality of these
données;
- The donations to the character traits are so exploitable that they are so
The support technique utilizes the responsive treatment.
Article 11: The HAPDP's notifications on treatment are responsive
Concerned neo-hippies and their global warming, i'll tell ya.
They are published in the Official Journal or in all other languages.
publication and on the HAPDP web site.

Article 12: The responsive treatment information of HAPDP in one day maximum
of (1) mois et selon les modalités definin à l'article 8 du précent décret de toute
suppression of treatment.
In the case of modification of the information provided in Article 9 of the Loi Sur les
Donate to Character Personnel, the responsible treatment of HAPDP in a
dilai de quinze (15) ouvrables days.
Article 13: The responsible treatment of the effect of a declaration is effective
conform to the reality of the envisaged treatment.
Article 14: The formalities of declaration of precedence over Article 6 de
The protection of donors is not characterized by responsible personnel but is responsive.
Treatment of other formalities by the mother.
CONDITIONS
D'AUTORIZATION
CHAPITER III: DES
TRANSFERT FRONTALIER DES DONNEES A
CARACTERE PERSONNEL

DE

Article 15: The demand for the transfer of donors from your address
Responsible for treatment, since the modalities are defined in Article 8 of the present,
HAPDP.
Here are some of the minimum procedures to apply:
1) The identity, the domicile, the postal address or the geographic responsive du
traitment, ou si celui-ci n'est pas établi sur le territoire national, celles de son
repentant dûment mandaté et, s'il s'agit d'une personne morale, sa
4

Page 5

social denomination, son social social, the identity of the representative l ,gal, son
Number of accreditation and registration of commerce, number of identification
fiscale;
2) the final results of the treatment that describe its functions;
3) The interconnection invasion or all other forms of communication with a relationship
other treatments;
4) the period of conservation of donations;
5) the destinations have the ability to receive communication from donors;
6) the profession of the person or the service of the dukeel s'exercise the droit d'accès;
7) These dispositions are designed to ensure the security of treatment, protection and so on
Confidentiality of donors treats others who respect the rights of individuals
concerns and legal obligations of treatment;
8) Indication of recursions à a sous-treat or the transfer of donuts é character
personnel à destination d'un pays tiers;
9) the nature and the complete descriptions of donors;
10) The name of the diversion of donor donors and the legal jurisdiction
relatif aux donnés à character applicable in led pays;
11) transmission modalities of donors;
12) The guarantees of the accounts, the obstacle, the donations made by the person
Concerned neo-hippies and their global warming, i'll tell ya.
personnel Character personnel for the study of respectable practices;
13) The guarantee of exploitation of the content of donors' characters
Personnel who use the support technique using the responsive du
treatment.
Toute modification of information declares the treatment of the treatment
Do you want to make a declaration up to date on the HAPDP at a maximum?
quinze (15) jours ouvrables.
Article 16: Transfer, open to a group of enterprises or other addresses
destinations for the donkey categories of donors and finalists, but
The unique declaration of the object.
Article 17: The HAPDP has established a list of states which have a legalization on donors
personnel Character personnel equivalent à cellle du Niger et la met à la disposition des
5

Page 6

Responsiveness to treatment that is essentially beneficial to donors
personnel vers ces Etats.
This publication is not responsible for the treatment of its responses.
Article 18 : HAPDP Authorizes the Interconnection of Containers
données à character characters, elle s'assure, but a regular regulator, that this
interconnection with internal passage of discrimination or reduction of drugs, des
Liberations and guarantees for those people who are not conducive to the problem
security misappropriation messages, and that the responsiveness of the treatment does not count
The principle of donations makes it possible to have interconnection.
CHAPTER IV: THE MODALITES OF RETRAIT D'AUTORIZATION
ET DE RECOUVREMENT DES MONTANTS DE LA
SANCTION PECUNIAIRE
Article 19: La mise en demeure prevue à l'article 53 (nouveau) de la loi sur la
protection of donations to character personnel to process or manage (s) constrained
(s), and fix the dalai au terme duquel le responsable du traitement est tenu de remidier à ce
ou ces manquement (s).
The court computed the date of the notification on the date of departure
moyen laissant trace écrite.
Article 20: The Sanctions Declaration on HAPDP is Motivated and Notified
responsable treatment.
Article 21 : LORSQUE HAPDP PROVINCES A DISCUSSION OF SECURITY DEFINITION
Before the jug pénal statue is defined on the m fames faits, celui-ci peut ordonner
que san sanctionn pécuniaire prononcée s'ajoute sur l'amende qu'il prononce ou s'y
dduise.
Article 22: The HAPDP constraints that there should be a change in its treatment
donnés à character personnel entraine une violation des droits et libertés fondamentaux,
The President can intervene, but not all, responsive dudit treatment.
Article 23: One treatment is effective for the compute of the state, of one person
morale de droit public or a person droit privately guaranteed a public service, le
President of HAPDP informs the best of the Ministry of Justice
violation constatée.
Article 24: In this case, the President of the HAPDP may ask for it
Referee, in the jurisdiction component d'ordonner, the cashier and sous astreinte, all
Measures of security not necessary to protect against delays and liberties.
Article 25: Because the management is susceptible to the entrepreneur's approval
The advertisement, the responsive treatment is informed by the date of the sance
6

Page 7

HAPDP à the order of the day is written to insist on working hard and easy
Who wants to offer you the right to meet his son or his assistant, as he decides,
son conseil.

The convocation of the responsible treatment of the effects of the modalities
Article 8 of the present day doit lui parvenir au moins quinze (15) days ago francs
Date mentioned in the previous article.
At the end of the day, this dalai can be translated into English (8) days before the date
son audition devant la HAPDP.
Article 26: Toute decision to approve HAPDP decision
Dreams of love and love on lesbians elle this fondien ainsi que les voies et dalais
de recours qui lui sont offers.
Elle est notifiée à l'intéressé lui-même ou au responsable du traitement par simple
Letter or all other moyen laissant trace écrite.
The publication of Official Journal, on the web site of HAPDP or all others
moyen d'annonce légale, de la decision de sanction, doit intervenir dans un dalai d'un
(1) mois à compter du jour où la sanction est devenue definitive.
CHAPTER V: THE FREE OF DELIVERANCE DES AUTORIZATIONS
Article 27: Declaration of Deputation, Authorization Demands for Treatment
don don personnels à character personnel and the transfer of don ,n, don liet lieu au paiement
des frais fixés comme suit:
- From the 200,000 FCFA fixes to public figures or lesbians
People who drive private non-commerce services to a public service, ONG et al
les associations à but non lucratif;
- The fraction of variables in the function of chiffre d'affaires of physics or
Morales exfoliate an activated lucrative necrotizing treatment of donkeys
Character personnel protégés at les lois et les reglements en vigueur:
• de 0 a 1000000000 de FCFA: 250000 FCFA;
• de 1000000001 10000000000 a de FCFA: 350000 FCFA;
• au-dela: 500000 FCFA.

The fragmentary dove will pay before the authorization.
The public administrations are dispensed with payments.
The sanctions will not recover the services provided by HAPDP.
7

Page 8

The sanctions result in a 50% increase in public interest rates
50% for HAPDP.

The 50% revenues of HAPDP are received in the form of 30% contribution
a function budget and 20% commencement of personnel.
Article 28 : The content recounts transmitted to the Judiciary Agency,
à Charge for the reverser of sommes recovered from the truss and the HAPDP.
CHAPTER VI: THE COMPOSITION AND THE ORGANIZATION DES
SERVICES DE LA HAUTE AUTORITE DE
PROTECTION DES DONNEES A CARACTERE
PERSONNEL
S ECTION 1: The composition of the cabinet of the President of Haute
Authorization of Protection of Donnàs nel Character Personal.
Article 29: The Cabinet of the President comprend:
- un

Chef de Cabinet;

- a particulate
- un

secretion;

Responsible de la communication;

- a Protocol
- Security
- a legal

Agent;

Agents;

counsel;

- a consultant
- a counselor

in NTIC;
in administration.

Article 30: Le Chef de Cabinet, le Secrétaire Particulier, le Chargé de Communication
and the Agent of the Protocol named after the President of the HAPDP.
It is still fine to have functions in mêmes forms.
Article 31: The Technician Consultants are named after the consultant
Ministries on the proposition of the Ministry of Justice, the Guardian.
It is still fine to have functions in mêmes forms.
SECTION 2:

General Secretariat of the Haute Authority
Protection of Donnés nel Personal Character.

Article 32: The General Secretariat of the HAPDP comprend:
8

Page 9

- A General Secretariat ;
- a Bureau of Order (BO) ;
- A Secretariat of Direction .

Article 33: You are the President of the Haute Authority for Protection
Donnés à Personal Character, the General's Secret is in charge:
- Suivre, conform to the instructions of the President, the execution
Decisions are made in the domain of attributes of the President that precede
but the texts;
- Programmer, impulse, coordinator, driver and evaluator of the activities
Different structures of the Haute Authority for the Protection of Donnés
Personal Character;
- See and remember the signature of the President to all acts or
élaborés par les structures de la Haute Authority de Protection des Données
Personal Character;
- Supervisor of administrative administration and financing of the Haute Authority
Protection of Donnies Person Personal Character;
- Assure the plan technique of licenses with other ministries and services
institutions partner;
- Pretend the acts to read the texts in Vigor
;
- Sign the acts for those who follow the signature
President;
- Animators, coordinators and supervisors in all directions
hierarchies;
- Coordinator of the Performance Reports Report.
The General Secretary, since the President's control is guaranteed continuity
The administration of the Haute Authority for the Protection of Donnés
Personal Character.
The General Secretary, about the President of the President, executed the hierarchical message
Direct on the structures of the Haute Authority for the Protection of Donkeys Character
Personnel.
The particle, under the supervision of the President, is the organization of reports
functional harmonies enter the responses of structures and organs
9

Page 10

Haute Authority of Donn Dons Person Personal Character et à la
Compliment the actions of enterprises or men on their organs and structures.

S ECTION 3: Des directions from the Haute Authority of Donnés
Personal character
Article 34: The directions of the Haute Authority for the Protection of Donkeys ara Character
Personal sont:
- The Direction of Control and Conformity (DCC) quirend :

• la Division des delegues a la protection des donnees (DDPD);
• la Division des outils de la conformite (DOC);
• la Division des relations institutionnelles, communautaires et
internationales (DRICI).
- The Direction of Technology and Innovation (DTI) which comprend :

• la Division de l informatique (DI);
• la Division de l expertise et de l innovation technologique (DETI).
- The Direction for the Protection of Drugs and Sanctions (DPDS) qui
comprend :
• The Division of Plaintiffs, Denunctions and Investigations (DPDI);
• la Division du Contentieux et des Sanctions (DSC).

- The Direction of Studies, programming and self-assessment
(DEP / SE) which comprend :
• la Division des Etudes et des Programmes (DEP);
• la Division du Suivi-Evaluation (DES).

10

Page 11

- La Direction des Finances et de l Administration (DAF) qui comprend :

• la Division des Finances et de la Comptabilite (DFC);
• la Division de la Logistique et de la Comptabilite Matieres (DL / CM);
• la Division des ressources humaines et de la formation (DRH / F).

- The direction of archives, the documentation, the communication et
relations publiques des (DADC / RP) qui comprend :

• la Division des archives et de la documentation (DAD);
• la Division de la communication et des Relations Publiques (DC / RP).

Article 35: The Directors are named after the Council of Ministers
Proposition of the Ministry of Justice, Garde des Sceaux, après delibération de la plénière
The members of HAPDP.
Article 36: The attributes of the directors are fixed by the President of the country
HAPDP.
Article 37: The attributions of the chiefs of divisions and services of the chiefs are fixed
On the decision of the President of HAPDP, the decision was accepted.
The chefs of the divisions and the chefs of the services are named after you
President of HAPDP.
Article 38: Controlling Assessment of Excellent Agents
aux texts en vigueur.
The results of the lessons learned in the objective conditions et
transparent, respect the princess of contradictory, so consign it in
search results
In the study of control missions, the civil authorities and the military
dovent leur prêter main forte.
The procurement verbs of agents assisted control of the HAPDP font
jusqu'à inscription en faux des constatations matérielles qu'ils comportent.

11

Page 12

Article 39: The consultant techniques, the directors, the personnel technique et les
Apparatus of HAPDP Beneficiaries of Treatment and Other Advantages
Decide on the Council of Ministers.
Article 40: Sont abrogates, all dispositions anticipate contracts or present.
Article 41: The Ministry of Justice, Garde des Sceaux is charging the application
Present the first to be published in the Official Journal of the Nigerian Republic.

Fait à Niamey on 30 April 2020

Sign: The President of the Republic
ISSOUFOU MAHAMADOU

The Premier Ministries
BRIGI RAFINI

The Ministry of Justice,
Garde des sceaux
MAROU AMADOU

Pour ampliation:
The General Secretariat
du Gouvernement

ABDOU DANGALADIMA

12

