legislative power LEV No. 1682 
REGULATING PRIVATE INFORMATION 
The Congress of the Paraguayan nation strongly sanctions LAW 
Article 1.- Everyone has the right to collect, store and process data personal for strictly private use. 
Article 2.- Public sources of information are free for all. Every person you have the right to access the data that are recorded in public records, even those created by Law No. 879 of 2 December 1981, Law No. 608 of 18 July of 1995, and its modifications. 
Article 3.- The collection, storage, processing and publication of data or personal characteristics, which are carried out for scientific, statistical, surveys and surveys of public opinion or market research, provided that publications do not individualize the persons or entities investigated. 
Article 4.- It is forbidden to give advertising or disseminate sensitive data of people who are explicitly individualized or individualized. 
Sensitive data relating to racial or ethnic belonging is considered, political preferences, individual health status, religious, philosophical or sexual intimacy and, in general, coughs that promote prejudice and discrimination; or affect the dignity, privacy, intimacy and private image of people or family. 
Article 5.- The data of individual natural or legal persons who disclose, describe or estimate your financial situation, financial solvency or compliance with your commercial obligations may be published or disseminated only: 
(A) where such persons have given express written authorization for the purpose; and, 
(b) in the case of information or qualifications provided by state entities or to publish or disclose in compliance with legal provisions specify. 
• „ . . Article 6.- May be published and disseminated: 
(a) data consisting only of name and surname, document of identity, address, age, date and place of birth, marital status, occupation or profession, workplace and occupational telephone; (b) in the case of data requested by the data subject; and, ‘(c) where the information is collected in the exercise of its functions, by judicial judges, prosecutors, parliamentary committees or by other authorities legally empowered to that effect 
rG 


legislative power Sheet N22/4 Law Ng 1682 
Article 7.- The personal data about the capital situation, economic solvency and compliance with commercial obligations which in accordance with this law may be disseminated or published. 
The obligation to update such data weighs on companies, individuals or entities that store, process and disseminate that information. Companies, persons or entities that use its services have the obligation to provide them with the information relevant in order for the data stored, processed and disclosed by it to be permanently updated. 
The updating of the data and the provision of the relevant information shall be made within two working days of the moment they arrive at your knowledge directly from the company or through the affected. 
Article 8.- Everyone can access the information and data about himself spouse, persons under his or her guardianship or guardianship, or on their property, they operate in official or private registers of a public nature or in entities providing information on economic solvency and property situation, as well as know the use made of them or their purpose. 
Article 9.- Companies, persons or entities that provide information on the financial situation, the economic solvency or on the fulfillment of obligations commercial companies will not transmit or disclose data: 
(a) on overdue debts not judicially claimed where the default is not more than ninety days; 
(B) after four years of registration of unclaimed overdue debts judicially, provided that there are no new defaults by the same debtor; 
(C) three years after the time at which the obligations claimed have been cancelled by the debtor or legally extinguished; 
(d) on debts claimed in trials in which the expiration of the application or the claims that were rejected by the courts for final and enforceable sentences, provided that those facts had reached their conclusion. knowledge by public information or by those affected; 
(e) five years after the date on which the inhibitions were subscribed the sale or encumbrance of property, and, if they were re-registered, then of the five years following that re-enrolment; 
(F) seven years after the date of final judgment to determine capital obligations, which do not show their compliance by the doomed; 
Kg) on declaratory judgments of bankruptcy after seven years of its or, if there had been the rehabilitation of failed, after three years of that hechofy, 
(h) on summons of creditors after five years of judicial decision to admit it. 


legislative power Sheet N° 3/4 Law Nc 1682 
Companies or entities that provide information on the financial situation, economic solvency and non-compliance with trade commitments must implement computer mechanisms that automatically remove from your information system non-publishable data; as the deadlines established in this article are met. 
Article 10.- Sanctions will be applied in the following cases: 
(a) natural or legal persons who publish or distribute information on the financial situation, economic solvency or compliance of commercial obligations in violation of the provisions of this law will be sanctions with fines that will vary, according to the circumstances of the case, between three hundred and seven hundred minimum wages for work activities Miscellaneous unspecified, fines to be doubled, tripled, quadrupled, and so on for each recidivism. 
In order for duplication, tripling, quadrupling, etc. to occur , it will require the prior claim of the affected individual. 
b) natural or legal persons who, despite being obliged to rectify or to provide information so that data is rectified in accordance with what Article 7°, do not do it or do it outside the deadlines there established, will be punished with fines that, in accordance with the circumstances of the case, will range from one hundred and fifty to five hundred days for unspecified Miscellaneous Work Activities, fines which, in case of recidivism, will be increased in accordance with the guideline established in paragraph a); 
(C) if the out-of-court claims referred to in Article 8 do not without reason or without legal basis, it will apply to the entity reluctant to compliance with their obligations, a fine that, according to the circumstances of the case, it will range from one hundred to two hundred minimum wages for unspecified Miscellaneous labour activities; and, 
(d) the court shall order corrections or deletions to be made and may also order that the final judgment be published in full, partial or summarized form, at the expense of the responsible. 
The court will be competent for the application of fines in Civil and commercial matters, in summary procedure. 
Fifty percent (50%) of the total amount of fines will correspond to the affected, and the rest will go to juvenile correctional institutions. 
The application of the fine shall not prevent the person concerned from pursuing criminal action or actions to claim compensation for damages. 


legislative power Sheet Nt 4/4 Law N2 1682 
Aptlculo 11.- This law will come into force six months after its publication, period in which undertakings, entities and persons must adapt to their provisions, their operations, records, information and disclosure systems. 
Article 12.- Contact the Executive Branch. 
Approved the bill by The Honorable House of senators of the nation, on diciem of the Year Two Thousand and by the Honorable chamber of the twenty-eighth of December of the Year Two Thousand, being sanctioned the same, in accordance with the provisions of Article 207, numeral 1) of the National Constitution.