AVIG 
LEGISLATURE LEYN " 1. 969. 
Amending, extending and repealing several articles of law N° 1682/2001 "Regulating private information". 
THE CONGRESS OF THE PARAGUAYAN NATION PUNISHES WITH FORCE OF 
LAW 
Article 1°.- Amend the Articles 1°, 2°, 5°, 7°, 9° and 10 law N2 1682/2001, the texts of which are worded as follows:: 
"Art. 1°.- The purpose of this law is to regulate the collection, storage and, distribution, publication, modification, destruction, duration and in general, the processing of personal data contained in files, records, data banks or any other means technical processing of public or private data intended to give reports, in order to guarantee the full exercise of the rights of its owners. This law shall not apply in no cases to databases or sources of journalistic information or freedom to express opinions and to inform." 
"Art. 2°.- Everyone has the right to collect, store and process data personal for strictly private use. 
Public sources of information are free for all. Every person has right to access data that are recorded in public records, even those created by law N2 879 of December 2, 1981, law n° 608 of December 18, July 1995, as amended." 
"Art. 5°.- The data of natural or legal persons that reveal, describe or estimate your financial situation, financial solvency or compliance with your obligations commercial and financial, may be published or disseminated only: 
(A) where such persons have given express authorization and by written to obtain data on the fulfilment of its obligations not judicially claimed; 
(b) in the case of information or ratings which entities state or private entities must publish or disclose in compliance with specific legal provisions; and, A (c) when they appear in the sources of information". ;;2 


1101a 4/ 0 
Act No. 1,969. 
"Art. 7°.- Personal data about the company will be updated permanently financial situation, economic solvency and compliance with commercial obligations and financial institutions that according to this law can be disseminated. 
The obligation to update the data mentioned in the previous paragraph weighs on the companies, persons or entities that store, process and disseminate that information. This update must be made within four days of the time of let there come to their knowledge. Companies, persons or entities that use their services have the obligation to provide the relevant information in order that the data that they store, process and disclose, are permanently updated, for which purpose they must communicate within two days, the update of the credit the inclusion of the debtor. 
The periods mentioned above will begin to run from the claim performed by the affected party. 
In the event that the personal data were erroneous, inaccurate, misleading or incomplete, and so proven, the affected will have the right to have them modified. 
The updating, modification or deletion of the data will be absolutely free of charge, and must also be provided, at the request of the affected and free of charge, copy authenticated record altered in the relevant part'. 
"Art. 9°.- Companies, persons or entities that provide information on the patrimonial situation, economic solvency on the fulfillment of obligations will not transmit or disclose data: 
(B) three years after the registration of unclaimed debts judicially; 
(C) three years after the obligations claimed have been judicially cancelled by the debtor or legally extinguished; 
(h) proceedings for the convocation of creditors after five years of the court order admitting it. 
Companies or entities providing information on the situation financial solvency and compliance with commercial commitments and financial institutions must implement computer mechanisms that automatically remove non-publishable data from your information system, as required deadlines set out in this article". 
"Art. 10.- Penalties will be applied in the following cases: 
(a) natural or legal persons who publish or distribute information on the patrimonial situation, economic solvency or compliance with obligations commercial and Financial in violation of the provisions of this law shall be sanctioned with fines that will vary, according to the circumstances of the case, between fifty and one hundred minimum wages for various jobs fines that will be doubled, tripled, quadrupled, and so on. successively for each recidivism of the same affected. 


Act No. 1,969. 
For the fine to occur, doubling, tripling, quadrupling, etc., the entity will be required to be reluctant to comply with the update within the period established in Article 7° of this law, has received the previous claim for letter from the affected individual; 
b) natural or legal persons who, despite being obliged to rectify or to provide information so that data are rectified in accordance with what Article 7°, do not do so or do so outside the time limits established there, they will be punished with fines that, according to the circumstances of the case, they will range between fifty and one hundred minimum wages for various work activities not specified; fines which, in case of recidivism, will be increased by following the pattern set out in subparagraph (a). 
For the fine, doubling, tripling, quadrupling, etc. to occur. the entity will be required to be reluctant to comply with the update within the period established in Article 7 of this law, has received the previous claim for letter from the affected individual; 
C) if the extrajudicial claims referred to in Article 8 ° no without reason or legal basis, it will apply to the entity reluctant to performance of its obligations, a fine that, according to the circumstances of the case, it will oscillate between one hundred and two hundred minimum wages for activities Miscellaneous unspecified;° 
Article 2-Communicate to the executive. 
Approved the bill by the Honorable chamber of Deputies, twenty-three days of the month of May in the Year Two Thousand and two, and by The Honorable House of senators, on the twenty-second day of the month August of the year two thousand two, being sanctioned the same, in accordance with the provisions of Article 207, paragraph 2, of the National Constitution. 
.013y an - 
Oscar Alberta DaherL._ r idefite H. Chamber of Deputies 
Juan Jose Vazquez Vazquez Parliamentary Secretary 


Ptileanow.wrir Duarte IrVice-President As President H. Senate 
/Mrs. Marion / Parliamentary Secretary AsunciOri, le 2002 Be regarded as the law of the Republic, published and entered in the Official Register. The president of the Republic 


Diego Abente Brun Minister of Justice and Labour