Law No. 5.543 
(Amending Articles 5 and 9 of Law No. 1.682 / 01 " regulating INFORMATION OF A PRIVATE NATURE', AMENDED BY LAW t* 1.969 / 02. 
The Congress of ParaguayaisAncionacon Fuerza 
Article 1. Amend Articles 5 and 9 of Law No. 1.682 / 01 " which regulates the Information of a private nature", amended by law N° 1.969 / 02, which remain worded as follows: 
"Art. 5.° The data of natural or legal persons that reveal, describe or estimate their financial situation, financial solvency or compliance with its obligations commercial and financial, may be published or disseminated only: 
(A) where such persons have given express written authorization .to to obtain data on the fulfilment of its unclaimed obligations judicially; 
(b) in the case of information or qualifications which state or must publish or disclose in compliance with legal provisions specify; 
(c) where they appear in public sources of information; and, 
(d) where the information relates to the fulfilment of financial obligations; and credit limit, commitments of the month and balance due. 
"Art. 9.° The companies, persons or entities that provide information on the financial situation, economic solvency or compliance with obligations will not transmit or disclose data: 
(a) three years after the recording of unclaimed overdue debts judicially; 
tb) from the moment the debt is cancelled, immediately; 
(c) proceedings for the convening of creditors after five years of the decision court to admit it. / , / / 


Companies or entities that provide information on the financial situation, economic solvency and compliance with commercial and financial commitments must implement computer mechanisms that automatically eliminate from your system Information Non-publishable data, as the deadlines established in this article. ' 
Article 2.° All provisions contrary to this law shall be repealed. 
Article 3, ° Communicate to the executive power. Approved the bill by the Honorable chamber of Deputies, on eighteen days of the month of August in the Year Two Thousand and fifteen, and by The Honorable House of senators, vempseis alas am MOS Cie noviempre a01 ano aos mu ,wince is sanctioned , contormidad coyo dispuesto en el articulo 207, numeral 2 de