Page 1

Reporting
athe
violation
File
aSecurity
complaint
personalto
data
protection
Personal
Data Office

Inspector's
applicationData
Contact
with theUODO
inspector
Data
Protection
Personal
(DPO)
Protection

Enter the phrase you are looking for

Applications,
conclusions,
Applications,
conclusions,
petitions - general
petitions
letter
- general
letter
from
natural
persons
Contact
with
Request
theinformation
team
for sharing
Press (for
public
media)

Office helpline 606-950-000

President and Office

Tutorials and Tips

Movies

Right

Education

Cooperation

Tutorials

contact

» Tutorials » Tutorials and tips

Personal data protection in schools and educational institutions - a guide
The Office for Personal Data Protection in cooperation with the Ministry of National Education prepared a practical one
a guide on the processing of personal data in schools and institutions
educational.
To ensure the smooth and trouble-free application of the related regulations
with the protection of personal data in the school reality, the Data Protection Office
Personnel in cooperation with the Ministry of National Education prepared
a special guide for principals of schools and educational institutions "Data protection
personnel in schools and educational institutions ".
It was presented at a joint press conference by the Minister of Education
National and the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection.
It contains updated guidelines regarding the processing of personal data of children, their parents and legal guardians,
teachers, as well as other employees of schools and educational institutions.
Basic principles and their practical application
The study indicates the basic principles that school and educational institution principals should follow when processing data
personal. It also describes how to apply the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and sectoral legal acts
in specific situations.
This publication is also a response to the most frequently emerging doubts related to data processing
personal data, reported recently to both the Personal Data Protection Office and the Ministry of National Education.
On the Internet and SIO
The guide, which we invite you to read, has been prepared primarily for principals of schools and kindergartens
and educational institutions. It was made available on the websites of both offices and sent via the Information System
Oświatowa to every school in Poland.
Letter to school principals
At the same time, the Minister of National Education Anna Zalewska and the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection Edyta Bielak-Jomaa sent
a joint letter to school principals expressing the hope that the information and practical tips contained in the guide will be helpful
in their daily work.
The publication also contains a lot of information that will also be useful for students, parents and teachers.
We are waiting for comments
If you think that it is worth extending the guide with other issues, we encourage you to report them to the following address
zas@uodo.gov.pl .

2018-08-24

Attached files
Letter from the President of the Personal Data Protection Office and the Minister of National Education
A guide for schools

President and Office

UODO hotline

Office for Personal Data Protection

News

606-950-000

ul. Stawki 2, 00-193 Warsaw

Right

open on business days from 10: 00-14: 00

kancelaria@uodo.gov.pl

Education

Working hours: 8.00-16.00

Schengen
Cooperation
Public procurement
Archive giodo.gov.pl
© UODO 2018 - 2021 All rights reserved.

Privacy Policy | Home | Contact | Fortress

