Page 1

Pursuant to Article 78, paragraph 4 of the Law on Personal Data Protection (“Official Gazette
RS ”, No. 87/18) and Article 33, paragraph 5 of the Law on Free Access to Public Information
significance ("Official Gazette of RS", No. 120/04, 54/07, 104/09 and 36/10),
The Commissioner for Information of Public Importance and Personal Data Protection issues
RULEBOOK
on the form and manner of keeping internal records on violations of the Law on Data Protection o
persons and measures taken in the performance of inspection supervision
Article 1
This Rulebook prescribes in more detail the form and manner of keeping internal records of
violations of the Law on Personal Data Protection (hereinafter: the Law) and measures taken in
performing inspection supervision.
Article 2
Commissioner for Information of Public Importance and Personal Data Protection (hereinafter
text: Commissioner) keeps internal records on violations of the Law and measures that are being taken
inspection supervision are undertaken (hereinafter: internal records).
Internal records contain: data on the controller or processor who violated the Law
(name and surname or title, residence, domicile or seat), data on violation of the Law (description
violations and the article of the Law that was violated), data on measures taken and data on
the actions of the controller or processor according to the imposed measures.
Article 3
A graphical representation of the internal records form is given on the form printed in
attached to this Rulebook and forms an integral part thereof.
Article 4
The internal records are unique and are kept in the Office of the Commissioner, in electronic form
form.
The entry of data into the internal records is performed by authorized persons from the Office of the Commissioner, after
completion of the supervision procedure.
He is responsible for controlling the accuracy and up-to-dateness of the data entered in the internal records
the head of the basic internal unit of the Commissioner's Office in which the supervision work is performed.
Article 5
This Rulebook shall enter into force on the eighth day from the day of its publication in the "Official Gazette
Of the Republic of Serbia ”, and it has been applied since the day of application of the Law on Personal Data Protection
("Official Gazette of RS", No. 87/18).
Number 021-00-11 / 2019-04
In Belgrade, May 31, 2019

Page 2
Deputy Commissioner,
Stanojla Mandić, sr

Attachment: Form of internal records on violations of the Law on Personal Data Protection and Measures
which are undertaken in the performance of inspection supervision

Name and
Regular last name or
name
number operator or
processor

Residence,
residence or
seat
operator or
processor

Member
Description
Of the Act
injuries
which is
Of the Act
injured

Data on
acting
Measures that is
operator or
Commissioner
processor by
undertook
pronounced
measures

