Page 1

Government Offices
legal databases

Accessibility report

The Government Offices' legal databases contain laws,
regulations, committee directives and the committee register.

Constitutional register

Constitutions full text

Record 11 of 11 hits

Committee Directive

Search results

SFS number · 1973: 1973:
1173 ·1173 · Show register
Credit Information Act (1973: 1173)
Ministry:
Department: Ministry of Justice L2
Issued: 1973-12-14
Reprint: SFS 1981: 737
Amendment introduced: until SFS 2021: 483

Introductory provisions
Section 1 This Act applies to credit information activities that involve
that someone, except in isolated cases, provides credit information to
compensation or as part of a business activity. The law applies
also other credit information activities, if of a larger nature
extent.
The law does not apply when an authority discloses information
by virtue of law, regulation or a specific decision of
the government or an authority appointed by the government.
The law also does not apply to the provision of credit information
between companies within the same group, except when the disclosure
provided by a company authorized by
The Integrity Protection Authority in accordance with section 3, first paragraph.
Lag (2020: 1109).
Section 1 a This Act contains, in so far as it relates to treatment
of personal data, supplementary provisions
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of
April 27, 2016 on the protection of individuals with respect to
processing of personal data and on the free flow of
such information and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC
(General Data Protection Regulation), here referred to as the EU
data protection regulation.
In the case of such processing of personal data covered by the EU
The Data Protection Ordinance also applies to the Act (2018: 218)
additional provisions to the EU Data Protection Regulation
and regulations issued in connection therewith
the law, unless otherwise provided by this law or regulations
which the government has announced in connection with the law.
Lag (2018: 405).
Section 2 In this Act, credit information refers to information, assessments
or advice given to guidance for the assessment of someone else
creditworthiness or other reliability financially
respect. Information, opinions or advice given to someone
to be used in his credit reporting business is considered
however, not as credit information.
For the purposes of this Act, a trader also means a person who, without
run a business, has such a significant influence in one
certain activity that information about his own circumstances is needed
to shed light on the financial position of the business. Lag (1997: 556).
Permits etc.
Section 3 Credit information activities may only be conducted after
permission of the Privacy Protection Authority.
However, the integrity protection authority's permit is not required
the following companies, if their basic license covers
credit reporting activities:
1. a Swedish credit institution,
2. a foreign credit institution operating in
Sweden according to ch. 4 1 or 2 of the Banking Act (2004: 297)
and financing operations, or
3. a foreign credit institution licensed to operate
operations in Sweden according to ch. 4 Section 4 of the Banking and
financing business.
A company referred to in the second paragraph 1 or 3 may start
conduct credit reporting activities two months after
The Privacy Protection Authority has received a report from
the company that it intends to carry out such activities.
Permits are not required for credit reporting activities, in it
to the extent that it is conducted through the publication of credit information on
in a manner referred to in the Freedom of the Press Regulation or
the Freedom of Expression Act. Lag (2020: 1109).
Section 4 Permission to conduct credit information activities may
be notified only if the business can be assumed to be conducted in one
expert and judicious way.
The privacy protection authority may decide on conditions for how
a company's credit information business shall be conducted and if
obligation for a company to notify a change of circumstances
which is important for the right to conduct business.
Lag (2020: 1109).
Operating the business etc.
Section 5 Credit information activities shall be conducted in such a way that
does not lead to undue invasion of privacy
through the content of the information provided or on
otherwise or to be incorrect or misleading
information is stored or disclosed. For such treatment of
personal data covered by the EU Data Protection Regulation
applies instead to Article 5 of that Regulation.
Data on natural persons may be collected only for
credit reporting purposes.
In the case of fully or partially automated processing of data
about legal persons, the person who conducts
credit information activities take appropriate technical and
organizational security measures to prevent
the processing takes place in an unauthorized manner and that the data
exposed to unauthorized transparency. Provisions on safety at
processing of personal data is available in the EU
data protection regulation.
In credit information operations, personal data may be processed
without consent. The registered person has no right to do so
objections pursuant to Article 21 (1) of the EU Data Protection Regulation
against the treatment.
The second paragraph does not apply to the extent that it should
contravene the provisions of the Freedom of the Press Regulation or
the Freedom of Expression Act. Lag (2018: 405).
Information exchange
Section 5 a What applies to the duty of confidentiality in the activities of
Swedish credit institutions, payment institutions, institutions for
electronic money, securities companies and companies that with
permit conducts business in accordance with the Act (2014: 275) on certain
activities with consumer credits or the Act (2016: 1024) on
activities with housing loans, does not prevent information about
provided credit, default and credit default
exchanged for credit information purposes within a constituency
of these companies as well as those companies that are licensed by
The Integrity Protection Authority in accordance with section 3, first paragraph.
The circle specified in the first paragraph also includes foreign
credit institutions referred to in ch. 4 1, 2, 4 and 6 §§ of the law
(2004: 297) on banking and financing operations, foreign
companies referred to in ch. 3 Sections 26 and 27 of the Act (2010: 751) on
payment services, foreign companies referred to in ch. 26-28 §§
the law (2011: 755) on electronic money, foreign companies such as
referred to in ch. 4 §§ 1 and 4 of the Act (2007: 528) on
securities market, foreign companies referred to in section 2 of the Act
(2014: 275) on certain activities with consumer credit and
foreign companies referred to in ch. § 3 of the law (2016: 1024) on
business with housing loans.
Provisions on the use of data on
default of payment and credit misuse are also found in section 7.
Lag (2020: 1109).
Sensitive information etc.
Section 6 Personal data referred to in Article 9 (1) of the EU
Data Protection Regulation (sensitive personal data) may not
processed in credit reporting activities.
Information on offenses involving crime, convictions in
criminal cases, criminal coercive measures or administrative
deprivation of liberty may not without the consent of
The Integrity Protection Authority is dealt with in
information activities. A consent may be given only if it
there are special reasons for that.
The second paragraph does not prevent information about
defaults, credit abuses or business bans
processed in credit reporting activities. Lag (2020: 1109).
Section 7 Credit information on natural persons who are not
traders may not contain information about others
non-payment than those
1. has been determined by a court or another
authority decision or action, or
2. has led to an initial decision on debt restructuring or Fdebt restructuring or for suspension of payments, bankruptcy application
or chords.
Credit information referred to in the first paragraph may not either
contain information on credit misuse, except when the credit has
submitted by a company under the auspices of Finansinspektionen
supervision and the borrower has significantly exceeded
applicable credit limit or otherwise serious
abused the credit.
If there are special reasons, the Privacy Protection Authority receives
decide that a company shall be exempted in whole or in part from
first and second paragraphs.
Information that according to the first and second paragraphs may not be provided
ut may also not be stored in registers used in
credit reporting activities.
This section does not apply to information on payment defaults
in general enforcement cases. Provisions on such
information is found in § 7 a. Lag (2020: 1109).
Section 7 a Credit information on natural persons who are not
trader may contain an indication of a
default in a general enforcement case
only if
1. the case has been ongoing after a notification under 4
Cape. § 12 first paragraph of the Enforcement Code has been submitted and
the debtor has had sufficient time to defend his right,
or
2. The Swedish Enforcement Agency has assessed that such a person
notification is not required under the second paragraph of it
paragraphs.
Information that according to the first paragraph may not be disclosed may
also not stored in registers used in
credit reporting activities. Lag (2017: 599).
Thinning
Section 8 Information about a natural person shall be thinned out when it is not
longer it is necessary to preserve the information with regard to
the purpose of the treatment.
An indication of a natural person who is not a trader shall,
if the information does not apply to debt restructuring or F-debt restructuring,
thinned no later than three years after the date of that circumstance
occurred or the relationship ceased as the task
refers to. If the information concerns a request for or a disclosure of
a credit report, however, it must be thinned out no later than one year after
the date on which the request was made.
An application for debt restructuring must be thinned out no later than five years after
the date on which the initial decision was announced or, if the information
applies to F-debt restructuring, no later than three years after that date. About one
payment plan expires later, however, the information must be thinned out
no later than the day the plan expires.
An information that has been obtained from the Swedish Enforcement Agency in
its collection and enforcement activities should be thinned out when
it is not covered by the exemption from secrecy in ch. 34 § 1
second paragraph of the Public Access to Information and Secrecy Act (2009: 400).
Information that has been obtained from the Swedish Enforcement Agency shall
also thinned when it has been blocked by the Swedish Enforcement Agency
with the support of ch. 3 Section 3 a of the Act (2001: 184) on the treatment of
information in the Swedish Enforcement Agency's activities. Lag (2016: 679).
Disclosure of information
Section 9 Credit information on natural persons who are not
traders may not be disclosed, if there is reason to
assume that the information will be used by someone other than
the one who due to an entered into or questioned credit agreement
or for some similar reason need
the enlightenment.
The first paragraph does not apply to the publication of
a credit report in a manner referred to in
the Freedom of the Press Ordinance or the Freedom of Expression Act,
except when the information is provided from a database according to 1
Cape. Section 4 of the Freedom of Expression Act in the manner referred to in it
the first paragraph of section 2 a – c. Lag (2018: 1910).
Register message
Section 10 A legal person has the right to a reasonable fee
with those who conduct credit information activities few
written notice of whether it is being processed in the business
information about the legal person. Treated as such
information must be provided
(a) the data being processed;
(b) the purposes of the treatment; and
(c) to which recipients or categories of recipients:
the information is disclosed.
The first paragraph shall not apply to the extent that it should
contravene the provisions of the Freedom of the Press Regulation or
the Freedom of Expression Act.
Provisions on a natural person's right to access
personal data and other information are contained in Articles 12
and 15 of the EU Data Protection Regulation. Lag (2018: 405).
Credit information copy
§ 11 / Ceases to apply U: 2021-06-26 /
When a credit report on a natural person is disclosed,
to the person referred to in the disclosure at the same time and
a free written notice is sent
1. who conducts the credit information business and
contact details of the Data Protection Officer, about such an agent
required by Article 37 of the EU Data Protection Regulation;
2. the purposes and legal basis of the proceedings;
3. which categories of personal data are processed, from where
the data has been retrieved and how long the data will last
lagras,
4. the information, assessments and advice contained in the information
about him or her,
5. the ability to access and correct them
information concerning him or her,
6. which categories of recipients can benefit from
the personal data and who requested the information, and
7. the possibility of making complaints to
Integrity Protection Authority.
If the credit information is disclosed to a Swede
credit institutions or investment firms, or to a
corresponding foreign company, to be used only as
basis for calculating the capital requirement for credit risks with
a method such as that referred to in Article 143 (1) of the European Parliament
and Council Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of 26 June 2013 on
prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and if
amendment of Regulation (EU) No 648/2012, the notification may be sent
later but without undue delay and limited to
information pursuant to the first paragraph 1, 2 and 6. If the person referred to
with the information requesting it, information according to 3, 4,
5 and 7 are sent to him or her.
The first and second paragraphs also apply when a credit report
provided about a trading company or limited partnership.
The first to third paragraphs do not apply to credit information such as
submitted by publication in a manner referred to in
the Freedom of the Press Ordinance or the Freedom of Expression Act, except
when the information is provided from a database according to ch.
Section 4 of the Freedom of Expression Act in the manner referred to in it
the first paragraph of the section 2 ac. Lag (2020: 1109).
Section 11 / Entry into force I: 2021-06-26 /
When a credit report on a natural person is disclosed,
to the person referred to in the disclosure at the same time and
a free written notice is sent
1. who conducts the credit information business and
contact details of the Data Protection Officer, about such an agent
required by Article 37 of the EU Data Protection Regulation;
2. the purposes and legal basis of the proceedings;
3. which categories of personal data are processed, from where
the data has been retrieved and how long the data will last
lagras,
4. the information, assessments and advice contained in the information
about him or her,
5. the ability to access and correct them
information concerning him or her,
6. which categories of recipients can benefit from
the personal data and who requested the information, and
7. the possibility of making complaints to
Integrity Protection Authority.
If the credit information is disclosed to a Swede
credit institution or a company referred to in ch. § 2 first
paragraph 7 cf the law (2014: 968) on special supervision of
credit institutions and investment firms, or to one
corresponding foreign company, to be used only as
basis for calculating the capital requirement for credit risks with
a method such as that referred to in Article 143 (1) of the European Parliament
and Council Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of 26 June 2013 on
prudential requirements for credit institutions and amending regulations
(EU) No 648/2012, the message may be sent later but without
unnecessary delay and limited to information under the first
paragraphs 1, 2 and 6. If the person referred to in the information request
information according to 3, 4, 5 and 7 must also be sent to
him or her.
The first and second paragraphs also apply when a credit report
provided about a trading company or limited partnership.
The first to third paragraphs do not apply to credit information such as
submitted by publication in a manner referred to in
the Freedom of the Press Ordinance or the Freedom of Expression Act, except
when the information is provided from a database according to ch.
Section 4 of the Freedom of Expression Act in the manner referred to in it
the first paragraph of the section 2 ac. Lag (2021: 483).
Correction, supplementation and deletion
Section 12 If there is reason to suspect that a task
which are processed in credit information activities or which have
submitted in a credit report during the most recent
the twelve-month period is incorrect or misleading, or that
otherwise it has been treated in violation of this law or the EU
data protection regulation, the person conducting the business without
delay take reasonable steps to investigate the matter.
If it turns out that the information is incorrect or misleading,
or that it has otherwise been treated in violation of the law or
EU Data Protection Regulation, it shall, if it occurs in
register, corrected, supplemented or deleted.
If an incorrect or misleading information has been entered into one
credit information provided, correction or
supplementation as soon as possible can be sent to anyone who
during the last twelve-month period received the task.
This does not apply to the publication of a credit report on
in a manner referred to in the Freedom of the Press Regulation or
the Freedom of Expression Act, except when the information
provided from a database according to ch. § 4
the Freedom of Expression Act in the manner referred to in that section
first paragraph 2 a – c.
If the information during the last twelve-month period has
submitted in a periodical or in a
credit reporting activities conducted through recurring
publications in accordance with the Freedom of Expression Act, shall
correction or supplementation as soon as it can be entered in
a subsequent number of the writing or equivalent form of
publication in accordance with the Freedom of Expression Act.
The second to fourth paragraphs do not apply to the information obviously
is irrelevant to the assessment of the person's credibility
in economic terms.
If a question of correction or similar action has been raised
upon request from the person to whom the information relates, he shall
or she is informed free of charge whether one
action has been taken. A natural person must also receive on request
information on who has been sent a correction or
supplement in accordance with the third paragraph. Lag (2018: 1910).
Restriction of processing of personal data
Section 12 a Article 18 of the EU Data Protection Regulation contains
provisions on the right of natural persons to request that
the processing of personal data is restricted. Lag (2018: 405).
Transfer and assignment of registers
Section 13 Registers used in credit information activities may
transferred or leased to someone else only after
consent of the Privacy Protection Authority.
Anyone who ceases to carry out credit information activities or
intending to relocate such activities to another country
or to discard a register used in such activities
must report this to the Privacy Protection Authority.
In such cases, the authority decides which registers are affected by
the action must be handled. Lag (2020: 1109).
Professional secrecy
Section 14 Anyone who is or has been active in credit information activities
may not unauthorisedly disclose or use what he has received as a result
know about the personal circumstances of individuals or about professional or
trade secrets. Lag (1981: 737).
Supervision etc.
Section 15 The Privacy Protection Authority exercises supervision over
compliance with this law.
Supervision must be exercised so that it does not cause greater cost
or inconvenience than necessary.
In supervising such processing of personal data as
covered by the EU Data Protection Regulation apply
The powers of the Privacy Protection Authority under this Act
in addition to the powers of the supervisory authority under
Article 58 (1) to (3) of that Regulation. Lag (2020: 1109).
Section 16 The Privacy Protection Authority has the right to make an inspection
with the person conducting credit reporting activities and to take
part of all documents relating to the business.
Anyone who conducts credit information activities must provide them
information about the activities of the Privacy Protection Authority
requests for their supervision.

The Committee Register

Previous Next ·

If

If credit information activities are conducted through publication
of credit information in a manner referred to in
the Freedom of the Press Ordinance and the Freedom of Expression Act, shall
the one who conducts the business within a week after
the publication ensure that the Privacy Protection Authority
receive part of what has been published free of charge.
Lag (2020: 1109).
Section 17 About the person who has the right to conduct
credit reporting activities infringe a provision thereof
law or a condition that has been announced on the basis of § 4 second
paragraph, the Privacy Protection Authority may impose on him
or her to take correction, decide to change one
conditions previously announced or announce a new one
terms.
If correction can not be achieved in any other way, when
applies to someone who has a permit in accordance with section 3, first paragraph, may
The privacy protection authority revokes the permit. The same
applies if the conditions for the permit are not otherwise
longer are met.
If a company referred to in § 3 second paragraph 1 or 3 does not
takes corrective action, the Privacy Protection Authority shall notify
Finansinspektionen.
If a company referred to in section 3, second paragraph 2 does not take
correction, the Privacy Protection Authority shall notify it
competent authority of the company's home country. About correction anyway
does not take place, the Privacy Protection Authority may prohibit the company
to make new commitments in this country. Before a ban is announced,
The Integrity Protection Authority shall inform the competent
in the company's home country. In urgent cases sheep
The Privacy Authority will issue a ban without prior notice
notification to the home country authority. This will then
be notified as soon as possible. Lag (2020: 1109).
Section 17 a Has been repealed by law (1997: 556).
Section 18 The Government may issue regulations on its obligation
which conducts credit reporting activities to pay a fee for
The integrity protection authority's supervisory activities according to this
law.
Such a fee is charged by the Privacy Protection Authority.
Lag (2020: 1109).
Penalties and damages etc.
Section 19 A person shall be sentenced to a fine or imprisonment for a maximum of one year
intentionally or through negligence
1. carries out credit information activities without being entitled to
that according to § 3,
2. violates §§ 6–9, § 13 first paragraph or second paragraph
the first sentence or section 16, third paragraph,
3. violates a condition that has been announced in accordance with section 4, second
paragraph, § 13 second paragraph second sentence or § 17 first
paragraph, or
4. provides false information in such cases as are referred to in section 10
or section 16, second paragraph, or in a notice pursuant to section 11.
A fine is imposed on anyone who, through incorrect information, intentionally
causes someone to engage
credit reporting activities, other than those excluded
in section 9, second paragraph, discloses a credit report without
have a basis for this in accordance with section 9, first paragraph. To the same
punishment is judged as by using information in someone
who conduct credit information activities intentionally prepare
access to a credit report without having a basis for it
this in accordance with section 9, first paragraph. In minor cases, however, is not convicted
to responsibility. Lag (2010: 1073).
Section 20 Has credit information activities been conducted by someone who
did not have the right to it according to § 3, registers used
in the business is declared forfeited if it is not obvious
impossible. The same applies if registers have been transferred or
granted in violation of section 13, first paragraph or whatever
determined in accordance with section 13, second paragraph, second sentence has not been complied with.
Lag (1997: 556).
Section 21 A person who conducts credit information activities shall
compensate for damage caused to someone as a result of the business
through undue intrusion into his or her personal
integrity or by providing him with incorrect information
or her, unless the person conducting the business can show
that due care and caution have been observed. At
the assessment of the extent to which damage has occurred shall
suffering and other circumstances are also taken into account
other than purely economic significance.
For such processing of personal data covered by the EU
Data Protection Regulation applies to Article 82 of that Regulation in
instead of the first paragraph. Lag (2018: 405).
Section 22 If the person conducting credit information activities does not
fulfills its obligations under § 10, 11 or 12, may
The Privacy Protection Authority imposes a fine. The same applies
if the person conducting such activities fails to give
access to a document or to provide information in cases
referred to in section 16, first or second paragraph. Lag (2020: 1109).
Appeal
Section 23 The decision of the Privacy Protection Authority in accordance with this Act may
appealed to a general administrative court. Chancellor of Justice
may bring an action in the public interest.
Permission to appeal is required in an appeal to the Court of Appeal of
decision to impose a fine. Lag (2020: 1109).

Transitional provisions
1984: 394
This law enters into force on the date determined by the government. The provision in 6
§ second paragraph first sentence also applies in respect of information that
someone has been the subject of action in accordance with the Act (1973: 558) on
temporary care.
1988: 1478
This law enters into force on 1 January 1989. Older regulations apply
still in the case of information that someone has been the subject of action
according to the law (1981: 1243) on the care of addicts in certain cases.
1990: 58
This law enters into force on 1 July 1990. Older regulations apply
still in the case of information that someone has been the subject of action
according to the law (1980: 621) with special provisions on the care of young people.
1991: 1959
This law enters into force on 1 January 1992. Older regulations apply
still in the case of information that someone has been the subject of action
according to the law (1966: 293) on the preparation of inpatient psychiatric care in some
case.
1992: 1616
1. This Act shall enter into force on the date determined by the Government.
(Effective January 1, 1994, 1993: 1646).
2. A credit market company which, upon the entry into force of the Act, has the right to
conduct business in accordance with the Act (1963: 76) on credit limited companies shall
still be part of the circle of companies referred to in section 1, second paragraph.
1994: 1397
This law enters into force on January 1, 1995. Decisions that have
notified before the entry into force are appealed in accordance with older provisions.
1997: 556
1. This Act shall enter into force on 1 July 1997.
2. Regulations issued by the Swedish Data Inspectorate with support
of older provisions also apply after the entry into force, if
nothing else is decided by the inspectorate.
3. Companies referred to in section 3, second paragraph 1, 2, 4 or 5 and
which, upon the entry into force of the Act, conducts
business may continue with the business, if the company within
two months from the entry into force of the law notifies to
The Data Inspectorate that it intends to continue operating
the business.
4. The provision in section 6, second paragraph, second sentence also applies
in the case of information that someone has been the subject of
measures according to the law (1967: 940) regarding care for certain
mentally retarded or the law (1985: 568) on special
cares for the mentally retarded, etc.
5. The provision in section 11, second paragraph, shall apply from and
with effect from 1 October 1997.
1998: 380
This Act shall enter into force on 1 October 1998. In the case of
appeal against decisions issued before the entry into force
applies to older regulations.
2001: 164
1. This Act shall enter into force on 1 June 2001.
2. Instead of § 5 first paragraph, § 5 is applied in its older
wording in respect of such processing of personal data for
which section 9 of the Personal Data Act (1998: 204) according to
the transitional provisions to that law do not apply.
2006: 747
1. This Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2007.
2. For information on debt restructuring relating to decisions announced
according to the Debt Restructuring Act (1994: 334), applies to the elderly
provisions.
2010: 1073
1. This Act shall enter into force on 1 January 2011.
2. In the case of correction or completion of a task in a
credit information provided before the entry into force applies § 12
in its older wording.
2016: 679
1. This Act enters into force on 1 November 2016.
2. For information on debt restructuring relating to decisions announced
according to the Debt Restructuring Act (2006: 548) applies to the elderly
provisions.
2017: 599
1. This Act shall enter into force on the date of the Government
decides.
Older regulations still apply to information on
defaults in cases initiated with
The Swedish Enforcement Agency before the entry into force.

Search results

Previous Next

·

