Page 1

THE LAW
THE REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
ABOUT THE INFORMATION
(Akhbori Majlisi Oli of the Republic of Tajikistan, 2002, №4, part 2, art. 320; 2012, №7, art. 698;
Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 27.11.2014, № 1164)
This law provides the legal basis for information activities, goals, objectives, principles, subjects and objects
regulates information relations and establishes the state information policy in the society.
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 3, 2014, 8848)
CHAPTER 1.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1. Basic concepts
The main terms used in this Law are:
- information - information about a person, object, event, phenomenon or process, regardless of its form
their presentation;
- information activity - a set of operations to meet information needs
subjects of information relations;
- information spheres - a set of published information on relatively independent spheres of life and activity
society and the state;
- state statistical information - is an official state documentary information that provides information on events and phenomena in
gives a quantitative description of the economic, social, cultural and other spheres of life of the Republic of Tajikistan;
- mass media - information that is publicly available through publications, audio and video recording devices
spread;
- legal information - a set of documentary or publicly announced information on a law, its system,
sources of enforcement and legal evidence, legal relations, law and order, violations of law and the fight against
it, crime prevention, etc .;
- personal information - a set of documentary or publicly announced personal data;
- information of encyclopedic nature - systematic, documentary or informational information
publicly announced on public, state and natural life;
- huççatikunonida information (documents) - information in the source material marked with information data
( details ) that allow for its identification;
- information of public administration systems - official documentary information in the process
the current activities of the legislative, executive, judicial and local authorities are organized;
- sociological information - documentary or publicly announced sociological information on
attitudes of individual citizens or social groups towards social events, processes and
the evidence;
- information about citizens (personal data) - information about facts, events and circumstances
the life of the citizen, which allows him to identify himself;
- confidential information - information containing state secrets in Articles 13-18 of the Law of the Republic
Tajikistan "On State Secrets" provides that their disclosure or loss is a matter of national security and
damage or may damage the defense capabilities of the Republic of Tajikistan; ( Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of November 27, 2014, №1163)
- Confidential information - information in the possession, use or disposal of individuals
real or legal, which can be included in the state information at the request of the owner;
- primary document - a document that contains primary information;
- Secondary document - a document that contains the results of analytical processing or processing of one or more other sources.
contains information;
- information process - the process of collecting, processing, storing, storing, searching and disseminating
information;
- information system - a set of organizationally regulated documents, the volume of documents and technology
information, including through the use of computer and communication technology that implements the information flow;
- information resources - separate documents, separate volumes of documents and volumes of documents in information systems
(libraries, archives, funds, databases and other information systems);
- information products - the material result of information activities designed to meet needs
information for citizens, government agencies, enterprises, institutions and organizations;
- information services - carrying out activities in the form specified by these Laws
information for the delivery of information products to users in order to meet their needs
their information;
- the right of ownership to information - the legally regulated public relations on ownership, use and
disposal of information;

Page 2
- Owner of information resources, information systems, technologies and means of their provision an entity that owns and uses these facilities and has the authority to dispose of them within
implements the legislation;
- information user - an entity that accesses an information system or an intermediary to receive information
applies the necessary information. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 3, 2014, 8848)
Article 2. Purposes and tasks of the present Law
This law regulates the general legal norms of acquisition, use, distribution and protection
establishes information, the right of the subject of information relations to information in all spheres of life
public and state bodies of the Republic of Tajikistan, as well as strengthen the information system and its sources, status
identifies participants in the information relationship, regulates access to information and its protection
provides protection of identity and society from false information.
Article 3. Legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on information
Legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on information to the Constitution of the Republic of Tajikistan
Tajikistan is based on this Law, other normative legal acts of the Republic of Tajikistan, as well as acts
international law recognized by Tajikistan .
Article 4. Basic principles of information relations
The main principles of information relations are:
- guaranteed right to information;
- openness and access to information and its free exchange;
- Accuracy and reliability of information;
- completeness, timeliness and accuracy of information;
- the legitimacy of obtaining, using, disseminating and protecting information.
Article 5. Subjects of information relations
The subjects of information relations are:
- citizens of the Republic of Tajikistan;
- legal entities;
-state.
In accordance with this Law, other states, their citizens, legal entities, international organizations,
Foreign citizens and stateless persons can also be subjects of information relations.
Article 6. Objects of information relations
Revealed information about a person, events and phenomena in the field of politics, economics, culture, science
technical, social, ecological, international and other spheres are objects of information relations.
Article 7. State information policy
State information policy consists of a set of main directions and methods of activity of the state and other entities
receiving, using, disseminating and storing information.
The main directions and methods of the state information policy are:
-care of the state and other subjects of information relations on the timely establishment, activities
necessary and development of information systems, networks, databases and data sources in all areas of activity
information;
- Ensuring timely access of citizens to information;
- establishment of national information systems and networks on a non-monopoly basis;
- strengthening the material and technical, financial, organizational, legal and scientific basis of information activities;
- ensuring effective use of information;
- assistance in updating, constant enrichment and protection of national information resources;
- Establishment of information security system;
-facilitate international cooperation in the field of information and guarantee information independence
Republic of Tajikistan.
The state information policy is developed by public authorities, as well as relevant information agencies
apply.
Article 8. Right to information

Page 3
Subjects of information relations have the opportunity to freely receive, use, disseminate and
protection of information related to the exercise of rights, freedoms and legitimate interests, the implementation of goals and objectives.
they are necessary, right.
The exercise of the right to information by the subjects of information relations should not be subject to public, political,
economic, social, moral, environmental and other rights, freedoms and legitimate interests of other citizens;
violate the interests of legal entities and harm the interests of the Republic of Tajikistan.
Every citizen is free, except for the cases stipulated by the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan
access to information that pertains to him personally shall be provided.
Article 9. Guarantees of the right to information
The right to information is provided as follows:
- implementation of the procedure for exercising the right to information;
- through state control over compliance with information legislation;
- establishing liability for violations of information legislation.
CHAPTER 2.
INFORMATION ACTIVITY
Article 10. Information activities
In order to ensure the satisfactory implementation of information activities of public authorities and other bodies
information services establish systems, networks, sources, and databases.
The procedure for their establishment, structure, rights and obligations shall be determined by the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan
will be.
Article 11. The main directions of information activities
The main areas of information activities are political, economic, cultural, social, spiritual, environmental,
scientific, technical, international and other spheres of public life.
The state, except for the cases provided by the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan, freedom of activity
provide information in these areas to all individuals and legal entities within the scope of their rights and freedoms, duties and powers.
guarantees. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 3, 2014, 8848)
Article 12. The main forms of information activity
The main forms of information activity are:
- to receive information - to obtain and collect it in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan
information about the person, object, facts, events, etc., regardless of the form of their presentation;
- use of information - satisfaction of information needs of the state, individuals and legal entities;
- dissemination of information - publication and exchange of information in accordance with the established procedure
the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan;
- protection of information - ensuring the required state of information, its material representations and
their accounting.
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 3, 2014, 8848)
Article 13. Professional education in the field of information activity
In the Republic of Tajikistan for professional education in the field of information activities through
the systems of its educational institutions.
Procedure for establishing educational institutions in the field of information (journalism, statistics, library work and
archives, scientific and information activities, computer science, computer technology, etc.) and principles of operation
They are defined by the Law of the Republic of Tajikistan "On Education" and other normative legal acts.
Article 14. Organization of scientific research in the field of information activity
To ensure the effective operation and development of national information systems in the Republic of Tajikistan
In the field of information activities, research, basic and applied research is conducted.
For this purpose, scientific institutions, scientific and production structures, associations, associations, centers
new information technologies and other units, including with the participation of foreign partners, will be established.
Funding of research and basic scientific research, scientific programs, projects of state importance
in research and educational institutions at the expense of budgetary funds, own funds and customers
is done.
Funding for applied research, processing is usually done on a contractual or contractual basis.
their outcome may be the subject of a financial relationship.

Page 4

CHAPTER 3.
TYPES, SOURCES OF INFORMATION AND SYSTEM OF INTRODUCTION
Article 15. Types of information
The main types of information are:
- statistical information;
- mass information;
- information on the activities of government agencies;
- legal information;
- personal information;
- information of informational and encyclopedic nature;
- sociological, cognitive, economic, commercial, ecological, service, consumer, archival, scientific,
scientific and technical and so on.
Article 16. State statistical information
Government statistical information should be made public on a regular basis. Free entry
citizens, academic institutions and other organizations interested in unpublished statistical data, which are under
are not subject to the restrictions established by the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan.
Statistical information system, its sources and system in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Tajikistan “On Statistics
state ”and other normative legal acts in this area.
Article 17. Mass information
Mass media are periodicals, newspapers, magazines, bulletins and periodicals.
with certain copies.
Electronic media include radio, television, cinema, audio and video recording.
Procedure for the establishment and organization of the activities of certain media outlets in accordance with the legislation on
these tools are identified.
Article 18. Information on the activities of public administration bodies
Information of public administration bodies in the following ways to the information of interested persons
are delivered:
- their publication in official publications or their distribution by the information services of the authorities or
relevant government agencies;
- their publication in mass media or mass, audio and audiovisual announcements of mass media
mass media;
- direct delivery of information to interested persons (orally, in writing or otherwise);
- providing access to archival materials, reports, test results documents, etc .;
- their disclosure through public reports of officials.
Sources and procedures for obtaining, using, disseminating and protecting official information
state bodies and local authorities shall be determined in accordance with the legislation of this body.
Article 19. Legal information
Sources of legal information The Constitution of the Republic of Tajikistan, normative legal acts
Republic of Tajikistan, international legal instruments, media information, mass reports,
other sources of information on legal issues.
In order to provide citizens with state regulations the official publication of them in accordance
The law of the Republic of Tajikistan "About regulatory legal acts" regulates.
Article 20. Personal information
Basic personal information (individual information) includes: nationality, education, marital status, status
material, religious affiliation, health status, as well as address, date and place of birth.
Documentary sources of identity documents issued in his name, documents issued by him
signatures, as well as personal data, which are collected by public authorities and the place of assembly.
brought.
The collection, protection, use and dissemination of privacy information, as well as confidential information
personal and family, confidentiality of telephone conversations, mail, telegraph and other information
reveals the identity without his consent, except for the cases stipulated by the legislation of the Republic
Tajikistan is banned. Everyone has the right to be acquainted with the information collected about him.

Page 5
Personal information belongs to the group of confidential information in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan
Tajikistan is protected.
Article 21. Information of encyclopedic nature
The main sources of this information are encyclopedias, dictionaries, reference books, advertising information, announcements,
guides, cartographic materials, as well as references are considered by the authorities
state or local authorities and public associations of citizens, organizations, archival institutions and
their employees are also provided with automated information systems.
The system of this information, access to it is determined by the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan
are.
Article 22. Sociological information
The main sources of sociological information are considered to be documentary or publicly published information
which reflect the results of social surveys, observations, and other social surveys.
Sociological surveys are conducted by government agencies, public associations of citizens, according to
are registered in the prescribed manner.
Article 23. Sources of information
Sources of information are the material representations of the information with the details required to
its identification also allows for media coverage and media reports
are.
Article 24. Information access system
The information access system is the procedure for obtaining, using, distributing and storing information
information provided by regulatory legal acts.
Access information is divided into public information and restricted access information.
The government controls the system of access to information.
The function of the control system to access information is to ensure compliance with the requirements of information laws
by all state bodies, enterprises, institutions and organizations, not to be considered unreasonable
data belongs to a group of restricted access information.
State control over the observance of the system established by special bodies appointed by the Government
The Republic of Tajikistan determines, takes place.
Article 25. Access to public information
Access to public information is provided in the following ways:
- its regular publication in official publications (bulletins, collections);
- its dissemination through the mass media;
- its direct transfer to interested citizens, government agencies and legal entities.
Procedures and conditions in accordance with the request of citizens, government agencies, legal entities and representatives
Public disclosure of information shall be established by the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan. Limit
the right to receive public information is prohibited. Citizens have the right to information
that such information is necessary for the performance of their professional duties.
Article 26. Restricted access to information
Information with limited access is classified as confidential and confidential under the legal system.
Individuals and legal entities with confidential professional, business, manufacturing, banking, commercial and other confidential information
have other characteristics, have been acquired at their own expense or as a result of professional, business,
industrial, banking, commercial or other interests without violating the secrecy provided by law;
determine the access and protection system.
Belonging to information belongs to a group of confidential information containing state secrets and access to citizens
they are carried out in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Tajikistan "On State Secrets".
The procedure for dealing with confidential information and its protection by the relevant state bodies, subject to compliance
the requirements established by this Law.
The procedure and deadlines for the disclosure of confidential information are determined by the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan
will be done.
Article 27. Citizens' access to information about themselves
Citizens have the right to:

Page 6
-know what information, by whom and with whom during the data collection period
purpose is collected, how, when and for what purpose it is used;
- to have access to the information belonging to them, to get acquainted with it, to demand its completeness and compliance
to represent.
Public administration bodies, executive bodies in localities (governments), archival institutions that
Their information system includes information on citizens, obligated at the request of persons who do this
the information relating to them shall be provided without hindrance, except in cases provided by law.
as well as to take measures to prevent its illegal acquisition. In case of violation
To comply with this requirement, the law protects citizens from harm caused by the use of such information
guarantees.
Access of third parties to information about another person in accordance with current legal acts
collected by government agencies, organizations and officials in the absence of consent
the person against whom such information has been collected and, if he is not registered, without his consent
his heirs are forbidden. In the absence of heirs, access to such information shall be permitted with the permission of the public authorities.
organizations or local authorities that own the information.
All organizations that collect information about citizens must comply with them before starting work
the procedure established by the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan for state registration of relevant data sources
to do.
The required amount of information on citizens that can be obtained legally should be kept to a minimum.
at least be restricted and used only for purposes prescribed by law.
Refusal to allow access to such information, concealment, illegal collection,
its use, protection or illegal distribution may be appealed in court.
Article 28. Request for access to official documents and provision of written information or
verbally
By information request (hereinafter referred to as request) on access to official documents in the Law
It is intended to address the requirement to provide access to official documents.
The request can be individual or general. It is submitted in writing.
The citizen has the right to apply to state bodies and to submit any official document, regardless
regardless of the affiliation of this document to him, except in cases of restriction of access provided by law.
Republic of Tajikistan.
In the sense of providing written or oral information in this Law,
provision of written or oral information on the activities of the legislative, executive and judicial bodies of the Republic
Tajikistan, its officials on specific issues.
Citizens of the Republic of Tajikistan, state bodies, organizations and associations of citizens (hereinafter applicant) to the relevant legislative, executive, judicial and archival bodies, their officials
submit an application.
The request should include the applicant's last name, first name, patronymic, document, written or oral information as required by him / her.
and your address, who wants to get an answer, should be mentioned.
Legislative, executive and judicial authorities of the Republic of Tajikistan, their officials
are obliged to provide information related to their activities in writing, orally, by telephone or by use
to provide information in public reports of their officials.
Article 29. Term of consideration of the application for access to official documents
The deadline for consideration of the request, depending on the possibility of its satisfaction, should not exceed five calendar days
be.
The period specified in the first part of this article of the public institution to the applicant
provide information in writing in response to his request. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 3, 2014, 8848)
Article 30. Refusal and postponement of the request for access to
official documents
Refusal to satisfy the request to the information of the applicant in writing with an explanation of the procedure for appeal
of the decision. The denial should include:
1) an official of a public institution who has refused to grant a request;
2) the date of the denial;
3) justification of the refusal.
Delay in the satisfaction of the request is allowed if the act
it shall not be possible to present the applicant for acquaintance within one month. Warning at
in the event of a delay in requesting the applicant's information in writing to explain the procedure for appeal
of the decision. In the news about the delay in the execution of this request
Cases should be mentioned:

Page 7
1) an official of a public institution that satisfies the request within one month;
refused;
2) the date of submission or notification of the request for postponement;
3) the reasons for which the requested act cannot be submitted within the time limits established by this Law.
The law gave;
4) the period for which the request shall be granted. Refusal or delay in satisfying the request on
The transfer of written information is carried out in the same way.
Article 31. Dissatisfaction with the denial or delay in satisfying a request for access
official documents
In case of rejection of the application for recognition or delay in satisfaction of the application
the applicant has the right to appeal against the refusal or delay to a higher authority or court.
If the complaint to the higher authorities is rejected, the applicant has the right
appeal against this refusal in court.
The court has the right to ensure the completeness and objectivity of the case by formal acts that allow
acquaintance with them was refused, and after studying them on the validity (or unreasonableness) of the action
to make decisions for officials of the public institution.
If the refusal or delay is unjustified, the court shall instruct the public institution to
provide the applicant with an opportunity to get acquainted with official documents and in relation to officials who have access to
the applicant refused to issue a private appointment.
Unreasonable refusal to allow access to official documents or violation of the deadline
to provide it without good reason in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan
Tajikistan makes government officials accountable. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 3, 2014, 8848)
An appeal against the denial or delay in the satisfaction of a request for written information shall be filed in accordance with the following procedure:
the same article.
Article 32. Procedure for reimbursement of expenses related to access to access requests
to official documents and provide written information
The applicant must pay in full or in part the costs associated with the execution of requests for access to official documents
and reimburse the submission of written information.
The procedure for payment of copies of the requested documents shall be determined by the public institution.
The Government of the Republic of Tajikistan shall determine the procedure and tax for payment of works related to collection, search, development,
establish or provide the requested written information, which should not be deducted from the actual costs associated with the performance
more requests will determine.
Work on the search for official documents is not paid.
Article 33. Documents and information that are not provided upon request
Upon request of information from official documents with the following content, a decision shall be made for identification
do not take:
- information that is recognized as a state secret in accordance with the established procedure;
- confidential information;
- information on the operative-investigative work of the investigative bodies and the court in cases of disclosure
they may undermine immediate action, investigation or pre-trial investigation, human rights for consideration
to violate the fairness and objectivity of his case, to endanger the life and health of any person;
- information related to the private life of citizens;
-documents that make up the correspondence of internal service (references, correspondence
structural units, etc.), if they are associated with the development of the direction of the institution, the decision-making process
are the basis for their adoption;
- information that should not be disclosed in accordance with other laws or regulations. The institution to which
The request can be a document containing information based on the normative act of another institution.
The government agency should not disclose, submit for identification, and the government agency that filed the application.
considers, does not have the right to assess the issue of its disclosure;
- information of financial institutions prepared for audit and financial departments.
Article 34. Ownership of information
Information is the object of property rights of the state, individuals and legal entities . Information can be both
the full amount and also only depends on the ownership, use or disposal of the object of property rights.
The grounds on which ownership of information arises are:
- formation of information on one's own and at one's own expense;
- agreement on access to information;
- an agreement that contains the terms of the transfer of ownership of the information to another person.

Page 8
Information created by several citizens or legal entities is the common property of the founders
is. The procedure and rules for the use of such property shall be determined in accordance with an agreement concluded between the owners
will be done.
Information created by organizations (legal entities) or obtained by other legal means
is the property of these organizations.
The information received at the expense of means of the state budget, is considered state property.
Information obtained on the basis of individual property rights is subject to change on a contractual basis.
its transfer to the relevant databases, funds and archives may become state property
to be considered.
The owner of the information has the right to appoint the person acting as the owner, use and disposal of the information
and determine the rules for the processing and access to information, as well as other conditions relating to the information
to establish.
Article 35. Information as goods
Information products and information services of individuals and legal entities involved in information activities
may be the object of financial relations regulated by the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan
are done. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 3, 2014, 8848)
Pricing and pricing of information products and information services, except as otherwise provided
provided by law, established by the contract.
CHAPTER 4.
PROTECTION OF THE RIGHT TO INFORMATION, PREVENTION OF ABUSE OF THE RIGHT TO INFORMATION
Article 36. Protection of the right to information
The right to information is protected in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Tajikistan . State to all
participants in information relations have equal rights and equal opportunities to access information
guarantees.
No one shall be deprived of his rights except in cases provided for in Article 33 of this Law.
restrict the choice of form and source of information. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 3, 2014, 8848)
The subject of the right to information may demand the elimination of any violations committed against him
to make.
Confiscation of publications, photographs, databases, archival documents, libraries,
museums and their destruction on the basis of ideological and political position are prohibited.
Article 37. Prevention of abuse of the right to information
Use of information against the foundations of the constitutional structure and security of the state, against
information security to incite racial, national, regional, religious, linguistic, war, oppression and hatred
violence, terrorist and extremist activities, social animosity, violation of personality, human rights and freedoms
and the citizen is prohibited from promoting pornography. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 3, 2014, 8848)
Article 38. Liability for violation of this Law
Individuals and legal entities that violate the provisions of this Law, in accordance with legal acts
normative will be held accountable.
Individuals are liable for violations of information legislation in the following cases:
unreasonable refusal to provide relevant information;
providing information that does not correspond to reality;
failure to provide information in a timely manner;
deliberate concealment of information;
coercion to disseminate or resist the dissemination, or unreasonable refusal to disseminate information
relevant;
dissemination of untrue information that discredits a person;
use and dissemination of information about a citizen's private life without the consent of the person who
is the owner of relevant information related to the fulfillment of personal service responsibilities;
disclosure of a state secret or other secret legally protected by a person who is obliged to protect this secret
to make;
violation of information storage procedures;
deliberate destruction of information, except as provided by law;
unreasonable restriction of access to the data group related to knowledge of certain types of information.
Complaints about illegal actions of officials to higher authorities against these officials
to which it is submitted.

Page 9
In case of causing material and moral damage to a citizen, legal entity and state bodies, and in
In case of dissatisfaction with the complaint made to a higher authority, the citizen and the legal entity have the right to appeal
to appeal the illegal actions of the guilty person to the court.
CHAPTER 5.
INTERNATIONAL INFORMATION ACTIVITIES, COOPERATION WITH OTHER COUNTRIES,
FOREIGN AND INTERNATIONAL INFORMATION ORGANIZATIONS
Article 39. International information activities
International information activities involve the provision of official and legal information to individuals and legal entities
public announcements on the foreign policy activities of the Republic of Tajikistan, events and phenomena in other
countries occur, as well as targeted dissemination of information outside the Republic of Tajikistan
comprehensive information about the Republic of Tajikistan through government agencies, associations of citizens, media
media and citizens.
Citizens of the Republic of Tajikistan have the right to free and unimpeded access to information through
foreign sources, including live television, radio, press and information systems.
Legal status and professional activity of foreign journalists accredited in the Republic of Tajikistan and
other representatives of foreign mass media, as well as information activities of diplomatic representatives,
consulate and other foreign official representatives in the Republic of Tajikistan in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan
Tajikistan and international legal acts recognized by the Republic of Tajikistan.
Establishment and operation of joint organizations in the field of information with the participation of individuals and legal entities
The Republic of Tajikistan and foreign countries in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Tajikistan and legal acts
internationally recognized by the Republic of Tajikistan.
Article 40. International cooperation
International cooperation in the field of information is based on issues of mutual interest
international agreements signed by the Republic of Tajikistan and legal entities engaged in information activities
delivery takes place.
Article 41. Import and export of information products (services)
Import and export of information products (services) in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan
on foreign economic activity.
Article 42. Information independence
The basis of information independence of the Republic of Tajikistan is the legal ownership of national information resources
is.
The information resources of the Republic of Tajikistan shall contain all relevant information, regardless of its content.
form, time and place of formation.
The Republic of Tajikistan shall independently form information resources on its territory, except for
in cases provided for by international laws and treaties, freely disposes of it.
Article 43. Guarantees of information independence of the Republic of Tajikistan
Information independence of the Republic of Tajikistan is ensured as follows:
with the exclusive property right of the Republic of Tajikistan to information resources at the expense of funds
the state budget is formed;
with the protection of national information systems;
establishing a system of access to information resources of the Republic of Tajikistan by other states;
using information resources on the basis of equal cooperation with other states.
Article 44. Entry into force of this Law
This Law shall enter into force after its official publication.
President
Republic of Tajikistan
ш. Dushanbe, May 10, 2002
№ 55

Emomali Rahmonov

