Page 1

THE LAW
THE REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
ON PERMISSION OF CERTAIN ACTIVITIES
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 23, 2016, №1353)
(Akhbori Majlisi Oli of the Republic of Tajikistan, 2004, №5, art. 348; 2005, № 3, art. 120; 2006,. 7,
mod. 343; с. 2007, № 6, mod. 433; с. 2008, № 1, c. 2, mod. 14, № 6, mod. 457, № 10, mod. 816; с. 2009, № 3, mod. 78, № 5,
mod. 326, № 9-10, mod. 544; с. 2010, № 12, c. 1, mod. 821; с. 2012, № 12, c. 1, mod. 1005; с. 2013, № 3, mod. 193, № 11,
mod. 787; с. 2014, № 7, c. 2, mod. 406, mod. 407, № 11, mod. 666; с. 2015, № 3, mod. 206, mod. 213, №11, mod. 967; с.
2016, №5, mod. 369, №7, mod. 631, №11, mod. 885;
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 28.07.2006 № 195, from 13.06.2007 № 277, from 5.01.2008 № 349, from 18.06.2008 № 399, from 6.10.2008 №
435, from 26.03.2009 № 485, from 19.05.2009 № 519, from 5.10.2009 № 551, from 29.12.2010 № 662, from 28.12.2012 № 911, from
19.03.2013 № 950, from 12.11.2013 № 1030, from 26.07.2014 № 1109, 1110, from 27.11.2014 № 1157, from 18.03.2015 № 1184, №
1191, from 23.11.2015 № 1246, from 14.05.2016 № 1318, from 23.07.2016 № 1353, from 14.11.2016 № 1369, from 30.05.2017 № 1434,
from 20.06.2019 № 1625, from 04.07.2020 № 1712)
This law defines the types of activities that require licensing and the basics
the right to issue a license for the right to engage in certain types of activity
established to comply with the necessary standards and qualification requirements to ensure the protection of interests
the security of the individual, society and the state.
Article 1. Basic concepts
The following main terms are used in this Law:
License - a special permit issued for the implementation of a specific activity in compliance with
Mandatory licensing requirements make it a licensing authority to a legal entity or entrepreneur
given individually;
Type of licensed activity - an activity that is carried out
its implementation on the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan in accordance with this Law requires a license;
Licensing is the process of licensing, re-licensing.
preparing documents that confirm the existence of licenses , suspension and restoration of
validity of the license, its revocation and control by the licensing authority
the licensee observes the conditions and requirements of the licensing when carrying out the type of activity
depends on the licensee;
Licensing Terms and Conditions - a set of terms and conditions set forth in the Regulations on Specifications
licensing is established for certain types of activities that are performed for the licensee
is mandatory;
Licensing authority - an executive body in accordance with this Law
issues licenses;
Licensee - a legal entity or individual entrepreneur to carry out
have a license for specific activities;
License applicant - a legal entity or individual entrepreneur who submits a license to the licensing authority
has applied for a license for a specific activity;
directory

licenses -

set

information

on

to

licenses

issued,

re-registered, suspended, reinstated, terminated (canceled), from
conducted by the licensing authority; (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of June 20, 1916)
Unified state electronic register of licenses - summary database and information
on licenses available in the online system. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of June 20, 1916)
Article 2. Legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on licensing of certain
types of activities
Legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on licensing of certain types of activities
The Constitution of the Republic of Tajikistan is based on this Law and other normative legal acts

Page 2
The Republic of Tajikistan and international legal acts recognized by the Republic of Tajikistan
has consisted of. ( Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of November 14, 2016, №1369)
Article 3. Basic principles of licensing
Licensing is based on the following principles:
- ensuring a single economic space on the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan;
- establishment of a single list of licensed activities;
- establishment of a single licensing procedure on the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan;
- establishment of licensing conditions and requirements in accordance with the regulations on specifications
licensing of certain types of activities;
- transparency in licensing;
- compliance with the law when issuing licenses.
Article 4. Criteria for determining the types of activities for which a license is issued
will be
Types of licensed activities include activities that are carried out
Their protection may affect the legitimate rights and interests of citizens, public health, defense and national security.
damage to the cultural heritage of the peoples of the Republic of Tajikistan and their regulation other than licensing
in other ways it is impossible.
Article 5. Powers of the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on licensing
The Government of the Republic of Tajikistan has the following powers in the field of licensing:
- to approve regulations on features of licensing of certain types of activity;
- determine the executive authority that issues licenses for specific types of activities
gives.
- validity of the license for subsoil use in cases
to suspend and revoke the provisions of this Law ; (KZT from 28.12.12, №911; from 20.06.19, №1625)
- determines the authorized state body in the field of regulation of the licensing system; (KJT
from 20.06.19, №1625)
- the procedure for conducting inspections of government agencies' compliance with regulations
approves the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan in the field of regulation of the licensing system; (KJT from
20.06.19, №1625)
- approve the rules for maintaining the Unified State Electronic Register of Licenses; (KJT from
20.06.19, №1625)
- approve standard rules for maintaining the register of licenses. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of June 20, 19,
№1625)
Article 5 1 . Powers of the authorized state body in the field of system regulation
licensing
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of June 20, 1916)
The powers of the authorized state body in the field of regulation of the licensing system include
are:

.
- monitoring the implementation of this Law;
- submission of annual data on the results to the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan

conducted monitoring;
- conducting inspections of licensing authorities in accordance with the requirements of the procedure
Carrying out inspections of activity of state bodies on observance of regulatory legal acts of the Republic
Tajikistan in the field of regulation of the licensing system, approved by the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan
has been;
- Summarizing the experience in regulating business by issuing licenses, development and
submission of proposals on improvement of the legislation in the field of regulation of the licensing system;
- maintenance of the single state electronic register of licenses;
- request relevant information from the licensing authority. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of June 20, 1916)

Page 3

Article 6. Powers of the licensing authority
1. Licensing authorities have the authority to:
- to issue a license;
- re-issue documents confirming the existence of a license;
- extend the validity of licenses;
- suspend the license;
- to renew the license;
- revoke the license (in cases provided by Article 14 of this Law);
- maintain a register of licenses; (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of June 20, 1916)
- control the observance by licensees of the terms and conditions of the license.
2. The procedure for exercising the powers of the licensing authority, except for inspections of activities
the licensed person in order to determine its compliance with the terms and conditions of the license, in accordance with
Regulations on the specifics of licensing are established for certain types of activities.
Article 7. License validity
1. License for each type of activity specified in Articles 17 and 18 of this Law
is given.
2. The type of licensed activity may be performed only by a legal entity or individual entrepreneur;
which is licensed, can be implemented.
3. The license shall be valid throughout the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 30.05.17,
№1434)
4. Action in cases directly provided by the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan
The license can be extended only in certain territory of the Republic of Tajikistan.
5. Foreign individuals and legal entities may be subject to conditions and procedures for individual entrepreneurs
and legal entities established by the Republic of Tajikistan to obtain a license, if the legislation
The Republic of Tajikistan does not provide otherwise. Foreign legal entity of the applicant
The license must have a branch or representative office in the Republic of Tajikistan ( Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 23.07.16,
№1353) .
Article 8. Validity of the license
1. Validity of licenses for licensed activities in Article 17
This law does not provide for the employment of foreign citizens
on the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan for at least 5 years, for licensed activities
provided by Article 18 of this Law is not less than 3 years. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of November 14, 2016, №1369)
2. The period of validity of a license for a particular type of activity specified in Article 17 of this Law
shown for individual entrepreneurs who carry out their activities without the use of hired labor
can be set at 1 to 5 years upon written request of the applicants themselves.
3. Permit for employment of foreign citizens
the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan for a period of up to 3 years. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of November 14, 2016, №1369)
4. The term of validity of a license prior to its expiration shall be determined in accordance with the licensee's application
the term may be extended. Validity of the license in the order of re-issuance
the document confirming the license of the person is extended.
Article 9. Documents required for obtaining a license
1. The license applicant shall submit the documents to the licensing authority
offers the following:
- an application for a license for the type of licensed activity in which
the following data are displayed:
a) for a legal entity - name and organizational and legal form of the enterprise, legal address, account number
and a bank branch;

Page 4
b) for an individual entrepreneur - name, place of residence, passport, number and date of receipt
he;
- the type of licensed activity for which an individual entrepreneur or legal entity intends to perform
has a time limit for carrying out this type of activity;
- For a legal entity - a copy of the constituent documents and a copy of the certificate of state registration of the applicant
license as a legal entity;
- copy of the document confirming the state registration of the license applicant; (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 29.12.10
№662)
- the document confirming payment of the license fee for consideration of the application of the license applicant
they do;
- a copy of the document confirming the issuance of a license number by the tax authorities
taxpayer identification. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 29.12.10, №662)
2. In addition to the documents listed in the Regulation on the specifics of licensing to some
types of activities, submission of other documents that meet the requirements of licensing
confirming the existence of a license applicant. Permission documents that
are required to obtain a license in accordance with the requirements of the Law of the Republic of Tajikistan "On
On licensing system ". (PFA 12.11.13s., №1030)
3. The license applicant shall submit the documents specified in the present Law, the Law of the Republic of Tajikistan
Tajikistan "On the licensing system" and the Regulation on the specifics of licensing to some
activities are not provided, may not be required.
4. All documents required by the relevant licensing authority to obtain a license
are submitted according to the list and a copy of them with a note of the date of receipt of the documents from
is sent (issued) by the said authority to the license applicant.
Article 10. Decision on issuance or non-issuance of a license
1. The licensing authority shall make a decision on granting or denying a license within a period not exceeding
within thirty days of receipt of the application for a license with all the necessary documents. This decision
shall be formalized by the relevant act of the licensing authority. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 28.12.12, 11911)
2. The relatively short time period for making a decision on granting or denying a license shall be determined by the regulations.
on the characteristics of licensing to certain types of activities.
3. The licensing authority shall oblige the license applicant to make a decision on
to issue a license or not to issue a license within this period.
4. Notification of the issuance of a license in writing to the license applicant with a note
details of the bank account and the deadline for payment of the license fee.
5. Notification of non-issuance of a license to the license applicant indicating the reasons
rejection (submitted) will be sent.
6. Licensing authority after three days of receipt of payment
Licensing is the process by which a license applicant submits a document certifying the existence of a license.
approve the license, gives free of charge.
7. The licensee has the right to receive a duplicate of this document upon payment of a fee, which is accompanied by
the amount of payment for re-issuance of a document confirming the existence of a license;
is equal to.
8. The grounds for not issuing a license are:
- if the documents submitted by the license applicant contain incorrect or inaccurate information;
- if the license applicant, the objects belonging to him or used by him are subject to conditional
non-compliance with licensing requirements;
- if, depending on the intended type of activity by the relevant authorities for compliance
the conditions of activity and the requirements to them are given a negative conclusion.
9. Volume of products (works and services) produced (performed) by the license applicant or
the production (execution) of which is planned, cannot be a ground for denial of a license.
10. The license applicant has the right not to be issued a license by the authority
the licensor or to sue for his inaction.
Article 10 1. Decision on issuance or denial of a license by the Government of the Republic
Tajikistan

Page 5
1. Decision to issue a license for activities carried out by the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan
as a licensing authority in accordance with the provisions of this Act and the Regulations on features
Licensing of certain types of activities is granted by the order of the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan
will be formalized.
2. In the order of the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on licensing the following is indicated
are:
- validity period of the license;
- conditions and requirements for licensing;
- the deadline for submission of the license for signing;
- determination of an authorized official on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan
signing of the license;
- obligation to conclude investment agreements with the authorized state body;
- other cases stipulated by regulatory legal acts.
3. Refusal to apply for a license for the use of natural resources
underground by the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan in accordance with the provisions of this Law and the Regulation in
on the specifics of licensing certain types of activities with the relevant act of the executive body
the licensor is registered.
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 28.12.12, 11911)
Article 11. Document confirming the existence of a license and the decision to issue it
The decision to issue a license and a document confirming its existence shall indicate the following
are given:
- name of the licensing authority;
- for a legal entity - name and organizational and legal form, legal address and location;
- for an individual entrepreneur - name, place of residence, information of an identity document
they do;
- the type of licensed activity;
- registration number, date and validity period of the license;
- a taxpayer identification number and a single identification number; (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of December 29, 2010, 2662)
- license number;
- the date of the decision to issue a license.
Article 12. Re-issuance of a document confirming the existence of a license
appears
1. In the case of a legal entity, change its name or location or change location
Finding the name or place of residence of an individual entrepreneur, licensee - a legal entity ( his legal successor ) or
An individual entrepreneur is obliged to re-register within 15 days.
A document usually approved, the license application and attached documents, which
confirm the indicated changes .
2. Upon re-issuance of documents confirming the existence of a license
The licensing authority shall make appropriate changes to the register of licenses.
Documents confirming the existence of a license must be submitted within ten days of the relevant application.
obtaining a licensing authority.
3. For re-issuance of a document confirming the existence of a license in the amount of two
the indicator is charged for the accounts , which are transferred to the state budget.
Article 13. Exercising control
1. Control over the licensee's compliance with the terms and conditions of the license
regulations on the specifics of licensing certain types of activities, status
the licensor shall act within the scope of its authority.
2. Inspection of the licensee's activity to determine its compliance with the conditions
the requirements of the license, issued by the authority that issued the relevant license in accordance with the Law of the Republic
Tajikistan "On inspection of business entities in the Republic of Tajikistan"
is removed.

Page 6
3. The licensing authority shall not have the right on matters referred to the competence of other bodies
state authorities concerned, conduct inspections.
Article 14. Suspension and revocation of a license
1. The licensing authority shall have the right in case of repeated detection of deficiencies or conditions
gross violation of the licensing requirements by the licensee to suspend the license.
Suspension of the license is also possible in exceptional cases, if this is to prevent risk
directly to human life and health, the occurrence of man-made disasters, damage
non-renewable to objects of nature or the state of the environment and the prevention of these cases with other
ways that are not possible are applied.
2. The licensing authority is obliged to terminate the term by the licensee
establish the violation that caused the suspension of the license. Deadline
indicated should not exceed three months . If the licensee violates the deadline
The licensing authority shall be obliged to apply to the court if it has not corrected the established procedure.
to demand revocation of the license.
3. The licensee is obliged to inform the licensor about the elimination of violations.
caused the suspension of the license. Licensing Authority that
suspend the validity of the license, decide on the reinstatement of its validity and in this regard
the licensee within three days after notification and checking of errors made by the licensee.
and it has led to the suspension of the license, informs in writing.
The term of the license shall not be extended during the suspension of its validity and shall be subject to renewal
its action is not charged.
4. The licensing authority may issue a license in the case of a licensee
non-payment of license fees for fifteen days, as well as on the use of mineral resources in
the term established by the licensee does not start to operate and is signed by the licensee
cancel the non-delivery of the investment agreement with the authorized state body. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 28.12.12,
11911)
5. If the licensee did not comply with the terms and conditions of the license and as a result violated the rights
legitimate interests, health of citizens, defense and security of the state, cultural heritage of the peoples of the Republic
Tajikistan in case of damage or in the cases provided by part 2 of this article
the decision of the court is revoked on the basis of the application of the licensing authority. Also the licensor
have the right to apply to the court for the validity of this license until the date of entry into force of the law
suspend the court's decision.
6. Decision to suspend or revoke a license to operate a resource
underground in accordance with the provisions of this article and the Regulation on the specifics of licensing
some activities are accepted by the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 28.12.12,
11911)
7. The decision to suspend the license, revoke the license or send the application to court
on revocation by the licensing authority with good reason after three days of its adoption
the licensee shall notify in writing.
8. Regarding the decision to suspend the license and revoke it in accordance with the established procedure
the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan may be appealed in court.
Article 14 1 . Termination of the license
Validity of the license in case of liquidation of the legal entity and termination of the certificate
on state registration of an individual as an individual entrepreneur, entering into legal force
court decision on revocation of the license, expiration of the license,
making a decision of the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan on revocation of a license to operate
Subsoil use is also terminated on the basis of a written application of the licensee.
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 28.12.12, 11911)
Article 15. Maintenance of the list of licenses
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of June 20, 1916)
1. The licensing authority permissions list . (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of June 20, 1916)

Page 7
2. In the register of licenses, except for the information provided in article 9 of the present Law,
The following information is provided: (QT from 20.06.19, №1625)
- information on the license applicant (name of legal entity, for individual entrepreneur - surname, name)
and father's name);
- the type of activity for which the license is issued;
- the date and number of the decision (order, decree, order) on the issuance of a license;
- series, number and date of licensing;
- information on re-issuance of the license and in case of re-issuance

issuance of a copy and a duplicate of the license;
- the basis, date and number of the decision (order, decree, order) to eliminate the breach of the condition

licensing requirements;
- basis, date and number of the decision (order, decree, order) on suspension and resumption of action

license;
- the basis, date and number of the decision (order, decree, order) to revoke the license;
- the basis, date and number of the decision (order, decree, order) on the termination of the license.

(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of June 20, 1916)
3. Information contained in the register of licenses, open for identification of individuals and legal entities
is.
(Part 4 was removed by the CRC from 20.06.19, №1625.)
4. Information from the list of licenses shall be provided to public authorities free of charge.
5. The deadline for submission of information from the register of licenses shall not exceed three days after receipt of the relevant application.
be more.
Article 16. Licensing financing and payment of license fees
1. Licensing within the amount of the corresponding budget for the expenses of licensing authorities
allocated will be funded.
2. To consider an application for a license to engage in activities in accordance with Article 17 of the Law
provided for in the amount of four indicators for calculations and types of activities with the article
18 This Law provides for a fee of ten times the minimum monthly wage
they will not be returned.
3. To issue a license for the types of activity provided by Article 17 of this Law
the amount of ten indicators is paid for the calculations. The size of the license fee for
The Government of the Republic of Tajikistan shall approve the types of activities provided for in Article 18 of this Law
on each type of activity in the Regulation on the characteristics of licensing to certain types
activity determines.
4. Payment of license fees shall be transferred to the state budget.
5. In case of extension of the license, the applicant shall pay the license fee.
will be charged equally.
In accordance with the provisions of Part 1 of Article 8 of this Law to reduce the period of validity
The license fee is reduced in proportion to the term of the license.
will be.
Article 17. List of activities for which a license is required
is
In accordance with this Law, a license is required for the following activities:
- activity on issuance of certificates of digital signature keys, registration
holders of digital signatures, services related to the use of digital signatures and
confirmation of authenticity of digital signatures; (KJT dated 26.07.14, 4 1110)
- activity on detection of electronic devices for non-disclosure
information is assigned to the premises and facilities (except if this activity
to meet the needs of the legal entity or individual entrepreneur); (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 26.07.14, №
1110)
- activity on processing and production of means of protection of confidential information; (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 26.07.14, №
1110)
- activities on technical protection of confidential information; (KJT dated 26.07.14, 4 1110)

Page 8
- activity on processing and production of special technical means obtained for non-disclosure
provide information on the sale of these instruments as well as their purchase in order to sell at
cases when these types of activities are carried out by entrepreneurs and legal entities engaged in business
are implemented; (KJT dated 26.07.14, 4 1110)
- Activities on production of counterfeit printed products, as well as trade
this product; (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of May 30, 2017, №1434)
- activities related to the production, construction, sale, collection or display of weapons and ammunition
its warfare; (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of March 18, 2015, №1184)
- activities on repair and maintenance of lifting mechanisms (except for cases when
to meet the needs of a legal entity or an individual entrepreneur);
- activities on the operation of production facilities that are at risk of explosion, combustion and chemical hazard;
- activity on production, processing, extraction of oil, gas, coal and operation of the network of facilities
oil and gas;
- activity on storage and sale of oil and gas and their processed products (except for cases when
if this activity is carried out to meet the needs of the legal entity or individual entrepreneur);
- activity on installation, adjustment and repair of power facilities and equipment (except for cases when
this should be done to meet the needs of the legal entity or individual entrepreneur);
- activities on conducting industrial safety expertise;
- production, storage, distribution, transportation and use of explosives
industrial purpose;
- activity on production and distribution of pyrotechnic products, which are included in the cadastre
state explosives;
- activity on installation, repair and maintenance of fire prevention equipment
construction of buildings and structures;
- activity on production, transmission and distribution of electric power (except for cases when if
to meet the needs of a legal entity or an individual entrepreneur);
- activities on design and research works, construction of buildings and structures, including
expansion, reconstruction, repair and rehabilitation of existing facilities (except for individual housing construction)
for your own personal needs); (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 28.12.12, 11911)
- activity on design and research works, construction, repair and rehabilitation of roads
highways, railways and road facilities;
- activity on surveying works;
- geodetic and mapping activities;
- activities in the field of meteorology and related fields, including the implementation of active work
reporting on meteorological and geophysical events and processes;
-pharmaceutical activity (preparation and production of medicines and cosmetics, production of goods
medical equipment, sale of medicines and medical goods, production and sale of medical food supplements
prophylactic);
- private medical activity;
- activity on maintenance of medical equipment (except for cases when this work is carried out for
to meet the needs of the legal entity or individual entrepreneur);
- activity with the use of pathogens of infectious diseases;
- activity on production of disinfectants, disinsection and deratization means;
- activity on cultivation of narcotic plants for scientific purposes, as well as development of tools
new drugs and psychotropic substances;
- activities related to drug trafficking, psychotropic substances and precursors
(development, production, preparation, processing, storage, transportation, mail, transfer, sale, distribution, owner
become, use, import and export);
- activities related to sources of ionizing radiation;
- activities on radioactive waste management; (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 28.12.12, 11911)
- activities related to import and export, production, sale, use, transportation, processing, storage
temporary and long-term radioactive substances (KJT from 19.05.2009 № 519; from 20.06 19 s., №1625)
- activities for passenger and cargo transportation by air;
- Activities to control the export of dual-use products (CC dated 23.07.16, №1353);
- activities for the carriage of passengers and goods by road (except in cases where this
to carry out activities to meet the needs of the legal entity or individual entrepreneur); (KJT from
5.01.08, №349)

Page 9
- activities on passenger and freight transportation by rail (except for cases when
this activity is carried out to meet the needs of the legal entity or individual entrepreneur and
non-access to public railways);
- activity on maintenance and repair of automobile and railway transport;
- operation of passenger and freight terminals;
- maintenance of aircraft during the flight;
- activities on repair and maintenance of air transport;
- activities on import, export, sale and use of drones
14.05.2016, № 1318);
- activity on collection, use, disinfection, transportation and disposal of wastes
dangerous;
- Excluded (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 04.07.2020 № 1712)

- evaluation (pricing) activities;
- tourist activity;
- activities on production, processing and sale of scrap ferrous and non-ferrous metals;
- employment of citizens of the Republic of Tajikistan outside the Republic of Tajikistan
Tajikistan and employment of foreign citizens in the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan;
- auditing activities;
- activity of pawnshops;
- environmental auditing activities; ( Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of November 23, 2015, 41246)
- Excluded ( Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from July 4, 2020, 1712)
- activity in the field of stock exchange;
- insurance activity;
- activity of professional participants of the securities market;
- activity on production, import and export of tobacco products;
- activities of authorized lawyers;
- activities related to the circulation of precious metals and precious stones (scrap processing)
waste of precious metals in order to obtain the final result of the product
precious metals and recovery of precious stones, purchase of jewelry and other items from the population
household products made of precious stones and their scrap, wholesale
and retail of precious metals and precious stones); excluding mining activities
useful disintegration by the active and self-sufficient method; ( Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of November 12, 2013, №1030)
- the activities of patent officers;
- activities in the field of television, radio broadcasting and production of audiovisual products;
- the activity of obtaining, selling, using, disposing of and destroying pollutants
ozone layer and their holder products, as well as all types of activities associated with installation, maintenance and
repair of equipment using ozone-depleting substances;
- activities on collection and preparation of medicinal raw materials;
- activity of non-state pension funds;
- activity of the Credit History Bureau ; (KJT from 5.10.09, № 551).
- Activities in the field of postal services. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of November 14, 2016, №1369)
Article 18. Special list of activities for which they are carried out
a license is required
1. In accordance with this Law, special licensing procedures include the following types of activities:
includes:
- activity on carrying out banking operations , including Islamic banking ( Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 14.05.2016, 1318) ;
- activity on carrying out operations with foreign currency;
- activity of the payment system operator (CC from 14.05.2016, № 1318);
- activity in the field of production and turnover of ethyl alcohol, alcohol and alcoholic products;
- Activities on production, import, export, wholesale and retail sale of tobacco products; (KJT from
19.03.13, №950)
- activity in the field of telecommunications;
- activity on subsoil use; excluding mining activities
useful disintegration by the active and self-sufficient method;

Page 10
- activity on use of objects of flora and fauna which are included in the Red Book of the Republic
Tajikistan;
- activities related to all stages of the life cycle of nuclear power plants; (KJT from
20.06.19, №1625)
- activity on organization and maintenance of totalizator cash desks, bookmaking and lottery offices;

- pawnshop activity (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from July 4, 2020, 1712).
2. Licensing of banking activities, including Islamic banking
operations with foreign currency and activities of the payment system operator in accordance with the legislation of the Republic
Tajikistan on banking, Islamic banking, financing organizations
small, currency regulation and exchange control, payment services and regulated payment system
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 14.05.2016, № 1318).
3. The list of licensed activities shall be changed only in case of making changes
amendments to this Law may be amended.
Article 18 1 . Validity of international legal acts
1. Unless otherwise provided by international legal acts recognized by the Republic of Tajikistan
licensing or other licensed activities
international legal acts.
2. Permits obtained in other states on the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan, subject to availability
the existence of international legal acts recognized by the Republic of Tajikistan, in which this fact is noted
have been recognized.
3. Permits obtained in other states in the prescribed manner
The legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan must be legalized or apostilized
to be placed, if in the international legal acts recognized by Tajikistan
unless otherwise provided (CJC dated 23.07.16, №1353).
Article 18 2 . Licensing on a competitive basis
Permits for activities in the field of telecommunications and subsoil use
may be awarded on a competitive basis. The procedure for conducting the competition is determined by the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan
establishes.
Article 18 3 . Issuance of a license on the basis of a production sharing agreement
Licenses for activities arising from an agreement on the distribution of products between the state and capital
after 30 days from the date of signing of this agreement without the requirement of documents and materials
additional and without additional coordination.
Article 19. Rules of transition
1. Laws and other normative legal acts regulating the licensing procedure
the part that does not contradict this Law.
2. Licensing of activities not specified in Articles 17 and 18 shall be carried out from the date of issue.
the entry into force of this Law shall cease.
3. Licenses issued prior to the official publication of this Law shall be valid for a period of time.
shown are valid.
Article 20. Liability for violation of this Law
Individuals and legal entities that violate the requirements of this Law, in accordance with the law
The Republic of Tajikistan shall be held liable.
Article 21. Entry into force of this Law
This Law shall enter into force after its official publication.

Page 11

President
Republic of Tajikistan
ш. Dushanbe, May 17, 2004
№ 37

E.. Rahmonov

