Page 1

PERSONAL DATA
PROTECTION
STRUCTURE OF INSTITUTION
AND DUTIES

Page 2

A) IN GENERAL
By Law, Personal Data, which is the decision body of the Institution,
The Conservation Board was formed. of the Council of Europe
Convention No. 108 and 95/46/EC of the European Union
In accordance with the Directive No.
is being constructed. By law and other legislation
the assigned duties and powers under his own responsibility,
task that he will carry out and use independently
no organ, authority,
authority or person cannot give orders and instructions to the Board.
is enacted. This provision fulfills the duties of the Institution.
to be able to independently
is important.

one

Page 3

B) STRUCTURE OF THE BOARD
The Personal Data Protection Board consists of nine members.
Five members of the Board are the Turkish Grand National Assembly, two members
The President is appointed by the two members of the Council of Ministers.
is selected. The consent of those who will be elected as a member of the Board is sought.
In the selection of members, in matters falling within the scope of the Authority's duty
pluralistic way of those with knowledge and experience.
attention is paid to its representation.
The TGNA appoints the five Board members as follows: For election,
to be determined in proportion to the number of members of political party groups
Twice the number of members are nominated and the Board members
Members of each political party group among these candidates
Grand National Assembly of Turkey based on the number of
It is elected by the General Assembly. However, in political party groups,
in the elections to be held in the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
It is not possible to negotiate and decide on whom to vote.
cannot be obtained. The election of the members of the Board, the determination of the candidates
within ten days after its announcement. political party groups
in separate lists for candidates nominated by
unified ballot paper is drawn up. Candidates' names
Votes are cast by marking the special place opposite.
Determined according to the second paragraph of the political party groups
from the number of members to be elected to the Board from their quota
More votes are considered invalid. be a decision quorum
up to the number of vacant memberships that received the most votes in the election, provided that
2nd

Page 4

candidate is selected. After the expiry of the terms of office of the members
two months ago; discharge for any reason
in case of discharge, from the date of discharge or
If the Turkish Grand National Assembly is in recess on
Within one month from the end of the election, the election is made in the same way.
In these elections, vacant memberships to political party groups
distribution, from the quota of political party groups in the first election
the number of elected members and the current status of political party groups.
rate is taken into account.
The President and the Council of Ministers appointed two Council members each.
as follows: the President or the Council of Ministers
the term of office of one of the members elected by the
forty-five days before the expiry or for any reason
In the event of the end of the task, the situation will be resolved within fifteen days.
By the Institution, to the Presidency or to the Ministers
It is reported to the Prime Ministry to be submitted to the Board. Members
election of a new member one month before the expiry of his term
makes. In these memberships, before the expiry of the term of office, any
in case of discharge for any reason,
Elections are made within fifteen days.
Conditions stipulated for being elected as a member of the Board
are:
• Information and information on the subjects in the field of duty of the institution.
to have experience.

3

Page 5

• To meet the general requirements for being a civil servant.
Not being a member of any political party.
• At least four years of higher education at the undergraduate level
to have seen.
• In public institutions and organizations, international
organizations, non-governmental organizations or public
professional organizations or
Having worked in the private sector for at least ten years in total.
The term of office of the members of the Board is four years. Expired member
can be re-elected. before the expiry of the term
the person elected to replace the member whose term of office is terminated for a reason,
completes the remaining term of the member for which he was elected instead.
In the law, before the expiry of the term of the Board members, any
Termination of their duties for any reason is also prohibited.
But the members of the Board; Conditions for being selected
later understanding that they do not carry, related to their duties
given to them for the crimes they have committed,
the finalization of the conviction, the fulfillment of their duties
make sure that they can't bring them with the health board report.
to be determined as an unauthorized person, without an excuse,
and continuously for fifteen days or a total of one year
it is determined that they do not continue for thirty days,
a total of three, one, without permission and excuse in a month

4

Page 6

that they did not attend a total of ten Board meetings during the year.
their membership will be terminated by the decision of the Board.
it melts.
Elected members of the First Presidency Board of the Supreme Court
“I am performing my duty in accordance with the Constitution and the laws.
impartiality, honesty, fairness and justice
I will fulfill it in the understanding of my honor and honor
I swear on it.” they take an oath. to the Supreme Court
An application for an oath is considered a hasty job.
Unless the members of the Board are based on a special law,
public or private, other than the execution of their official duties.
cannot take any duties, associations, foundations, cooperatives and similar
can not be a manager in places, can not deal with trade,
can not engage in self-employment activities, arbitrate and
They cannot act as experts. However, the members of the Board fulfill their main duties.
can publish for scientific purposes without interruption,
may give lectures and conferences and the resulting copyright
They can get their rights and tuition and conference fees.

5

Page 7

C) THE PRESIDENT, THE PRESIDENT
FORMATION AND DUTIES
The Board elects the Chairman and the Deputy Chairman from among its members.
The Chairman of the Board is also the Chairman of the Institution. President,
As the Chairman of the Board and the Institution, the highest
is the supervisor of the Institution, to regulate the services of the Institution,
goals and policies, strategic plan, performance
in accordance with the criteria and service quality standards
organizes, executes and between service units
provides coordination. President, General management of the Institution
and its representation. This responsibility is
organization, execution, supervision,
evaluation and public disclosure when necessary.
announcement covers its duties and powers. President's
In his absence, the Vice-President shall deputize for the President.
In the 3rd paragraph of Article 24 of the Law, the President's
tasks are listed as follows:

• Conducting board meetings.
• Notification of Board decisions and required by the Board.
to ensure that what is seen is made public, and
monitor their implementation.
6

Page 8

• Vice President, heads of departments and the Institution
to appoint staff.
• Finalize the suggestions from the service units.
present it to the Board.
• Ensuring the implementation of the strategic plan, service
human resources in line with quality standards and
to establish working policies.
• In accordance with the determined strategies, annual goals and targets
the annual budget and financial statements of the Institution.
prepare.
• The Board and service units are compatible, efficient,
to work in a disciplined and orderly manner.
ensure coordination.
• Carrying out the relations of the institution with other institutions.
• The duties of the personnel authorized to sign on behalf of the President of the Institution
and define jurisdiction.
• Other duties related to the management and operation of the institution
fulfill.

7

Page 9

In Article 25 of the Law, the duties of the Presidency are as follows:
counted as:
• Keeping the Data Controllers Registry.
• Office and secretariat operations of the Institution and the Board
execute.
• In lawsuits and enforcement proceedings to which the institution is a party
represent the Institution through lawyers,
to follow or have legal services
execute.
• Personal personnel of the members of the Board and those working in the Institution.
to carry out transactions.
• Financial service and strategy development by law
perform the tasks assigned to the units.
• In order to carry out the business and transactions of the institution
the establishment and use of an information system
provide.
• About the annual activities of the Board or as needed.
preparing report drafts and
Submit to the board.

8

Page 10

• To draft the strategic plan of the institution.
• To determine the personnel policy of the institution,
Preparing and implementing career and education plans.
• Appointment, transfer, discipline, performance, promotion,
to carry out retirement and similar transactions.
• To determine the ethical rules to be followed by the personnel and to determine the necessary
to give education.
• Public Financial Management dated 10/12/2003 and numbered 5018
The needs of the Institution within the framework of the Law and Control Law
all kinds of purchase, rental, maintenance, repair,
production, archive, health, social and similar services
execute.
• To keep records of the movable and immovable properties of the Institution.
• Other duties assigned by the Board or the President
make.

9

Page 11

C) OPERATION OF THE BOARD
PRINCIPLES
Working principles of the Board in Article 23 of the Law
edited. According to the article, the meeting days of the Board
and the President sets the agenda. President when necessary
The Board may call an extraordinary meeting.
The Board convenes with at least six members, including the chairman.
decides with an absolute majority of the total number. Board members
Abstentions cannot vote.
Board members; themselves, up to third degree blood
and their in-law relatives up to the second degree, their adopted children.
and their spouses, even if the marriage bond between them is broken.
He/she cannot participate in meetings and votes on matters of interest.
During their work, the Board members
legally authorized persons to keep secrets of the persons they have learned.
they cannot disclose it to anyone other than the appointed authorities and
they cannot use it to their advantage. This obligation is dismissed.
continues even after their separation.

10

Page 12

The matters discussed in the committee are recorded in the minutes. decisions and
if any, the grounds for the dissenting vote are at the latest
written no later than 15 days. The Board makes decisions it deems necessary.
announces to the public.
Unless otherwise agreed, at Board meetings
conversations are confidential.

11th

Page 13

D) DUTIES OF THE BOARD
Main duties of the Personal Data Protection Board
are:
• Necessary and necessary for the processing of special categories of personal data.
taking adequate measures (art. 6/4)
• Sufficient in the foreign country to which personal data will be transferred.
in the absence of protection,
and sufficient data controllers in the relevant foreign country.
if they undertake a protection in writing,
to allow data to be transferred to the relevant country
(art. 9/2-b)
• Where there is adequate protection for personal data
to identify and declare countries (art. 9/3)
• Personal data processed by illegal means
data obtained by others
when necessary, the notifications made by the responsible
on its website or in any other form it deems appropriate.
declare method. (m.12/5)

12

Page 14

• Refusal of applications made to data controllers,
Inadequate response or timely
in cases where the application is not answered,
to examine the complaints made (art. 14)
• By taking action upon complaint or ex officio
the data controller of the unlawful violations he/she detects
decide to remove it by (art. 15/5)
• That similar violations are common
to take policy decisions in case of detection (art. 15/6)
• Occurrence of irreparable or impossible damage
and in case of a clear violation of the law, the data
processing or transferring data abroad.
decide to stop (art. 15/7)
• Data held publicly by the Presidency
Supervising the Responsible Persons Registry (art.16/1)
• Registration in the Data Controllers Registry, if necessary
bring exceptions to the obligation (art. 16/2)
• Estimated for the protection of personal data
Disciplinary action against officers who violate obligations
Notification to relevant institutions for investigation
to do (art. 18/3)

13

Page 15

• Conformity of personal data with fundamental rights and freedoms.
to ensure that it is processed properly (m.22/1-a)
• Regarding the functioning of the institution, data security
to determine obligations and to communicate with the data controller
on the duties, powers and responsibilities of the representative
to make regulatory actions (m. 22/1-e,f,g).
• Personal data prepared by other institutions and organizations.
legislative drafts containing provisions on data
to express an opinion about it (m.22/1-h).
• The institution; to decide on the strategic plan, aim and
goals, service quality standards and performance
to determine the criteria (m.22/1-ı)
• The strategic plan of the institution and its goals and objectives.
to discuss the budget proposal prepared in accordance with
to decide (art.22/1-i)
• Institution's performance, financial situation, annual activities
and the report prepared on the issues needed
to approve and publish the drafts (m.22/1-j)
• On the issues of buying, selling and renting immovable
discussing and deciding on the proposals (art.22/1-k)
• Fulfilling other duties assigned by law
(m.22/1-l)
14

Page 16

Nasuh Akar Mah. 1407. Street No:4 06520
Balgat-Çankaya/Ankara // www.kvkk.gov.tr
Tel: 0 (312) 216 50 50 // Fax: 0(312) 216 50 52

