Page 1

RIGHTS OF THE RELATED PERSON
SEARCH METHODS

Page 2

RIGHTS OF THE RELATED PERSON
SEARCH METHODS
In the Law, the relevant persons regarding the implementation of the Law
regarding their personal data and
claiming some rights so that they can protect their rights.
methods have been determined. Thus, the persons concerned
in order to exercise their rights regarding the protection of their data.
In addition to resorting to judicial remedy,
They will also be able to use other methods of claiming rights.
In this context, a gradual application procedure in the Law
envisaged. With the implementation of the Law of the persons concerned
forwarding their related requests to the data controller first.
will be required. In the application made to the data controller
rejection of the request, insufficient response
or not responding to the application in a timely manner.
In cases where relevant persons have the right to complain to the Board.
they will.

A) RIGHT OF APPLICATION
According to Article 13 of the Law; the persons concerned,
their requests regarding the implementation of the data to the data controller first.
are required to be forwarded. Data of the relevant persons
in writing to the responsible person or other
methods are provided. It
In this context, Application Procedures and Principles to the Data Controller
one

Page 3

In addition to the written application with the Communiqué on
registered e-mail (KEP) address to individuals, secure
data by electronic signature, mobile signature or the person concerned
previously notified to the data controller and
e-mail address registered in the system
by using or for the purpose of application
data by means of a developed software or application.
opportunity to apply to the supervisor. Receiving this request
data controller, free of charge or as a separate part of the transaction.
if required by the cost, determined by the Board
as soon as possible in return for the fee to be charged according to the tariff.
and review the request within thirty days at the latest; accept or
his refusal by explaining the reason, also
person is required to be notified. data controller
if he accepts the request, fulfills the requirement;
If the relevant person's request regarding the implementation of the Law
If the data controller is at fault in the matter, the fee charged
must be returned to the person concerned.

B) RIGHT TO COMPLAIN
According to the 14th and 15th articles of the Law, the relevant persons are notified to the Board.
the procedures and principles regarding the complaints they will make
connected. In order to make a complaint, the first
to the data controller of the data subject in accordance with Article 13.
rejection of his application,

2nd

Page 4

insufficient or within 30 days to apply.
must not be answered. Data of the persons concerned
Complain directly to the Board without applying to the person in charge
It is not possible to go his way
Personal rights within the scope of processing personal data
compensation of the persons concerned, who have been violated, according to the general provisions.
rights reserved. It is mandatory to go to the application route,
It is optional to go the way of complaint.
stipulated for the person concerned to file a complaint with the Board.
The period is from the date the data controller learns the answer.
thirty from the date of application and in any case from the date of application
sixty days. But for the Board to review
There is no need for a complaint from the person concerned. violation of the board
even if he learns of his allegation in any way
acting ex officio on matters falling within its mandate
it is within its power to carry out the necessary investigation.
According to Article 15 of the Law, the Board will
The procedures and principles of the examination are regulated. This
According to the Board, upon complaint or learning of the alleged violation.
ex officio, in matters falling within its scope of duty
will be able to review. This review is based on a complaint or
shall be exclusive to the alleged infringement learned ex officio.
6 of the Law on the Use of the Right to Petition.
Notifications that do not meet the conditions specified in Article
Complaints will not be considered. data controllers,

3

Page 5

Except for the information and documents that are in the nature of state secret, the request
to send the information and documents to the Board within 15 days
or allowing on-site inspection when necessary.
has to provide. The board will make a complaint
It is expected to respond at the end of the examination,
within sixty days from the date of the complaint
If no response is given, the request will be deemed rejected.
is connected.
The Board may review the complaint or ex officio.
As a result, it is concluded that the provisions of the Law have been violated.
the relevant data controller of the illegalities he/she detects.
decides to have it removed by the
notifies. This decision shall be made without delay as of the notification and
shall be carried out within thirty days at the latest.
Again, upon complaint or ex officio examination
As a result, the widespread practice of unlawful
Upon determining that the
a principle decision on the matter is taken and this decision is published. Board
relevant before making a policy decision, if needed.
receive the opinions of institutions and organizations.
In addition, the Board shall be liable for any irreparable or impossible damages.
together with the emergence of the conditions of unlawfulness
in case of data processing or data
Deciding to suspend the transfer abroad
authorization is given. Those concerned, to the decisions taken by the Board
litigation in the administrative courts
possible.
4

Page 6

APPLICATION

Data Controller

Related person Request

Court

• Demand as soon as possible
and no later than 30 days
for free in
concludes.
• If there are additional costs
may charge a fee.

written or
of the Board
appropriate
will see
another
by the method
makes.

Personal rights
violated
general
to the provisions
judgment by
on your way
can go,
Acceptance
Rejection
compensation
rights
reserved.
• Reply to the relevant person
justification
written or electronic
explains and
reports in the environment.
the answer is written
• Fulfill the demand
or electronic
brings.
relevant in the environment
• The application itself
inform the person.
from the mistake
fee due
returns it to the person concerned.

5

Page 7

COMPLAINT

Related person
your application
denial/your answer
insufficient
be/answer
not given
answer in case
learned
from the date
30/application
since
within 60 days
Complain to the Board
can be found.

Board

within 60 days
if he doesn't answer
It is considered RED.

Reply

The existence of the violation
if understood
communicated to the concerned.

Related person Data Controller
From the Communiqué
from
without delay
and no later than 30
during the day
instead of the decision
brings.

6

Page 8

Nasuh Akar Mah. 1407. Street No:4 06520
Balgat-Çankaya/Ankara // www.kvkk.gov.tr
Tel: 0 (312) 216 50 50 // Fax: 0(312) 216 50 52

