Page 1

PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION EXPERTISE REGULATION
FIRST PART
Purpose, Scope, Basis and Definitions
Purpose and scope
ARTICLE 1 – (1) This Regulation; Employment of Assistant Personal Data Protection Experts,
their training, the procedures and principles regarding their appointment as Personal Data Protection Specialist and Personal Data
It regulates the duties, authorities and responsibilities of Protection Experts and Assistant Experts.
Rest
ARTICLE 2 – (1) This Regulation is supplemented with the 41st article of the Civil Servants Law dated 14/7/1965 and numbered 657.
Based on Article 26 of the Law on the Protection of Personal Data No. 6698 dated 24/3/2016.
has been prepared.
Definitions
ARTICLE 3 – (1) In this Regulation;
a) Chairman: Chairman of the Personal Data Protection Authority,
b) Unit Manager: Head of department and higher manager,
c) Department: Department of Human Resources and Support Services,
ç) Entrance exam: Written examination for the selection of those who will be appointed as assistant personal data protection experts.
and oral or only oral examination,
d) KPSS: Public Personnel Selection Exam,
e) Board: Personal Data Protection Board,
f) Institution: Personal Data Protection Authority,
g) ÖSYM: Assessment, Selection and Placement Center,
ğ) Expert: Personal Data Protection Expert,
h) Assistant Expert: Assistant Personal Data Protection Expert,
ı) Thesis: Specialization theses to be prepared within the framework of this Regulation,
i) Proficiency exam: Personal data protection expertise proficiency exam,
j) YDS: Foreign Language Proficiency Exam,
means.
SECOND PART
Entrance Exam for Assistant Specialist, Appointment,
Education and Upbringing
Entrance examination
ARTICLE 4 – (1) The entrance exam for assistant specialists is a two-stage oral and written examination or a single oral examination.
can be done incrementally.
(2) The Board shall allow the special competition exam to be held in the form of a written and oral exam or only an oral exam.
decided by. In case it is decided that the entrance exam will consist of only an oral exam, this Regulation
The provisions regarding the written exam do not apply.
(3) The applications of the candidates for the written exam, up to twenty times the number of positions to be appointed, are accepted.
(4) Each KPSS announced in the oral exam, starting with the highest score, not less than seventy points
the maximum number of positions to be appointed, among the candidates applying in the type of score or those who are successful in the written exam.
four times as many candidates are called. Applications of other candidates who get equal points with the last candidate in the exams will also be accepted.
is done.
(5) Written examination can be done in test method or classical method. Written exam, to the Ministry of National Education, TODAIE,
It is made by universities or ÖSYM.
(6) The information and documents to be requested in the written exam application, the exam fee to be collected from the candidates during the application,
exam venues, distribution of questions by subject, issues to be observed in the conduct of the exam, date and duration of the exam,
issues regarding the determination of winners and placement, examination and placement results to the Institution, candidates
notification, disclosure, objection and other matters The Institution and the Ministry of National Education, TODAIE, universities or
It is determined by the protocol to be made between ÖSYM.
Entrance exam announcement
ARTICLE 5 – (1) Application conditions, dates and place of the entrance exam, documents required in the application, assignment
number of positions to be made, KPSS score types to be sought in terms of education fields, if necessary, base
scores and the number of candidates to be called for the exam, the exam type and other issues related to the exam
thirty days ago in the Official Gazette, on the Institution's website and on the website of the State Personnel Presidency.
announced by publication.
Application conditions
ARTICLE 6 – (1) Assistant experts are recruited through a professional competitive examination.
(2) The following conditions are sought for those who will take the competitive exam:
a) To carry the general conditions in subparagraph (A) of the first paragraph of Article 48 of the Law No. 657.
b) From the KPSS, whose validity period has not expired as of the application deadline, as specified in the competitive exam announcement.
to have received the minimum score according to the score types.
c) According to the staff and needs of the institution;
1) Political sciences, economics and administrative sciences in the field of social sciences with at least four years of undergraduate education,
Equivalency in economics, law and business faculties or the faculties listed above is accepted by the Higher Education Council.
To graduate from higher education institutions abroad.
2) Faculties with at least four years of undergraduate education; electronics in engineering, electrical-electronics,
statistics of electronics and communication, industry, computer, information systems engineering departments and faculties
the equivalence of the departments or the departments listed abroad, whose equivalence has been accepted by the Council of Higher Education.
graduate from higher education institutions.
ç) If deemed necessary by the Institution, from the YDS or language test within the last five years as of the application date.
in terms of competence, the equivalence of them is accepted by OSYM and has international validity.

Page 2
have the document.
d) Not to have completed the age of thirty-five as of the first day of January of the year in which the entrance examination is held.
Required documents and application form
ARTICLE 7 – (1) In order to participate in the competition exam, in the electronic environment within the period specified in the announcement.
The Personal Data Protection Assistant Specialist Competition Exam Application Form to be filled in is given below.
The required documents must be submitted to the Institution in person or by mail until the date specified in the exam announcement:
a) Original or photocopy of KPSS result document or computer printout.
b) The original or computer print of the result document for those who will declare their foreign language score.
c) The original or a copy approved by the Institution of the higher education diploma or temporary graduation certificate.
ç) Three passport size photographs.
(2) The diploma equivalence of candidates who graduated from education institutions abroad
To attach the original or a copy approved by the Institution to the application documents of the document showing that it has been accepted by the Board.
must.
Identification of those who will take the entrance exam
ARTICLE 8 – (1) The applications of the candidates who applied for the entrance exam within the time limit are examined,
Whether the conditions exist or not is determined by the Department. By the Department, who meet the required conditions
Candidates are ranked according to the procedure specified in Article 4. Candidates who are eligible to take the entrance exam,
It is announced on the website of the institution.
Exam Commission
ARTICLE 9 – (1) Making entrance exams, evaluation of exam results and objections to oral exam
Examining and deciding on the work is done by the Examination Commission.
(2) The Exam Commission to be determined by the Board consists of five members, one of which is the chairman. Your original members
If for any reason they cannot participate in the Examination Committee, they will participate in the studies in the order of determination.
In addition, two substitute members are determined. When deemed necessary, maximum two members, faculty members of higher education institutions
can be selected among
(3) The commission convenes with the full number of members and takes decisions by majority vote.
(4) Members of the Entrance Examination Commission, even if they are divorced, their spouses, up to the third degree (this
degree) blood relatives, in-laws and adopted children cannot take part in the exams. Those in this situation
Instead, substitute members are appointed.
(5) The secretariat services of the Commission are carried out by the Department.
Written examination
ARTICLE 10 – (1) The written exam is administered by the Ministry of National Education, TODAIE, universities or OSYM.
The written exam consists of general culture and general ability, and required field knowledge. Written examination,
test and/or classical method.
(2) 30 percent of the exam questions consists of general culture and general ability, and 70 percent of field knowledge.
(3) Written exam subjects are among the subjects listed below, taking into account their areas of expertise.
and/or by the Examination Committee on the subjects related to the determination of the knowledge level of the candidates regarding the branch of education.
determined by choosing:
a) General culture and general ability.
b) Legislation on the protection of personal data: Law on the Protection of Personal Data and other regulations,
International legislation and practices regarding the protection of personal data.
c) In addition, graduates from the departments specified in sub-clause (1) of subparagraph (c) of the second paragraph of Article 6
Written exams for those who do not include the following topics:
1) Micro and macro economics.
2) Economic policy.
3) Turkish economy.
4) International economics.
5) Public finance.
6) General principles of the Turkish tax system.
7) Fiscal policy.
8) Constitutional law.
9) Administrative law and law of administrative proceedings.
10) Criminal law.
11) Civil law.
12) Commercial law.
13) Law of obligations.
14) Personnel management.
15) International Relations and Political History Group: International relations, international organizations, Turkish foreign policy,
political history.
ç) In addition, graduates of the departments specified in the sub-clause (2) of the second paragraph of Article 6
Written exams for those who do not include the following topics:
1) Basic computer programming and algorithm development.
2) Basic concepts in information technologies (computer technology concepts, basic computer networks and
internet, basic information security, basic database).
3) Operations research, project management, simulation, random models.
4) Probability, Statistics.
5) Financial mathematics, cost accounting; exponential and logarithmic functions, sequences, series, derivative, integral,
linear algebra, differential equations and their economic applications.
6) Management information systems, management and organization.
7) Software engineering, database management systems, data structures and algorithms, computer networks and
internet, information security, operating systems.
8) Electronic circuits, digital logic design, microprocessors, communication, signals and systems.

Page 3
(4) In the written exam, the weight of the questions in terms of subject groups will be evaluated.
included in the announcement.
(5) As a result of the written exam, starting with the highest score, not less than 70 points, the entrance exam
Candidates up to four times the cadre specified in the announcement are entitled to take the oral exam. Sorting done
As a result, other candidates who have equal points with the last candidate are also called for the oral exam.
(6) Written exam results on the website of the institution and the institutions with which the protocol has been signed, where the exam is made.
be announced within 45 days at the latest.
Oral examination
ARTICLE 11 – (1) Oral exam is administered by the Institution. The place, day and time of the oral exam and the
The list of participants will be announced on the Institution's website. Candidates are not notified separately.
(2) Candidates in the oral exam, Personal Data Protection Assistant Specialist Competition Exam Evaluation
Through the form;
a) The level of knowledge about the exam subjects,
b) The ability to comprehend and summarize a subject, express it and reasoning power,
c) Merit, ability to represent, suitability of behavior and reactions to the profession,
ç) Self-confidence, persuasiveness and persuasiveness,
d) General ability and general culture,
e) Openness to scientific and technological developments,
It is carried out by evaluating its aspects and giving points separately.
(3) Candidates are awarded 50 points for subparagraph (a) of the first paragraph and 10 points for each of the other subparagraphs by the Examination Commission.
evaluated over. In order to be considered successful in the oral exam, the arithmetic average of the points taken must be at least 70
is essential.
(4) No registration system is used for the oral exam.
(5) Those who are successful in the oral exam, starting from the candidate with the highest success score,
is posted on the site.
Evaluation of entrance exam results
ARTICLE 12 – (1) Assignment for each field, starting from the candidate with the highest score as a result of the competition exams
The main candidates are determined as the number of positions to be made, and the reserve candidates are determined as half of the original candidates. in the reserve list
the rights of the candidates are valid for 6 months following the announcement date and the vested right or
does not constitute any priority.
(2) In case of equality of oral exam scores, written exam score, foreign language score, if the written exam has been taken, respectively,
Candidates with a high KPSS score and diploma grade are at the top of the ranking.
Objection to competitive exam results
ARTICLE 13 – (1) Candidates may object to the exam results in writing.
(2) Objections to the written exam result will be made in writing within 10 working days at the latest following the announcement of the exam results.
It is made to the Institution that conducts the examination.
(3) Objections regarding the oral exam result are within 5 working days at the latest after the announcement of the exam results.
It is done in the Institution. Objections to the oral exam results are made by the exam commission within 5 working days at the latest.
evaluated and the result is reported to the relevant person in writing.
Documents to be requested from those to be appointed
ARTICLE 14 – (1) Candidates who are successful in the exam;
a) Written statement that there is no health problem that may prevent him from performing his duty continuously,
b) Written statement of criminal record,
c) Written statement that he is not related to military service for male candidates,
ç) 3 passport size photographs taken within the last three months,
They submit it to the Institution within ten days following the announcement of the exam result.
(2) Those who are found to have made false statements will not be appointed, as their exams will be deemed invalid.
Even if their assignments are made, they are canceled. They can not claim any rights and they have no rights on them and they have no rights on them, dated 26/9/2004 and 5237
To file a criminal complaint to the Office of the Chief Public Prosecutor in order to apply the relevant provisions of the Turkish Penal Code No.
is found.
Appointment as assistant specialist
ARTICLE 15 – (1) Appointment procedures of the winners of the entrance examination, security investigation and/or
Archive research is carried out in accordance with the provisions of Law No. 657, provided that it is positive. Submit your documents on time
Those who do not are not appointed.
(2) Those who do not apply for the appointment process even though they do not have a valid excuse.
transactions are not performed.
(3) Among those who are successful in the competition exam, those who do not start their duties within the legal period, after being appointed,
Those who leave their jobs for any reason and those who are understood not to meet the assignment conditions are replaced by the exam results.
as of the announcement of the (Repealed phrase:RG-2/4/2019-30733) (…) the appointment of the substitute candidates according to the superiority of points
makes.
Training and training of assistant specialists
ARTICLE 16 – (1) The duration of assistant specialist is at least three years. Within this period, unpaid leave and total three months
The assistantship periods of those who use sick and accompanying leave exceeding the duration of their stay are extended as long as they are separated.
(2) Those who are appointed as assistant experts, as long as they are in this position, have the knowledge, skills and abilities required by the expertise.
In addition to the duties to be given in order to gain ethical values;
a) Gaining knowledge and experience about the organizational structure, duties and working principles and procedures of the Institution,
b) Information on the legislation and the implementation of this legislation on the subjects falling within the service area of ​the Authority, and
gaining skills,
c) To acquire the necessary knowledge and skills in correspondence, report writing, examination and research techniques,
ç) To gain the habit of scientific and technical study and research in professional matters,
d) To develop professional foreign language knowledge,
e) Participating in national and international conferences, seminars and training programs regarding the service area of ​the institution.

Page 4
to develop participation and representation ability,
are working towards.
(3) With the Law No. 657 on the training and training of assistant specialists, dated 21/2/1983 and numbered 83/6061
General Regulation on the Training of Candidate Civil Servants, which was put into effect by the decision of the Council of Ministers
provisions are reserved.
THIRD PART
Assignment to Specialization
Requirements for appointment to specialization
ARTICLE 17 – (1) Assistant experts;
a) At least three years as an assistant specialist, excluding unpaid leave and sick and accompanying leaves whose total exceeds three months
having worked,
b) Acceptance of the specialization thesis they will prepare,
c) To be successful in the proficiency exam,
d) Valid on the date of the proficiency exam or taken within two years at the latest from the proficiency exam
A minimum (C) level score from YDS or equivalent in terms of language proficiency is accepted, and
Submission of another document with international validity
are entitled to be appointed as experts, provided that
(2) Services related to the specialization thesis and proficiency exam are carried out by the Department.
Thesis jury and its duties
ARTICLE 18 – (1) The Thesis Jury, under the chairmanship of a Board member, in order to defend the thesis,
by the Board from among the thesis advisor of the assistant specialist and the unit managers, experts and faculty members.
consists of five principal members. A maximum of two members can be selected from among the faculty members of higher education institutions. Noble
In the event that the members cannot participate in the defense commission for any reason, the studies are carried out in the order of determination.
Two alternate members are also determined to participate.
(2) The thesis jury meets with the full number of members to evaluate the thesis and takes a decision by majority vote.
Determining the thesis topic and preparing the thesis
ARTICLE 19 – (1) Provided that the opinions of other units are taken by the Department,
The thesis topics list is created according to the needs of the Board and submitted to the approval of the Board.
(2) The President can choose one of the three topics preferred by the assistant expert from the list of thesis topics, at the latest, of the second year.
determines at the end.
(3) Thesis; Thesis to be selected by the President from among the lecturers, unit managers or experts
It is prepared in accordance with scientific principles under the supervision of a consultant.
(4) The thesis topic determined, within the first month, upon the request of the assistant expert and the approval of the head of the unit.
can be changed only once. Changing the thesis topic does not extend the submission period of the thesis.
(5) Scientific work ethics, which includes the opinions, evaluations and suggestions of the assistant expert of the thesis to be prepared.
It must be a suitable original work. If the thesis was previously similar to a master's, doctoral thesis or for any other purpose,
must not have been prepared, studied, defended, or used in a manner that In case of detection of the contrary situation, the
shall be deemed invalid and disciplinary provisions and penal actions shall be applied to those concerned.
(6) Thesis; time spent in candidacy, excluding unpaid leave, sickness and accompanying leave exceeding three months in total
It is prepared within three years.
(7) The thesis work can also be done in a higher education institution within the framework of a protocol to be made.
Thesis submission
ARTICLE 20 – (1) At the end of one year at the latest following the finalization of the thesis topic by the assistant specialist
the thesis and the thesis advisor's evaluation report prepared by him/her in ten working days as much as the number of members in the thesis jury
copies it and delivers it to the head of the unit to which it is attached. The theses of the unit supervisors are submitted to the Head of Department within five working days.
and the Presidency delivers it to the members of the jury as soon as possible.
(2) An additional period not exceeding six months is given to assistant experts who cannot present their theses within the prescribed period.
Evaluation and acceptance of the thesis
ARTICLE 21 – (1) The thesis jury examines the theses received within two months at the latest. The expert whose thesis is approved
The assistant is called within one month to defend his thesis.
(2) The assistant specialist defends his thesis orally in front of the thesis jury and answers the questions about the thesis topic.
(3) After the oral defense of the assistant expert, the members of the thesis jury cast their votes as successful or unsuccessful.
and the decision is taken by majority vote.
(4) The assistant expert who could not enter the thesis defense due to a valid excuse although he submitted his thesis.
A separate defense date is set for Expert who did not enter the defense meeting without a valid excuse
the assistant is deemed to have submitted an unsuccessful thesis.
Thesis not accepted
ARTICLE 22 – (1) Submission of their thesis to assistant experts whose thesis is deemed unsuccessful by the thesis jury.
or they are given additional time, not exceeding six months, to prepare a new thesis. Those who do not submit their thesis at the end of this period,
The provision of Article 26 is applied to those who do not defend their thesis or whose thesis is deemed unsuccessful for the second time.
Proficiency Exam Commission
ARTICLE 23 - (1) The Proficiency Exam Commission is chaired by a Board member, unit managers and
It consists of five principal members determined by the Board from among experts and faculty members. Likewise, the president and
alternate members are also elected.
(2) The Proficiency Exam Committee convenes with the full number of members. Secretariat services of the Board by the Department
is executed.
Entry requirement and proficiency exam
ARTICLE 24 – (1) With the exception of unpaid leave and sick and accompanying leave exceeding three months in total, the specialist
Those who have actually worked for at least three years in the assistantship and whose specialization thesis is accepted as successful are entitled to take the proficiency exam.
wins.
(2) The proficiency exam is held in written form at the place and date deemed appropriate by the Authority.
(3) The proficiency exam, which falls under the jurisdiction of the Institution determined by the Commission, is announced at least two months before the exam.

Page 5
made from the topics covered. Those who get at least 70 points out of 100 points in the exam are considered successful.
(4) Those who are not successful in the proficiency exam or who are entitled to take the exam but do not have a valid excuse.
Those who do not use the right to take the exam without the right to take the exam are given the right to take the exam for the second time in one year.
Assignment to specialization
ARTICLE 25 – (1) Among the assistant experts, those who are successful in the proficiency exam and who are valid on the proficiency exam date
A minimum (C) level score from YDS, which has been taken within two years from the proficiency exam at the latest.
or another document that is accepted as equivalent in terms of language proficiency and has international validity
are assigned to specialization.
Termination of the title of assistant specialist
ARTICLE 26 – (1) From the assistant experts;
a) Those who do not submit their theses within the given additional time or whose thesis they have prepared for the second time is not accepted,
b) Those who fail in the second proficiency exam or do not use their right to take the exam,
c) Those who do not fulfill the foreign language proficiency requirement within the period,
They are appointed to positions with the title of civil servants in accordance with their status in the institution.
CHAPTER FOUR
Miscellaneous and Final Provisions
Duty and responsibility
ARTICLE 27 – (1) Duties and responsibilities of experts and assistant experts are as follows:
a) To carry out the work and transactions of the unit to which they are assigned.
b) Research and development for the purpose of determining the policies, strategies and targets related to the field of duty of the institution.
make reviews.
c) With the secondary regulations put into effect for the performance of the duties assigned to the Authority by the relevant legislation,
To monitor and evaluate the implementation of the Board's decisions and with the processes and practices to be established as a result.
to develop relevant proposals, to make proposals about the works to be done and the measures to be taken.
ç) Meetings and activities to be held before international institutions and organizations and deemed appropriate by the Institution.
join.
d) To work on personal data protection practices and to develop new strategies.
e) To carry out studies to increase the service capacity and quality of the institution,
participate in studies.
f) To follow national and international studies on the protection of personal data and to
to work on applicable methods.
g) To fulfill the assigned duties in accordance with the provisions of the legislation.
h) (Annex: OG-2/4/2019-30733) To participate in on-site inspection activities.
(2) Experts and assistant experts carry out their duties under the relevant unit manager.
Study abroad
ARTICLE 28 – (1) Experts, Law no. 657 and Council of Ministers dated 21/1/1974 and numbered 7/7756
About the Civil Servants to be Sent Abroad for Training, which was put into effect by the decision
Within the framework of the provisions of the regulation, to do internship or research, to increase their professional knowledge and experience or to go abroad.
They can be sent abroad to conduct academic studies, provided that they receive an acceptance certificate from universities abroad.
reassignment
ARTICLE 29 – (1) After gaining the title of expert in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation,
Those who want to leave their jobs for various reasons and be reassigned can be appointed to the expert staff, provided that there are vacant positions.
they can be reappointed.
Cases where there is no provision
ARTICLE 30 – (1) In cases where there is no provision in this Regulation, Law No. 657, No. 6698
The Law is the First to Public Duties, which was put into effect with the Council of Ministers Decision dated 18/3/2002 and numbered 2002/3975.
The provisions of the General Regulation on the Exams to be Held for Re-appointed Persons and other relevant legislation are applied.
Force
ARTICLE 31 – (1) This Regulation enters into force on the date of its publication.
Executive
ARTICLE 32 – (1) The President executes the provisions of this Regulation.

one.
2nd.

The Official Gazette in which the Regulation was Published
Historical
Number
9/2/2018
30327
Official Publication of Regulations Amending the Regulation
Newspapers
Historical
Number
2/4/2019
30733

