Page 1

IN LAW NO. 6698
TERMS INCLUDED

Page 2

I. PERSONAL DATA
Relating to an identified or identifiable natural person
means all kinds of information. People's name, surname, birth
date and place of birth, the person's physical, family, economic and
information on other features, name, phone number,
motor vehicle license plate, social security number, passport
Data such as number are personal data. In this sense, personal
physical, economic, cultural, social or
have a concrete quality that expresses their psychological identity
or any other information such as ID, tax, insurance number
determining the person as a result of associating with the record
must be capable of providing

one

Page 3

II. SPECIALLY QUALIFIED
PERSONAL DATA
People's race, ethnic origin, political thought, philosophical belief,
religion, sect or other beliefs, dress and dress,
association, foundation or union membership, health, sexual life,
with data on criminal convictions and security measures
biometric and genetic data. Special qualifications in law
personal data has been determined by limited counting,
cannot be expanded via
Original text
Kanun'da özel nitelikli
Contribute a better translation

2nd

Page 4

III. PERSONAL DATA
PROCESSING
of personal data fully or partially automated or
provided that it is part of any data recording system
non-automatic means of obtaining, recording,
storage, preservation, modification, reuse
arrangement, disclosure, transfer, acquisition,
available, limited or
on data, such as preventing the use of
any operation performed.

3

Page 5

IV. DATA SPEAKER

Purposes and methods of processing personal data
establishing a data recording system and
natural or legal person responsible for managing
is a person. Legal entities to process personal data
within the scope of their activities
They are the "data controller" and are subject to the relevant regulations.
the specified legal responsibility is on the person of the legal person
will arise.

4

Page 6

V. DATA PROCESSOR
Based on the authority given by the data controller, its
of the data controller, who processes personal data on behalf of
natural or legal persons outside the organization
is defined as. These persons, their personal data
data processing within the framework of the instructions given to it.
make a personal data processing agreement of the controller
It is a separate natural or legal person authorized by it.
Any natural or legal person can also
The data controller can be both a data processor. For example, a
The accounting firm holds data about its own personnel.
as the data controller in relation to the
In terms of the data held by the companies, the data processor
will be accepted as

5

Page 7

VI. DATA RECORD SYSTEM
Data recording system, personal data according to certain criteria
It is a recording system in which it is structured and processed. These systems
can be created electronically or physically. data recording
personal data in the system; name-surname or identity number
as, for example, credit
classification to be created for those who do not pay their debts
will also be evaluated in this context.

6

Page 8

VII. AUTOMATIC
DATA PROCESSING
Computer, phone, clock etc. devices with processor
software or hardware specifications fulfilled by
within the scope of pre-prepared algorithms through
spontaneously without human intervention
processing activity.

7

Page 9

VIII. ANONYMOUS
MAKING
(ANONIMIZATION)
Even if personal data is matched with other data,
with an identified or identifiable natural person
making it unrelated. Personal data
to be anonymized; personal data,
back by the data controller, the recipient or groups of recipients.
rotation and matching data with other data
suitable in terms of recording environment and related field of activity, such as
identified or identified, even through the use of techniques
cannot be associated with an identifiable natural person.
must be brought.
However, anonymous data with anonymization
should not be confused with each other. Anonymous data from the start
obtained without being associated with a specific person and
then it is possible to be associated with a specific person
is not data. Anonymized data
the difference from the data is knowing who it belongs to at the beginning
and the link between the person concerned and
is to be removed.

8

Page 10

IX. PUBLICIZATION
meaning "to make known to all"
The concept of publicisation, 5th of Law No. 6698.
Article, personal data without seeking explicit consent
counted as one of the cases in which it can be processed. According to this,
made public by the person concerned, another
with the will of the person concerned to make the expression public.
personal data disclosed to the public in any way,
furthermore, making it public without the express consent of the person concerned
general purpose and the general rules regulated in Article 4 of the Law.
can be processed within the scope of the principles.

9

Page 11

X. LIGHTING
LIABILITY
Persons whose personal data are processed by the data controller,
by whom, for what purposes and for what
to whom it can be processed based on legal grounds,
informing about the purposes for which it can be transferred
is an obligation. Within the scope of the lighting obligation
personally at the time of obtaining personal data or
the data controller through the person authorized by him and
the identity of the representative, if any, the purpose of the personal data
to whom and for what purpose personal data will be processed.
method of personal data collection and legal
Informing the persons whose data is processed about the reasons
must.

10

Page 12

XI. RELATED PERSON
The real person whose personal data is processed. owned by a legal person
a data identifying any natural person, or
These data can be determined by the Law.
under protection. But here preserved
the interest is not the legal person, but the
the fact that has been determined or can be determined by priority.
will belong to the individual.

XII. DATA
RESPONSIBLE REGISTRY
Data controllers according to Law No. 6698
Protection of Personal Data they have to register
publicly by the Presidency
It is a recording system that is intended to be kept.

11th

Page 13

XIII. DATA SECURITY
Unlawful processing of personal data and
to prevent unlawful access to data, and
to ensure that they are preserved in accordance with the law.
all kinds of technical and administrative measures necessary for
is to be taken.

XIV. OPEN CONSENT
Explicit consent to be informed about a particular subject
consent based on free will.

12

Page 14

XV. PERSONAL DATA
TRANSFERRING
Personal data in the custody of data controllers
is the transfer. As a rule, personal data is open to the data subject.
cannot be transferred without consent.

XVI. DELETION
Deletion; in any way for the relevant users of the personal data.
is the process of making it inaccessible and unusable.

13

Page 15

XVII. ANNIHILATION
Annihilation; personal data by no one
inaccessible, non-recoverable and reusable.
is the process of making it up.

14

Page 16

Nasuh Akar Mah. 1407. Street No:4 06520
Balgat-Çankaya/Ankara // www.kvkk.gov.tr
Tel: 0 (312) 216 50 50 // Fax: 0(312) 216 50 52

