Page 1

DATA RESPONSIBILITIES
REGISTER

Page 3
2

The law ensures that data controllers are under the supervision of the Board.
Data Controllers Registry to be kept by the Presidency
requires registration. Hence the data
public disclosure of who is responsible
and with this method, the right to protection of personal data is more
intended to be used effectively.
The procedures and principles regarding the registry are the Data Controllers Registry.
It has been determined in the Regulation.

I. Data Controllers
Attributes of Registry
Data Controllers Registry, open to the public under the Law
must be kept. The concept of publicity,
the person who wants to be able to examine the registry
means. The principle of publicity, personal
important for data protection. Because data
responsible persons are known to the public,
fight more effectively against violations of people's rights
will allow it.

one

Page 4

II. Data Controllers
Registration in the Registry
Obligation
and Exceptions
As a rule, Data Controllers of all data controllers
They must be registered in the Registry. The record in question
before starting data processing activities.
must be completed.
However, in the second paragraph of Article 28 of the Law,
In the cases listed, registration in the Data Controllers Registry
The provisions of Article 16 regulating the obligation
will not be applied.
In addition, bringing an exception to the Board, the Registry obligation
authorization has been granted. Based on this, the Board
The criteria were determined and the Official Paper dated 30.12.2017
About the Data Controllers Registry published in the Gazette
These criteria are listed in the regulation.

2nd

Page 5

Said criteria:
a) The nature of the personal data.
b) Number of personal data.
c) Purpose of processing personal data.
ç) Field of activity in which personal data is processed.
d) Transfer of personal data to third parties.
e) Personal data processing activity
originating.
f) The period of retention of personal data.
g) The data subject group or categories of data.

3

Page 6

III. Data Controllers
Notification of Registration in the Registry
Application to register with the Data Controllers Registry,
will be made with a notice containing the following information. Promise
The subject information is:

• Identity and address of the data controller and its representative, if any
information,
• For what purpose personal data will be processed,
• The data subject group and groups and their
explanations about data categories,
• Recipient or recipient groups to whom personal data can be transferred,
• Personal data intended to be transferred to foreign countries,
• Measures taken regarding personal data security,
• Necessary for the purpose for which personal data is processed.
maximum time.
Any changes to the information listed above

4

Page 7

in case such changes are immediately reported to the Authority.
must be reported. Thus, the up-to-dateness of the Registry
targeted to be provided.

5

Page 8

Nasuh Akar Mah. 1407. Street No:4 06520
Balgat-Çankaya/Ankara // www.kvkk.gov.tr
Tel: 0 (312) 216 50 50 // Fax: 0(312) 216 50 52

