Page 1

PERSONAL DATA
TO THE LAW OF PROTECTION
THE NEED

Page 2

Today, both public institutions and private
organizations, thousands of people every day
can access information. Information obtained, informatics
With the effect of developments in technology,
can be easily processed and transferred.
Increasingly, this information
including personal data,
raised the need for protection.

Since the 1970s, national and international
protection of personal data through regulations
studies are in progress. In this area
The first regulation was dated 1970 in Hessen, Germany.
It is the data protection law adopted in your state. It
land registry records with the help of law, information systems
In the face of accessibility, obtaining data
Procedures and principles regarding storage and storage
was prepared to determine Similarly,
Data protection of Sweden 1973 and France 1978
laws are also in the hands of the state, a large number of

one

Page 3

with a system similar to the "identification number" of the data.
As a result of recording and integrating, effective
data processing becomes possible and
In this context, legally against possible risks
considering the need for protection
has been prepared. Europe as an international regulation
Council in 1973 and 1974, private and public

2nd

Page 4

kept in electronic data banks in the
standards for the protection of personal data
two decisions adopted to determine personal data
regulations on the protection of
has originated.

Comprehensive data protection
The first international convention was the Council of Europe.
108 dated 1981 and adopted by the
“Automated Processing of Personal Data
Convention on the Protection of Persons Against
has been. Also, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe
For the implementation of Convention No. 108
A total of 13 recommendations determining the procedures and principles
took it out.

After these developments, European countries and
nationally in the United States
the United Nations (UN), while creating legislation,

3

Page 5

Council of Europe, Economic Cooperation and Development
Organization (OECD) and European Union (EU)
various directives, directives and international agreements.
has been prepared.

Legal regulations for the protection of personal data
the main factors leading to the preparation of a regulation;
effective protection of human rights
membership negotiations and international cooperation
and the need to increase trade.

4

Page 6

Firstly; protection of personal data, fundamental
with the right to privacy, which is a human right.
is directly linked. people's private life
in the hands of third parties to ensure confidentiality.
legally inconsistent data
protection is required.

Also; ongoing European
In the process of full membership of the Union, one of the negotiation chapters

5

Page 7

four of them are directly related to the protection of personal data.
The European Union has prepared for our country
protection of personal data in progress reports
stressed the need for national legislation on

Finally; protection of personal data in our country.
Since there is no legal regulation regarding
Implement effective cooperation between police units.
Our security units with EUROPOL
between EUROJUST and our judicial authorities.
electronic data sharing between
troubles have occurred. In addition, foreign capital
investing in our country and with these investments
effectively invest in other countries.
the data transfer it needs to manage,
difficult due to lack of legal regulation
conditions and this situation is foreign
in terms of capital investing in our country
considered as a deterrent.

6

Page 8

Nasuh Akar Mah. 1407. Street No:4 06520
Balgat-Çankaya/Ankara // www.kvkk.gov.tr
Tel: 0 (312) 216 50 50 // Fax: 0(312) 216 50 52

