Page 1

Ru Own
Search

×

×

560-II 11.12.2003

Own | Ru

The document is currently being amended

LAW OF THE REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN

About informatization

ABOUT INFORMATION

Article 1 Of this Act
purpose
Article 2 Informatization
legislation on

Article 1 The purpose of this Act
The purpose of this Law is in the field of informatization, use of information resources and information systems
is to regulate the relationship.

Article 3 Basic concepts
Article 4 Informatization
public policy in the field
Article 5 Informatization
The industry is regulated by the state
hit
Article 6 Specially authorized body
Article 7 Information resources and
legal regime of information systems
Article 8 Documenting information
Article 9 Information resources and
ownership of information systems
right
Article 10 Public information
resources
Article 11 From information resources
access categories
Article 12 From information resources
use
12 Article 1. Everyone is free
which can be used
information Internet world information
distribution in the network
Article 13 Of individuals
personal information
contain information about
information resources received
Article 14 About themselves
information containing information
legal and physical resources
free use of persons
Article 15 National Information System
Article 16 From information systems
use in transactions
Article 17 Information systems
technical means
certification
Article 18 Information systems
interconnection
Article 19 Information resources and
protection of information systems
Article 20 Information resources and
information systems protection
to be made
Article 21 International news
network connection
Article 22 Dispute resolution
Article 23 Informatization
legislation on
liability for violation

Article 2 Informatization legislation
The legislation on informatization consists of this Law and other legislative acts.
If the international agreement of the Republic of Uzbekistan on informatization of the Republic of Uzbekistan
the rules of an international treaty shall apply if rules other than those provided for in the legislation are established.
Article 3 Basic concepts
The following basic concepts are applied in this Law:
informatization - information resources to meet the information needs of legal entities and individuals,
Organizational, socio-economic and scientific development of conditions using information technologies and information systems
technical process;
See previous edit.

information resource - information in electronic form, data bank, database, which is part of the information system
including audio, video, graphic and textual information that is openly posted or published in information systems;
(Paragraph 3 of Article 3 as amended by the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated March 30, 2021 No. ZRU-679 National Database of Legislation, 30.03.2021, No. 03/21/679/0256)

owner of information resources or information systems - ownership of information resources or information systems
the legal or natural person making, using and disposing of them;
owner of information resources or information systems - by law or information resources, information
who owns information resources or information systems within the rights established by the owner of the systems,
the legal or natural person who uses them and manages them;
information technology - used to collect, store, search, process and disseminate information
total methods, devices, methods and processes;
information system - a system that allows you to collect, store, search, process and use information,
total organized information resources, information technology and means of communication.
See previous edit.

blogger - all free access to the Internet on their website and (or) website page in the global information network
including the placement of information of a possible socio-political, socio-economic and other nature
the natural person who places the information to be discussed by the users.
(Article 3 is supplemented with the paragraph in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated September 4, 2014 No. ZRU-373 OR NGO, 2014, No. 36, Article 452)

Article 4 State policy in the field of informatization
State policy in the field of informatization Development of information resources, information technologies and information systems
and to create a national information system that takes into account the modern world principles of improvement.
The main directions of state policy in the field of informatization are:
the exercise of everyone's constitutional right to free access to and dissemination of information, from information resources
ensuring free access;
information systems of government agencies, network and regional information systems, as well as legal and physical
creation of a single information space of the Republic of Uzbekistan on the basis of information systems of individuals;
creation of conditions for free access to international information networks and the Internet;
formation of state information resources, creation and development of information systems, their compatibility and
ensuring interoperability;
organization of production of modern information technology tools;
assistance in the formation of the market of information resources, services and information technologies;
stimulating the development of software production;
support and encouragement of entrepreneurship, creation of favorable conditions for attracting investments;
training and retraining of personnel, promotion of scientific research.
Article 5 Government regulation of the informatization sector
The Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan regulates the state sphere of informatization and it is special
authorized body.
Article 6 Specially authorized body
Specially authorized body:
organizes and coordinates the formation of state information resources;
develops state programs for informatization and development of information technologies;
promotes the creation of information systems, network and regional information systems of government agencies;
develops standards, norms and rules in the field of informatization;
organization of certification of technical means and services of information systems and information technologies
reaches;
to ensure the protection of legal entities and individuals' own information resources and information systems
coordinates activities;
promotes the development of the market of information resources, services and information technologies;
organizes marketing research and monitoring in the field of informatization;
implements measures to protect the rights and legitimate interests of users of information resources;
Information security in the interests of defense and security of the Republic of Uzbekistan
provides priority use of information systems;
exercises other powers in accordance with the legislation.
LexUZ review
For more information, see: “Uzbekistan approved by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 318 of May 1, 2018
Regulations on the Ministry of Information Technologies and Communications of the Republic of Kazakhstan ”.

Article 7 Legal regime of information resources and information systems
The legal regime of information resources and information systems is determined by the following norms:
the procedure for documenting information, forming information resources and creating information systems;
ownership of information resources and information systems;
category of information resources according to the level of their access;
the order of protection of information resources and information systems;
the order of interconnection of information systems.
Article 8 Documenting information

Documenting information is a mandatory condition for entering information into information resources. Procedure for documenting information
determined by a specially authorized body.
An electronic document is an information document certified by an electronic digital signature, which is stored and processed in information resources
has the same legal force as a paper document.
The relationship between the formation and use of electronic documents and electronic digital signatures is the law
regulated by.
LexUZ review
For more information, please contact the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan "On electronic document management" and Uzbekistan
See the Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan "On electronic digital signature" .

Article 9 Ownership of information resources and information systems
Information resources and information systems in the Republic of Uzbekistan may be public or private property.
The basis for the formation of property rights to information resources and information systems are:
information resources and information systems from the state budget, own of legal entities and individuals
funds or other sources not prohibited by law;
including the conditions of transfer of ownership of information resources and information systems;
contract of sale or other agreement;
inheritance
The law also provides for other grounds for the formation of property rights to information resources and information systems
can be caught.
Article 10 Government information resources
State information resources are formed from:
information resources of government agencies;
information resources created by legal entities and individuals at the expense of the state budget;
information resources of legal entities and individuals, including state secrets and confidential information;
from documented information provided by legal entities and individuals in the prescribed manner.
Legal entities and individuals are the relevant state for the formation of state information resources of documented information
in the prescribed manner.
Procedure for mandatory submission of documented information by legal entities and individuals, state information resources
List of state bodies responsible for the formation and use of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Determined by the Court.
The procedure for providing information included in the list of state secrets and classified information shall be established by legislation.
LexUZ review
Confidentiality of information in accordance with Article 6 of the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan "On protection of state secrets" ,
the procedure for issuing permits for access to them and related restrictions, as well as the procedure for using state secrets
The Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan shall determine the system of protection of state secrets.

Article 11 Categories of free access to information resources
Information resources are information that is freely available to all by categories of access
resources and information resources whose access is restricted.
Information resources designed for an unlimited number of users are freely available to all
are information resources.
Owners of information on state secrets and confidential information or free access information resources
restricted access to information resources containing information restricted by
resources.
We are legal from information resources that are freely available to all owners and possessors of information resources
and ensure that individuals have free access on an equal basis.
Inclusion of information resources in the categories of access to information resources in the manner prescribed by law
determined by the owner.
Article 12 Use of information resources
Users of information resources have equal rights, free access to information resources
with the exception of restricted information resources.
Fees for the use of information resources may be charged in the prescribed manner.
Lists of information and services related to the provision of information, the order of free access to information resources and
The owners and owners of information resources provide users with information about the terms and conditions free of charge.
Legal entities and individuals must legally source information from the information they receive from information resources on a legal basis
can be used to generate product information by reference.
The procedure for obtaining information from information resources is established by the owner or possessor of information resources
in compliance with the requirements.
See previous edit.
1
Article
12 Dissemination of information that is freely available to all on the Internet

The blogger is all free, including the owner of the website and (or) the website page or other information resource
information from which you can use the Internet from your own website and (or) website on the World Wide Web
page or other information resource:
A call for forcible change of the existing constitutional order and territorial integrity of the Republic of Uzbekistan
to reach;
mass riots, violence against citizens, as well as in violation of the established order
to encourage participation in meetings, rallies, street marches and demonstrations, as well as this
coordination of illegal actions;
dissemination of false information threatening public order or security;
propaganda of war, violence and terrorism, as well as religious extremism, separatism and fundamentalism;
disclosure of information constituting state secrets or other secrets protected by law;
inciting national, racial, ethnic or religious hatred, as well as the honor and dignity of citizens or business
dissemination of information that tarnishes their reputation and allows them to interfere in their private lives;
expressing disrespect for society, the state, state symbols, including obscenity
dissemination of information;
promotion of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and precursors;
propaganda of pornography, violence and cruelty, as well as incitement to suicide;
citizens, including minors, to their life and (or) health or to other persons
incite or otherwise involve in the commission of illegal acts threatening the life and (or) health
dissemination of targeted information;
for the purpose of committing other acts that give rise to criminal and other liability in accordance with the law
must not be used.
The owner of the website and (or) the website page or other information resource, including the blogger:
to their own website on the Internet World Wide Web, where all freely available information is posted
and (or) information that is freely available to all on a website or other information resource
check its accuracy before posting, as well as in case of inaccuracy of the posted information
delete immediately;
the Internet is its own website on the World Wide Web and where information is freely available to all
(or) monitoring of website pages or other information resources, including instant messaging systems
to determine the information and materials specified in the first part of this article ;
in case of detection of the information specified in the first part of this article , immediately delete this information
must take measures.
The obligations set forth in the first and second parts of this article apply to the website and (or) the website page
or in the event of non-compliance by the owner of another information resource, including the blogger, from this website and (or) the web
use of the website or other information resource in the manner prescribed by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan
may be restricted by a specially authorized body.
Violation of the requirements set out in the first and second parts of this article shall be prosecuted in accordance with the law
causes.
The requirements set forth in the first and second parts of this article apply to the website and (or) the website page
or the rights and legitimacy of the owner of another information resource, including as a result of non-compliance by the blogger
to protect the rights, honor, dignity and business reputation of persons whose interests have been violated, including
appeal to the court in the prescribed manner with claims for damages, compensation for non-pecuniary damage
entitled to do.
1
(Article
12 of the Republic of Uzbekistan from March 30, 2021 No. 679 dated edition of the legislation - the Law
National Database, 30.03.2021, No. 03/21/679/0256)

Article 13 Information containing information about the identity of individuals
resources
Information resources that contain information about the identity of individuals
The procedure for their formation and use is determined by law.
Information about the identity of individuals falls into the category of confidential information.
Article 14 Legal entities and individuals from information resources containing information about themselves
free access
Access to information resources containing information about themselves by legal entities and individuals,
in order to ensure the completeness and accuracy of this information.
Free access of legal entities and individuals to information resources containing information about themselves
may be limited by law.
LexUZ review
Obtaining information in accordance with Article 4 of the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan "On Principles and Guarantees of Freedom of Information"
only in accordance with the law and human rights and freedoms, the foundations of the constitutional system, the moral values ​of society, the country's
may be limited in order to protect their spiritual, cultural and scientific potential, to ensure their safety.

Access to information resources containing information about themselves to legal entities and individuals
the refusal of the owner or possessor of information resources may be appealed in court.
Article 15 National Information System
The national information system includes information systems of government agencies, sectoral and regional information systems, as well as legal
and information systems for individuals.
The national information system is funded by the state budget, as well as own funds of legal entities and individuals
other sources not prohibited by law.
The national information system is the compatibility of its information systems with international information systems
is created taking into account.
The exchange of information using the national information system is carried out on a contractual basis, in accordance with the legislation
except as provided.
Article 16 Use of information systems in transactions
The use of information systems in transactions between legal entities and individuals is regulated by law
is filled.
LexUZ review
For more information, see the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan "On Electronic Commerce" .

Article 17 Certification of technical means of information systems
The technical means constituting information systems must be certified in the manner prescribed by law.
LexUZ review
For more information, see the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan "On certification of products and services."
see

Information systems of government agencies, network and regional information systems, information of legal entities and individuals
systems designed to process information containing state secrets or classified information
means, as well as means of protection of these systems must be compulsorily certified.
Article 18 Interconnection of information systems
Interconnection of information systems is performed for the exchange of information between different information systems
is increased.
Possibility of interconnection of information systems in accordance with established norms and rules
owners, owners provide.
LexUZ review
For more information, see Article 17 of the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan "On Telecommunications" .

Interconnection of different information systems is an agreement between the owners of information systems
is done on the basis of.
Procedures and conditions for interconnection and interaction of various information systems
determined by a specially authorized body.
Article 19 Protection of information resources and information systems
Protection of information resources and information systems is carried out for the following purposes:
ensuring information security of the individual, society and the state;
dissemination, theft, loss, misinterpretation, blocking, falsification of information resources
and prevent their unauthorized access in any other way;
and unauthorized actions to destroy, block, copy, or misrepresent information
prevention of other forms of interference with information resources and information systems;
protection of existing state secrets and confidential information in information resources.
Article 20 Organization of protection of information resources and information systems
Information resources and information systems, if the information resulting from illegal contact with them
damage to the owners, possessors of resources or information systems or other legal entities and individuals
should be protected if it can be delivered.
Contains information on state secrets and state secrets of state bodies, legal entities and individuals
ensure the protection of information resources and information systems.
The order of organization of protection of information resources and information systems by their owners
determined independently.
Information resources and information systems, including information on state secrets and secrets
The order of organization of protection is determined by the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan.
Article 21 Connection to international information networks
Government agencies, legal entities and individuals connect their information systems to international information networks and the Internet world
can connect to the information network in the manner prescribed by law.
LexUZ review
Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 352 of October 10, 2002 “On International Computer Networks
Data transmission networks of the Republic of Uzbekistan by the decision "On decentralization of use"
only UzPAK from national and international computer networks of operators (providers), including the Internet
development and use of the state network of data transmission of the enterprise and the national network of data transmission
the established procedure for its use by technical means has been abolished.

International information of information systems containing restricted information resources
The connection to the networks and the Internet to the global information network is carried out only after the necessary security measures are taken
is increased.
Article 22 Dispute resolution
Disputes in the field of informatization are resolved in the manner prescribed by law.
Article 23 Liability for violation of information legislation
Persons guilty of violating the legislation on informatization shall be liable in accordance with the established procedure.
President of the Republic of Uzbekistan I. KARIMOV
Tashkent,
December 11, 2003,
560-II-son
(Bulletin of the Oliy Majlis of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2004, No. 1-2, Article 10; Legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Collection, 2014, No. 36, Article 452; National Database of Legislation, 30.03.2021, No. 03/21/679/0256)

When you find an error in the document, highlight it and press Ctrl + Enter.
© Adolat National Legal Information Center under the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Uzbekistan is a state institution

