Page 1

Ru Own
Search

×

×

400-I 24.04.1997

Own | Ru

The document is currently being amended

LAW OF THE REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN

INFORMATION GUARANTEES AND

ON GUARANTEES AND FREEDOM OF RECEIPT OF INFORMATION

ABOUT FREEDOM

Article 1 The purpose of the law

Article 1 The purpose of the law
Article 2 Guarantees of information
and the law of liberty
documents
Article 3 Guarantees of information
Article 4 Getting information
basic principles of freedom
Article 5 About getting information
request

This Law provides for the free and unimpeded search, acquisition, research, transmission and dissemination of information by everyone.
regulates the relations arising in the process of exercising the constitutional right.
Article 2 Legislation on guarantees and freedom of access to information
Legislation on guarantees and freedom of access to information is provided in the Constitution of the Republic of Uzbekistan , this
Consists of law and other legislation.
Relations in the field of guarantees and freedom of information in the Republic of Karakalpakstan Karakalpakstan
It is also regulated by the legislation of the Republic.

Article 6 Query forms and
terms of its consideration

Article 3 Guarantees of information
Every citizen's right to information is guaranteed.
Everyone's right to seek, receive, study, transmit and disseminate information is protected by the state.

Article 7 Get information
provide
Article 8 To provide information and to him
pay a fee
Article 9 Can be provided
non - information

Article 4 Basic principles of freedom of information
The basic principles of freedom of information are transparency, accessibility, openness and
is the truth.

Article 10 Source of information
non-disclosure

Article 5 Request for information

Article 11 Accuracy of information
responsibility for

See previous edit.

Article 12 The right to appeal

Article 6 Forms of the request and terms of its consideration

Article 13 The right to information
liability for violation
Article 14 Guarantees of information
and international in the field of freedom
agreements

Everyone has the right to request information directly or through their legal representatives.

Requests for information should be made orally, in writing, including electronically through the information system
possible.
In a written request, the applicant's name, patronymic, surname, address, name of the requested information or
feature is displayed.
The e-mail address of the applicant may be indicated in the written request. Email address in written request
is the consent of the applicant to receive a response to the request in electronic form through the information system.
Written requests, including requests sent in the form of electronic documents, must be registered.
The request shall be received as soon as possible, unless otherwise provided by law
a reply must be received no later than fifteen days from the date.
An oral request must be answered immediately, if possible.
If the requested authority or official does not have the requested information, the applicant shall be informed of it
not later than seven days from the date of receipt of the request, as well as, if possible, to him such information
the name of the authority or official who owns it.
(Article 6 as amended by the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. ZRU-396 of December 29 , 2015 - NGO of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2015, No. 52,
Article 645)
See previous edit.

Article 7 Provide access to information
Government agencies, citizens' self-government bodies, public associations, enterprises, institutions, organizations
and officials with legislation affecting everyone’s rights and legitimate interests, as well
is obliged to provide access to documents, decisions and other materials. Access to information
through the publication and distribution of legislation and related materials.
(Article 7 as amended by the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated December 15, 2000 - Bulletin of the Oliy Majlis, 2001, No. 1-2,
Article 23)

Article 8 Provide information and pay for it
Information concerning the rights and legitimate interests of the applicant shall be provided free of charge upon his request.
Other information may be charged by agreement of the parties.
Article 9 Information that cannot be provided
Government agencies, citizens' self-government bodies, public associations, enterprises, institutions, organizations
and officials may not disclose information that is a state secret or other secret protected by law.
Article 10 Non-disclosure of information source
The media disclosed the source of the information and the identity of the author who put the pseudonym without his consent
not entitled to. The source of the information or the identity of the author can only be disclosed by court order.
Article 11 Responsibility for the accuracy of the information
The media must verify the accuracy of the information being published, and they are information
together with the issuer are responsible for its accuracy in the manner prescribed by law.
Article 12 The right to appeal
Government agencies, citizens' self-government bodies, public associations, enterprises, institutions,
actions of organizations and officials discriminating against citizens' right to information or
inaction can be appealed in court.
Article 13 Liability for violation of the right to information
Persons guilty of violating the right to information shall be held liable in accordance with the legislation.
Article 14 International agreements in the field of guarantees and freedom of information
Unless otherwise provided by an international treaty of the Republic of Uzbekistan in this Law
if specified, the provisions of the international agreement shall apply.
President of the Republic of Uzbekistan I. KARIMOV
Tashkent,
April 24, 1997,
400-I-son
(Bulletin of the Oliy Majlis of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 1997, No. 4-5, Article 108; 2001, No. 1-2, Article 23; 2015, No. 52,
Article 645)

When you find an error in the document, highlight it and press Ctrl + Enter.
© Adolat National Legal Information Center under the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Uzbekistan is a state institution

