Page 1

Ru Own
Search

×

×

611-II 29.04.2004

Own | Ru

The document is currently being amended

LAW OF THE REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN

ELECTRONIC DOCUMENT ROTATION

ON ELECTRONIC DOCUMENT ROTATION

ABOUT

Article 1 The purpose of this Act

Article 1 Of this Act
purpose

The purpose of this Law is to regulate relations in the field of electronic document management.

Article 2 Electronic document management
legislation on
Article 3 Electronic document management
public policy in the field
Article 4 Electronic document management
Article 5 Electronic document
Article 6 Electronic document
requisites
Article 7 Electronic document
legal force
Article 8 The original of the electronic document
copy
Article 9 Electronic document
paper copy
Article 10 Electronic document
participants of the cycle
Article 11 Electronic document
sender
Article 12 Accept electronic document
receiver

Article 2 Legislation on electronic document management
The legislation on electronic document management consists of this Law and other legislation.
If the international agreement of the Republic of Uzbekistan is the electronic document circulation of the Republic of Uzbekistan
the rules of the international treaty, if other rules are established than provided by the legislation on
applied.
Article 3 State policy in the field of electronic document management
State policy in the field of electronic document management to ensure the widespread use of electronic document management, electronic
protection of the rights and legitimate interests of the participants of the document flow, standards for the use of electronic documents,
aimed at developing norms and rules.
Article 4 Electronic document management
Electronic document flow is the sum of the processes of sending and receiving electronic documents through the information system
consists of.
Electronic document management transactions (including contracts), settlements, formal and informal
can be used to make correspondence and transmit other information.
Article 5 Electronic document
Recorded in electronic form, confirmed by an electronic digital signature and its identification in an electronic document
The information is an electronic document with other details that allow.

Article 13 Information intermediary
Article 14 Electronic document
send
Article 15 Accept electronic document
get
Article 16 Electronic documents
save
Article 17 Electronic document
electronic documents in circulation
protection

LexUZ review
See: Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated December 11, 2003 No. 562-II "On electronic digital signature"
the sixth paragraph of Article .

The electronic document used technical means and services of information systems, as well as information technology
are created, processed and stored.
An electronic document, taking into account the ability of the participants of the electronic document flow to perceive this document
should be created.
Article 6 Details of the electronic document
Mandatory details of the electronic document are:
electronic digital signature;

Article 18 Dispute resolution
Article 19 Electronic document management
legislation on
liability for violation

LexUZ review
See: Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated December 11, 2003 No. 562-II "On electronic digital signature"
the second paragraph of Article .

the name of the legal entity sending the electronic document or the surname of the natural person sending the electronic document,
name, father's name;
postal and e-mail address of the sender of the electronic document;
the date the document was created.
Other details of the electronic document in the legislation or with the consent of the participants of the electronic document flow
can also be specified.
Article 7 The legal force of an electronic document
An electronic document is equated to a paper document and has the same legal force as it.
Article 8 The original of the electronic document
Any exact copy of the electronic document of the same type, unless it is certified as authentic in the prescribed manner, the original
copy.
Article 9 Paper copy of electronic document
It can be a paper copy of an electronic document.
A paper copy of the electronic document is approved and stored in the manner prescribed by law.
Article 10 Participants in the electronic document flow

The sender of the electronic document and the recipient of the electronic document are the participants of the electronic document circulation.
Media intermediaries can also participate in the electronic document flow.
Article 11 Electronic document sender
The name of the electronic document details and the electronic document to the recipient of the electronic document
the sending legal entity or individual is the sender of the electronic document.
Article 12 Recipient of an electronic document
The legal entity or individual to whom the electronic document was sent by the sender of the electronic document is that person
is the recipient of the electronic document.
Article 13 Information intermediary
Information of a legal entity or individual providing services related to electronic document management on a contractual basis
is a mediator.
An information intermediary, unless otherwise provided in the contract with the participants of the electronic document flow
does not have the right to change the content of electronic documents or the order of their use.
Article 14 Sending an electronic document
Electronic document, if it is sent directly by the sender of the electronic document or its media,
is considered shipped.
Unless otherwise provided by law or by agreement of the parties, an electronic document
the time of dispatch, which cannot be canceled by the sender, is considered to be the time of sending the electronic document.
Article 15 Receipt of electronic document
Unless otherwise provided by law or by agreement of the parties:
electronic document at the e-mail address through the information system specified by the recipient of the electronic document
the time of receipt is considered the time of receipt of the electronic document;
electronic document, if the information system that ensures the receipt of the electronic document is located elsewhere
however, the electronic document is considered to have been received at the place where the recipient is standing.
Article 16 Storage of electronic documents
Storage of electronic documents by participants of electronic document circulation in the manner prescribed by law
need
LexUZ review
For more information, see the Central Bank Administration and the State Archives Department under the Cabinet of Ministers
Item 15 of the list in the Instruction approved by the head of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Uzbekistan on June 3, 2000
was registered by the state on July 26, 2000 No. 951).

Ability to use electronic documents while storing them and provide paper copies of them
should be provided.
The period of storage of an electronic document is similar, unless otherwise provided by law
the intended paper should not be less than the time specified for the document.
Article 17 Protection of electronic documents in electronic document management
Protection of electronic documents in the electronic document flow to the participants of the electronic document flow or other
in order to prevent damage to legal entities and individuals, in the manner prescribed by law
is increased.
LexUZ review
For more information, see the State Tax Committee and the Communications and Information Agency of Uzbekistan.
Approved by the Resolution No. 17-8 / 1985 of July 2007-44, “Submission of Financial Statements and Tax Accounts in Electronic Form
Instructions for participants of electronic document management to ensure information security in the process of ".

Article 18 Dispute resolution
Disputes in the field of electronic document management are resolved in the manner prescribed by law.
Article 19 Liability for violation of the legislation on electronic document management
Persons guilty of violating the legislation on electronic document management are liable in the prescribed manner
will be.
President of the Republic of Uzbekistan I. KARIMOV
Tashkent,
April 29, 2004
No. 611-II

(Collection of Legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2004, No. 20, Article 230)

When you find an error in the document, highlight it and press Ctrl + Enter.
© Adolat National Legal Information Center under the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Uzbekistan is a state institution

