Page 1

Ru Own
Search

×

185 02.06.2016

Own | Ru

×

THE CABINET OF MINISTERS OF THE REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
RESOLUTION

Execute transactions in e-commerce

MORE IMPROVEMENT OF PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF TRANSACTIONS IN E-COMMERCE
ON MEASURES

further increase order
improvement measures
about
APPENDIX 1
Implementation of e-commerce
RULES
I. General Rules
II. Basic concepts
III. Electronic commerce entities
IV. Electronic trading platform
to establish

In accordance with the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan "On e-commerce" , the interaction between the subjects of e-commerce
regulation of relations and the order of transactions by e-commerce entities, in e-commerce
In order to determine the procedure for storage of applicable electronic documents and messages, the Cabinet of Ministers decides:
1. The following:
Rules of implementation of electronic commerce according to appendix 1 ;
The use of electronic digital signatures in the conclusion of contracts and electronic documents, as well as in e-commerce
Regulations on the procedure for storage of the existing information in the applied electronic messages to approve according to appendix 2 .
2. To specify:
the contract concluded using information systems is made in writing and signed by the parties, that is
including equal to the contract approved by the seals of the parties;

V. Procedure for concluding a contract
VI. Electronic document and electronic
message
VII. Payments in e-commerce
delivery and implementation

See previous edit.

personal property, rent, etc. to the seller and supplier of goods sold through e-commerce
city, city in the delivery across the territory of Uzbekistan by road transport, which belongs to the right of use
requires a license to carry out passenger and freight transportation in the suburbs, intercity and international vehicles
except as otherwise provided by law.

VIII. Terms of contract
the procedure for refusal to perform

(Third paragraph of paragraph 2 of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 583 dated July 26, 2018 decision of the
Edited by - National Database of Legislation, 27.07.2018, No. 09/18/583/1582)

IX. Exports in e-commerce
implementation features

3. The Ministry of Information Technologies and Communications of the Republic of Uzbekistan
a constantly updated section of local information resources of e-commerce in the information retrieval system
to be accepted for information.

X. Final Provisions
APPENDIX 1
Goods in the form of e-commerce
sales (performance of works, services
show) procedures
aimed at simplification
SEPARATE NORMS
APPENDIX 3
Goods in the form of e-commerce
sales (performance of works, services
show) SCHEME
APPENDIX 2
Electronic in concluding contracts
use of digital signatures and
electronic documents and electronic
commercially available electronics
available information in the messages
Regulations on the order of storage

See previous edit.

Ministry of Information Technologies and Communications of the Republic of Uzbekistan Economic Development and
local information on e-commerce in the National Information Search System in conjunction with the Ministry of Poverty Reduction
The formed department of resources should provide constant information and technical assistance.
(Paragraph 3 of the second paragraph of the Cabinet of Ministers No. 777 of December 14, 2020 decision of the
Edited by - National Database of Legislation, 14.12.2020, No. 09/20/777/1620)

4. Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers “On registration of legal entities and individuals and their trade activities
Resolution No. 407 of November 26, 2002 “On measures to regulate the implementation of the Constitution of the Republic of Uzbekistan” (Uzbekistan
QT of the Republic of Kazakhstan, 2002, No. 11, Article 71) from the second paragraph of paragraph 1 of the annex "also in relation to e-commerce"
words should be removed.
5. To the ministries and departments within one month to the regulatory legal acts accepted by them to this resolution
coordinate.
6. Control of execution of this resolution to assign to the First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Uzbekistan RS
Let Azimov be in charge.
The Prime Minister of the Republic of Uzbekistan Sh. MIRZIYOYEV

I. General Rules

Tashkent,
June 2, 2016,
185-son

II. Contracts in e-commerce
electronic digital in the creation
use of signatures
III. Perform e-commerce
electronic documents and
storage of other electronic information
layout
IV. Contracts to be concluded
electronic documents on,
messages and other electronic
electronic in the storage of information
business participants and information
the rights of intermediaries and
obligations
V. Closing Rules

Of the Cabinet of Ministers of June 2, 2016
Resolution No. 185
APPENDIX 1

Implementation of e-commerce
RULES
I. General Rules
1. These rules are approved by the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan "About electronic commerce ", "About electronic document management "
sale of goods in the form of e-commerce (performance of works, in accordance with the laws and other normative legal acts)
services).
2. Application of these Rules:
state of goods (works and services) carried out in accordance with the legislation on public procurement
procurement;
as well as information on exchanges licensed to conduct exchange activities
transactions in the information systems of intermediaries;
sale of real estate, as well as notarization or state registration in accordance with the legislation
does not apply to transactions to be made.
3. Wholesale and retail trade in the form of e-commerce
Resolution No. 407 of November approved the procedure for the implementation of the activities of wholesale and retail trade regulations and
Retail trade in the Republic of Uzbekistan, approved by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated February 13, 2003 No. 75
regulated by the rules .
In case of sale of the goods (performance of works and rendering of services) in the form of electronic commerce in appendix 1 to these rules
special norms aimed at simplifying the procedures for the sale of these goods (works, services)
applied.
4. Obtaining a separate document that allows the sale of goods (works, services) in the form of e-commerce
does not require.
In this case, in the sale of goods (works, services) in the form of e-commerce, if the document is outside the e-commerce
If the need for registration is specified in the legislation, the exception is the receipt of the relevant document of a permit nature
does not.
5. Goods (works, services) are objects of electronic commerce, registered according to appendix 2 to these rules *
except for goods (works, services) withdrawn from circulation or restricted in circulation.
* Annex 2 to the Rules is given in the Russian text.

6. Placement of the offer (offer) in the information system according to the scheme according to appendix 3 to these rules of electronic commerce
and by acceptance of the offer.
II. Basic concepts
7. In these rules the following basic concepts are applied:
acceptance - the response of the person to the offer on its acceptance;
information system - information that allows you to collect, store, search, process and use information
organizationally regulated sum of resources, information technologies and means of communication;
media - services related to the circulation of electronic documents and electronic messages in e-commerce
providing legal entity;
information resource - information in electronic form, data bank, database within the information system;
offer - an offer from one person, to several specific persons or to an indefinite range of persons
the will of the bidder (offeror) to enter into a contract with the respondent on the terms specified in the offer
an offer containing all available terms of the known contract;
The buyer - the final consumption, commercial use, for its own production and economic needs
an individual or business entity purchasing goods (works, services) using information systems
subjects (residents and non-residents of the Republic of Uzbekistan);
Seller - a business activity that sells goods (works, services) using information systems
subject;
e-commerce participant - a seller or buyer of goods (works, services) in e-commerce
a legal or natural person;
e-commerce - carried out in accordance with the contract concluded with the use of information systems
purchase and sale of goods (works, services);
electronic trading platform - a set of software and hardware for organizational, information and technical decisions, including
interaction of seller and buyer (customer) through the information system for the sale of goods (works, services)
online store that provides;
electronic message - information recorded in electronic form, which allows to identify the sender of the information;
electronic medium - a computer designed to process, store and exchange information in electronic form and
(or) other technical equipment, as well as telecommunications network;
electronic contract (hereinafter referred to as the contract) - for the purchase and sale of goods (works, services)
a contract between the seller and the buyer using information systems;
electronic document - a document registered in electronic form, certified by an electronic digital signature and an electronic document
information with other details that allow identification.
III. Electronic commerce entities
8. Electronic commerce participant (seller, buyer) and information intermediary (are subjects of electronic commerce).
9. E-commerce entities exercise and acquire the right in accordance with the terms of the contract,
fulfill their obligations.
10. The seller has the following rights:
placing an offer on information resources available for e-commerce purposes;
sale of goods (performance of works, rendering of services) by concluding contracts;
issuance to electronic media for storage of electronic documents and electronic messages.
11. Seller:
a) sale of goods (performance of works, rendering of services) in electronic commerce, including goods (works,
services) to provide the buyer with the necessary and reliable information about the competition and the rights of consumers
comply with the requirements of the legislation on protection;
b) ensure the storage of electronic documents and electronic messages in the prescribed manner;
c) other participants in e-commerce about themselves in electronic form in the state language, if necessary
must ensure the proper use of reliable information in other languages, the information must include the following information
need:
for a legal entity - its full name, indicating the organizational and legal form of the business entity;
for an individual carrying out business activities without forming a legal entity - last name, first name, patronymic;
information on state registration of the taxpayer of the business entity
identification number;
location (postal address), e-mail address, contact phone number;
the presence of a license or permit in cases provided by law
information on (number of the license or permit, validity period, license
or the name of the authority authorized to issue the permit).
12. Information on the offer from the seller or the offered goods (works, services)
restoration without violation and on the seller, as well as the goods (works, services) offered by him, their
prices and tariffs, as well as the conditions of their sale (works, services)
must be provided in electronic form.
13. Appropriate information systems for the exchange of electronic commercial entities, electronic documents and electronic messages
they can use the services of a mediator on a contractual basis, ensuring a clear organization of management.
14. Media intermediaries include:
provider of services for the circulation of electronic documents and electronic messages of e-commerce participants
telecommunications network operators and providers;
to ensure the use of payment systems by e-commerce participants and the transfer of payments
banks providing services;
legal entities organizing electronic fairs, auctions and competitions;
provider of services for storage of electronic documents and electronic messages of e-commerce participants
legal entities.
Media intermediaries may include other legal entities in accordance with the legislation.
15. Media intermediaries are not parties to contracts between the seller and the buyer.
16. The mediator has the following rights:
related to the circulation of electronic documents and electronic messages in e-commerce on a contractual basis within its competence
providing services;
setting the terms of services provided to e-commerce participants.
17. Media:
compliance with standards, norms and rules in the field of e-commerce;
its full name, organizational and legal form, services provided, conditions and prices (tariffs) for their provision
disclosure of information about e-commerce participants;
not to change the content of electronic documents and electronic messages, the order of their use, e-commerce
except as provided in the contracts concluded with the participants;
Measures to protect electronic documents, electronic messages and personal data from unauthorized use
provide activities;
not to send electronic documents and electronic messages to third parties (as provided by law or contract
except in cases of detention).
The mediator shall have and assume other rights in accordance with the legislation and the contract
may take on other obligations.
organization of an electronic archive of data used in the implementation of e-commerce, which are marked
ensure that it is kept in order;
ensure the integrity and confidentiality of information available in information systems.
18. To control electronic documents and electronic messages sent, received, stored by the media
or to monitor or verify their reliability, as well as their compliance with the legislation
does not have to check, unless otherwise provided by law or contract.
19. Electronic documents and electronic messages sent through the intermediary of e-commerce entities
the media is not responsible for the legal consequences related to the content.
20. The Buyer is granted all the rights provided by these Rules, the contract and the legislation and
obligations are imposed on him.
IV. Establishment of an electronic trading platform
21. E-commerce, which ensures the interaction of sellers and intermediaries e-commerce entities
has the right to sell goods (works, services) in the form of e-commerce through the platform.
22. Electronic trading platforms Internet resources in the global information network, in the National Information Search System
can be displayed software products and mobile applications.
23. The e-commerce platform has the necessary functions for the implementation of e-commerce, including:
placement of offers, acceptance and conclusion of contracts in the manner prescribed by these Rules;
use of information provided to e-commerce entities in accordance with these Rules;
ensuring the secure exchange of electronic documents and electronic messages in accordance with the requirements of these Rules;
Electronic documents and electronic messages on servers located in the territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan in the prescribed manner
storage capacity.
V. Procedure for concluding a contract
24. The contract consists of an offer and acceptance. The contract, unless otherwise provided by the contract,
the offer is recognized as made by the sending party from the moment of acceptance by the other party.
25. The offer represents an electronic document, through which the participant of e-commerce to one person, several specific
invites individuals and an indefinite range of persons to enter into a contract and their contractual terms are available,
including the use of the text containing the terms of the binding contract in accordance with these Rules.
26. All conditions or such that must be included in the contract in the offer issued by the e-commerce participant
the conditions must be references to existing electronic documents or electronic messages.
27. The offer is valid for the period specified in it. If the offer received by the e-commerce participant
the offer itself does not contain any exceptions or does not arise from the nature of the offer or the situation in which the offer was made;
may not be recalled within the period specified for its acceptance.
28. Withdrawal of the offer is an electronic document or electronic, which must indicate the reasons for its withdrawal to the recipient
by sending a notice of recall in the form of a notice.
29. Agreement:
in the form of an electronic document providing for its confirmation with an electronic digital signature;
in the form of an electronic message in the text of which the consent of the e-commerce participant is expressed;
by making an acceptance by taking action to comply with the conditions specified in the offer
can be created.
30. Acceptance includes an electronic document or electronic message, as well as compliance with the existing conditions of the offer
represents the actions, through which the person fully and unconditionally agrees to enter into a contract on the terms offered in the offer
represents.
31. In acceptance, all the terms of the contract proposed by the offeror shall not be changed. Oferentga
in the event that a response is sent with the amended terms of the contract, such response shall not be considered acceptance and a new offer
is calculated.
32. Offer or acceptance by the information system, unless otherwise provided by the agreement of the parties
as automatically received by the recipient from the time of sending the notification of its receipt
is calculated.
33. Notification of receipt of the offer is a contract without acceptance in the manner prescribed by these Rules
is not a basis for execution.
34. The offer and acceptance by the sender without changing their content, as they are sent, the recipient
and by - the contract is terminated, unless otherwise provided by the agreement of the parties
until they are kept as they were when they were taken.
35. General requirements and some issues related to the preparation, execution, implementation of the offer and acceptance
regulated by law.
36. The contract concluded using information systems is made in writing and by the parties
signed, including a contract certified by the seals of the parties.
37. The contract must contain the following mandatory conditions:
subject of the contract;
basic rights and obligations of the parties;
price and description of goods (works, services) and the procedure for settlements between the parties;
warranty period, if it is set for a specific brand;
place and conditions of delivery (if delivery services are available);
liability of the parties;
procedure and terms of fulfillment of obligations;
the possibility and procedure for making changes and additions to the contract;
terms of denial of the transaction;
terms and procedure for return of goods and funds;
information on the language of the contract;
the terms and conditions of the contract and the relevant link by means of a link to an electronic document and an electronic message
mode of use (if any);
terms of termination of the contract;
dispute resolution procedure;
location (postal address), e-mail address and bank details of the parties;
other conditions agreed by the parties.
38. The contract is a reference to an electronic document posted on an information resource available to all
may include special conditions that are entered through. In this case, the e-commerce that placed the electronic document
the participant has the opportunity to use it for a period specified in the legislation or the contract
and after the expiration of this period, the electronic document is stored in the manner prescribed by law
must provide.
39. Amendments to the contract are an electronic document and (or) electronic, which is an integral part of the contract
will be formalized as a message.
VI. Electronic document and electronic message
40. An electronic document and an electronic message are equated to a handwritten document on paper.
41. For the content of an electronic document and an electronic message, unless otherwise provided in the contract or legislation
if not, the e-commerce participant is responsible.
42. The seller or intermediary sends electronic documents, electronic messages in the manner prescribed by law and
must be kept for a period of time.
43. Electronic document and electronic message:
directly by the e-commerce participant;
persons authorized to act on behalf of the e-commerce participant, including the media
by;
by the information system of the e-commerce participant or on its behalf - by the system operating in automatic mode
can be sent.
44. Require the recipient of the electronic document and electronic message to confirm the status of their belonging to the sender
has the right.
VII. Delivery and payment in e-commerce
45. Execution of works and rendering of services is carried out in the place and terms specified in the contract.
46. ​If the contract is concluded on the condition of delivery of the goods, the seller of the goods is specified in the contract
must be delivered to the place specified by the buyer within the specified time.
47. For delivery of goods to the place specified by the buyer, the seller:
In the territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan in its road transport city, suburban, intercity and international
Independent delivery of passengers and cargo by road without a license for transportation;
See previous edit.

from the services of a delivery service, which has the right to provide services for the delivery of goods
use;
(Third paragraph of paragraph 47 of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 825 of October 13, 2018, the decision
Edited by - National Database of Legislation, 16.10.2018, No. 09/18/825/2052)

may use other methods of delivery not prohibited by law.
See previous edit.
See previous edit.

48. Payments in e-commerce are made in the following ways:
in cash - from the cash register, and in cases provided by law - from the online cash register
a cash register or the receipt of cash through the use of machines or a virtual cash register
compulsory submission of a virtual cashier's check or other supporting document, as well as collection in the prescribed manner
ensure that the money received is transferred to the servicing bank in accordance with the rules;
(Paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 48 of the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated November 23, 2019 943As amended by Resolution No. - National Database of Legislation, dated 23.11.2019, No. 09/19/943/4066)

by electronic payment means - through an account terminal or virtual terminal (E-POS) to receive payments
electronic payment check to the seller and the buyer in the retail payment system using personal and corporate bank cards or
with the submission of another document confirming the payment;
by transferring funds from bank accounts - from bank accounts (ie
including from card accounts) personal cabinet (service system from remote bank accounts) or retail
through the payment system.
(Paragraph 48 as amended by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated October 13, 2018 No 825 - Law
National database of documents, dated 16.10.2018, No. 09/18/825/2052)
See previous edit.

48.1 Cashier's check to the buyer when making payments using electronic means of payment
in electronic form (hereinafter - the electronic check) to the subscriber's number or e-mail address specified by the buyer
necessary to provide. The electronic check is equal to the edge in the form of paper issued by the cash register machine.
48.2 The right to receive payment for goods on behalf of the seller of delivery services is based on the contract
issued by the buyer upon presentation of a cashier's check or other document confirming the purchase of the goods.
48.3 In case of delivery of goods through the national postal operator, payment for the goods is a postal money order
can be done through surcharge. In this payment method, the goods are shipped via surcharge mail
should be done.
The premium is paid in full by the buyer of the goods delivered by post and the surcharge is applied
will be paid and issued upon receipt of the receipt. Sending surcharges to the seller's address national postal service
specified in the Rules for the provision of postal services for the transfer of funds by mail by the operator
is done in order.
3
(48 1- 48 represents
the Cabinet of Ministers No. 825 of October 13, 2018, in accordance with Resolution
entered - National Database of Legislation, 16.10.2018, No. 09/18/825/2052)

VIII. Procedure for refusal to fulfill the terms of the contract
49. Purchase of goods (works, services) in cases provided by the legislation, performance of goods, works and
to execute the contract with him, notifying the seller of the reasons for refusal to provide services
has the right to refuse.
50. The buyer may not refuse to fulfill the terms of the contract in the cases provided for in the contract.
51. Return of goods in e-commerce "On Consumer Protection ", " Business
Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan " On the legal framework for the activities of entities ", the Civil Code and
in accordance with other normative legal acts, as well as the concluded contract.
52. Payment for the purchase of goods (works, services) by the seller in cases where it is necessary to return the money
a presentation confirming the payment for the goods (works, services) in the same way as it was done
must be returned to the buyer on the basis of a document issued and equated to the edge.
53. Refunds are made in the manner and terms specified in the contract.
54. Documents related to the return of goods and funds in the form of an electronic document or electronic message
can be formalized.
55. Reimbursement of transportation costs associated with the return of goods shall be made in accordance with the terms specified in the contract
is increased.
IX. Features of export in e-commerce
56. Export of goods (works, services) in the form of electronic commerce to all requirements of the customs legislation
mandatory compliance.
57. Contract in the form of an electronic document using electronic digital signatures of the seller of e-commerce - export
may enter into a contract.
58. Information on the export contract to the single electronic information system of foreign trade operations
Approved by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated September 30, 2003 No. 416
in strict accordance with the requirements of the Regulations on the Procedure for Monitoring Trade Operations
is increased.
X. Final Provisions
59. Disputes related to the implementation of e-commerce are resolved in the manner prescribed by law.
60. Failure of e-commerce entities to comply with the provisions of these Rules, as well as their obligations under the law
for non-compliance with the contract in the manner prescribed by the documents.
61. To identify objects of taxation and objects related to taxation, as well as tax
the tax law on the preparation of accounting documents, which is the basis for the calculation of liabilities
carried out in accordance with the documents.
Rules for conducting e-commerce
APPENDIX 1

To simplify the procedures for the sale of goods (works, services) in the form of e-commerce
focused
SEPARATE NORMS
1. Goods (works, services) as an appendix to the contract to individuals, as well as with retail trade
Buyer (customer) for wholesale and retail sales in the form of e-commerce to legal entities engaged in
the presence of a permanent sales office of the state tax service body at the location and a cash register
Certificate of registration is not required.
2. In the order established by the legislation, outside the permanent sales outlets and cash registers
retail and wholesale sales by legal entities (№ 306), as well as by individual entrepreneurs
retail sale of goods in the form of e-commerce is allowed.
3. Special inventory (forks, knives, dividers for the sale of bread and bakery products in the form of e-commerce)
brushes, etc.) are not required to clean boards, racks, and shelves from bread crumbs.
4. Scales and other measuring instruments outside the workplace in the sale of goods in the form of e-commerce
allowed to use.
5. In the sale of potatoes and fruits and vegetables in the form of e-commerce, they are placed on wooden shelves, shelves and
shelves and counters, including refrigerators, trays, cassettes, baskets, boxes, etc.
no need to put in equipped inventory.
Rules for conducting e-commerce
APPENDIX 3

Sale of goods in the form of e-commerce (works, services)
SCHEME

Of the Cabinet of Ministers of June 2, 2016
Resolution No. 185
APPENDIX 2

The use of electronic digital signatures in the conclusion of contracts and electronic documents, as well as in e-commerce
on the procedure for storing existing information in applicable e-mails
NIZOM
I. General Rules

1. This Provision "About electronic commerce ", "About electronic digital signature " and " Electronic document management"
The use of electronic digital signatures in the conclusion of contracts in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Uzbekistan " On " and
determines the order of storage of electronic documents and available information in electronic messages used in electronic commerce.
2. The following basic concepts are applied in this Provision:
acceptance - the response of the person to the offer on its acceptance;
private digital signature private key (EDS private key) - known only to the signatory and electronic
using electronic digital signature tools designed to create electronic digital signatures in a document
the sequence of symbols obtained;
information system - information that allows you to collect, store, search, process and use information
organizationally regulated sum of resources, information technologies and means of communication;
media - services related to the circulation of electronic documents and electronic messages in e-commerce
providing legal entity;
public key of electronic digital signatures (EDS public key) - corresponding to the private key of electronic digital signature
confirmation of the authenticity of electronic digital signatures in the electronic document, which can be accessed by any user of the information system
the sequence of symbols obtained using the means of electronic digital signatures intended for;
offer - an offer from one person, to several specific persons or to an indefinite range of persons
the will of the declarant (the offeror to enter into a contract with the respondent on the terms specified in the offer)
an offer that contains all the terms of a known contract;
electronic digital signature key certificate (EDS key certificate) - Electronic digital signature of EDS public key
compliance of the EDS private key issued to the owner of the EDS private key by the registration center of the signature keys
electronic document confirming;
a unique identifier that ensures the identity of an object and distinguishes it from other objects
character;
e-commerce participant - a seller or buyer of goods (works, services) in e-commerce
a legal or natural person;
e-commerce - carried out in accordance with the contract concluded with the use of information systems
purchase and sale of goods (works, services);
electronic digital signature (EDS) - specializes the information in a particular electronic document using the EDS private key
to determine whether there is a violation of the information in the electronic document obtained as a result of the modification and using the ERI closed key and ERI
signature on an electronic document that allows to identify the owner of the private key;
electronic message - an electronic document that is not considered, sent, received and stored by electronic means
information in electronic form;
electronic document - a document registered in electronic form, certified by an electronic digital signature and an electronic document
information with other details that allow identification.
II. Use of electronic digital signatures when concluding contracts in e-commerce
3. EDS when concluding contracts in e-commerce:
ensuring the circulation of legally significant electronic documents and identifying changes and e-commerce
termination of legal relations within the framework of concluding a contract (hereinafter referred to as contracts);
ensuring the necessary requirements of information security, including the integrity of information after signing and
to confirm that it does not change;
should be used to ensure the identification of the owner of the EDS who signed the electronic document.
4. EDS issued by one or more registration centers of EDS keys at the conclusion of the contract
switches can be applied.
5. The process of checking the integrity of electronic documents to ensure the validity of the EDI key certificate and the electronic document
This is done by checking the validity of the ERI.
6. EDS issued by the seller or media representative to verify the validity of the EDS key certificate
is carried out independently by e-commerce participants using the tools.
7. Verify the validity of the EDI key certificate Check the list of revoked certificates or request
formation and sending the EDS keys to the registration center, which issued the EDI key certificate
is increased.
8. Validation of EDS in electronic documents with the information system or registration of EDS keys
by contacting the center.
9. E-commerce participants enter into a contract before confirming the successful completion of the transaction
check the integrity of electronic documents used in the conclusion of the contract.
10. Checking the validity of the EDS key certificate in the formation of EDS at the EDS key registration center:

The validity period of the EDS key and the status of the EDS key certificate of the private key holder who signed the electronic document;
the period of validity of the public key certificate of the owner of the private key, signed by the electronic document;
EDS key certificate status (valid, revoked at the time of suspension EDS formation);
The EDS key registration center that issued the EDS validity and the certificate being inspected is authorized
the EDI key of the individual must include a verification of the certificate status.
11. The positive result of the process of checking the integrity of the electronic document is the information in the electronic document (contracting)
used) confirms that there is no violation.
12. The procedure for the creation and verification of EDS is to verify the validity and validity of the contractual obligations,
as well as a guarantee of their protection from all changes or cancellations.
III. Procedure for storage of electronic documents and other electronic information in the implementation of e-commerce
13. In electronic databases:
creation of electronic documents, their movement and their destruction;
announcement (acceptance) of offers and cases of their acceptance;
sending and receiving e-mails;
storage of all electronic documents, electronic messages and transactions related to the conclusion of contracts in e-commerce
need
14. All information:
identification of the parties to the contract and determination of all the terms of the contract;
transactions, the exact date and time of execution of contracts, as well as the terms of the contract and offer
should be stored in such a way that the change can be detected.
15. Within the information systems of the seller or intermediary, each electronic contract and one of its offers
a unique identifier must be provided that ensures uniformity and distinguishes it from other objects.
16. The retention period of electronic documents and messages is for a paper source document of similar change
not less than the specified period.
17. All stored information on concluded contracts is clear in relation to the contract and the terms of the offer
should allow
18. Procedure for creation, accounting, storage and use of electronic documents and electronic messages and their archives
determined by the organization that stores electronic documents in accordance with the legislation.
19. Electronic documents, electronic messages and other related to e-commerce contracts
data storage must be carried out on the territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan.
IV. Electronic storage of electronic documents, messages and other electronic information on contracts
rights and obligations of commercial participants and media
20. Participants of electronic commerce and information intermediaries, unless otherwise provided by law;
electronic documents and electronic messages generated during the implementation of e-commerce in accordance with this Regulation
they must follow the storage procedure.
21. Refer to an electronic document posted on an information resource that is used by all in a contract
the e-commerce participant who posted the electronic document, if there are special conditions included in it through the law
free access to it for a period specified in the documents or the contract, and after the expiration of such period
- ensure storage of this electronic document in accordance with this Regulation.
22. During the implementation of e-commerce with the seller media to the media
the right to enter into a bilateral agreement, which gives the right to store electronic documents and electronic messages
has
23. Seller and (or) media:
storage of electronic documents and messages in e-commerce;
participants in the contract and authorized within the period specified in the legislation or the terms of the contract
access of individuals to electronic documents and electronic messages;
e-commerce contracts of both customers and other individuals in accordance with the requirements of the legislation
the storage of personal information known to them during the creation;
protect their information systems, databases, electronic documents, message storage media and environment
must provide.
24. Participants of e-commerce, as well as information intermediaries:
change the content of stored data;
does not have the right to transfer information to third parties, as provided by law or contract
except in cases of detention.
V. Closing Rules
25. Application of EDS in the conclusion of contracts, electronic documents and electronic messages used in e-commerce
Disputes related to the storage of existing information are resolved in the manner prescribed by law.
26. The law for non-compliance with the requirements of this Regulation by participants in electronic commerce and the media
in the manner prescribed by the documents.
(Collection of Legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2016, No. 23, Article 266; National Database of Legislation, 27.07.2018y., 09/18/583/1582-son, 16.10.2018-y., 09/18/825/2052-son; 23.11.2019, 09/19/943/4066; 14.12.2020, 09/20/777/1620,
28.12.2020, 09/20/810/1673)

When you find an error in the document, highlight it and press Ctrl + Enter.
© Adolat National Legal Information Center under the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Uzbekistan is a state institution

