Page 1

RESOLUTION
CABINET OF MINISTERS OF THE REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
ON MEASURES FOR FURTHER IMPROVEMENT OF THE ORDER
IMPLEMENTATION OF TRANSACTIONS IN ELECTRONIC COMMERCE
In accordance with the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan "On Electronic Commerce", in order to
regulating the relationship between e-commerce subjects and
regulating the procedure for making transactions by them, storing electronic documents and
messages used in e-commerce, the Cabinet of Ministers decides:
1. To approve:
Rules for the implementation of electronic commerce in accordance with Appendix No. 1 ;
Regulations on the procedure for the application of an electronic digital signature upon conclusion
contracts and storage of electronic documents and information contained in
electronic communications used in e-commerce, according to the application
No. 2 .
2. Establish that:
a contract drawn up using information systems is equivalent to
an agreement drawn up in writing and signed by the parties, including
certified by the seals of the parties;
See previous edition.

when delivering goods sold via electronic
commerce, seller and delivery person in road transport owned by them
on the right of ownership, lease or other right of use, on the territory of the Republic
Uzbekistan is not required to obtain a license for the implementation of urban, suburban,
intercity and international transportation of goods by road, for
except in cases established by law.
(paragraph three of clause 2 as amended by the resolutionCabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan
dated July 26, 2018 No. 583 - National database of legislation, July 27, 2018, No.
09/18/583/1582)

3. Take into account that the Ministry for the Development of Information Technologies and
communications of the Republic of Uzbekistan formed a constantly updated section
domestic information resources of electronic commerce in the National
information retrieval system.
The Ministry for the Development of Information Technologies and Communications, together with
The Ministry

the economy

Republics

Uzbekistan

realize

permanent

information and technical support of the formed section of domestic

Page 2

information

resources

e

commerce

in

The National

information retrieval system.
LexUz comment
The second paragraph of clause 3 was amended by the decreeCabinet of Ministers of the Republic
Uzbekistan dated December 14, 2020 No. 777. See. text in Uzbek .

4. From the second paragraph of clause 1 of the annex to the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of 26
November 2002 No. 407 "On measures to streamline the registration and implementation of trade
activities by legal entities and individuals "(JV of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2002,
No. 11, art. 71) the words “as well as for relations in the field of electronic commerce” shall be excluded.
5. Ministries and departments within a month to bring the adopted by them
regulatory legal acts in accordance with this regulation.
6. Control over the implementation of this resolution shall be entrusted to the first deputy
Prime Minister of the Republic of Uzbekistan R.S. Azimov.
Prime Minister of the Republic of Uzbekistan Sh. Mirziyoyev
g.
Tash
Kent,
2
june
I
2016
g.,
No.
185
APPENDIX
ENE No. 1
to
decided
eniyu
Cabinet
Ministro
from 2
June 2016
year no.
185

REGULATIONS
e-commerce

Page 3

I. General Provisions
1. These Rules in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Uzbekistan " On
e

commerce",

"About electronic

document flow "

and others

regulatory legal acts regulate the implementation of the sale of goods
(works, services) in the form of e-commerce.
2. These Rules do not apply to:
government procurement of goods (works and services) carried out in accordance with
legislation on public procurement;
transactions made on exchanges licensed to carry out exchange
activities, as well as in information systems of information intermediaries;
the sale of real estate, as well as for a transaction that is subject to a notary
certificate or state registration in accordance with the legislation.
3. Wholesale and retail trade carried out in the form of electronic commerce,
regulated by the Regulations on the procedure for the implementation of wholesale and retail trade
activities approved by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of November 26, 2002 No.
No. 407 and the Rules of retail trade in the Republic of Uzbekistan, approved by
Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of February 13, 2003 No. 75.
When selling goods (works, services) in the form of e-commerce,
separate norms aimed at simplifying the procedures for the sale of goods (works,
services) specified in Appendix No. 1 of these Rules.
4. The sale of goods (works, services) in the form of e-commerce does not require
obtaining a separate permitting document.
At the same time, the sale of goods (works, services) in the form of e-commerce does not exclude
obtaining an appropriate permitting document, if necessary
its registration outside e-commerce is established by law.
5. Objects of e-commerce are goods (works, services), with the exception of
withdrawn from circulation or restricted in circulation in accordance with the list, according to
Appendix No. 2 to these Rules.
6. Electronic commerce is carried out by placing an offer (proposal) in
information system and obtaining an acceptance for an offer in accordance with the scheme
according to Appendix No. 3 to these Rules.
II. Basic concepts
7. In these Rules, the following basic concepts are applied:
acceptance - a response of the person to whom the offer is addressed, about its acceptance;

Page 4

informational

system

-

organizationally

orderly

aggregate

information resources, information technology and communications, allowing
collect, store, search, process and use information;
information intermediary - a legal entity that provides services related to
the circulation of electronic documents and electronic messages in electronic commerce;
information resource - information, data bank, database in electronic
form as part of the information system;
offer - an offer addressed to one person, several specific persons or
to an indefinite circle of persons, containing all the essential terms of the contract, from which
the will of the person making the offer (the offeror) is seen to conclude an agreement on
the conditions specified in the offer with anyone who responds;
buyer - an individual or business entities
(residents and non-residents of the Republic of Uzbekistan) purchasing goods (works,
services) using information systems for final consumption,
use for commercial purposes, own production and economic needs;
seller - a business entity that implements
goods (works, services) using information systems;
e-commerce participant - a legal or natural person who is
seller or buyer of goods (works, services) in e-commerce;
e-commerce - the purchase and sale of goods (works, services) carried out in
compliance with an agreement concluded using information systems;
electronic

trading

playground

-

hardware-software

complex

organizational, informational and technical solutions, including
an online store that provides interaction between the seller and the buyer (customer)
through the information system for the sale of goods (works, services);
electronic message - information recorded in electronic form,
allowing to identify its sender;
electronic device - a computer and (or) other technical equipment, and
telecommunication networks designed for processing, storage and exchange
information in electronic form;
electronic contract (hereinafter referred to as the contract) - an agreement concluded between the seller and
by the buyer using information systems for the sale and purchase
goods (works, services);
electronic document - information recorded in electronic form,
confirmed by an electronic digital signature and having other details
electronic document, allowing it to be identified.

Page 5

III. E-commerce entities
8. Subjects of e-commerce are an e-commerce participant
(seller, buyer) and information intermediary.
9. Subjects of electronic commerce realize and acquire rights, execute
obligations in accordance with the requirements of the concluded contract.
10. The seller has the right:
place an offer in information resources functioning for the purpose of electronic
commerce;
sell goods (works, services) by concluding contracts;
transfer electronic documents for storage to information intermediaries and
electronic messages.
11. The seller is obliged:
a) comply with the requirements of competition law and consumer protection
when selling goods (works, services) in e-commerce, including software
providing the buyer with the necessary and reliable information about the goods (works,
services);
b) ensure the storage of electronic documents in accordance with the established procedure and
electronic messages;
c) provide other e-commerce participants with appropriate access to
reliable information about yourself in electronic form in the state language, and if
necessity and in other languages, which should include the following information:
full name of the subject of entrepreneurial activity with an indication of its
organizational and legal form - for a legal entity; surname, name, patronymic for an individual carrying out entrepreneurial activity without
formation of a legal entity;
information about state registration, taxpayer identification number
a business entity;
location (postal address), e-mail address, contact number
phone;
in cases stipulated by law - information on the availability of a license or
permissive document (number of the license or permissive document
nature, duration, name of the body authorized to issue the license or
permissive document).
12. An offer from the seller or information about the offered goods (works,
services) must be submitted in electronic form that allows reproducing
information without distortion and form a reliable idea of ​the seller, as well as

Page 6

the goods (works, services) offered to them, prices and tariffs for them, as well as their conditions
sales (performance of work, provision of services).
13. For the exchange of electronic documents and electronic messages, subjects
e-commerce can use the services on a contractual basis
information

mediator,

providing

clear

organization

management

appropriate information systems.
14. Information intermediaries include:
operators and providers of telecommunications networks providing turnover services
electronic documents and electronic messages of e-commerce participants;
banks providing services to ensure access to payment systems and
making payments by e-commerce participants;
legal entities organizing electronic fairs, auctions and
contests;
legal entities providing services for the storage of electronic documents and
electronic messages of e-commerce participants.
Other legal entities in
compliance with the law.
15. Information intermediaries are not a party to contracts concluded between
the seller and the buyer.
16. An information intermediary has the right:
provide, on a contractual basis, services related to the circulation of electronic documents and
electronic messages in e-commerce, within the limits of their competence;
determine the conditions for the provision of services to e-commerce subjects.
17. An information intermediary is obliged to:
comply with e-commerce standards, rules and regulations;
disclose to e-commerce subjects information about their full
name, organizational and legal form, services provided, their conditions
provision and cost (tariffs);
do not change the content of electronic documents and electronic messages, their order
use, except as provided by prisoners with subjects
e-commerce contracts;
provide electronic documents with measures of protection against unauthorized access,
electronic messages and personal data;
not to transfer electronic documents and electronic messages to third parties, for
except for cases provided by law or contract;

Page 7

organize an electronic archive of data used in the implementation of electronic
commerce, ensuring their storage in the prescribed manner;
ensure the integrity and confidentiality of the information contained in
information systems.
An information intermediary may have other rights and bear other obligations in
in accordance with the law and the contract.
18. The information intermediary is not obliged to monitor or verify the accuracy
transmitted, received, stored electronic documents and electronic
messages, as well as their compliance with legislation, unless otherwise provided
legislation or contract.
19. The information intermediary is not responsible for legal consequences,
related to the content of electronic documents and electronic
messages from e-commerce subjects.
20. The buyer is vested with all the rights and obligations stipulated by
these Rules, the concluded agreement and legislation.
IV. Organization of an electronic trading platform
21. The seller and the information intermediary have the right to carry out the implementation
goods (works, services) in the form of e-commerce through e-commerce
a platform that ensures the interaction of e-commerce subjects.
22. Electronic marketplaces can be resources worldwide.
information network Internet, software products and mobile
applications that are indicated in the National Information Retrieval
system.
23. The electronic trading platform should include the necessary functions for
implementation of e-commerce, including the ability to:
placing an offer, making an acceptance and concluding an agreement in the manner
provided for by these Rules;
providing

subjects

e

commerce

access

to

information,

provided in accordance with these Rules;
ensuring the secure exchange of electronic documents and electronic
messages in accordance with the requirements of these Rules;
storage in the prescribed manner of electronic documents and electronic messages on
servers located on the territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan.
V. Procedure for concluding a contract

Page 8

24. The contract consists of an offer and an acceptance. The contract is recognized as concluded from the moment
receipt by the party that sent the offer, the acceptance sent by the other party, if
the contract does not provide otherwise.
25. The offer is an electronic document by means of which the participant
e-commerce offers one person, several specific persons and
to an indefinite circle of persons to conclude an agreement and provide them with access to the text,
containing contractual terms, including those that are binding according to these
The rules.
26. An offer emanating from an e-commerce participant must contain all
terms to be included in the contract, or links to electronic documents or
emails containing such terms.
27. The offer is valid for the period specified in it. Offer received
the e-commerce participant cannot be revoked within the period,
established for its acceptance, unless otherwise specified in the offer itself or follows
from the essence of the proposal or the setting in which it was made.
28. The revocation of the offer is made by sending it to the recipient of a notice of
revocation in the form of an electronic document or electronic message, which must
the reasons for the withdrawal should be indicated
29. An agreement may be concluded by way of acceptance of:
in the form of an electronic document providing for its confirmation by electronic
digital signature;
in the form of an electronic message, the text of which contains the consent of the participant of the electronic
commerce;
by taking actions to fulfill the conditions contained in the offer.
30. An acceptance is an electronic document or electronic message, and
also actions to fulfill the conditions contained in the offer, by means of which
the person expresses full and unconditional consent to the conclusion of the contract on the terms,
offered in the offer.
31. The acceptance must contain all the terms of the contract proposed by the offeror, without them
changes. In the case of sending a response to the provider with amended terms of the contract,
such a response is not an acceptance and is considered a new offer.
32. An offer or acceptance is deemed to have been received from the moment it is sent by the recipient.
notification of their receipt, automatically detected by the information system,
unless otherwise provided by agreement of the parties.
33. Notification of receipt of the offer is not the basis for the execution of the contract
without receiving an acceptance in the manner prescribed by these Rules.

Page 9

34. The offer and acceptance must be kept by the sender without changing their content, as
they were transferred and by the recipient how they were received prior to termination
validity of the contract, unless otherwise provided by agreement of the parties.
35. General requirements and specific issues related to the preparation, execution,
the implementation of the offer and acceptance are regulated by law.
36. A contract drawn up using information systems is equivalent to
an agreement drawn up in writing and signed by the parties, including
certified by the seals of the parties.
37. The contract must contain the following mandatory conditions:
subject of the contract;
basic rights and obligations of the parties;
the price and characteristics of goods (works, services) and the procedure for making settlements between
by the parties;
warranty period, if it is set for a specific product;
place and terms of delivery (if there is a delivery service);
responsibility of the parties;
the procedure and terms for the fulfillment of obligations;
the possibility and procedure for making changes and additions to the contract;
conditions for canceling the transaction;
conditions and procedure for the return of goods and funds;
information about the language in which the agreement is drawn up;
conditions included in the contract by reference to an electronic document and
e-mail, and how to access the corresponding link (if any);
terms of termination of the contract;
settlement of disputes;
location (postal address), email address and bank details of the parties;
other conditions agreed by the parties.
38. The contract may contain separate conditions, included in it by referring to
an electronic document posted in a publicly available information resource. IN
in this case, the e-commerce participant who posted the electronic document,
is obliged to ensure the possibility of free access to it during the period,
established by law or contract, and after this period ensure the storage of this electronic document in the manner prescribed
legislation.
39. Amendments to the agreement are drawn up as an electronic document and (or)
e-mail, which are an integral part of the contract.

Page 10

Vi. Electronic document and email
40. An electronic document and an electronic message are equated to documents in
paper form, signed with your own hand.
41. Responsibility for the content of an electronic document and an electronic message
is borne by the e-commerce participant, if the contract or legislation does not
otherwise provided.
42. The seller or information intermediary is obliged to store electronic documents,
electronic messages in the manner and terms established by law.
43. An electronic document and an electronic message can be sent:
directly by an e-commerce participant;
a person empowered to act on behalf of an electronic participant
commerce, including information intermediary;
information system of an e-commerce participant or on his behalf system operating in automatic mode.
44. The recipient of an electronic document and an electronic message has the right
require confirmation of the fact that they belong to the sender.
Vii. Delivery and execution of payments in e-commerce
45. The performance of work and the provision of services are carried out at the place and within the time specified in
contract.
46. ​If the contract is concluded with the condition of the delivery of the goods, the seller is obliged to
the terms established by the contract to deliver the goods to the place indicated by the buyer.
47. To deliver the goods to the place indicated by the buyer, the seller may:
independently carry out delivery by own road transport to
the territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan without obtaining a license for the implementation of urban,
suburban, intercity and international transportation of passengers and goods
by road, with the exception of cases established by law;
See previous edition.

use the services of delivery services entitled to provide delivery services
goods;
(paragraph three of clause 47 as amended by the resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic
Uzbekistan dated October 13, 2018 No. 825 - National database of legislation,
16.10.2018, No. 09/18/825/2052)

use other delivery methods not prohibited by law.
See previous edition.

48. In e-commerce, payments are made in the following ways:

Page 11

cash - through the use of a cash register with a mandatory
the provision of a cashier's check or other supporting document of admission
cash, as well as ensuring the delivery of the received money to the servicing bank, with
observance of the rules of collection in the prescribed manner;
by means of electronic payment - through the use of a payment terminal or
virtual terminal (E-POS) for accepting payments using personal and
corporate bank cards with the obligatory provision of a retail payment
system to the seller and the buyer of an electronic check or other confirming
a document confirming the payment;
by transferring funds from a bank account - by transferring funds from
bank account (including account cards) through a personal account (systems
remote servicing by bank accounts) or through the system of retail
payments.
(Clause 48 as amended by the ResolutionCabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated October 13
2018 No. 825 - National Database of Legislation, 16.10.2018, No. 09/18/825/2052)
LexUz comment
Paragraph 48 was amended by the ResolutionCabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan from
November 23, 2019 No. 943. See. text in Uzbek .
See previous edition.

48 1 . When making settlements using electronic payment means
it is necessary to ensure the transfer of the cash register receipt to the buyer in electronic form (hereinafter
- electronic check) to the subscriber number or email address specified
by the buyer. An electronic check is equated to a printed sales receipt
cash register on paper.
48 2 . Delivery services are given the right to accept payment for goods on behalf of
the seller on the basis of an appropriate agreement with the issuance of a cash register receipt to the buyer
or other document confirming payment for the goods.
48 3 . Upon delivery of goods by the national postal operator, payment for the goods may
carried out by postal money order cash on delivery. When
the specified method of payment, the shipment of the goods must be carried out by post
shipping with cash on delivery.
Goods sent by postage with cash on delivery are issued
to the buyer after receiving the full amount of cash on delivery, with the issuance of a receipt.
Forwarding the amounts of cash on delivery to the seller is carried out by the national
by a postal operator by postal money transfer in the order,
established by the Rules for the provision of postal services.

Page 12

(paragraphs 48 1 - 48 3 were introduced by the regulationCabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan from 13
October 2018 No. 825 - National Database of Legislation, October 16, 2018, No.
09/18/825/2052)

VIII. The procedure for refusing to fulfill the terms of the contract
49. The buyer of the goods (work, service) has the right to refuse to perform
the concluded contract by notifying the seller indicating the reasons for refusing the goods,
performance of work and provision of services in cases stipulated by law.
50. The buyer cannot refuse to fulfill the terms of the contract in cases where
provided by the contract.
51. The return of goods in e-commerce is carried out in accordance with the laws
Of the Republic of Uzbekistan "On consumer protection"," On the legal framework
activities of business entities ", the Civil Code and other
regulatory legal acts, as well as the concluded agreement.
52. In cases where it is necessary to return funds, the seller is obliged to make them
return to the buyer on the basis of the document presented and equated to the check,
confirming payment for goods (works, services) in the same way as it was carried out
payment for the purchase of goods (works, services).
53. Refunds are made in the manner and terms specified in the contract.
54. Documents related to the return of goods and funds can be drawn up in
in the form of an electronic document or electronic message.
55. Coverage of transport costs associated with the return of goods is carried out in
in accordance with the conditions specified in the contract.
IX. Features of exporting in e-commerce
56. The export of goods (works, services) in the form of e-commerce is carried out from
mandatory compliance with all requirements of customs legislation.
57. An e-commerce seller can enter into an agreement - an export contract in
the form of an electronic document using an electronic digital signature.
58. Entering information under the agreement - export contract in the Unified electronic
information system of foreign trade operations, as well as their execution
are carried out strictly in accordance with the requirements of the Regulations on the procedure
monitoring of foreign trade operations, approved by
Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of September 30, 2003 No. 416.
X. Final Provisions
59. Disputes related to the implementation of electronic commerce are resolved in the manner
established by law.

Page 13

60. Subjects of electronic commerce are responsible for non-compliance with the provisions
of these Rules, as well as failure to fulfill their obligations under the contract in
the procedure established by law.
61. Drawing up accounting documentation that is the basis for determining
objects of taxation and objects related to taxation, as well as for
the calculation of tax liabilities is carried out in accordance with the tax
legislation.
APPENDIX
ENE No. 1
to
Regulations
carried out
enia
electronic
Oh
commerce
and

SEPARATE REGULATIONS
aimed at simplifying the procedures for the sale of goods (works, services) in the form
ecommerce
1. There is no need for an attachment to the contract of a certificate of the state tax authority
services at the place of registration of the buyer (customer) on the presence of a stationary trade
points and registration of a cash register when selling goods in bulk and
small lots in the form of e-commerce to individuals, and
legal entities engaged in retail trade.
2. Legal entities are allowed to carry out retail and wholesale sales, and
also by individual entrepreneurs of retail sale of goods in the form
e-commerce outside of stationary retail outlets and without using
cash registers in accordance with the procedure established by law (No. 306).
3. No special equipment is required (forks, knives, cutting boards, brushes for
cleaning racks and shelves from bread crumbs, etc.) when selling bread and
baked goods in the form of e-commerce.
4. It is allowed to use scales and other measuring devices outside the workplace.
when selling goods in the form of e-commerce.

Page 14

5. It is not required to display potatoes and fruit and vegetable products on shelves, slides and
counters, including refrigerated, in trays, cassettes, baskets, boxes, and
other equipment and inventory - when they are sold in the form of e-commerce.
APPENDIX
ENE No. 2
to
Regulations
carried out
enia
electronic
Oh
commerce
and

SCROLL
goods (works, services) withdrawn from circulation or restricted in circulation when
e-commerce implementation
See previous edition.

No.

Name

Scope of limitation

1. Alcohol and tobacco products

domestic market

2. Narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances and
precursors

internal and
foreign markets

3. Items that are obscene or immoral
character

internal and
foreign markets

4. Counterfeit and pirated items

internal and
foreign markets

5. Confiscated, ownerless property, property,
transferred by inheritance to the state, and
treasures

internal and
foreign markets

6. Weapons and ammunition, their parts and accessories,
toxic substances

internal and
foreign markets

8. Precious or semi-precious stones,
precious metals, metals clad
precious metals, and products from them

internal and
foreign markets

9. Construction and installation work, operation and
repair of facilities (installation of equipment, systems and
equipment) nuclear power and facilities
strategic purpose

internal and
foreign markets

Page 15

10. Research and development
work, development, production and sale
X-ray equipment, instruments and
equipment using sources
ionizing radiation

domestic market

11. Extraction, production, transportation, processing
radioactive elements, disposal of radioactive
waste, sale of uranium and other fissile
materials, as well as products from them

internal and
foreign markets

12. Development, production, repair and sale
weapons and ammunition, protective equipment, military
equipment, spare parts, components and
devices for them, explosives,
pyrotechnic products, as well as special
materials and equipment for their production
13. Repair of civilian and service weapons and
ammunition

internal and
foreign markets

domestic market

14. Transportation of explosive and toxic substances

domestic market

15. Grain: wheat * , rye, barley, oats, rice, corn,
buckwheat

foreign market

16. Bakery products * (except flour confectionery
products, cakes, cookies, rusks, toasts and
similar fried products of our own
production)

foreign market
(nomenclature of goods subject to foreign trade code:
1905)

17. Flour * , groats *

foreign market
(nomenclature of goods subject to foreign trade code:
110100 - 1106)

18. Livestock, poultry

foreign market
(nomenclature of goods subject to foreign trade code:
0101 - 0105,
01061910000,
01063910000)

Page 16

19. Meat and edible meat offal

foreign market
(nomenclature of goods subject to foreign trade code:
0201 - 0210,
except - 0207 53 000,
as well as chicken
feet by codes 0207 13 990 9,
0207 14 990 9,
0210 99 800 0)

Poultry by-products *

foreign market
(nomenclature of goods subject to foreign trade code:
0207 53 000)

20. Sugar

foreign market
(nomenclature of goods subject to foreign trade code:
1701 - 1702)

21. Antiquities (paintings, sculptures, etc.),
representing significant artistic,
historical, scientific or other cultural
value (according to the conclusion of the Ministry of
culture and sports)

foreign market
(nomenclature of goods subject to foreign trade code:
group - 97)

22. Vegetable oils *

foreign market
(nomenclature of goods subject to foreign trade code:
1507, 1512, 1516,
apart from technical
–1512 11 1000,
1512 21 1000)

23. Raw hides * (including non-standard),
fur raw materials * , including astrakhan *
(including non-standard)

foreign market
(nomenclature of goods subject to foreign trade code:
4101 - 4103,
4301 - 4302)

24. Scrap and waste of non-ferrous metals *

foreign market
(nomenclature of goods subject to foreign trade code:
740400, 760200,
7802000000,
7902000000,
8002000000,
8101970000,
8102970000,
8103300000,
8104200000,
8105300000,
8106001000,
8107300000,
8108300000,
8109300000,
8110200000,
8111001900,
8112130000,
8112220000,
8112922001,
8112922009)

25. Silkworm cocoons suitable for unwinding *

foreign market
(nomenclature of goods subject to foreign trade code:
5001000000)

Page 17

Raw silk * (untwisted)

foreign market
(nomenclature of goods subject to foreign trade code:
5002000000)

Silk waste * (including cocoons not suitable for
unwinding, waste cocoon yarn and loosened
waste)

foreign market
(nomenclature of goods subject to foreign trade code:
5003000000)

26. Waste, cuttings and scrap from polyethylene terephthalate
(PET) *

foreign market
(nomenclature of goods subject to foreign trade code:
3907 60)

* goods, the export of which can be carried out on the basis of decisions of the President or the Government
Republic of Uzbekistan.

(Appendix No. 2 as amended by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated 26
December 2019 No. 810 - National database of legislation, December 28, 2020, No.
09/20/810/1673 - Effective March 29, 2021)
APPENDIX
ENE No. 3

Page 18

to
Regulations
carried out
enia
electronic
Oh
commerce
and

SCHEME
sale of goods (works, services) in the form of e-commerce

Page 19

APPENDIX
ENE No. 2
to
decided
eniyu
Cabinet
Ministro
from 2
June 2016
year no.
185

POSITION
on the procedure for using electronic digital signatures when concluding contracts and
storage of electronic documents and information contained in electronic
messages used in e-commerce
I. General Provisions
1. This Regulation in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Uzbekistan "About
e-commerce ","About electronic digital signature"And" About electronic
document flow"Determines the procedure for applying electronic digital signatures when
conclusion of contracts and storage of electronic documents and information contained
in electronic communications used in electronic commerce.
2. In these Regulations, the following basic concepts are applied:
acceptance - a response of the person to whom the offer is addressed, about its acceptance;
private key of electronic digital signature (private key EDS) a sequence of characters obtained using electronic
digital signature known only to the signer and intended for
creating an electronic digital signature in an electronic document;
informational

system

-

organizationally

orderly

aggregate

information resources, information technology and communications, allowing
collect, store, search, process and use information;
information intermediary - a legal entity that provides services related to
the circulation of electronic documents and electronic messages in electronic commerce;
public key of electronic digital signature (public key of EDS) a sequence of characters obtained using electronic
digital signature corresponding to the private key of the electronic digital signature,
accessible to any user of the information system and intended for
confirmation of the authenticity of an electronic digital signature in an electronic document;

Page 20

offer - an offer addressed to one person, several specific persons or
to an indefinite circle of persons, containing all the essential terms of the contract, from which
the will of the person making the offer (the offeror) is seen to conclude an agreement on
the conditions specified in the offer with anyone who responds;
electronic digital signature key certificate (EDS key certificate) an electronic document confirming the correspondence of the EDS public key to the private one
EDS key issued by the Electronic Digital Signature Keys Registration Center
the owner of the private EDS key;
unique identifier - a feature of an object that ensures its unambiguity and
allowing you to distinguish it from other objects;
e-commerce participant - a legal or natural person who is
seller or buyer of goods (works, services) in e-commerce;
e-commerce - the purchase and sale of goods (works, services) carried out in
compliance with an agreement concluded using information systems;
electronic digital signature (EDS) - a signature in an electronic document,
obtained as a result of special transformations of the information of this electronic
document using a private EDS key and allowing using
public key EDS to establish the absence of distortion of information in the electronic
document and identify the owner of the EDS private key;
electronic message - information in electronic form that is not
electronic document sent, received and stored using
electronic means;
electronic document - information recorded in electronic form,
confirmed by EDS and having other details of the electronic document,
allowing him to be identified.
II. The use of an electronic digital signature when concluding contracts in
ecommerce
3. EDS should be used when concluding contracts in e-commerce for the purpose of
providing:
legally significant electronic document management and establishment of changes and
termination of legal relations within the framework of the conclusion of an e-commerce agreement
(hereinafter referred to as the contract);
necessary information security requirements, in particular, to confirm
integrity and invariability of information after signing;
identification of the identity of the owner of the digital signature who signed the electronic document.

Page 21

4. When concluding an agreement, EDS keys issued by one or
several centers for registration of EDS keys.
5. The process of checking the integrity of electronic documents is carried out by
verification of the validity of the EDS key certificate and the authenticity of the EDS in the electronic
document.
6. Checking the validity of the EDS key certificate is carried out by the participants
e

commerce

on my own

from using

funds

provided by the seller or information intermediary.
7. Checking the validity of the EDS key certificate is carried out using
checking the list of revoked certificates or generating and sending a request
to the EDS Keys Registration Center that issued the EDS key certificate.
8. Authentication of EDS in electronic documents is carried out
information system or by contacting the EDS Keys Registration Center.
9. Before confirming the successful completion of the transaction, participants in the electronic
commerce, when concluding a contract, verify the integrity of electronic
documents used in the framework of the conclusion of the contract.
10. Checking the validity of the EDS key certificate when generating EDS in
The EDS key registration center must include verification of:
validity period and status of the EDS key certificate of the owner of the private key,
the person who signed the electronic document;
the validity period of the public key certificate EDS of the owner of the private key,
the person who signed the electronic document;
the status of the EDS key certificate (valid, suspended, canceled on
the moment of EDS formation);
validity period and status of the EDS key certificate of the authorized person of the Center
registration of EDS keys that issued the verified certificate.
11. Positive result of the process of checking the integrity of the electronic document
confirms the absence of distortion of information (used in the framework of the conclusion
of the agreement) in an electronic document.
12. The procedures for creating and verifying digital signatures are a guarantee of authenticity and
validity of contractual obligations, as well as protection against their unilateral
change or termination.
III. The procedure for storing electronic documents and other electronic information
in the implementation of e-commerce
13. Electronic databases should store all electronic
documents, emails and transactions related to:

Page 22

creation, movement and destruction of electronic documents;
publications of offers and facts of their acceptance (acceptance);
sending and receiving electronic messages;
the conclusion of contracts in e-commerce.
14. All data should be stored in a form that allows:
identify the parties to the concluded agreement and determine all the conditions
implementation of the contract;
determine the exact date and time of transactions, contracts and changes
terms of the contract and offer.
15. Each electronic contract and offer within information systems
the seller or information intermediary must be assigned a unique
identifier that ensures its unambiguity and allows it to be distinguished from others
objects.
16. The storage period for electronic documents and messages must be at least as long as
established for a document on paper with a similar purpose.
17. All stored information on concluded contracts should be able to clearly
determine the attitude towards the contract and the terms of the offer.
18. The order of creation, accounting, storage and use of archives of electronic documents
and electronic messages is determined by the storage organization
electronic documents in accordance with the law.
19. Storage of electronic documents, electronic messages and other information,
related to the concluded contracts in e-commerce, must
carried out on the territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan.
IV. Rights and obligations of e-commerce and information participants
intermediaries in the storage of electronic documents, messages and
other electronic information on concluded contracts
20. Participants in e-commerce and information intermediaries must
observe the procedure for storing electronic documents and electronic messages,
generated in the course of e-commerce, in accordance with this
Regulation, unless otherwise provided by law.
21. If the concluded agreement contains separate conditions, included in it by
references to an electronic document posted in a publicly available information
resource, an e-commerce participant who posted an electronic document is obliged
ensure the possibility of free access to it during the period established
legislation or agreement, and after such a period - storage of this
electronic document in accordance with this Regulation.

Page 23

22. The seller has the right to conclude a bilateral
an agreement granting the information intermediary the right to store electronic
documents and electronic messages generated during the implementation of electronic
commerce.
23. The seller and (or) information intermediary is obliged to provide:
storage of electronic documents and messages in e-commerce;
access to the parties to the agreement and authorized persons to electronic documents and
electronic messages within the period established by law or
the terms of the contract;
the safety of personal data, both buyers and other individuals who have become
known to them in the course of concluding e-commerce contracts, in accordance with
legal requirements;
protection of their information systems, databases, facilities and storage environment
electronic documents, messages from unauthorized access.
24. Participants of e-commerce, as well as information intermediaries do not have
right:
change the content of stored data;
transfer information to third parties, with the exception of cases provided for
legislation or a concluded agreement.
V. Final provisions
25. Disputes related to the use of EDS when concluding contracts, storage
electronic documents and information contained in electronic messages,
used in e-commerce are permitted in the manner prescribed
legislation.
26. Participants in e-commerce and information intermediary bear
responsibility for non-compliance with the requirements of this Regulation in the order,
established by law.

(Collected Legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2016, No. 23, Art. 266; National base
legislation data, 07/27/2018, No. 09/18/583/1582, 10/16/2018, No. 09/18/825/2052;
12/28/2020, 09/20/810/1673-sleep)

EDS,

