Page 1

Ru Own
Search

×

Own | Ru

×

707 05.09.2018

THE CABINET OF MINISTERS OF THE REPUBLIC OF UZBEKISTAN
RESOLUTION

On the World Wide Web
more information security
improvement measures
about
APPENDIX 1
Republic of Uzbekistan
distribution by law
prohibited information is available
Internet of Things
and (or) website
use of pages
Regulations on the order of restriction
Chapter 1. General rules
Chapter 2. Prohibited information
existing Internet network
identification of information resources
Chapter 3 Internet information
resource identification
entering information into the Register
layout
Chapter 4 Internet information
use of resources
restriction
Chapter 5 Prohibited information
existing Internet network
information resource identification
data from the registry
release mode
Chapter 6 From the registry data
use
Chapter 7 Closing rule
APPENDIX 2
Republic of Uzbekistan
distribution by law
prohibited information is available
Internet of Things
and (or) website
use of pages
restriction scheme
Website, website and (or)
messenger page owner,
as well as blogger Uzbekistan
By the legislation of the Republic
Prohibited information
notice of removal
SUBMISSION PROCEDURE
APPENDIX 3
Republic of Uzbekistan
To some decisions of the Government
changes and
additions
APPENDIX 3
Republic of Uzbekistan
concerning the identity of its citizens
data processing
compliance with special conditions
exercise state control over
Regulations on the order of increase
Chapter 1. General rules
Chapter 2. Republic of Uzbekistan
concerning the identity of its citizens
data processing
the owner who violated the special conditions
and (or) Register operators
input mode
Chapter 3 Personal information
violated the rights of the subjects
owners and (or) operators
The activities of the Internet world news
in the national segment of the network
restriction
Chapter 4 Personal information
owner of the database and (or)
remove the operator from the Register
layout

MEASURES TO IMPROVE INFORMATION SECURITY ON THE WORLD INTERNET
ABOUT MEASURES
In accordance with the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan "On Informatization" , as well as the World Wide Web
further improvement of the information security system in the network (hereinafter referred to as the Internet),
In order to protect the interests of individuals, society and the state in the field of information, the Cabinet of Ministers decides:
1
1. In accordance with Article 12 of the Law of the Republic of Uzbekistan "On Informatization"
from the website and (or) web-site
Use of sites and (or) pages is specially authorized body - Information Technologies of the Republic of Uzbekistan and
For information, which may be restricted by the Ministry of Communications Development in the following cases:
A call for forcible change of the existing constitutional order and territorial integrity of the Republic of Uzbekistan
to reach;
propaganda of war, violence and terrorism, as well as religious extremism, separatism and fundamentalism;
disclosure of information that is a state secret or other secret protected by law;
inciting national, racial, ethnic or religious hatred, as well as the honor and dignity of citizens or business
dissemination of information that tarnishes their reputation and allows them to interfere in their private lives;
See previous edit.

promotion of narcotic drugs, their analogues, psychotropic substances and precursors;
(Sixth paragraph of paragraph 1 of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 34 of January 15, 2019 decision of the
Edited by - National Database of Legislation, 16.01.2019, No. 09/19/34/2486)

promotion of pornography;
committing other acts that give rise to criminal and other liability under the law.
2. The following:
An Internet network containing information prohibited by the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Regulations on the procedure for restricting the use of the site and (or) website pages in accordance with Annex 1 ;
See previous edit.

An Internet network containing information prohibited by the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan
the scheme of restriction of use of the site and (or) website pages according to appendix 2 ;
Compliance with special conditions for the processing of personal data of citizens of the Republic of Uzbekistan
To approve Regulations on the procedure for implementation of the state control over the state according to appendix 3 .
(Third paragraph of paragraph 2 of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 255 of April 29, 2021 decision of the
Edited by - National Database of Legislation, 30.04.2021, No. 09/21/255/0402)
See previous edit.

3. Center for Mass Communications of the Agency for Information and Mass Communications
Register of the Internet network, which contains information prohibited by the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan (next
referred to as the Register).
(Paragraph 3 as amended by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated June 3, 2019 No 457 - Legislation
National Database, 04.06.2019, No. 09/19/457/3235)

4. Ministry of Information Technologies and Communications of the Republic of Uzbekistan:
Organizational and technical measures to restrict the use of Internet resources included in the Register
let him see;
From interdepartmental information exchange on maintenance of the Register and Internet resources included in the Register
develop and implement an information system within three months that provides for prompt action to restrict its use
let him
See previous edit.

4 1.It should be noted that the circumstances referred to in paragraph 1 of this decision are posted on the website and (or) the website page
in the text of comments left by users of this website, as well as social networks or
Information and mass media under the Administration of the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan
website, website and by the Center for Mass Communications of the Communications Agency
(or) the owner of the messenger page, as well as the blogger is prohibited by the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan
a notification will be sent to remove the information.
1
(Item
4 is included according to the resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan from December 23, 2020 of No. 807 National Database of Legislation, 24.12.2020, No. 09/20/807/1665)

See previous edit.

4 2.The owner of the website, website and (or) messenger page, as well as the blogger
to approve the procedure for sending the notification on removal of the information which distribution is1 forbidden according to appendix 2 .
2
(Item
4 is included according to the resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan from December 23, 2020 of No. 807 National Database of Legislation, 24.12.2020, No. 09/20/807/1665)

5. To make changes and additions to some decisions of the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan according to appendix 3 .
6. Control of execution of this resolution to assign to the information technologies of the Republic of Uzbekistan and
Minister of Communications Sh.M. Sadikov and Director General of the Uzbek Press and Information Agency LX
Let Tangriyev be in charge.
Prime Minister of the Republic of Uzbekistan A. ARIPOV
Tashkent,
September 5, 2018,
No. 707

Cabinet of Ministers of 2018 5
No. 707 of September
APPENDIX 1

Chapter 7 Closing rule
APPENDIX
Republic of Uzbekistan
concerning the identity of its citizens
data processing
the owner who violated the special conditions
and (or) the operators to the Person
data subjects
to the register of infringers
input and output mode
SCHEME

An Internet network containing information prohibited by the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan
on the procedure for restricting the use of the site and (or) website pages
NIZOM
Chapter 1. General rules
1. This Provision includes the information which distribution is forbidden by the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan (further)
from the World Wide Web website and (or) website pages (hereinafter referred to as "prohibited information")
The Internet is called an information resource).
2. This Internet applies to all Internet accessible in the territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan
network information resources.
3. The following basic concepts are used in this Provision:
Identification information of all information resources of the Internet - unique domain names, Internet information
network page indexes and network addresses that allow identification in the network;
Restriction of use - information of a certain Internet network in the territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan
a set of organizational and program-technical measures to stop the use of resources;
Register of information resources of the World Wide Web where prohibited information is available (in the following places)
Called a registry) is a list of Internet information resources that contain prohibited information.
4. Restriction of access to information resources of the Internet is carried out in the following order:
identification of Internet information resources containing prohibited information;
entry in the Register of identification information of the Internet resource information resource containing prohibited information;
Restrict the use of Internet information resources.
Chapter 2. Identify Internet information resources that contain prohibited information
See previous edit.

5. Information and the public in order to identify information resources on the Internet where prohibited information is available
established by law by the Center for Mass Communications of the Communications Agency
monitoring of Internet resources.
(Paragraph 5 as amended by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated June 3, 2019 No 457 - Legislation
National Database, 04.06.2019, No. 09/19/457/3235)

6. Monitoring of Internet resources, as well as legal and
also on the basis of applications from individuals.
7. As a result of monitoring, an Internet resource containing prohibited information is identified
The conclusion of the Center on the presence of prohibited information on the Internet information resource within one working day
prepared.
8. The conclusion of the center should reflect the following:
the date of receipt of the conclusion;
basis for monitoring;
subject of study (list of information resources for which prohibited information is identified);
monitoring results.
9. Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Center No. 228 of August 5, 2011 for the examination of the results of monitoring
to the Expert Commission in the field of mass communications established by the decision (hereinafter the Expert Commission)
called).
10. The conclusion of the Center, which is the basis for the inclusion of identification data of the information resource of the Internet in the Register
or the decision of the Commission of Experts may be appealed to the court.
Chapter 3 Procedure for entering Internet resource information identification information in the Register
11. Formation and maintenance of the register is carried out by the Center in electronic form.
12. Entering the identification information of the Internet resource information resource, which contains prohibited information, in the Register
will be based on:
The conclusion of the Center on the presence of prohibited information in the information resource of the Internet;
of the Expert Commission on the Recognition of Prohibited Information Disseminated on the World Wide Web
decision
13. The Center shall not delay the preparation of the conclusion or the receipt of the relevant decision of the Commission of Experts
the Internet network where the prohibited information is available enters the information resource identification information in the Register. Bunda
the relevant basis - the conclusion (decision) must be specified.
14. In case of change of identification data of the Internet resource information resource included in the Register, the Center
the previous conclusion or the decision of the Expert Commission shall be the basis for the inclusion of newly identified changed information in the Register.
Chapter 4 Restrict the use of Internet information resources
15. Internet of the Ministry of Information Technologies and Communications of the Republic of Uzbekistan
a specially authorized body to restrict the use of information resources (hereinafter referred to as a specially authorized body
is called).
16. The specially authorized body restricts the use of information resources of the Internet included in the Register
takes organizational and software-technical measures.
17. Restriction of access only to the information resources of the Internet network, whose identification information is included in the Register
relatively applicable.
18. Take measures to restrict the use of information resources of Internet information resources in the Register
within twelve hours after insertion.
19. Information resources of the Internet with limited use in the territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan Uzbekistan
In response to requests from users of the Republic, the specially authorized body provides the following information:
Registry of Internet network information resource identification information containing prohibited information
notification of inclusion;
contact information for reference.
Chapter 5 Prohibited information is available from the Internet information resource registry of identification information
release mode
20. Identification of an Internet resource information resource containing information prohibited by the Center
The basis for the removal of data from the Register within a day is:
About the deletion of prohibited information from the Internet resource by the owner of the Internet information resource
written (electronic) application;
Registry of Internet network information resource identification information containing prohibited information
on the invalidation or revocation of the conclusion of the Center or the decision of the Commission of Experts, which is the basis for its inclusion
entry into force of a court decision.
However, the Register shall store the relevant information and the date of their change.
21. Deletion of prohibited information from the Internet resource by the owner of the Internet resource
The Center will check the situation within a day after receiving a written (electronic) request and the information resource of the Internet
removes the relevant identification information from the Register.
22. After the removal of the identification data of the information resource of the Internet network from the Register, a specially authorized body
obtains barriers restricting use for one day.
Chapter 6 Use of registry information
23. Public authorities and administration bodies within their competence, as well as the Internet network information
allow legal entities and individuals who own the resource to use the Registry information upon their request
are given.
See previous edit.

24. Procedure for allowing the use of registry information Agency for Information and Mass Communications
determined by.
(Paragraph 24 as amended by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated June 3, 2019 No 457 - Legislation
National Database, 04.06.2019, No. 09/19/457/3235)

Chapter 7 Closing rule
25. Persons guilty of violating the requirements of this Regulation shall respond in the manner prescribed by law
they give.
Cabinet of Ministers of 2018 5
No. 707 of September
APPENDIX 2

An Internet network containing information prohibited by the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan
restrict access to the site and (or) website pages
SCHEME
See previous edit.

(Appendix 2 as amended by the Resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated June 3, 2019 No 457 - Legislation
National Database, 04.06.2019, No. 09/19/457/3235)
See previous edit.
Cabinet of Ministers of 2018 5
No. 707 of September
2 1-Appendix

The owner of the website, website and (or) messenger page, as well as the blogger in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Uzbekistan
send a notice of removal of prohibited information
PROCEDURE
1. Users of this website to the information posted on the website and (or) the website page of this Order
in the text of comments left by, as well as on social networks or messengers (information resources in the following places)
) website, website in case of detection of information prohibited by the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan
and (or) the owner of the messenger page, as well as the procedure for sending a notification to the blogger about the removal of this information
defines
2. Information available for use in the territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan, the application of this Procedure
resources.
3. The following basic concepts are used in this Procedure:
messenger - text, audio, audiovisual and through the global information network of the Internet to users online
other messages and materials, instant exchange, distribution and transmission through other data, as well as between them
an application, mobile application or web service for remote communication;
website and (or) messenger page - the website and (or) messenger of the Internet is one of the global information networks
part (groups, channels, etc.), as well as on the index consisting of access to it domain name and characters
is done by name.
4. Information and mass communications under the Administration of the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Information by the Center for Mass Communications of the Agency (hereinafter - the Center)
In case of detection of information on the resources of which is prohibited by the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan, the Center 24
Distributed to the owner of information resources, as well as the blogger by the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan no later than one hour
a notification (hereinafter referred to as the notification) on the removal of prohibited information is sent.
5. Notification Official information resources of the Center (official in e-mail, social networks or messengers
page).
6. Information containing information prohibited by the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan
the name of the resource, the date of posting the information, a link to the prohibited information and a copy of its image on the screen
as well as on the liability established by law for the dissemination of this information in addition
data can be quoted.
7. The owner of the information resource, as well as the blogger, no later than 24 hours from the date of receipt of the notification
To remove information prohibited by the legislation of the Republic, as well as to inform the Center about it
through information resources in electronic or paper form.
8. If the information prohibited by the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan is prohibited in paragraph 6 of this Order
if not removed by the owner of the information resource, as well as the blogger within the specified period, then the Republic of Uzbekistan
This is done by the Information and Mass Communications Agency under the Presidential Administration or the Center
information prohibited by the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan on the removal of information
can be appealed to the administrator of the social network or messenger or to the court with a statement of claim.
1
(Appendix
2 is included in the resolution of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan from December 23, 2020 of No. 807)
National Database of Legislation, 24.12.2020, No. 09/20/807/1665)

Cabinet of Ministers of 2018 5
No. 707 of September
APPENDIX 3

Amendments and additions to some decisions of the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan
1. The Cabinet of Ministers adopted a resolution “On measures to improve the management structure in the field of mass communications.
Resolution No. 555 of November 24, 2004 :
a) in Item 1 to add the following paragraphs:
“The Register of the Internet, which contains information prohibited by the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan
to think;
Comprehensive expertise in the field of information and mass communications as a working body in accordance with the legislation
organization of the event ”;
b) the second paragraph of Item 2 to state in the following edition:
“It should be noted that the Center is a legal entity and the state on matters within its competence
in the manner prescribed by the authorities and management bodies, non-governmental non-profit organizations, subjects of the information services market
The Internet, which contains information prohibited by the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan
maintains the Register of the network, as well as the working body of the expert commission in the field of information and communications
performs its functions ”;
c) in Annex 2 :
To add to Item 6 the following paragraphs:
“The Register of the Internet, which contains information prohibited by the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan
to think;
Comprehensive expertise in the field of information and mass communications as a working body in accordance with the legislation
organization of the event ”;
Section 7 :
to add the fourth and fifth paragraphs of the following content:
“Transfer of Internet resources disseminated by the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan to the Register
input and output;
in the field of information of information materials distributed in mass media, the individual, society and
to ensure the protection of the interests of the state, to preserve national and cultural values, traditions and heritage
preparation and submission of materials for a comprehensive examination of compliance with the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Kazakhstan
organization of the transfer ”;
the fourth - sixteenth paragraphs to be considered as the sixth - eighteenth paragraphs accordingly;
2. “On improving the monitoring system in the field of mass communications” of the Cabinet of Ministers
"On additional measures, No. 228 of August 5, 2011, a resolution (the Republic of Uzbekistan, 2011, No. 70, No. 8.
article):
a) the tenth paragraph from appendix 1 to exclude;
b) in Annex 2 :
In band 5 :
to add the eighth paragraph of the following content:
“Examines expert opinions and identification data of information resources of the international Internet network
Inclusion in the Register of the Internet, which contains information prohibited by the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan
will make a decision on
the eighth paragraph shall be deemed to be the ninth paragraph;
To add to Item 6 the following paragraph:
“Review of materials and identification of information resources of the international Internet
Inclusion in the Register of the Internet, which contains information prohibited by the legislation of the Republic of Uzbekistan
decision-making ”;
The fifth paragraph of Item 9 to state in the following edition:
“An expert for the examination of materials and, if necessary, the defense of expert opinions in court
appointment of (experts) ”;
In band 11 :
in the third paragraph “the results of the meeting in the manner prescribed by the Commission, including in electronic form
to add the words "registration and transfer";
the fifth and sixth paragraphs shall be deleted;
12-bandda :
in the third paragraph , the words "including in the order of electronic document management in the manner prescribed by the Commission."
join;
to add the following paragraph:
“Provides timely preparation of necessary materials and from the date of receipt of materials in the Working Body 15
conducts an examination within a day ";
The eighth paragraph of paragraph 13 reads: "including the circulation of electronic documents in the manner prescribed by the Commission
by the way ”;
Items 14 - 16 to state in the following edition:
“14. From the date of receipt of materials on each specific application of individuals and legal entities by the Chairman of the Commission
within three working days from the date of the Commission approves the expert (experts) from the experts involved on the proposal of the working body.
15. Examination is carried out within 15 days from the date of receipt of materials.
16. The expert (experts) shall review the submitted materials within five days and issue an expert opinion ”;
Items 18 and 19 to state in the following edition:
“18. If necessary, the Commission on the work done by the Working Body on the work done
reviews the report.
19. The decision of the Commission is based on the protocol signed by all members of the Commission present at the meeting, that
including through electronic document exchange in the manner prescribed by the Commission ";
In Item 20 the word "Commission" to replace with words "expert (experts)";
In paragraph 21 the words "for the examination of materials" should be replaced by the word "necessary";
Item 30 to state in the following edition:
“30. Addressing organizational issues and conducting examinations to ensure the activities of the Commission
The way of electronic document exchange by the working body of the Commission, including in the manner prescribed by the Commission
will be done with ”.
See previous edit.
Cabinet of Ministers of 2018 5
No. 707 of September
APPENDIX 3

Compliance with special conditions for the processing of personal data of citizens of the Republic of Uzbekistan
on the procedure for exercising state control over
NIZOM
Chapter 1. General rules
1. This Provision applies to the person of citizens of the Republic of Uzbekistan by the owner and (or) operators
in the processing of data using information technology, including the Internet in the global information network
during processing in technical means located in the territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan and in the prescribed manner
Collection of personal databases in the databases on the person registered in the state register,
the order of state control over compliance with the requirements of the legislation on systematization and storage
defines
2. The following basic concepts are used in this Provision:
Special conditions for processing personal data of citizens of the Republic of Uzbekistan - Uzbekistan
In the processing of personal data of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan using information technology, this
including technicians located in the territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan when processing in the world information network Internet
to the person registered in the state register of databases on the Person and in the prescribed manner
conditions for collection, systematization and storage in the relevant databases;
Restriction of use - Internet information on the territory of the Republic of Uzbekistan by owners and (or) operators
organizational and software-technical measures to stop the use of resources in the network or reduce the speed
complex;
identity information - the ability to identify or identify a specific individual
information provided electronically, on paper and (or) in another material body;
personal database - an information system that contains personal information
database;
the owner of the personal database (hereinafter - the owner) - to the personal database
a state body, individual and (or) legal entity that has the right to own, use and dispose of it;
operator of the personal database (hereinafter - the operator) - processing of personal data
the state body, individual and (or) legal entity carrying out the transfer;
the authorized state body in the field of personal data - under the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan
State Center for Personalization;
subject of personal data (hereinafter - the subject) - personal data to which it belongs
physical person;
Register of violators of the rights of subjects of personal data - citizens of the Republic of Uzbekistan
owners of personal databases who do not comply with the special conditions of processing of personal data
and (or) a list of operators;
processing of personal data - collection, systematization, storage, modification of personal data,
an action or actions to replenish, use, transfer, distribute, transfer, alienate and destroy
implement the set.
3. Compliance with special conditions for the processing of personal data of citizens of the Republic of Uzbekistan
State control over the register of infringers of the rights of subjects of personal data (hereinafter - the Register)
is done by thinking.
4. Personal data of citizens of the Republic of Uzbekistan with the use of information technology,
including state control over compliance with certain conditions of processing in the global information network Internet
State Inspectorate for Control in the Field of Informatization and Telecommunications of the Republic of Uzbekistan (next)
Uzkomnazorat State Inspectorate).
5. State Inspectorate "Uzkomnazorat":
processing of personal data of citizens of the Republic of Uzbekistan by owners and (or) operators
carries out the study and verification of compliance with certain conditions, as well as monitoring and analysis;
Using information technology for personal data of citizens of the Republic of Uzbekistan, this
including in case of violation of special conditions of processing in the world information network of the Internet, the state of violation of this law
instructions on liquidation, which must be complied with by the state body, individuals and (or) legal entities
will give;
the use of information technology in the personal data of citizens, including the Internet world
in relation to the owner and (or) operators operating in the information network
reports on administrative offenses for violation of certain conditions of data processing
draws up and sends it to court for consideration;
using information technology of the owner and (or) operators, including the Internet world information
to the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan on the activities of processing personal data in the network
enters information;
Maintains a register and personal information with the competent authorities of foreign countries and international organizations
cooperates in the field.
Chapter 2. Violated the special conditions of processing the personal data of citizens of the Republic of Uzbekistan
the order of inclusion of owners and (or) operators in the Register
6. Violated certain conditions of processing of personal data of citizens of the Republic of Uzbekistan
inclusion and exclusion of owners and (or) operators in the Register is carried out in accordance with the scheme of this Regulation .
7. Information and mass communications under the Administration of the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan
Center for Mass Communications (hereinafter - the Center) of the Agency of the Republic of Uzbekistan
“Additional measures for further development of the information sphere and mass communications
In accordance with the Decree of the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan dated February 2, 2019 No. PF-5653
Personal data of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan using information technology, including the Internet
Internet global information in order to identify violations of special conditions of processing in the global information network
monitors the activities of owners and (or) operators processing personal data in the network.
8. The owner and (or) the Center processes personal data on the Internet in the global information network
special conditions for processing of personal data of citizens of the Republic of Uzbekistan by operators
in case of violation, to the competent state body in the field of personal data within 24 hours
enters information to draw conclusions.
9. Upon receipt of the information provided by the Center by the authorized state body in the field of personal data
Within 24 hours, Uzkomnazorat used information technology to provide personal information to the state inspectorate
in this case, including by the owner and (or) operators operating in the global information network Internet Uzbekistan
Submitting a conclusion on the violation of special conditions for the processing of personal data of citizens of the Republic of Kazakhstan
reaches
10. The conclusion of the authorized state body in the field of personal data should contain the following:
the date of receipt of the conclusion;
subject of study (separate processing of personal data of citizens of the Republic of Uzbekistan)
list of resources of the owner and (or) operators who violated the terms);
the results of the monitoring (indicating the items of the violated legislation);
Inclusion in the register and taking action against the owners and (or) operators of the personal database
suggestions on
11. Within one day from the date of receipt of the conclusion submitted by the State Inspectorate "Uzkomnazorat"
a clear deadline for the owner or operator of the personal database to address the identified deficiencies
provides appropriate instructions.
12. The owner or operator of the database of the person to eliminate the deficiencies listed in the instructions
take measures and submit timely information to the State Inspectorate "Uzkomnazorat".
13. The law provided by the instruction within the period established by the instruction of the state inspection "Uzkomnazorat"

If the violation is not eliminated, the information about the owner and (or) operator is included in the Register.
14. Personal data of citizens of the Republic of Uzbekistan with the use of information technology,
including owners and (or) operators who violate certain conditions of processing in the Internet information network
Appeal to the court against the conclusion of the competent state body in the field of information about the person on the basis of which it is included in the register
entitled to do.
Chapter 3 The activities of the owner and (or) operators in violation of the rights of subjects of personal data Internet
limitation in the national segment of the global information network
15. Personal data of citizens of the Republic of Uzbekistan with the use of information technology,
including owners and (or) operators who violate certain conditions of processing in the global information network Internet
Restriction of activities in the national segment of the World Wide Web Information Technology and
is carried out by the Ministry of Communications Development (hereinafter - the Ministry).
16. Restriction of use of the identification data of the database of the person included in the Register
the Internet of the owner and (or) operator is applied to the information resources of the global information network.
17. State Inspectorate "Uzkomnazorat" within 12 hours after inclusion in the Register
to the Ministry for restricting the use of information resources of the Internet information network by the owner or operator of the Internet
makes a presentation.
18. The Ministry shall notify the owner or operator of the personal database within 12 hours after its entry in the Register
The Internet restricts the use of global information network resources.
Chapter 4 Procedure for deregistration of the owner and (or) operator of the personal database
19. The state inspection "Uzkomnazorat" informs the owner of the database on the person and (or)
The grounds for removal of the operator from the Register are:
According to the Center, the owner and (or) operator of the authorized state body in the field of personal data
conclusion on the elimination of shortcomings in the resources of the global information network of the Internet;
Using information technology for personal data of citizens of the Republic of Uzbekistan, this
including the Register of owners and (or) operators who have violated certain conditions of processing in the global information network Internet
the court on annulment of the conclusion of the competent state body in the field of information about the person on the basis of which it is entered
entry into force of the decision.
20. State Internet Inspectorate "Uzkomnazorat" Internet world information network of the owner of the Internet world information network resource
to the person within one day after examining the written (electronic) application on the elimination of deficiencies in the resource
submits an opinion to the competent state body in the field of information.
21. The authorized state body in the field of personal data together with the Center is the owner and (or) operator
24 hours a day by the Internet on the elimination of deficiencies in the resources of the global information network
examines and gives a conclusion to the state inspection "Uzkomnazorat".
22. The State Inspectorate "Uzkomnazorat" within 24 hours on the basis of the cases specified in paragraph 16 of this Regulation
the owner and (or) operator of the personal database (or information resource identification information)
Removes from the register.
23. Identification of the owner and (or) operator of the database (or information resource)
After removal from the Register, the Ministry will use the information on the basis of the recommendation of the State Inspectorate "Uzkomnazorat"
takes the limiting barrier for 12 hours.
24. The information recorded, processed and other realized in the register and the date of their change
stored in the specified order.
Chapter 7 Closing rule
25. Persons guilty of violating the requirements of this Regulation shall respond in the manner prescribed by law
they give.
Citizens of the Republic of Uzbekistan
processing of personal data
the state on compliance with certain conditions
on the procedure for exercising control
statute
APPENDIX

Violated the special conditions of processing the personal data of citizens of the Republic of Uzbekistan
inclusion of owners and (or) operators in the register of infringers of the rights of data subjects of the Person and
the order of removal from it
Stage

1stage

Subject

SCHEME
Events

Execution time

Mass
communications
Processing of personal data of citizens of the Republic of Uzbekistan
on issues
Permanent
Internet in order to determine the circumstances of violation of the special conditions of issuance
To the center and the individual
an owner who processes personal information on a global information network
as
information about
and (or) monitor the activities of operators.
competent in the field
government agency

Legal or physical
individuals

Mass
communications
on issues
Center
2stage

In accordance with the established procedure, including the Republic of Uzbekistan
separate processing of personal data by legislation
Violation of the terms of the existing Internet network website and (or) website
processing personal information on pages and resources
provide information about organizations by contacting.

Permanent
as

Detected
The Internet is a processor of personal information in the global information network
by the owner and (or) operators of the Republic of Uzbekistan
overdue
from information technology to personal data of citizens
including processing on the World Wide Web using the Internet
from
about this when it is determined that the special conditions of issuance have been violated
24 hours
issue an opinion to the competent state body in the field of personal data
enters information for.
during

The Center is the authorized state body in the field of personal data
About the person
"Uzkomnazorat" after receiving the information provided by
information
the owner who processes personal data for state inspection and
competent in the field (or) by operators to citizens of the Republic of Uzbekistan
government agency in case of violation of special conditions of processing of
provides a conclusion.

Detected
overdue
from
24 hours
during
In conclusion

"Uzkomnazorat"
state inspection

Elimination of identified shortcomings on the basis of the presented conclusion
clear to the owner or operator of the database about the person
provides appropriate guidance in setting the term.

3stage

5stage

The owner or operator of the personal database is in the instructions
will take measures to eliminate the shortcomings and "Uzkomnazorat"
submits timely information to the state inspection.

"Uzkomnazorat"
state inspection

The law provided for in the instruction within the period specified in the instruction
database of the person in case of violation cases are not eliminated
information about the owner and (or) operator “Personal
the register of infringers of the rights of data subjects ”.

"Uzkomnazorat"
state inspection

To the "Register of violators of the rights of subjects of personal data"
the owner of the database about the person after entering or
Restrict the operator's access to Internet information resources
Development of information technologies and communications
submits a presentation to the Ministry.

Information
To the "Register of violators of the rights of subjects of personal data"
technologies and
the owner of the database about the person after entering or
communications
restrict the operator's access to Internet information resources
Ministry of Development performs.
Mass
communications
With the Center, the authorized state body in the field of personal data
on issues
Internet network information by a co-owner and (or) operator
To the center and the individual
examining the information on the elimination of deficiencies in the resource
information about
and issues a conclusion to the State Inspectorate "Uzkomnazorat".
competent in the field
government agency

6stage

from one
kun
term

About the person
database
owner or operator

4stage

falling
from

"Uzkomnazorat"
state inspection

Based on the conclusion of the competent state body in the field of personal data
The information resource of the Internet is “Personal data subjects
from the Register of Infringers ”and Information Technology and
submits a presentation to the Ministry of Communications Development.

The owner and (or) operator of the personal database (or)
Information
information resource identification information) “Personal information
technologies and
after being removed from the Register of Violators of the Rights of Entities
communications
use on the basis of a recommendation of the supervisory authority
Ministry of Development
takes restrictive barriers.

In the presentation
marked
terms
In the instructions
overdue
then

12 hours
during

12 hours
during

24 hours
during

24 hours
during

12 hours
during

(Annex 3 of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Uzbekistan No. 255 of April 29, 2021 decision in accordance with law
National database of documents, dated 30.04.2021, No. 09/21/255/0402)
(National Database of Legislation, 06.09.2018, 09/18/707/1839; 16.01.2019, 09/19/34/2486, 04.06.2019,
09/19/457/3235; 24.12.2020, 09/20/807/1665; 30.04.2021, 09/21/255/0402)

When you find an error in the document, highlight it and press Ctrl + Enter.
© Adolat National Legal Information Center under the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Uzbekistan is a state institution

