Page 1

CONGRESS
-------Law No: 103/2016/QH13

SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM
Independence - Freedom - Happiness
--------------Hanoi, April 5, 2016

THE LAW
NEWSPAPERS
Pursuant to the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam;
The National Assembly promulgates the Law on Press.
Chapter I
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1. Scope
This Law provides for citizens' right to freedom of the press and freedom of expression in the press; nest
press functions and activities; rights and obligations of participating and related agencies, organizations and individuals
to press activities; State management of the press.
Article 2. Subjects of application
This Law applies to agencies, organizations and individuals participating in and related to journalism activities
in the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
Article 3. Interpretation of terms
In this Law, the following terms are construed as follows:
1. Newspaper is an information product about events and issues in social life expressed in words
written, visual, sound, created, periodically published and released, transmitted to a large audience
them through print, audio, video, and electronic media.
2. Press activities are activities of creating journalistic works, journalistic products and products
information of a journalistic nature; provide information and feedback to the press; information rectification
On the news; publishing, printing and distributing printed newspapers; transmission of electronic newspapers and transmission and broadcasting of spoken newspapers and newspapers
Figure.
3. Print press is a type of press that uses writing, pictures and photos, made by printing media to distribute
to readers, including printed newspapers and printed magazines.
4. Oral newspaper is a type of press using voice and sound, which is transmitted and broadcast on radio stations
technical infrastructure to apply different technologies.
5. Report form is the type of press used images is essential, combining voice, audio, text
written, transmitted and broadcast on technical infrastructures applying different technologies.
6. E-newspaper is a type of press using writing, images, and sound, which is transmitted on the Internet
network environment, including electronic newspapers and electronic magazines.
7. A journalistic work is the smallest constitutive unit of a journalistic product, having independent and independent content
complete structure, including news, articles expressed in writing, sound or images.
8. Press products are publications and supplements of printed newspapers; complete content of the electronic newspaper;
news bulletins; radio and television channels; specialized pages of electronic newspapers.
9. News bulletins are press products published periodically by state news agencies,
expressed in writing, voice, sound and images to convey current news in the country, the world
gender or topical information.
10. Radio program, television program is a collection of news and articles in audio and newspaper articles
The picture follows a theme in a certain duration, with signs to identify the beginning and the end.
11. Radio and television channels are journalistic products, including radio programs,
television is arranged stably, continuously, is broadcast in a certain time frame and has signs of
know.
12. Addendum is an additional page beyond the specified number of pages and is published with the main issue of
newspaper.

Page 2

13. Home page is the first information page displayed on an electronic newspaper, with the domain name address specified in
license to operate electronic newspapers.
14. The specialized page of an online newspaper is an information page on a certain topic, in accordance with the principles,
purpose of an electronic newspaper, whose domain name is subordinate to the domain name specified in the operating license
electronic media.
15. An electronic magazine is a journalistic product that is published periodically, posting news and articles of a specialized nature
industry, transmitted over the network environment.
16. Scientific journal is a journalistic product published periodically to announce scientific research results
learning, information about specialized scientific activities.
17. Information products of journalistic nature are information products expressed in different forms
type of press, published in bulletins, special journals, general websites of agencies, organizations,
enterprise.
18. Newsletter is an information product of journalistic nature published periodically, using news genre
for information about internal operations, professional guidance, research results, applications, results of meetings
seminars and conferences of agencies, organizations and enterprises.
19. Special issue is an information product of journalistic nature published non-periodically according to events
subject.
20. General website is an information product of journalistic nature of agencies or organizations
organizations, enterprises, providing general information on the basis of posting access links to news sources
or cite verbatim and accurate news sources in accordance with the law on intellectual property.
Article 4. Functions, tasks and powers of the press
1. The press in the Socialist Republic of Vietnam is an essential means of information for
Social life; is the mouthpiece of Party agencies, state agencies, socio-political organizations,
socio-political-professional organizations, social organizations, socio-professional organizations; is Nhan's forum
people.
2. The press has the following duties and powers:
a) To provide truthful information about the situation of the country and the world in accordance with the interests of the country and of the country
People;
b) Propagating, disseminating, contributing to building and protecting the Party's and policies' guidelines and policies
books, laws of the State, achievements of the country and the world according to the principles and purposes of the agency
newspapers; contributing to political stability, socio-economic development, raising people's knowledge, meeting cultural needs
health of the People, protect and promote the fine traditions of the nation, build and promote
socialist democracy, strengthening the great national unity bloc, building and defending the Vietnamese Fatherland
Socialist South;
c) Reflecting and guiding public opinion; as a forum to exercise the freedom of speech of the
People;
d) Discovering and setting an example of good people, good deeds, new factors, and advanced examples; fighting room,
combating illegal acts and negative phenomena in society;
dd) Contributing to preserving the purity and development of the Vietnamese language and the languages ​of Vietnamese ethnic minorities
Male;
e) Expand mutual understanding between countries and peoples, participate in the cause of
people of the world for peace, national independence, friendship, cooperation and sustainable development.
Article 5. State policy on press development
1. Having a strategy, planning for the development and management of the press system.
2. Focused and focused investment in the fields of training and fostering human resources for expertise
subjects, professional skills and management of journalistic activities, scientific research, application of modern technology for
press agencies.
3. Order press to serve political, security, defense, external information, service tasks
teenagers, children, deaf and blind people, people from ethnic minority areas, areas with conditions
especially difficult socio-economic conditions, remote areas, mountainous areas, border areas, islands and other important tasks.
other factors suitable to each period as decided by the Prime Minister.
4. Support for transportation of press services for the tasks, subjects and locations specified in Clause 3
This.

Page 3

Article 6. Contents of state management of the press
1. Formulating, directing and organizing the implementation of press development strategies, master plans and plans.
2. Promulgating and organizing the implementation of legal documents on the press; regime building,
press policy.
3. Organize information for the press; media management.
4. Training and fostering to improve the political, professional and ethical qualifications of the staff
journalists of press agencies and managers of the press.
5. Organize and manage scientific and technological activities in the field of journalism.
6. Issuance and withdrawal of press licenses and press cards.
7. Management of international cooperation in the press, management of activities of the joint Vietnamese press agency
related to foreign countries and activities of foreign press in Vietnam.
8. Check the depositary press; manage the national press depository system.
9. Directing and implementing the regime of information, reporting, statistics and commendation and disciplinary work in the
press activities.
10. Inspect, examine and handle violations of the law on the press.
Article 7. State management agencies in charge of the press
1. The Government performs the unified state management of the press.
2. The Ministry of Information and Communications is responsible to the Government for performing state management
about the press.
3. Ministries and ministerial-level agencies shall, within the ambit of their tasks and powers, be responsible for coordination
cooperate with the Ministry of Information and Communications to perform the state management of the press.
4. Provincial-level People's Committees, within the ambit of their tasks and powers, are responsible for management
state on local press.
Article 8. Vietnam Journalists Association
1. Vietnam Journalists Association is a socio-political professional organization, established and operating
according to the provisions of the law on associations.
2. The Vietnam Journalists Association has the following tasks and powers:
a) Protect the legitimate rights and interests of members;
b) Issue and organize the implementation of regulations on professional ethics of journalists;
c) Participate in the formulation of strategies, master plans, plans and policies for the development of the press and literature
legal documents on the press;
d) Participate in the appraisal of press products at the request of a competent state agency;
dd) Fostering professional ethics and journalism skills for members;
e) Cooperate with state management agencies in propagating and disseminating the law on the press;
g) Participate in supervising the observance of the law on the press; carry out international cooperation activities
economy in accordance with the law;
h) Organize press awards to honor authors and groups of authors with quality journalistic works
high, with positive social effects.
Article 9. Prohibited acts
1. Posting or broadcasting information against the State of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam with the following contents:
a) Distorting, defaming or denying the people's administration;
b) Fabricating, causing confusion among the people;
c) Causing psychological warfare.
2. Post and broadcast information with the following contents:
a) Causing division between classes of the people, between the people and the people's government, with the force of
the people's armed forces, with political organizations, socio-political organizations;

Page 4

b) Causing hatred, discrimination, division, national separatism, infringing on equal rights in the community;
Ethnic Vietnam;
c) Causing division between religious people and non-religious people, between followers of religions
different, separating religious believers from the people's government, from political organizations, political organizations society; offending beliefs, beliefs and religions;
d) Undermining the implementation of the policy of international solidarity.
3. Posting and broadcasting information that incites war against independence, sovereignty and
territorial integrity of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam.
4. Distorting history; deny revolutionary achievements; offend the nation, national hero.
5. Disclosure of information on the list of state secrets, personal secrets and other secrets mật
according to regulations of the Law.
6. Information promoting customs, superstitions and superstitions; information about wild mystical stories
carried in society, adversely affecting social order and safety and the health of the community.
7. Inciting violence; propagate depraved lifestyles; detailed description of lewd acts, acts
crime; information that is not consistent with Vietnamese fine customs and traditions.
8. Information that is untrue, distorts, slanders, insults the reputation of agencies, organizations, honor,
dignity of the individual; charged with a crime without a court judgment.
9. Information affecting the normal physical and mental development of children.
10. Printing, publishing, transmitting and broadcasting journalistic products, journalistic works, information content
in a journalistic work that has been suspended, withdrawn, confiscated, banned from circulation, removed, destroyed, or
content of information that the press agency has rectified.
11. Obstructing the printing, distribution, transmission and broadcasting of journalistic products and information products
legitimacy of journalism to the public.
12. Threatening, threatening the life, insulting the honor and dignity of journalists and reporters; break
destroy, seize means and documents, obstruct journalists and reporters from lawful professional activities.
13. Posting and broadcasting on information products of journalistic nature specified in Clauses 1, 2,
3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 of this Article.
chapter II
CITIZEN'S RIGHT OF PRESS RIGHT, FREEDOM OF SPEAKING IN THE PRESS
Article 10. Citizens' right to freedom of the press
1. Creation of journalistic works.
2. Provide information to the press.
3. Respond to information in the press.
4. Access to press information.
5. Associate with press agencies to implement press products.
6. Print and issue printed newspapers.
Article 11. Citizens' right to freedom of expression in the press
1. Expressing opinions on the situation of the country and the world.
2. Participate in the formulation and implementation of the Party's guidelines, guidelines and policies and laws
gorvernment's.
3. To give comments, criticisms, recommendations, complaints and denunciations in the press for Party organizations,
state agencies, socio-political organizations, socio-political-professional organizations, social organizations,
socio-professional organizations and other organizations and individuals.
Article 12. Responsibilities of press agencies for press freedom and freedom of speech
essays in the citizen's press
1. Post and broadcast petitions, criticisms, news, articles, photos and other journalistic works of appropriate citizens
with the principles, purposes and without the content specified in Clauses 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 Article 9
of this Law; in case of not posting, broadcasting must reply and clearly state the reason upon request.

Page 5

2. Answering or requesting the organization or competent person to reply in writing or reply in the newspaper
information on petitions, complaints and denunciations sent by citizens.
Article 13. Responsibilities of the State for freedom of the press and freedom of speech
in the citizen's press
1. The State creates favorable conditions for citizens to exercise freedom of the press and freedom
speech in the press and let the press play its right role.
2. Press and journalists operate within the legal framework and are protected by the State. Nobody
to abuse the right to freedom of the press, the right to freedom of expression in the press to infringe upon the interests of the State
country, legitimate rights and interests of organizations and citizens.
3. Newspapers are not censored before they are printed, transmitted and broadcast.
Chapter III
PRESS ORGANIZATION
Section 1. PRESS MANAGEMENT AGENCIES
Article 14. Subjects allowed to establish press agencies
1. Party agencies, state agencies, socio-political organizations, socio-political organizations profession, social organization, socio-professional organization, religious organization from the provincial or similar level
or above, operating legally in accordance with Vietnamese law, may establish a news agency
solstice.
2. Higher education institutions in accordance with the Law on Higher Education; scientific research organization
scientific research and technological development organizations organized in the form of academies,
institute in accordance with the Law on Science and Technology; Provincial hospital or equivalent or higher trở
established scientific journals .
Article 15. Powers and duties of the agency in charge of the press
1. Press-managing agency means an agency or organization defined in Article 14 of this Law that bears the title of the subject
Apply for a license to operate a press, establish and directly manage a press agency.
2. The press managing agency has the following powers:
a) Determining the type of press, principles, purposes, target audience, and language of each press
types and types of press products, tasks and directions of operation of press agencies;
b) Appointing the head of the press agency after obtaining the written agreement of the
Ministry of Information and Communications;
c) Dismiss or dismiss the head of the press agency and send a written notice of the
dismiss or dismiss the head of the press agency to the Ministry of Information and Communications;
d) To inspect and examine the operation of the press agency; reward and discipline according to the provisions of
law.
3. The press managing agency has the following tasks:
a) Direct the press agency to strictly comply with the principles, purposes, tasks and directions of operation
motion; organize personnel and take responsibility for the operation of the press agency;
b) To ensure the initial funding source and necessary conditions for the operation of the press agency;
c) Settle complaints and denunciations against press agencies and individuals under their management according to regulations
provisions of law.
4. The head of the press-managing agency may not concurrently hold the position of the head
press agencies and jointly take responsibility before law within the scope, tasks and powers of
themselves for the violations of the affiliated press agencies.
Section 2. PRESS AGENCIES
Article 16. Press agencies
The press agency is the mouthpiece of the agencies and organizations specified in Article 14 of the Law
this, implementing one or several types of journalism, having one or several press products as prescribed
of this Law.
Article 17. Conditions for granting a press operation license

Page 6

1. Determining the type of press; principles and purposes consistent with the agency's functions and tasks
manager; for those serving; program, time, duration, transmission method, broadcast
(for audio and video newspapers); domain name, where the server is located and the connection service provider (for newspapers)
electronic).
2. Having a plan on organization and personnel to ensure the operation of the press agency; someone is enough
the criteria specified in Clause 2, Article 23 of this Law to hold the position of head of the establishment
press agency.
3. Having the name and form of presentation of the name of the press agency; name and form of presentation of the title of the newspaper publication
lice; name and icon of radio channel, television channel; the name and form of presentation of the page name
of electronic newspapers.
4. Having a head office and physical and technical facilities; financial plan; there are technical solutions
information safety and security techniques; For electronic newspapers, there must be at least one registered domain name ".vn".
sign in accordance with the press name and use the server system located in Vietnam; For audio and video newspapers, right?
have plans, plans to rent or use transmission and broadcasting infrastructure.
5. In line with the national plan on press development and management approved by the Prime Minister
approval.
Article 18. License for press activities
1. Agencies and organizations defined in Article 14 of this Law and fully satisfy the conditions prescribed in Article 17 of this Law
Under this Law, if you want to set up a press agency, you can send your documents directly or through the postal system
request the Ministry of Information and Communications to grant a license to operate the press.
Dossiers and procedures for applying for a press operation license shall be issued by the Minister of Information and Communications
regulation information.
2. Within 90 days from the date of receipt of complete and valid dossiers, the Ministry of Information and Communications shall issue
press operation license; In case of refusal, a written notice must be given, clearly stating the reasons therefor.
3. After being granted a press operation license, the agency in charge of the press shall issue a decision to
establish a press agency and announce it in the mass media.
4. After 03 months for printed and electronic newspapers, 09 months for audio and video newspapers, from the date of paper
The press license is valid, if the press agency is not established or has no products
press release, the license expires. The Ministry of Information and Communications issued a decision to revoke the license.
5. At least 30 days before the expected date of termination of operation, the press agency must notify
notify in writing to the Ministry of Information and Communications to revoke the license to operate the press and inform
newspaper in the mass media.
6. In case the license for press activities has been revoked according to the provisions of Clauses 4 and 5
This, if there is a need to re-grant the license, the agency in charge of the press shall send a written request to the Ministry of Information
and Media re-licensing. In case there is a change in the content compared to the issued license, the
The governing body shall send a dossier to request the Ministry of Information and Communications to grant a license according to the provisions of Clause 1
This.
Article 19. Change of the governing body of a press agency
In case of change of the governing body of a press agency, the governing body shall be inscribed on
license with written notice of termination of press activities sent to the Ministry of Information and Communications; organ,
organizations that receive press agencies shall carry out the procedures for applying for a press operation license as prescribed in Clause 1 of this Article
Article 18 of this Law.
Article 20. Changes to the contents stated in the press operation license
1. Within 05 days from the date of change of head office location, phone, fax, email,
release time, the Internet connection service provider and the press agency must notify the agency
State management agency in charge of the press.
2. When changing the name of the press agency, the name of the press agency; principles and purposes; Name
call for press publications, supplements, special pages of electronic newspapers, radio channels, television channels; geography
broadcasting points, headquarters locations associated with the control center; transmission and broadcasting methods;
radio and television channel duration; domain names of specialized websites and online newspapers and agencies
The manager must have a dossier requesting the Ministry of Information and Communications to amend and supplement the license.
Dossiers and procedures for requesting amendments and supplements to a press operation license issued by the Minister of Information
and Regulatory Communications.

Page 7

3. When changing the form of presentation, the position of the name of the press publication or supplement; channel icon
radio and television channels; Publishing period, page number, format and content have not changed
prescribed in Clauses 1 and 2 of this Article, the press-managing agency shall send a written request to the Ministry of Information and Communications
The media. The change is made only after obtaining the written approval of the Ministry of Information and
The media.
Article 21. Types of activities and revenue sources of press agencies
1. Press agencies operate in the form of revenue-generating non-business units.
Scientific journals operate in accordance with the type of governing body.
2. Revenue sources of press agencies include:
a) Revenues provided by the agency in charge of the press;
b) Income from selling newspapers, selling the right to view press products, advertising, exchanging, buying and selling copies
content rights;
c) Revenues from business and service activities of the press agency and units affiliated to the press agency
lice;
d) Revenues from lawful sponsorships of domestic and foreign organizations and individuals.
Article 22. Representative offices and resident reporters of press agencies
1. Conditions for setting up a representative office include:
a) Having a head office to set up a representative office;
b) The head of the representative office must have a press card issued at the press agency having the office
representative and not be disciplined in the form of reprimand or more in accordance with the law on public servants,
public employees and labor law within 1 year from the time of setting up the representative office.
2. An independent resident reporter must have a press card issued at a press agency
appoint a resident reporter and not be disciplined in the form of reprimand or more as prescribed by law
on civil servants, public employees and labor law within 1 year from the date of sending reporters
Resident.
3. 15 days before commencing operation, a press agency is qualified and has the need to place an office
Representative offices in provinces and centrally run cities send directly or through the postal system a
the dossier set to the People's Committee of the province where the press agency locates its representative office for notification. file
including:
a) Written approval to the People's Committee of the province on the establishment of a representative office
of the agency in charge of the press;
b) A copy of the press operation license certified by the press agency or a copy attached
originals for comparison;
c) Documents evidencing satisfaction of conditions specified at Point a, Clause 1 of this Article;
d) List of representative office personnel;
dd) Curriculum vitae, copy of press card of the head of the representative office, curriculum vitae of the reporter
a resident member of the representative office, certified by the press agency or a copy enclosed with the original
for comparison;
e) A document stipulating the tasks, powers and responsibilities of the representative office.
4. Provincial-level People's Committees are responsible for inspecting the operating conditions of representative offices
area; In case of ineligibility, the People's Committee of the province shall make a written request to the press agency
terminate the operation of the representative office and handle it in accordance with law.
5. A press agency that does not have a representative office and wishes to appoint a resident reporter to operate
Independently in the provinces and centrally-run cities, send directly or through the postal system a set of documents
dossiers of notification of activities of resident reporters to the People's Committee of the province where the reporter is located
active residency. Profile include:
a) A document on appointment of a resident reporter of the press agency;
b) A copy of the press operation license certified by the press agency or a copy attached
originals for comparison;
c) Curriculum vitae, copy of press card of the resident reporter, certified by the press agency
journal or copy with the original for comparison.

Page 8

6. At least 5 days before the change of location, the head of the representative office, the reporter
resident members or suspending or terminating the operation of representative offices, resident reporters,
The press agency shall notify in writing the People's Committee of the province where the representative office is located
resident reporter.
7. Activities of representative offices and resident reporters must be consistent with the principles and purposes
of press agencies; in accordance with the duties, powers and responsibilities assigned by the press agency and comply with the regulations
provisions of the law on the press and other provisions of relevant laws.
8. Representative offices and resident reporters cease to operate as soon as the press agency has
Representative office, resident reporter whose license to operate press or reporter has been revoked
Independent permanent resident has his journalist card revoked under a decision of the Ministry of Information and Communications.
Section 3. HEAD OF THE PRESS AGENCY
Article 23. Heads of press agencies
1. The head of a press agency is the Editor-in-Chief (for printed and electronic newspapers), who is the General Director
director or director (for audio and video newspapers).
2. Criteria for appointing the head of a press agency include:
a) Being a Vietnamese citizen with a permanent address in Vietnam;
b) Having a university degree or higher. Heads of press agencies of religious organizations
teachers do not apply this standard;
c) Have a valid press card. Heads of press agencies of religious organizations, magazines
scientific journals do not apply this standard;
d) Having good moral qualities; not during the execution of disciplinary action from reprimand to
up according to the provisions of the law on civil servants and public employees and the law on labor.
Article 24. Duties and powers of the head of a press agency
1. To take responsibility before the press-managing agency and before the law for all its activities
press agencies within the scope of their duties and powers.
2. Formulate and organize the implementation of the operation plan of the press agency.
3. Approve the structure of the publication's content; radio and television channels and programs; newspaper, specialist
electronic newspaper page.
4. Directing the correct implementation of the principles, purposes and regulations stated in the license.
5. Managing human resources, organizing training and fostering journalists, reporters and employees; Asset Management,
media facilities.
6. Not to hold the title of head or deputy head of the agency
other press.
Section 4. JOURNALIST
Article 25. Rights and obligations of journalists
1. Journalist means a person engaged in journalistic activities who is granted a press card.
2. Journalists have the following rights:
a) Press activities in the territory of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, press activities;
overseas according to the provisions of law and protected by law in professional activities;
b) To exploit, provide and use information in press activities in accordance with regulations of
law;
c) To visit agencies and organizations for professional journalism activities. When coming to work, journalists
Just show your journalist card. Agencies and organizations are responsible for providing journalists with
materials and documents not falling within the scope of state secrets, private life secrets and other secrets according to regulations
provisions of law;
d) To conduct professional journalism activities at public court hearings; arranged area
exclusively for business purposes; to be in direct contact with procedure-conducting persons and procedure-participants to obtain information,
interview in accordance with the law;
dd) To receive training and retraining to improve their political and journalistic skills;

Page 9

e) Refuse to participate in compiling or displaying journalistic works contrary to the provisions of law
the law.
3. Journalists have the following obligations:
a) To provide truthful information about the situation of the country and the world in accordance with the interests of the country and of the country
People; reflect the people's legitimate opinions and aspirations;
b) Protecting the Party's viewpoints, lines and policies; policies and laws of the State;
detecting, propagating and protecting positive factors; fight against and prevent wrong thoughts and acts
offense;
c) Not to abuse the journalist's name to harass and violate the law;
d) To correct and apologize in case of untrue, distorting, slanderous or offensive information
prestige of agencies and organizations, honor and dignity of individuals;
d) Take responsibility before the law and the head of the press agency for the content of the work
their journalistic products and about violations of the law;
e) Comply with regulations on professional ethics of journalists.
Article 26. Subjects considered for issuance of press cards
1. General Director, Deputy General Director, Director, Deputy Director, Editor-in-Chief, Deputy Editor-in-Chief
press agency, news agency.
2. Head of a press department (department), deputy head of a press service department (department) of a press agency, news agency
ton.
3. Reporters and editors of press agencies and news agencies.
4. Cinematographers, directors of radio and television programs (except feature films) of
The unit is licensed to operate journalism in the field of radio, television and documentary film production
data of the State.
5. Reporters, editors, people in charge of reporter and editor work at radio stations,
television at district level and equivalent.
6. People who have been granted press cards but are transferred to other jobs still continue
continue to have a journalistic work used, certified by a press agency, and be considered for a journalist card in
the following specific cases:
a) To be assigned to work in units that do not directly perform press operations of the agency
press agency;
b) Being transferred to teaching journalism at educational institutions
university in accordance with the Law on Higher Education;
c) To be transferred to work as a full-time officer at journalist associations at all levels, directly working for
state management of the press.
Article 27. Conditions and criteria for consideration for issuance of press cards
1. Persons working at press agencies specified in Clauses 1, 2, 3 and 4, Article 26 of this Law
To be considered for a journalist card must satisfy the following conditions and criteria:
a) Being a Vietnamese citizen with a permanent address in Vietnam;
b) Having a university degree or higher; the case is that ethnic minorities are carrying out the
print publications, radio and television programs, specialized pages of online newspapers in ethnic languages
the minority must have a college diploma or higher;
c) For the first time card issuance, there must be a continuous working period at the press agency subject to
request for card issuance from 02 years or more up to the time of card issuance, except for the editor-in-chief of scientific journals and
other cases as prescribed by law;
d) The press agency or working agency requests for a press card.
2. The cases specified in Clause 5, Article 26 of this Law to be considered for granting a journalist's card must:
satisfy the conditions and standards specified at Points a, b and d, Clause 1 of this Article and must ensure the following requirements:
the following conditions and standards:
a) Being a regular collaborator of a radio and television station of a province or city directly under it
center;

Page 10

b) At least twelve journalistic works have been broadcast on radio and television phát
provinces and centrally run cities for 01 year up to the time of card issuance;
c) For the first time card issuance, there must be a continuous working time at the radio station,
television at district level and equivalent for 02 years or more up to the time of card consideration;
d) Requested by a radio and television station of a province or centrally run city to issue a house card
newspaper.
3. The following cases shall not be considered for issuance of press cards:
a) Not falling into the categories specified in Article 26 of this Law;
b) Violation of regulations on professional ethics of journalists;
c) Having been disciplined in the form of reprimand or more in accordance with the law on public servants,
officials and labor law without the expiry of 12 months up to the time of card consideration;
d) Being the subjects involved in cases that have not yet been concluded by competent state agencies;
permission;
dd) Has been convicted of a crime by a legally effective court judgment but has not yet been expunged;
e) The journalist's card is revoked due to a violation of the law, but the time to revoke the card is less than 12 minutes
months from the date of issuance of the decision to the time of card issuance.
Article 28. Issuance, exchange and withdrawal of press cards
1. Journalist cards are issued to those who fully meet the conditions and criteria specified in Article 27 of this Law
This law is for journalistic activities.
2. The term of the press card is 05 years. The expiry date of the journalist's card is indicated on the card. In
In special cases, the extension of the term of use of the journalist's card by the Minister of Information and Communications
decision communication.
After the expiration of the journalist's card, the Ministry of Information and Communications considers granting and renewing the journalist's card by term
new.
3. The person who has been granted a journalist's card when he moves to work at another agency or unit
but are still subject to the issuance of journalist's cards as prescribed in Article 26 of this Law, they must do so
Continue to apply for a journalist card to a new agency.
4. In case a journalist's card is lost or damaged, the person who has been granted a journalist's card must carry out procedures for applying for a
re-issuance of journalist card.
An application for re-issuance of a journalist's card must be certified by the press agency, working agency,
the police station of the commune, ward or township where the card is lost on the case of card loss; In case the card is damaged, it must be attached
under the old card.
5. A person who is granted a journalist's card must return his/her press card in the following cases:
a) Persons who are granted press cards but change to other tasks are no longer subjects
to be granted press cards according to the provisions of Article 26 of this Law; retired journalist card holder;
the person who has expired the labor contract but is not allowed to sign a new labor contract or not
continue to work at the press agency;
b) The press card holder working at a press agency has his/her press license revoked
according to the decision of the Ministry of Information and Communications;
c) Within 15 days from the date of issuance of a decision on the contents specified at Points a and
b of this Clause, the head of the working agency of the person issued with a journalist's card is responsible for informing
notify in writing of the cases specified at point a of this clause, collect the press card and submit it to the Ministry of Industry and Trade
Information and communication.
In case the person who is granted a press card fails to return the card, the press agency is responsible
notice on their press products, except where the person who must return the card has lost the card and reported
in writing with the Ministry of Information and Communications;
d) Persons who are required to return the press card specified at Points a and b of this Clause,
within 6 months from the date of handing over the press card if accepted by a press agency
Working under a contract for 1 year or more, the journalist's card shall be considered for replacement according to the provisions of Clause 3, Article
this.
6. The press card holder shall have his/her press card revoked in the following cases:

Page 11

a) Violations against regulations on professional ethics of journalists and journalistic activities
press, press information or use press card for improper purposes, causing serious consequences;
b) The procedure-conducting agency decides to prosecute the accused. In case the competent authority
to suspend the investigation, to terminate the case against that journalist or from the date on which the court's judgment or decision has been issued
If the journalist is declared not guilty or exempted from criminal liability by law, the governing body shall
State management in charge of the press is responsible for returning the press card;
c) Being disciplined by a competent authority in the form of warning or higher or being reprimanded
twice in two consecutive years in accordance with the law on civil servants and public employees and the law on labor
motion;
d) Quit but do not return the journalist card.
7. The Ministry of Information and Communications is the agency that issues, changes, re-issues and withdraws press cards.
8. Dossiers and procedures for granting, changing, re-granting and withdrawing press cards shall be issued by the Minister of Information and Communications
regulation information.
Chapter IV
PRESS ACTIVITIES
Section 1. IMPLEMENTATION OF MORE PRESS TYPES AND PRODUCTS; LINK IN ACTIVITIES
PRESS ALARM
Article 29. Implementation of more types of press
1. A press agency that fully meets the conditions prescribed in Article 17 of this Law if it has a real need
If other types of press are added, the press-managing agency shall send the application file directly or through the system
Postal Service requests the Ministry of Information and Communications to issue a license.
Dossier and procedures for applying for a license to add another type of press shall comply with regulations
prescribed in Article 18 of this Law.
2. After 03 months for printed and electronic newspapers, 09 months for audio and video newspapers from the date of paper
If the press agency has no journalistic products, the license will expire
effect. The Ministry of Information and Communications issued a decision to revoke the license.
3. At least 30 days before the date of suspension of the operation of press and press agencies
must report in writing to the Ministry of Information and Communications and announce in the media
mass.
In case of suspension of the press beyond the time limit specified in Clause 2 of this Article
then the Ministry of Information and Communications issues a decision to revoke the license.
4. At least 30 days before the termination date of the press service, the press agency must:
notice in writing to the Ministry of Information and Communications to revoke the license and notice on
mass media.
5. In case the license has been revoked as prescribed in Clauses 2, 3 and 4 of this Article, if any
requesting the re-issuance of the license, the agency in charge of the press shall send a written request to the Ministry of Information and Communications
license reissue. In case there is a change in the content compared to the issued license, the governing body
The press shall send a dossier to request the Ministry of Information and Communications to grant a license as prescribed in Clause 1 of Article 1
this.
Article 30. Conditions for publishing additional press publications and supplements; produce more channels
radio and television channels; Open the special page of the online newspaper
1. Having principles and purposes consistent with the principles and purposes of the press agency; for those serving;
where the server and connection service provider (for specialized pages of electronic newspapers) are located in accordance with
contents of the operation license of the press agency.
2. Having a plan on organization and personnel to ensure the operation of press publications, supplements,
radio channels, television channels, specialized pages of electronic newspapers.
3. Having the name and form of presentation of the name of the press publication and supplement; channel name and icon
radio and television channels; name and interface of the website's specialized homepage.
4. Having physical and technical conditions; financial plan; there are technical solutions
ensure safety and security of information; have a subordinate domain name that matches the registered domain name for
the website of the electronic newspaper; have a plan, plan to rent or use transmission and broadcasting infrastructure for
radio and television channels.

Page 12

Article 31. Granting licenses to publish additional press publications and supplements; produce more channels
radio and television channels; Open the special page of the online newspaper
1. Press agencies that fully satisfy the conditions prescribed in Article 30 of this Law wish to publish
more press publications, supplements; producing more radio and television channels; open the page
of an electronic newspaper, the agency in charge of the press shall send the dossier directly or via the postal system to the Ministry of Finance
Information and Communication Licensing.
Dossiers and procedures for applying for a license to publish additional press publications and supplements; more production
radio and television channels; open a special page of an online newspaper run by the Minister of Information and
Regulatory communication.
2. Within 30 days from the date of receipt of complete and valid dossiers, the Ministry of Information and Communications may
responsibility for granting licenses to publish additional press publications and supplements; produce more radio channels,
channel; Open the special page of the electronic newspaper. In case of refusal, the Ministry of Information and Communications
must notify in writing and clearly state the reason.

3. After 02 months from the date of issuance of the license to publish more press publications, supplements, and specialized publications
website of the online newspaper, 6 months from the date of the license to produce more radio and television channels
If the press agency has no journalistic products, the license will be invalidated. Ministry of Information and
The media made the decision to revoke the license.
4. At least 30 days before the date of suspension of publication of press publications, supplements, and production
Radio channels, television channels, specialized pages of online newspapers and press agencies must notify in writing
documents for the Ministry of Information and Communications and in the mass media.
In case of suspension for more than 03 months for press publications, supplements, special pages of
electronic newspapers, 06 months for the production of radio and television channels, the Ministry of Information and Communications
decision to revoke the license.
5. At least 30 days before the termination of publication of press publications, supplements, and production
Radio channels, television channels, specialized pages of online newspapers and press agencies must notify in writing
document to the Ministry of Information and Communications to revoke the license and notify in the media
mass.
6. In case the license has been revoked as prescribed in Clauses 3, 4 and 5 of this Article, if any
requesting the re-issuance of the license, the agency in charge of the press shall send a written request to the Ministry of Information and Communications
license reissue. In case there is a change in the content compared to the issued license, the governing body
The press shall send a dossier to request the Ministry of Information and Communications to grant a license as prescribed in Clause 1 of Article 1
this.
Article 32. Publishing news bulletins
State news agencies wishing to publish news bulletins shall send notices in writing
to the Ministry of Information and Communications.
Article 33. Editing of foreign program channels on pay radio and television services
money
1. The granting of a license to edit foreign program channels on radio and television services
The payment model is implemented with each program channel and in accordance with the development and management plan
national press.
2. Conditions for licensing include:
a) Being a press agency with a license to operate radio and television;
b) There is a written request for an editorial license from the press agency. The case is a news agency
Even if it belongs to a ministry, branch, province or centrally run city, it must have a written approval from the agency
press manager;
c) Having personnel who meet the requirements for journalistic qualifications, have a valid journalist's card and
the foreign language level is suitable for the foreign program channel applying for an editorial license;
d) Having technical capacity to meet editing requirements, including a system of retardation devices, storage devices, etc
storing and technical means of signal reception and transmission suitable for program channel editing; public guarantee
editorial and translation work in Vietnam;
dd) There is an estimate of editing and translation costs for 1 year and a document proving the financial source
legally ensure the editing and translation work according to the estimate;
e) Having a copyright or written permission to use foreign program channels in Vietnam
South in accordance with the law.

Page 13

3. Order and procedures for granting a license to edit foreign program channels on radio services,
Pay television shall comply with the following regulations:
a) Press agencies wishing to edit foreign program channels on radio services,
Pay television sends documents directly or via the postal system to the Ministry of Information and Communications
licensing information.
Dossiers and procedures for applying for permits shall be prescribed by the Government;
b) Within 30 days from the date of receipt of complete and valid dossiers, the Ministry of Information and Communications may
responsible for granting a license to edit foreign program channels on radio and television services
pay. In case of refusal, the Ministry of Information and Communications must notify in writing and clearly state the reason
do.
4. Validity period of foreign program channel editing license on broadcasting service
pay radio and television are specified in each license.
5. After 03 months from the effective date of the license, if the press agency fails to carry out the
If you edit a foreign program channel, the license will expire. The Ministry of Information and Communications made a decision
license to be revoked.
6. At least 30 days before the date of suspension of editing foreign program channels on translation
pay radio and television services, the press agency must notify in writing the Ministry of Information and
The media; in case of suspension for more than 03 months, the Ministry of Information and Communications shall issue a decision to
license revocation.
7. At least 30 days before the termination of editing foreign program channels on translation
pay radio and television services, the press agency must notify in writing the Ministry of Information and
Communication to revoke the license.
8. In case the license has been revoked as prescribed in Clauses 5, 6 and 7 of this Article, if any
If the editorial office requests the resumption of editorial activities, the press agency shall send a written request to the Ministry of Information and Communications for issuance
license again. In case there is a change in content compared to the issued license, the press agency shall send a dossier
request the Ministry of Information and Communications to issue a license as prescribed in Clause 3 of this Article.
Article 34. Newsletter publication
1. Newsletters must ensure the following provisions:
a) The maximum size of the bulletin is 19cm x 27cm, the maximum number of pages is 64 pages. Not advertised
reported in the newsletter;
b) The upper part of a bulletin's page must be marked with the word "BULDERSHIP", the name of the newsletter after or below the word
“BULLET”, the name of the publishing agency or organization and the date, month and year of publication of the bulletin under the name of the bulletin;
c) The last part of the last page of the bulletin must clearly state the number, day, month and year of the publishing license, the place of printing, the number of
publication volume, term, and person responsible for publishing.
2. Conditions for granting a license to publish a newsletter include:
a) There is a person responsible for the publication of the newsletter;
b) Organize an appropriate operational apparatus to ensure the publication of newsletters;
c) Clearly define the name of the bulletin, the purpose of publication and information content, the target audience, the scope of the newsletter
release, language of expression, term of publication, framework, number of pages, quantity, place of printing;
d) Having an official working place and necessary conditions to ensure the publication of the newsletter.
3. The order and procedures for granting a license to publish a newsletter shall comply with the following provisions:
a) Central agencies and organizations; Foreign representative offices, foreign organizations in Vietnam
Men wishing to publish a newsletter send their application for a license directly or via the postal system
to the Ministry of Information and Communications.
Agencies and organizations in provinces and centrally run cities that wish to publish newsletters send dossiers
apply for a license directly or via the postal system to the People's Committee of the province.
Dossiers and procedures for applying for a license to publish newsletters issued by the Minister of Information and Communications
regulatory clearance;
b) Within 30 days from the date of receipt of a complete and valid application, the Ministry of Information and Communications, the
Provincial-level People's Committees are responsible for granting licenses to publish newsletters; In case of refusal, it must be informed
report in writing and state the reasons therefor.

Page 14

4. The validity period of a newsletter publishing license is specified in each license but
no more than 1 year from the date of issue.
By the time limit for publishing the record on the license, if the agency or organization does not publish the newsletter, the license
expire; The Ministry of Information and Communications and the People's Committee of the province shall issue a decision to revoke the license.
If there is a need to publish a newsletter, the agency or organization shall carry out procedures for re-application for permission.
5. At least 15 days before the date of suspension or termination of newsletter publication, agencies or organizations
Organizations licensed to publish bulletins must notify in writing the Ministry of Information and Communications
information, the People's Committee of the province. In case of termination of newsletter publication, the Ministry of Information and Communications,
Provincial-level People's Committees shall issue decisions to revoke permits.
6. Agencies or organizations wishing to change one of the contents stated in the publishing license
The information must be submitted in writing to the Ministry of Information and Communications and the People's Committee of the province.
Article 35. Publishing of special journals
1. Conditions for granting a special issue publishing license include:
a) There is a person with journalistic skills who is responsible for the publication of the special;
b) Organize an appropriate operational apparatus to ensure the publication of special journals;
c) Clearly define the title of the special issue, the purpose of publication, the content of the information, the target audience, the scope of the publication
release, language of expression, framework, number of pages, quantity, place of printing, time of publication;
d) Having an official working place of the agency or organization applying for the permit.
2. The order and procedures for granting a special issue publishing license shall comply with the following provisions:
a) Agencies and organizations wishing to publish special journals shall send their dossiers directly or via the postal system
main proposal to the Ministry of Information and Communications for licensing;
Dossiers and procedures for applying for a special issue publishing license issued by the Minister of Information and Communications
regulation information.
b) Within 30 days from the date of receipt of complete and valid dossiers, the Ministry of Information and Communications may
responsibility for granting special issue licenses; In case of refusal, a written notice must be given and
state the reason.
3. The validity period of a special issue publishing license is specified in each license but
no more than 1 year from the date of issue.
By the time limit for publishing the records stated in the license, if the agency or organization does not publish the special issue, the license
expired and revoked. If there is a need to publish a special issue, agencies and organizations must apply for permission
again.
4. At least 15 days before the date of suspension or termination of special issue publication, agencies or organizations
must notify in writing the Ministry of Information and Communications. In case of termination of publication
special issue, the Ministry of Information and Communications issued a decision to revoke the license.
5. Agencies or organizations that wish to change one of the contents stated in the special publishing license
must make a written request to the Ministry of Information and Communications.
Article 36. General website
1. General electronic information pages must cite verbatim and accurate press sources and record
specify the author's name, the name of the press agency, and the time when such information was published or broadcast.
2. Information content on the general website must not violate the provisions of
Clause 13, Article 9 of this Law and other relevant laws.
3. Agencies and organizations that set up a general website must develop a management process
information; is responsible for checking, monitoring and proactively removing information with the content specified in
Clause 13, Article 9 of this Law or at the request of a competent state management agency.
4. Agencies and organizations that set up general websites must immediately remove information content
compiled when the cited information source removed the content of that information.
5. The establishment of general website of agencies, organizations and enterprises
according to government regulations.
Article 37. Association in press activities
1. Press agencies are allowed to associate in press activities with other press agencies, law
individuals and individuals with business registration appropriate to the field of association as prescribed by law.

Page 15

The head of the press agency is responsible for all joint activities in the field
press in accordance with the law.
2. Press agencies are allowed to associate in the following fields:
a) Designing, presenting, printing, advertising, publishing press and information content specified in
Points b, c, d and e of this clause;
b) Exploiting or buying copyrights on cufflinks and contents of press publications in the field of
science, technology, sports, entertainment, advertising and economic information of foreign press to export
Vietnamese version;
c) Foreign organizations and individuals are allowed to cooperate in exploiting or buying all copyrights on
cufflinks, contents of legal Vietnamese press publications for publication in foreign countries;
d) Producing programs, radio channels and television channels in the fields of science, technology and technology
technology, economy, culture, sports, entertainment, advertising, social security;
dd) Producing printed and electronic newspapers in the fields of science, technology, economics,
culture, sports, entertainment, advertising, social security.
3. Affiliate programs on radio and television channels serving political tasks,
essential information and propaganda as prescribed by the Ministry of Information and Communications and the main news channel
aggregate value does not exceed thirty percent of the total duration of the first broadcast of
this channel.
4. The association of radio programs, entertainment television programs, broadcast games
Copyrighted reality television and television shows and scripts for foreign programs must be Vietnameseized and appropriate
with Vietnamese customs and traditions.
5. In case the broadcasting and audio press agencies have joint production activities for the entire broadcasting channel
radio and television channels, the number of linked channels shall not exceed thirty percent of the total number of radio and television channels.
TV channels are licensed for production.
6. Contents of affiliate programs must conform to the provisions of Vietnamese law.
Section 2. INFORMATION IN THE PRESS
Article 38. Provision of information to the press
1. Within the ambit of their powers and duties, responsible agencies, organizations and persons have
the right and obligation to provide information to the press and take responsibility before law for the content of the information
information provided. The provision of information to the press can be in writing, on the website
synthesis, press conference, interview and other forms. Press agencies must use correctly
Information content is provided and must clearly state the source of information.
2. Competent agencies, organizations and individuals have the right to refuse to provide information to the press
in the following cases:
a) Information on the list of state secrets, secrets under the Party's principles and regulations, secrets
privacy of individuals and other secrets as prescribed by law;
b) Information about the case being investigated or not yet tried, except for administrative agencies
The state and investigative agencies need to inform the press on issues that are beneficial to investigative activities and
crime prevention and combat;
c) Information about the case being inspected without any conclusion; the case is
during the settlement of complaints and denunciations; Disputes and conflicts between agencies
The country is in the process of settlement, there is no official conclusion of the competent person but according to the
provisions of the law have not been allowed to be published;
d) Policy documents, schemes are in the process of drafting which according to the provisions of law
the law has not been authorized to be published by the competent authority.
3. For cases under investigation and prosecution but not yet tried, negative cases
or there are signs of law violation but there is no conclusion from a competent state agency or report
has the right to information according to its own sources and is responsible before the law for the content
information.
4. Press agencies and journalists have the right and obligation not to disclose information providers, except
at the written request of the Procurator General of the People's Procuracy, the Chief Justice of the People's Court
People at the provincial level and equivalent or higher are necessary for the investigation, prosecution and trial of very serious crimes,
special serious.

Page 16

The Chief Procurator of the People's Procuracy, the Chief Justice of the People's Court of the province and the equivalent or higher
responsible for organizing the protection of information providers; responsible law enforcement agencies
is responsible for coordinating with the Chief Procurator of the People's Procuracy, the Chief Justice of the People's Court of the province and the future
equivalent or higher to protect information providers.
5. State administrative agencies are responsible for appointing spokespersons, making statements and
provide information to the press periodically and irregularly.
The Government shall detail the statements and provision of information to the press by agencies
state Administration.
Article 39. Responding to the press
1. The head of a press agency has the right to request a competent agency, organization or individual
respond to issues raised by citizens in the press. Within 30 days from the date of receipt of the request
of the head of the press agency, agency, organization or individual responsible for replying in the press.
2. Within 30 days from the date of receipt of opinions, recommendations, criticisms and complaints from the group
Organizations, citizens and citizens' denunciations transferred by the press agency, the head of the agency or organization
responsible for notifying the press agency of the solution.
If the above-mentioned time limit is exceeded without receiving a notice from the agency or organization, the agency or organization shall
The press has the right to transfer opinions, recommendations, criticisms, complaints and denunciations of organizations and citizens to the agency
the higher authority has the authority to resolve or bring the matter to the attention of the press.
3. Within 10 days for daily printed newspapers and audio, video and electronic newspapers, 15 days
for weekly newspapers, on the most recent issue for printed journals since receiving the agency's written response,
organizations competent to settle complaints, denunciations or written responses to recommendations or criticisms of agencies,
organizations or individuals, for issues raised or received by the press, the press agency must notify such to the agency
agencies, organizations and citizens have opinions, recommendations, criticisms, complaints, denunciations, or publish or broadcast them in the press.
mine.
4. Agencies, organizations and citizens have the right to request the press agency to reply to the issue raised by the press agency
even informed; The press agency is responsible for replying within 15 days from the date of receiving the request
needs of agencies, organizations and citizens.
Article 40. Interviewing in the press
1. The interviewer must notify the interviewee in advance of the purpose, requirements and
interview questions; In case of needing a face-to-face interview without prior notice, it must be
respondents agreed.
2. After the interview, based on the information and documents provided by the respondents, the interviewer
have the right to express themselves in appropriate forms. The interviewer must accurately and truthfully express the
respondents' responses.
Interviewees have the right to request that the responses be reviewed before posting or broadcasting. Organ
the press and the interviewer must fulfill the request.
3. Journalists are not allowed to use opinions expressed at conferences, seminars, meetings, exchanges
exchange, talk with journalists in attendance to turn into an interview without the consent of
speaker.
4. The press agency, the interviewer and the interviewee must be responsible for the content
content of information published and broadcast in the press.
Article 41. Press conference
1. Vietnamese agencies, organizations and citizens have the right to hold press conferences to announce, declare and explain
Like and reply to content related to the tasks, powers or interests of agencies, organizations or individuals
By the way.
Press conferences of foreign representative missions and foreign organizations in Vietnam shall comply with the regulations
prescribed in Clause 10, Article 56 of this Law.
2. Spokesperson or person responsible for providing information of a political organization, National
Association, Government, President; agencies of political organizations, socio-political organizations at the central level
and provincial level; ministries and ministerial-level agencies; People's Councils and People's Committees of provinces according to their functions,
their duties are to hold periodic and extraordinary press conferences to provide information to the press agency
solstice.
3. Agencies and organizations not specified in Clause 2 of this Article and citizens have the right to organize
press conference to provide information to the press. Agencies, organizations and citizens organizing press conferences must notify

Page 17

in writing 24 hours before the scheduled time of the press conference to the state management agency in charge of the press
according to the following provisions:
a) Agencies and organizations directly under the Central Government shall notify the Ministry of Information and Communications;
b) Agencies and organizations not mentioned in Point a of this Clause and citizens shall notify the People's Committee of
at the provincial level where the press conference is held.
4. The notice content includes the following information:
a) Location of the press conference;
b) Time of press conference;
c) Contents of the press conference;
d) The person presiding over the press conference.
5. The state management agency in charge of the press shall reply to agencies, organizations and citizens about the news
the press conference within the time specified in Clause 3 of this Article; in case there is no written response, the organization,
citizens can hold press conferences.
The content of the press conference must match the content answered by the state management agency in charge of the press
approval, in case there is no written reply, it must be true to the content notified to the agency
State management of the press.
6. The state management agency in charge of the press has the right to suspend the press conference if detecting signs of
a sign of violation of the law or the contents of a press conference containing information specified in Clauses 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and
9 Article 9 of this Law.
Article 42. Rectification in the press
1. Press agencies provide false information, distort, slander or insult the reputation of agencies or organizations
position, honor and dignity of an individual must publish and broadcast corrections and apologies in the press and
notify such agency, organization or individual.
For the electronic press, in addition to posting and broadcasting corrections, apologies must immediately remove information
falsely posted, broadcast but must keep the information content on the server to serve the payment work
inspection and examination as prescribed at Point d, Clause 1, Article 52 of this Law.
2 . When there is a written conclusion of a competent state agency on the case published by the press,
broadcast is untrue, distorts, slanders, insults the reputation of agencies or organizations, honor and dignity of
individual, the press agency must publish and broadcast the content of that conclusion and the content of corrections and apologies of the
press agency, of the author of a journalistic work.
The apology of the press agency, the author of the journalistic work is published and broadcast immediately after the content
rectification information.
3. The posting and broadcasting of corrections and apologies by the press agency and the author of the work must
comply with the following provisions:
a) Publish and distribute on the second page for printed newspapers, the last page for printed magazines, a separate section on page
owners for electronic newspapers with the same typeface and font size that the press has published or broadcast information;
b) Post and broadcast in the correct category, broadcast time, number of broadcasts for audio and video newspapers
Newspapers have published and broadcast information.
4. When publishing or broadcasting corrections and apologies, the press agency must fully display the contents
The following:
a) Title: “Information rectification, sorry”;
b) The name of the journalistic work, the title of the column, the number of the newspaper, the date, month and year published or broadcast must be improved
main;
c) Information that is untrue, distorts, slanders or offends the reputation of agencies, organizations, or names
participation, dignity of the individual published or broadcast in the journalistic work and the content of information is rectified.
5. The time for posting and broadcasting corrections and apologies is regulated as follows:
a) The publication and distribution of corrections and apologies of the electronic newspaper shall be done immediately upon receipt of the document
conclude or self-detect violations; Correction and apology information must be kept in the newspaper for at least 07
days from the date of posting, broadcast corrections, apologies;
b) The publication and distribution of corrections and apologies in print, audio and video newspapers must be done within a period of time
a time limit of 02 days for daily, audio and video newspapers; in the most recent issue for weekly newspapers, magazines, adjectives

Page 18

the date the press agency receives the written conclusion or self-detects the violation. For publishing magazines
for more than 30 days in a period, a written reply must be immediately sent to the agency, organization or individual and must be posted in the
out nearest;
c) The press agency, the general website has published and broadcast information of the press agency
Others have content that must be rectified, sorry also have to repost the corrected content, sorry
violation by the press.
The press agency has published and broadcast infringing information, after making corrections, apologize
must be responsible for notifying press agencies and general websites that have an agreement
about using news, articles of his newspaper to make re-posting corrections, apologies.
Article 43. Feedback
1. When agencies, organizations and individuals have grounds to believe that the press agency gives false information,
distort, slander, insult one's reputation, honor, or dignity or cause misunderstandings to affect the prestige
their credibility, honor and dignity, they have the right to give written feedback to the press agency,
the agency in charge of the press, the state management agency in charge of the press, or initiate a lawsuit at the Court.
2. Press agencies must publish and broadcast feedbacks of agencies, organizations and individuals. Time
Posting and broadcasting shall comply with regulations on posting and broadcasting corrections in Clause 5, Article 42 of this Law.
In case of disagreement with the feedback of agencies, organizations, individuals or press agencies
still have to post, broadcast such feedback and have the right to further information to clarify their views.
After three times of publication, give feedback from agencies, organizations, individuals and press agencies that
If there is no agreement between the two parties, the press agency has the right to stop publishing and broadcasting; home management agency
The country has the right to request the press agency to stop publishing and broadcasting information of related parties.
3. Press agencies have the right not to publish or broadcast feedbacks of agencies, organizations or individuals
if such opinion violates the law, offends the reputation of the press agency, the honor and dignity of the work
the author of the journalistic work, and at the same time notify in writing and clearly state the reasons for the agency, organization or individual
know.
4. When publishing or broadcasting feedback, the press agency must fully display the following contents:
a) Name of the agency, organization or individual that responds to the information;
b) The name of the journalistic work, the name of the column, the number of the newspaper, the date, month, and year of publication or broadcast received feedback
information.
Article 44. Advertisement in the press
Newspapers are published and broadcast advertisements. The posting and broadcasting of advertisements in the press must comply with the
provisions of this Law and regulations of law on advertising.
Article 45. Copyright in the field of journalism
Press agencies must comply with the provisions of the law on copyright and related rights when
publish and distribute journalistic works.
Article 46. Information to be recorded and displayed in the press
The press agency must record and fully display the following information:
1. On the front page, first cover for printed newspapers, home page, pages for electronic newspapers must have the following contents:
the following content:
a) Name of the press product;
b) Name of the press agency, name of the agency in charge of the press (below the name of the press); domain name for
electronic media;
c) The ordinal number of the press release period, for printed newspapers;
d) Date, month and year of issue.
2. The bottom of the last page, the last cover for printed newspapers, and the homepage for electronic newspapers must contain the following contents:
the following content:
a) License number, date of issue, licensing agency for press activities;
b) Address of the press agency, phone number, fax, email. Name and surname of the head of the agency
newspapers;
c) Place of printing, format, number of pages, publication term, and selling price for printed newspapers.

Page 19

3. Spoken and picture newspapers must show symbols and music.
Article 47. Protection of content of radio programs, television programs, content
electronic newspaper
Audio, video and electronic newspapers have the right to use technical measures to protect the content of their publications
radio programs, television programs, electronic newspaper content.
Section 3. PRINTING, DISTRIBUTION AND TRANSMISSION, RADIO
Article 48. Press printing
Printing establishments licensed to print newspapers and magazines in accordance with the law on publishing have the responsibility
perform the contract signed with the press agency, ensuring the time of press release.
Article 49. Press release
1. Press agencies shall distribute press in accordance with regulations stated in their operating licenses
press action.
A press agency is authorized to issue or entrust to an organization or individual to publish.
2. The information and communication industry is responsible for publishing all kinds of public-use newspapers online
public postal services as prescribed by the Government and the distribution of other types of newspapers under signed contracts
association with the media.
3. Press agencies, press agencies, organizations and individuals participating in press release, organizations
Organizations licensed to export or import newspapers are responsible for implementing the decision to withdraw newspaper publications
the will of a competent state agency; The Department of Information and Communications, the provincial police agency has
responsibility to check the implementation.
Press agencies, press organizations whose publications are withdrawn must bear all costs for
recovery.
4. The Ministry of Information and Communications regulates the maximum charge rates for the public-utility press release service
through the public postal network.
Article 50. Registration for provision of foreign program channels on radio and television services
pay form
1. Foreign television companies that provide foreign program channels to Vietnam with fees
Content copyright fee must go through an authorized agent in Vietnam to make the registration
provide program channels and fulfill financial obligations to the State of Vietnam.
2. Foreign television companies must clearly specify the scope of authorization for each agent when at the same time
make authorization for two or more agents.
3. For foreign program channels that do not have content copyright fees, television companies
Foreigners only carry out editing and translation procedures according to regulations, not through authorized agents
rights in Vietnam.
4. The authorized agent is a Vietnamese enterprise and is authorized by a foreign television company
the right to act as an agent to provide foreign program channels on pay radio and television services in
Vietnam.
5. The authorized agent is responsible for registering the provision of foreign program channels on the Internet
pay radio and television services in Vietnam with the Ministry of Information and Communications.
Dossier and procedures for applying for a certificate of registration shall be prescribed by the Government.
Article 51. Provision of transmission and broadcasting services
1. The unit providing transmission and broadcasting services must ensure the transmission and broadcasting of raw waves
integrity of the media's information.
2. Radio and television transmission and broadcasting service providers are responsible for
responsible for ensuring the broadcasting time, duration and scope; transmission quality, broadcast channels
radio and television channels serving essential national political, information and propaganda tasks,
locality and ensure the following principles:
a) Universalizing radio and television broadcasting services nationwide, focusing on
ethnic minority areas, areas with extremely difficult socio-economic conditions, deep-lying and remote areas, and remote areas.
mountains, borders, islands;

Page 20

b) Conform to the State's planning on press, transmission, radio and television broadcasting
Figure; developing radio and television services;
c) Conform to regulations on management of Internet resources and radio frequencies as prescribed by
the law on telecommunications and radio frequencies;
d) Service content is in accordance with regulations on management of information content as prescribed by law
press law;
dd) Conform to the State's technical regulations on the quality of radio equipment and services,
TV.
3. Conditions for granting a license to provide pay radio and television services include:
a) Being a Vietnamese enterprise. Foreign-invested enterprises must be approved
on the policy of the Prime Minister;
b) Having a service provision plan in line with the master plan on development of radio and television services;
television, radio and television transmission and broadcasting planning and other master plans in the field of radio and television broadcasting
radio, television, electronic information;
c) Having a license to establish a telecommunications network or having an agreement to lease and use a telecommunications network;
communications meeting technical requirements for service transmission to subscribers connected to that telecommunications network for
with terrestrial television service, cable television service, satellite television service, television service
mobile image; with confirmation of domain name registration “.vn” or a definite Internet address to provide services to
subscribers for radio and television services on the Internet;
d) Having a plan for allocating human resources; investment in technical equipment; forecasting and market analysis
service school; Business plan and service charges, estimate investment costs and low operating costs
in the first 02 years; documents proving charter capital or equivalent value documents satisfy
request service provision according to the estimate;
dd) There is a plan to set up a center to receive and transmit all radio and television channels in the country
country, foreign program channels are concentrated in one place, except for channels on the list of broadcast channels
Radio and television channels serving essential political, information and propaganda tasks of the country and region
methods, including technical design of signal processing equipment system, equipment connected to transmission network, equipment thiết
service management, subscription management and content protection;
e) Having a plan to apply modern technical technology in accordance with the State's regulations on standards
standards and technical regulations to ensure service quality and information safety and security; timely handling of
technical problems to ensure the continuity of services and the interests of subscribers;
g) There is a tentative list of domestic radio and television channels (except for channels serving
essential political tasks, information, propaganda), foreign program channels, content on demand
demand, value-added content will be provided on pay radio and television services accompanied by documents
consent from the content provider.
4. Enterprises wishing to provide pay radio and television services shall submit an application
License issued by the Ministry of Information and Communications.
Dossier and procedures for applying for a license shall be prescribed by the Government.
5. The validity period of the license to provide pay radio and television services is regulated
specified in each license.
6. Pay radio and television transmission and broadcasting service providers are applicable
technical measures to protect the content of radio and television programs to collect fees; pay fees
the right to provide services in accordance with the law.
Section 4. PRESS RECORDS
Article 52. Regime of press deposit and submission of press publications
1. A press agency must comply with the depository regime as follows:
a) For the central press and the printed press in Hanoi, the press agency must submit five copies to the
the central state management agency in charge of the press at the latest at 08:00 am of the date of issue;
b) For the local printed press, the press agency must submit two copies to the housing management agency
return to the local press no later than 08:00 am on the date of issue, and submit five copies at the same time
to the central state management agency in charge of the press through the postal system;

Page 21

c) The broadcasting and video press agencies are responsible for keeping the entire broadcast and broadcast programs
waves, information on signal sources used to relay central radio and television waves in
a time limit of 30 days from the date of transmission or broadcast; provide transmission signal, broadcast on demand
of a competent authority to serve the work of electronic deposit;
d) The electronic press agency must maintain the integrity of the content of information published and broadcast
within 3 months from the date of posting or distribution to serve the inspection work of the housing management agency
country.
2. When submitting the printed press for deposit, the press agency must clearly specify the printed press to be deposited and the number of distributions
date and time of deposit, signature of the head of the press agency or an authorized person.
Reprinted newspapers must be deposited with the same deposit as the first printing.
Print newspapers deposited through the postal system are prioritized for fastest delivery to the agency
receive deposit. The time for depositing is based on the postmark of the place of departure.
3. The printing press agency must submit five printed press publications to keep at the National Library of Vietnam.
4. The Ministry of Information and Communications shall make electronic deposit of audio and video newspapers and newspapers
independent from the press agency according to the Government's regulations; perform the test and publish the number
related to journalism.
Article 53. Examination of the deposited press
1. The Ministry of Information and Communications shall organize the examination of the deposited press. Provincial People's Committee
local depository press inspection agency.
In case of detecting that the press violates the provisions of law, the Ministry of Information and Communications, the
Provincial-level People's Committees shall apply handling measures as prescribed in Article 59 of this Law.
2. The Ministry of Finance shall stipulate the remuneration regime for readers, listeners, and viewers to check the deposited press.
Section 5. INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION IN PRESS ACTIVITIES
Article 54. Export and import of printed newspapers
1. Printed newspapers legally published in Vietnam may be exported to foreign countries.
2. The import of printed newspapers is carried out through press export and import establishments set up by the Ministry of Industry and Trade
Information and Communication Licensing.
3. Print press importers must register the list of imported newspapers with the Ministry of Information and Communications
Communication before import.
4. The head of an establishment importing printed newspapers must organize the inspection of imported press contents
before publishing and take responsibility before law for the contents of printed newspapers that they import.
Article 55. Cooperation activities of Vietnamese press agencies with foreign countries
1. Vietnamese press agencies have the following rights:
a) Publish, transmit and broadcast press products abroad; entrust to organizations, individuals
reprinting, transmitting and broadcasting Vietnamese press products abroad;
b) Hire foreign experts and collaborators;
c) Sending journalists to conduct press activities abroad;
d) Establishing a representative office abroad;
d) Cooperation activities with foreign countries.
2. Press agencies that exercise the rights specified in Clause 1 of this Article must ensure the following provisions:
determine the following:
a) Press products released, transmitted or broadcast abroad specified at Point a, Clause
1 This must have the same content as the product that has been released, transmitted or broadcast in the country, no
have the contents specified in Clauses 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10, Article 9 of this Law;
b) The press agency that establishes a representative office abroad as prescribed at Point d, Clause 1, Article
must notify in writing the Ministry of Information and Communications of the establishment of a representative office,
the list of personnel of the representative office at least 15 days before the date of establishment of the representative office
overseas representation;

Page 22

c) Press agencies cooperating with foreign countries must comply with the provisions of relevant laws
regarding cooperation.
Article 56. Press activities of foreign press, foreign representative agencies and organizations
Foreigners in Vietnam
1. All press activities and activities related to the press of news agencies, radio stations,
foreign television, print and electronic newspapers (collectively referred to as foreign press); of the representative agency
diplomatic missions, consular offices, representative offices of international intergovernmental organizations and other agencies
of foreign countries authorized to perform consular functions in Vietnam (collectively referred to as representative offices).
foreign countries) and representative offices of NGOs and other foreign organizations in Vietnam
(collectively referred to as foreign organizations) may proceed only after obtaining the approval of the competent authority
authority prescribed in this Law and must comply with the provisions of Vietnamese law.
2. Non-resident foreign reporters wishing to conduct press activities in Vietnam must send
an application for approval in person, by post, fax or email to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
diplomatic missions, consular offices or other agencies authorized to perform
consular functions of Vietnam abroad (hereinafter collectively referred to as Vietnamese representative offices in foreign countries).
out).
When conducting press activities in Vietnam, non-resident foreign reporters must bring
press license issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and passport; must operate according to its purpose and
The program has been recorded in the license and under the guidance of the reporter's guidance agency.
3. In case foreign reporters accompany foreign delegations, follow regulations
The following:
a) For foreign reporters accompanying foreign delegations to visit Vietnam according to the
invitations from leaders of the Party and State or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to report on the visit, the governing body
Vietnam is responsible for carrying out necessary entry and exit procedures and notifying the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
to coordinate. Foreign reporters are allowed to cover activities according to the official program of
foreign delegations;
b) For foreign reporters accompanying foreign delegations at the invitation of agencies
other Vietnamese agencies to report on the visit, the Vietnamese governing body is responsible for carrying out the procedures
with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as non-resident reporters and operate under the guidance of the Ministry
Foreign Affairs or an agency approved by the Department of State.
4. Foreign press agencies wishing to set up permanent offices in Vietnam send them directly
or via the postal system a set of documents to request the establishment of a permanent office to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or
Vietnamese representative offices abroad.
The permanent office is located in Hanoi or another province or city directly under the central government
after obtaining the written consent of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the People's Committee of the province where the
Set up a permanent office.
The resident office may appoint a resident reporter in a locality different from the place where the office is located
permanent room after obtaining the written consent of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the People's Committee of the province
where the resident office proposes to appoint a resident reporter. The Resident Office is responsible for
activities of local correspondents.
5. A foreign press agency wishing to appoint a resident reporter shall send a set of application documents
approval directly or through the postal system to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Vietnamese representative mission in Vietnam
foreign.
The resident reporter is concurrently a resident reporter for the resident office
of another foreign press agency in Vietnam. Foreign newspapers are allowed to send regular reporters
residing in another country and concurrently serving as a resident reporter in Vietnam.
6. Resident reporter is issued a foreign correspondent card by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is it valid?
more than 12 months, in accordance with the entry and exit visa period of the reporter.
The resident reporter sends directly or through the postal system a set of documents to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
hand over the application for grant, re-grant and extension of foreign correspondent cards.
7. Information and press activities of resident reporters shall comply with the following regulations:
a) For a request to interview a senior Vietnamese leader, the resident office sends a set of
dossiers directly, via postal system or fax to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for approval;

Page 23

b) For requests to contact and interview leaders of ministries, departments and branches of Vietnam, the office
permanent residents send directly, via the postal system or fax a set of dossiers to related ministries, departments and agencies
request for approval, and at the same time notify the Ministry of Foreign Affairs;
c) For local information and press activities in Vietnam, the resident office shall send
a set of documents directly, by post or fax to the provincial People's Committee for approval
agreement, and at the same time notify the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
8. The resident office is entitled to hire press assistants and collaborators to support activities
of the resident office, the resident reporter.
When there is a need to hire press assistants, collaborators, resident offices, send them directly or via email
postal system a set of documents to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for approval.
9. The import and export of means and equipment of foreign press must comply with the regulations
the following provisions:
a) Foreign press may be temporarily imported for re-export for a definite period of time free of tax for vehicles
necessary to serve information and press activities in Vietnam such as cameras, camcorders, recorders, etc
sound and other equipment in accordance with the law of Vietnam;
b) Foreign press is allowed to import, export, install and use the means of receiving and transmitting
information, live images via satellite; broadcasting internationally through the national telecommunications network in accordance with the provisions of
law of Vietnam.
10. The press conference shall comply with the following provisions:
a) When there is a need to hold a press conference in Hanoi, foreign representative agencies and foreign organizations
must submit a written request to the Ministry of Information and Communications at least 02 working days before proceeding
Press Conference. For foreign representative missions, the written request shall be sent to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for notification;
b) When there is a need to hold a press conference in other localities of Vietnam, the representative agency shall
Foreigners and foreign organizations must submit a written request to the People's Committee of the province at least 2 days
working before the press conference;
c) Press conference of foreign delegation visiting Vietnam at the invitation of Party and State leaders
country or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is carried out according to the official program of the delegation. Agency
The welcome delegation is responsible for notifying the Ministry of Information and Communications at least 01 working day
before conducting a press conference to coordinate;
d) For press conferences of foreign delegations visiting Vietnam at the invitation of ministries, branches,
Localities and other state agencies of Vietnam, the host agency to welcome the delegation must have a written request
request to the Ministry of Information and Communications or the People's Committee of the province at least 02 working days in advance
when conducting press conferences;
dd) Procedures for permitting the organization of press conferences shall comply with regulations of the Minister of Information and Communications
The media;
e) The Ministry of Information and Communications, the People's Committee of the province have the right to disapprove or
suspend the press conference if there are signs of violation of Vietnamese law;
g) For emergency press conferences, after the request of the representative mission of the country,

foreign organizations, competent Vietnamese agencies will consider each specific case.
11. The publication of bulletins and special journals of foreign representative missions and foreign organizations
comply with the provisions of Articles 34 and 35 of this Law.
12. The documents, order and procedures specified in Clauses 2, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of this Article shall be prescribed by the Government.
determined.
Chapter V
RECOMMENDATION, INSPECTION AND HANDLING OF VIOLATIONS IN PRESS ACTIVITIES
Article 57. Commendation in press activities
Press agencies, journalists, organizations and citizens with achievements and dedication in journalistic activities
be rewarded according to the provisions of the law on emulation and commendation.
Article 58. Specialized press inspection
The specialized press inspector shall comply with the law on inspection.
Article 59. Handling of violations in the field of journalism

Page 24

1. Press agencies and organizations participating in press activities that violate the provisions of this Law shall, at their sole discretion,
depending on the nature and seriousness of the violation, they will be warned, fined and applied measures to revoke or confiscate their seals
products, audio and video tapes; Temporarily suspending or revoking a press license in accordance with
specified in Clause 2 of this Article.
2. The press agency has its license to operate the press and its license to publish additional publications revoked
press, supplement, produce more radio and television channels, open specialized pages of online newspapers
and agencies and organizations have their licenses to publish special journals and bulletins revoked when they publish or broadcast information containing content
provisions in Clauses 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10, Article 9 of this Law have very serious effects,
special serious.
3. The head of the agency in charge of the press, the general director, the deputy general director, the director, the deputy director
director, editor-in-chief, deputy editor-in-chief of press agencies, journalists, authors of journalistic works and individuals
Other individuals who commit acts of violating the provisions of this Law shall, depending on the nature and seriousness of their violations, be handled
discipline, revoke journalist's card, sanction administrative violations or be examined for penal liability.
4. Organizations and individuals that commit acts of infringing upon intellectual property rights in the field of journalism shall be handled
according to the provisions of the law on intellectual property.
5. In case a press agency, journalist, organization or individual engages in journalistic activities commit violations
causing damage to the lawful rights and interests of other agencies, organizations and individuals, in addition to being handled according to
specified in Clauses 1, 2, 3 and 4 of this Article, they must also publicly apologize, make corrections in the press, compensate
damages in accordance with the law.
Chapter VI
TERMS ENFORCEMENT
Article 60. Effect
1. This Law takes effect from January 1, 2017.
2. The Press Law dated December 28, 1989 was amended and supplemented with a number of articles under Law No
December 1999/QH10 ceases to be effective from the effective date of this Law.
Article 61. Detailed regulations
The Government and competent agencies shall detail the articles and clauses assigned in the Law.

This Law has been approved by the 13th National Assembly of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, 11th session
adopted on April 5, 2016.
PRESIDENT OF CONGRESS

Nguyen Thi Kim Ngan

