Page 1

JUNE 1, 2021 00:21:56, WEDNESDAY

ABOUT US

ABOUT US

EN

LEGISLATION

CURRENT ACTIVITY

LEGISLATION

CURRENT ACTIVITY

INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES

INTERNATIONAL ACTIVITIES

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY
AZERBAIJAN

HISTORY OF THE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY
AZERBAIJAN

NEWS

NEWS

FOR CITIZENS

About biometric information
LAWS AND DECISIONS

RU

SHARE:

About biometric information

Information
issues

Regular
questions asked

Appeal

Reception days

Inquiry

OF AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC
THE LAW
Sign up for an appointment

This Law regulates the formation of biometric information resources and their requirements,
organization and purpose of biometric identification system, biometric technologies
identifies areas of application and regulates relations arising in this area.

INFORMATIONS
Chapter I. General Provisions

Article 1. Basic concepts
1.1. The main concepts used for the purposes of this Law have the following meanings:
1.1.1. biometric information - in information systems for the purpose of identification and verification
biometric data collected, stored, processed and transmitted;
1.1.2. biometric data - physiological of an identified or identified individual
identifying its characteristics, unambiguously or in combination with other information
(fingerprints and palm prints, facial features, iris and retina, sound fragment and
its acoustic parameters, results of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) analysis, body size, body
description of special features and defects, handwriting and signature, etc.), to which the relevant standards apply
and personal data reflected on the material carrier;
1.1.3. biometric information resource - biometric in the information resources of personal data
information resources;
1.1.4. subject of biometric data - collection, processing of biometric data and
an identified or identified individual being protected;
1.1.5. biometric technologies - with biometric data used in information processes
related information technologies;
1.1.6. Biometric identification - refers to the biometric information provided in the biometric information resource
measures on search operations carried out to identify the person;
1.1.7. biometric verification - containing biometric information in the given biometric information
measures for comparison of biometric data;
1.1.8. biometric information services - identified biometric information resources
Activities on collection, processing and exchange of directions.
1.2. "Information", "information processes", "information technologies" used in this Law
"Personal data", "personal identification number (PIN)" and other concepts of information collection,
in the laws of the Azerbaijan Republic regulating the relations in the field of development, protection
used in certain meanings.
Article 2. Legislation of the Azerbaijan Republic on biometric information
2.1. Legislation of the Republic of Azerbaijan on biometric information Azerbaijan
From the Constitution of the Republic of Azerbaijan, international
agreements, this Law, “Information, informatization and protection of information
“On obtaining information”, “On electronic signature and electronic document” Azerbaijan
It consists of the laws of the Republic of Azerbaijan and other normative legal acts.
2.2. Biometric data is an integral part of personal data, their collection, processing and

Other links

The procedure for protection shall be determined by the law of the Azerbaijan Republic.
Chapter II. Biometric information resources and biometric technologies
Article 3. Formation of biometric information resources
3.1. Biometric information resources are part of the segment of the national information space on personal data
and is formed in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Azerbaijan.
3.2. Biometric data are collected in the following areas of activity:
3.2.1. registration of identity documents;
3.2.2. migration and border control;
3.2.3. ensuring information security and registration of electronic signature tools;
3.2.4. intelligence, counter-intelligence and search operations;

OTHER PASSES

3.2.5. rescue operations in connection with emergencies;
3.2.6. formation of a national DNA database;
3.2.7. protection of public order and protection of special regime facilities;
3.2.8. criminal prosecution.
Article 4. Basic principles of formation of biometric information resources
4.1. Formation of biometric information resources in the Constitution of the Republic of Azerbaijan
in accordance with established human rights and freedoms, the rule of law, confidentiality, voluntariness and
is carried out in accordance with the principles of conciliation of coercion.
4.2. Human life in the process of collecting, processing, using and protecting biometric data
and endangering his health and humiliating his honor and dignity shall not be allowed.
Article 5. Requirements for biometric technologies
5.1. Creation and maintenance of biometric technologies Azerbaijan
It is carried out on the basis of a special agreement (license) in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Azerbaijan.
5.2. Normative and technical requirements for the format of collected biometric data in this area
It is determined on the basis of national and international standards used in the Republic of Azerbaijan.
Applied biometric technologies, their provision and protection means Azerbaijan
It is certified and examined in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Azerbaijan.

Article 6. Areas of application of biometric technologies
6.0. Biometric technologies are used in the implementation of the following measures:
6.0.1. electronic collection and registration of facial images, iris and retina,
creation, identification and verification of the image with a photorobot;
6.0.2. public recognition of a person by video surveillance;
6.0.3. collection and registration of fingerprints and handprints in electronic format, identification and
verification;
6.0.4. collection and registration, identification and recording of a sound fragment in electronic format
verification;
6.0.5. analysis of the sound fragment and its acoustic parameters;
6.0.6. conversion of information from audio format to electronic text format, text sounding;
6.0.7. Copying and collecting an electronic copy of the writing line and signature on paper and
registration, identification and verification;
6.0.8. writing line analysis;
6.0.9. DNA analysis, collection and registration of analysis results in electronic format, person
identification.
Chapter III. Biometric identification system
Article 7. Purpose of biometric identification system
7.0. The biometric identification system is shown below through the application of new technologies
ensures the implementation of tasks:
7.0.1. promptness and accuracy of work on identification of the person and exchange of information
increase, as well as border control, protection of public order, search operations, rescue activities and
in real time by special means of identification of persons in connection with other measures
conducting;
7.0.2. formation of biometric information resources, application of biometric technologies,
systematic coordination of activities in the field of biometric identification;
7.0.3. improving the national security system, including against terrorism, illegal migration,
information support in the fight against human trafficking and other crimes, migration processes and
strengthening border control;
7.0.4. prevention of assigning various personal identification numbers to a person;

7.0.5. Ensuring promptness of individualization of passport-visa and other identity documents
making, increasing the level of service to the population in this area, in connection with which the person identified
real-time verification of necessary information on other electronic information resources and
collection;
7.0.6. strengthening the degree of protection of passports, visas and other identity documents, the same
detection of cases when a person obtains such a document under a different name and prevention of their use
purchase;
7.0.7. according to real-time photos of wanted persons at public gatherings and commutes
recognition and observation;
7.0.8. control and release works, means of communication, devices and at special regime facilities
improvement of protection of junctions;
7.0.9. organization of information exchange of biometric information resources in the national information space;
7.0.10. organization of information exchange with international biometric information resources on migration;
7.0.11. conducting scientific, historical and cultural research;
7.0.12. conducting necessary examinations on the basis of biometric data.
Article 8. Means of providing biometric identification system
8.0. The operation of the biometric identification system is ensured by the following means:
8.0.1. biometric information resources;
8.0.2. biometric technologies;
8.0.3. biometric information services.
Article 9. Organization of the biometric identification system
9.1. The activity of the biometric identification system depends on the purpose of biometric information resources, inquiries,
is organized by the relevant state bodies and according to the needs of search and comparison work
the following biometric information services created in accordance with the types of biometric data
carried out through:
9.1.1. facial image identification and surveillance service;
9.1.2. fingerprint and palm identification and dactyloscopic registration service;
9.1.3. voice identification, analysis and conversion service;
9.1.4. paper identification and signature identification and analysis service;
9.1.5. DNA analysis and identification service;
9.1.6. control and security service related to personal identification number;
9.1.7. iris and retinal identification and analysis service.
9.2. Objects where biometric information services are located in accordance with the legislation
It is protected by legal, organizational and software-technical means, control systems.

Chapter IV. Final conclusions
Article 10. Entry into force of the law
This Law shall enter into force on the day of its publication.

Ilham Aliyev
President of the Republic of Azerbaijan

Baku city, June 13, 2008
No– 651-IIIQ

Download as a file

Milli Majlis of the Republic of Azerbaijan - the legislative power in the Republic of Azerbaijan
implementing public authority. It is a unicameral body consisting of 125 deputies. Deputies
majoritarian electoral system, free, personal and secret ballot on the basis of universal, equal and direct suffrage
are distinguished by the way. The term of office of each convocation of the Milli Majlis of the Republic of Azerbaijan is 5 years.

CONTACT
© Copyright 2020 by Milli Majlis

