Page 1

Search Silep ...

CONTENTS

Sorted Text

Share on:

Law history

Original

view PDF

DATA FROM THE OFFICIAL GAZETTE OF THE PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA
Law Number: 453

Promulgation Date: 04/12/2013

Promulgated by: EVO MORALES AYMA

Gazette Number : 0591 Pages: 3 - 24

Status: Current with Modifications

Title: GENERAL LAW OF THE RIGHTS OF
USERS AND USERS AND CONSUMERS
AND CONSUMERS

LAW No. 453
LAW OF DECEMBER 4, 2013
EVO MORALES AYMA
CONSTITUTIONAL PRESIDENT OF THE PLURINATIONAL STATE OF BOLIVIA
Inasmuch as, the Plurinational Legislative Assembly has enacted the following Law:
THE PLURINATIONAL LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLY,
DECREE:
GENERAL LAW OF RIGHTS
OF USERS AND USERS AND
OF CONSUMERS AND CONSUMERS
FIRST CHAPTER
GENERAL DISPOSITION
Article 1. (OBJECT). The purpose of this Law is to regulate the rights and guarantees of users and users, the
consumers and consumers.
Article 2. (COMPETENTIAL ASSIGNMENT). In application of Article 297, Paragraph II of the Political Constitution of the
Status and Article 72 of Law No. 031 of July 19, 2010, Framework of Autonomies and Decentralization "Andrés Ibáñez", is assigned
at the central level of the State, the exclusive competence to develop the rights, guarantees and policies of the users,
consumers, at the national and sectoral level, without prejudice to the exclusive competence of the Municipal level.
Article 3. (SCOPE AND SCOPE OF APPLICATION). They are subject to the provisions of this Law, the
providers of products or services, as well as users and users, consumers and consumers, in their relationships
of consumption.
Article 4. (SCOPE OF POLICIES). The central level of the State will establish the general and specific policies in
defense of the rights of users and users, consumers and consumers, in the following cases:
a) Activities regulated by central level regulations.
b) Activities of national scope that transcend the competences and jurisdiction of the territorial entities
autonomous.
Article 5. (DEFINITIONS). For the purposes of this Law, the following definitions are established:
1.

Users and Users, Consumers and Consumers . They are the natural or legal persons that acquire,
use or enjoy products or services, as final recipients.

two.

Providers . They are natural or legal persons, public or private, who carry out production activities,
manufacture, import, supply, distribution, marketing and others, of products or provision of services in
general aimed directly at users and users, consumers and final consumers. I dont know
considers providers to those who exercise a free profession.

3 . Product . It is all good that is offered in the market to satisfy needs of use and final consumption.
4. Service . Are those activities supplied or provided to the market, intended to satisfy needs or
user requirements and users. The basic services established in the Political Constitution are included
of the State.
5. Competent Authority . It is the administrative authority of the different levels of the State, with attributions
established by standard to exercise the tasks of supervision and control of the supply of products or the
provision of services.
6. Safety . It is the sanitary characteristic that ensures that a product or service does not cause harm to the health of the
users and users, consumers and consumers.
7. Consumerism. It is the deviation of consumption habits, aimed at the irrational accumulation, purchase or consumption
of products or services, which seriously compromises the ecological balance and regeneration capacity of the
Mother Earth.
8. Misleading Advertising . It is any form of advertising, information or communication that is totally or partially false
that is misleading with respect to the characteristics, how to use it or other information about the product or service.
9. Abusive Advertising . It is advertising or discriminatory information, which instigates or induces violence or fear,
taking advantage of the lack of discernment and infringing environmental, moral and ethical values, which is capable of
induce female users and male and female users to behave in a harmful way or
dangerous to your health or physical integrity.
10. Consumption Ratio . It is the link established between the supplier, who provides a product or lends a
service, and whoever acquires, uses or consumes it as the final recipient.
Article 6. (PRINCIPLES). The principles that govern the protection and defense of the rights of users and users,
consumers are:
1. Living Well, sumajkausay, suma qamaña, ñandereko, tekokavi, ivimaraei , qhapajñan. It will be assumed and promoted
complementarity between access to and enjoyment of material goods and affective, subjective and spiritual fulfillment,
seeking to satisfy the needs in harmony with nature.
2. Responsible and Sustainable Consumption . Consumption habits seek the use of products and services in
harmony and balance with Mother Earth.
3. Protection. Legal and institutional mechanisms are established to guarantee the exercise of rights
of the users and the users, the consumers and the consumers.
4. Comprehensiveness . The interrelation, interdependence and functionality of the institutions of the Plurinational State are
carried out according to the political, social, cultural, ecological, economic, productive and consumer processes from
the dimensions of Living Well, as the basis of the economy and development, harmonized and articulated.
5. Integrity . Consumer relations are presumed based on legality, honesty and ethics.
6. Favorability . In case of doubt, the Law and the agreed stipulations will be applied in the most favorable way to the
users and users, consumers and consumers.
Article 7. (INSTITUTIONAL MECHANISMS). It is the responsibility of State entities, at all levels and
Within the framework of its powers, develop institutional mechanisms and regulatory instruments that guarantee the exercise of the
rights of users and users, consumers and consumers.
CHAPTER TWO
RIGHTS AND GUARANTEES OF USERS AND USERS
AND OF CONSUMERS AND CONSUMERS
SECTION I
RIGHT TO HEALTH AND PHYSICAL INTEGRITY
Article 8. (RIGHT TO HEALTH AND PHYSICAL INTEGRITY). Users and users, consumers and
Consumers have the right to receive products or services in safe conditions to safeguard their health and physical integrity.
Article 9. (PROTECTION).
I.

Suppliers are obliged to supply products or services in conditions of innocuousness, quality and safety,
being responsible in the criminal, civil and administrative sanctioning sphere, of the risk or damage caused to health and
physical integrity of users and users, consumers and consumers.

II.

The import, distribution or commercialization of:
a) Products for their use or consumption that are with an expired or soon to expire date, according to regulations
issued by the competent entity.
b) Products suspended, prohibited or withdrawn in the country of origin for reasons of health or risk to physical integrity.

III.

If, after being placed on the market, suppliers become aware of the existence of risks or dangers of the
product or service, they must immediately communicate this fact to the competent authorities and to the users and
users, consumers and consumers, in addition to proceeding under their account to withdrawal or suspension.

IV.

The competent authority to authorize or grant licenses that warns of the uninformed or unforeseen risk or danger of the
product or service, will immediately arrange its withdrawal or suspension.

V.

For the purposes of the preceding paragraphs, suppliers will withdraw or replace the products, or proceed to return
of the price paid for the products or services. The recalled products will be destroyed in compliance with safety regulations
environmental.

SAW.

The competent authority that does not require compliance with security or preventive measures for importation,
distribution, commercialization or provision of a service that involves risk or danger to the life or health of the
users and users, consumers and consumers, according to specific regulations, will be subject to
responsibility for the public function.
SECTION II
RIGHT AND CONDITIONS FOR FOOD
Article 10. (RIGHT TO ACCESS TO FOOD). Users and users, consumers and

Consumers have the right to access authorized food, on a regular, permanent, continuous and free, quantitative and
qualitatively adequate and sufficient.
Article 11. (CONDITIONS). The conditions for the elaboration, packaging, handling and exhibition, must be
duly regulated by the competent authority.
Article 12. (SUPPLY). Any supplier of food products declared of first necessity or that form
part of the basket, a basic family one, has the obligation to supply them in an adequate, timely, continuous manner and at a fair price.
SECTION III
RIGHT TO INFORMATION
Article 13. (RIGHT TO INFORMATION). The users and the users, the consumers and the consumers have
right to receive reliable, truthful, complete, adequate, free and timely information on the characteristics and contents of the
products they consume and services they use.
Article 14. (OBLIGATION OF THE SUPPLIER). The provider of products or services, in accordance with its regulations
specific, you are obliged to:
a) Provide information on the characteristics, nutritional composition, way of use or conservation of the
products or services offered, in an accessible way for users and users, consumers and
consumers.
b) Provide information on the possible risks that may affect health and physical integrity, arising from the
consumption or use of the product or service.
c) The supplier of food products or services is obliged to have accessible information in relation to the
quality of the product or service and with the specifications of its main characteristics.
d) Enter the total price in national currency that includes the corresponding taxes, commissions and charges.
e) Inform in a timely manner about the adjustments of rates in the services, as well as the range of prices that are
available for the same product or service.
f) Provide information in Spanish, if necessary through complementary labels and, as far as
possible, in another official language of the State.
g) Enter on labels the equivalences of weight, measure or volume; when they do not correspond to the national system of
weights and measures.
h) Provide necessary information, when there is a variety of similar products or services
characteristics, so that users and users, consumers and consumers can assume a
decision favorable to your interests. In the case of medicines with the same active ingredient or generic name,
offer your alternatives.
i) Indicate the information of the offers, when price reductions and promotions are advertised.
j) Others that are determined in specific regulations.
Article 15. (INFORMATION FOR VULNERABLE PERSONS). The provider of food products or services,
is obliged to provide information:
a) Of foods that cause damage or risks to the health of pregnant women, the embryo, the fetus or the newborn,
older adults and people with disabilities.
b) On the benefits of breast milk.
c) Damages or risks to the health of girls, boys and adolescents, the elderly and people with disabilities.

Article 16. (QUALITY OF PUBLIC DOCUMENT).
I.

All information and the guarantee certificate provided by the supplier, whether printed, attached to the container or in
other support, they acquire the quality of a public document from the authorization of import, distribution or
marketing granted by the competent authority and will make full faith, regarding the offer or agreed conditions.

II.

To the effect of the previous Paragraph, whoever uses, alters or illegally elaborates these public documents, will be sanctioned
according to the Penal Code.
SECTION IV
RIGHT TO EQUITABLE TREATMENT
Article 17. (RIGHT TO EQUITABLE TREATMENT).

I.

The users and the users, the consumers and the consumers have the right to an equitable treatment on the part of the
suppliers in the offer of their products or services:

II.

Suppliers must use objective and non-discriminatory criteria, in the offer of products or services, to
satisfy the needs of users and users, consumers and consumers.

III.

The protection of this right will be effective in accordance with this Law, without prejudice to the provisions established in
Law No. 045 Against Racism and All Forms of Discrimination.
Article 18. (COMPLIANCE WITH THE CONDITIONS OFFERED).

I.

The supplier must deliver the product to the users and the users, the consumers and the consumers or supply
the service in the terms and conditions offered or agreed.

II.

Contracts for the provision of services with an undetermined term must guarantee that the users, the
consumers and consumers can conclude their contractual relationship without the need to present another requirement or
other conditions outside of those previously stipulated.

III.

Failure to comply with the conditions offered, oblige the users to repair or replace the product or service and
users, consumers and consumers.
SECTION V
ADHESION CONTRACTS AND ABUSIVE CLAUSES
Article 19. (ADHESION CONTRACTS).

I.

The adhesion contract is one in which the clauses are arranged unilaterally by a supplier of products or
services, usually using a pre-printed form, so that the other party cannot modify or
negotiate them, limiting themselves to accepting or rejecting them in their entirety.

II.

The models of adhesion contracts must be previously approved by the authority that grants the authorization of
the activity, in accordance with the provisions of this Law and the specific regulations.
Article 20. (EFFECTIVENESS OF ADHESION CONTRACTS). Adhesion contracts that do not comply with the

established conditions will lack total or partial legal effectiveness, after a substantiated determination by the authority
competent.
Article 21. (CONTENT OF THE ADHESION CONTRACTS).
I.

Adhesion contracts must minimally comply with the following:
a) Contain all the information on the terms, modalities, limitations and clauses to which the
users and users, consumers and consumers at the time of contracting, as well as the means and places
that are arranged for payments to be made.
b) Be written in clear, simple and understandable terms, legible with the naked eye and in Spanish or
optionally in another official language of the State that is known to the adherent.

II.

The adhesion contract will not be able to make referrals to other documents that are not delivered to the users,
consumers, unless the referral is to a public rule.
Article 22. (ABUSIVE CLAUSES IN CONTRACTS).

I.

Abusive clauses are those that leave users, consumers and consumers in a state
of total disadvantage and inequality in front of the providers of products or services.

II.

Unfair terms are those that:
a) Exclude or limit the rights of users and users, consumers and consumers, as well as those who
imply resignation or restriction to formulate claims or complaints.
b) Establish in favor of the supplier, the unilateral power to modify the terms of the consumption or service contract,
previously subscribed.
c) Exempt from liability to the supplier.
d) Establish the silence of users and users, consumers and consumers, as acceptance of
Additional benefits not required, payments or other obligations not expressly stipulated.
e) Indicate that the personal or credit information of consumers will be shared with others
suppliers, except as provided in specific regulations.
f) Others that are established in the specific regulations.

III.

The abusive clauses inserted in the contracts, will be considered as not placed and will not produce any legal effect.
Article 23. (ABUSIVE COMMERCIAL PRACTICES).

I.

Abusive commercial practices are prohibited and will be sanctioned by the competent authorities within the framework of
specific regulations.

II.

They are abusive commercial practices:
a) Charge in currency that is not in legal and current course.
b) Take advantage of people's urgency or financial need.
c) Charge for products and services not provided or not requested.
d) Charge for services, having requested their cut or suspension, except as established in the contracts
corresponding.
e) Carry out discriminatory acts or conduct for the accessibility of products or services.
f) The use of collection methods that affect the reputation, privacy, work activity or image of the users and the
users consumers and consumers.
g) Others established in specific regulations.
SECTION VI
RIGHT TO FREE CHOICE
OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
Article 24. (RIGHT TO FREE ELECTION).

I.

Users and users, consumers and consumers have the right to choose the products and services that
require, as well as select or change the provider that is convenient for them.

II.

Suppliers of products or services may not order or induce users, users, consumers and
consumers to contract with certain providers or those who provide auxiliary services.
Article 25. (ADVERTISING AND MISLEADING OR ABUSIVE INFORMATION). Misleading or abusive advertising is prohibited

and any information or omission about the nature, characteristics, quality, quantity, safety, performance, durability, price or
guarantee of products or services that causes error or economic damage, and will be sanctioned in accordance with current criminal regulations, if
It will result in the crime of fraud or deception against industry and commerce, without prejudice to other corresponding sanctions.
SECTION VII
RIGHT TO COMPLAINT
Article 26. (RIGHT TO CLAIM).
I.

Users and users, consumers and consumers have the right to claim, when they consider that
their rights have been violated.

II.

The exercise of this right may be carried out before the suppliers, who must attend and resolve the claims,
according to the nature of the product or service.

III.

In addition to exercising the claim before the provider, the users and the users, the consumers and the consumers
may make the administrative claim before competent entities, in accordance with the provisions of the respective regulations
specific.

IV.

The competent entities will guarantee the effective protection of the right to individual or collective claim to the
users and users, consumers and consumers, through institutional mechanisms
CHAPTER THREE
WARRANTIES ON THE SERVICES
SECTION I
BASIC SERVICES
Article 27. (ACCESS TO BASIC SERVICES). To access the connection, installation or provision of services

basic, operators and providers may not request users and users, more requirements than those provided in
specific regulations.
Article 28. (CUT OFF THE SUPPLY OF BASIC SERVICES). Suppliers will not be able to cut the
supply of basic services, except for the conditions and procedures established in the specific regulations.
Article 29. (INTERRUPTION OF THE SERVICE). The interruption of the supply of basic services will only be possible prior
communication to the sector authority and information to users, consumers and consumers, according to the
procedure established in the sector regulations.
Article 30. (RETURN OF PAYMENTS). The provider that imposes on the users and the users, the consumers and the
Consumers, economic burdens in billing by mistake, must return the amount charged, in accordance with the provisions of the
specific regulations.
Article 31. (ATTACK AGAINST BASIC SERVICES). The provider that violates security or normal
operation of basic services, will be subject to the penalties provided for in current criminal regulations.
Article 32. (TRANSPORTATION SERVICES). The provisions of this Section, reach the services of
air, land, rail, river and lake transport, in addition to its ancillary complementary services.

SECTION II
MEDICAL SERVICES
Article 33. (OBLIGATION OF MEDICAL SERVICES).
I.

Medical service providers must:
a) Provide quality care, with health workers duly trained and authorized by the authorities
competent for the exercise of their activities.
b) Make known or provide the results of their diagnostic tests and laboratory studies, when
request the patient.
c) Prescribe medications duly authorized by the Ministry of Health and report the possible effects
collateral derived from its use or consumption.
d) Issue prescription of drugs or pharmaceutical products with the same active ingredient or name
generic.
e) Grant the necessary assistance and care in cases of urgency or hospital emergency, without being able to adduce
any excuse.
f) In the event of disasters or emergencies declared in accordance with the Law, make available to the population, in a
free, its infrastructure, equipment and staff.
g) Specify the essential characteristics of the service and the total price of the service, which includes drugs,
analysis and others.
h) Provide payment alternatives for services used in medical or hospital emergencies, not being able to be withheld at the
user and user due to debt.

II.

The omission of the obligations indicated in subparagraphs e) and f) of the previous Paragraph, constitutes the crime of denial of
aid and will be sanctioned in accordance with current criminal regulations.

III.

It is forbidden to oblige users to contract predetermined laboratories or auxiliary services.
SECTION III
BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES
Article 34. (OBLIGATION).

I.

The Financial Intermediation Entities or Financial Auxiliary Services Companies, in front of the users and the
Users or clients are obliged to:
a) Promote financial education.
b) Facilitate at any time and free of charge, access to all information related to movements
banking, financial or credit, such as account statements and payment vouchers, that the user and the user or
client has made during the validity of their commercial relationship.
c) Save reservation of the information provided by the users and the users or clients, unless required by
competent authority or the user and the user or client.
d) Maintain the payment of the credit contract in the legal tender in which it was agreed until its cancellation
total, unless agreed between parties.
e) Respect the right of the user and the user or client, regarding their choice of the notary of public faith that
will intervene in the commercial relationship.
f) Inform the applicant for a loan in writing the reasons why the requested loan had been denied.
g) Extend free of charge a proof of payment and the corresponding certification of cancellation of the obligation
credit, transaction or financial operation.
h) Use only information authorized by the State institution responsible for supervising, regulating, controlling and
supervise their activities, for the granting of financial products or services.
i) Comply with the regulatory regulations of the sector.
j) Others established in the specific regulations.

II.

The Financial Intermediation Entities or Financial Auxiliary Services Companies, in front of the users and the
users or clients are prohibited from:
a) Carry out abusive practices and charges for prejudicial collection expenses.
b) Impose complementary services, when they were not expressly requested or accepted.
c) Collect penalties for advance payments of credit balances.
d) Others established in the present Law and in the specific regulations.
CHAPTER FOUR
RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION
SECTION I
RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION
Article 35. (SCOPE OF RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION). Providers, users and

Users, consumers and consumers, in their consumption relationships, should promote solidarity consumption, socially
fair, respectful of people and cultures, in harmony with Mother Earth and safeguarding the habitat of generations
future, within the framework of Vivir Bien.
Article 36. (EDUCATION ON RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION). The Ministry of Education
will incorporate in the diversified curriculum, content on the rights of users and users, consumers and
consumers, and responsible and sustainable consumption.
Article 37. (PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS OF RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE CONSUMPTION). In an enunciative way
and not limiting, the programs and projects of responsible and sustainable consumption, must foresee the following contents:
a) State planning of the demand for products and services, within the framework of social, economic and
environmental.
b) Generate incentives that promote responsible and sustainable consumption.
c) Promote the revaluation of traditional practices of responsible and sustainable consumption, of nations and
native indigenous peasant peoples.
d) Awareness about the negative impact of planned obsolescence of products and the needs
imposed.

Article 38. (PARTICIPATION OF THE MEDIA).
I.

The media regarding the protection of the rights of users and users, consumers and
Consumers should contribute with:
a) Inform or disseminate education programs on responsible and sustainable consumption, and promote respect for the
rights of users and users, consumers and consumers.
b) Promote the dissemination of national development plans to improve food and nutritional security.
c) Generate programming spaces that are broadcast in different official languages, as well as directed to people
with disabilities, on responsible and sustainable consumption issues.
d) The protection of girls, boys and adolescents, adopting adequate measures against inappropriate content in
its programming or dissemination of information.
e) Prevent information through publications, messages and images from promoting the submission or exploitation of
women, or that dishonor or violate their dignity and image.

II.

The application of the preceding paragraph will be subject to regulation.
SECTION II
DUTIES IN CONSUMER RELATIONS
Article 39. (DUTIES OF USERS AND USERS, OF CONSUMERS AND CONSUMERS).

Users and users, consumers and consumers, in their consumer relationships, must:
a) Learn about responsible and sustainable consumption, and help promote it.
b) Observe and assume the warnings and instructions in relation to the proper use, consumption, installation or conservation
of the product or service.
c) Tend not to cause damage to Mother Earth through the consumption and waste of products or services.
d) Promote and exercise a rational and responsible consumption of products and services.
e) Report the existence of products and services that put the health or physical integrity of the population at risk.
f) Support and promote awareness and sensitization campaigns and programs, for the full exercise of the
rights of users and users, consumers and consumers.
Article 40. (DUTIES OF THE SUPPLIERS). Suppliers that offer products or services must comply,
with the following:
a) Promote education on responsible and sustainable consumption.
b) Obtain the respective licenses or authorizations to carry out their activities to supply products or the
provision of services.
c) Provide care without discrimination, with respect, warmth, cordiality to users and users, consumers and
the consumers.
d) Supply in conditions of quality, equality, equity, accessibility and in an uninterrupted way, of products or
services, except in the cases provided for in specific regulations.
e) Submit to the competent authority the adhesion contract models for approval.
f) Adopt appropriate and reliable security mechanisms that guarantee the protection of secrecy, confidentiality
and privacy of the information of the users and the users, the consumers and the consumers, according to the
Political Constitution of the State, this Law and the specific regulations.
g) Enable adequate and permanent means and instruments so that users, consumers and
Consumers can make their inquiries and claims, such as telephone lines, customer service platforms,
public, claim points, among others.
h) Attend and resolve, efficiently and effectively, requests and complaints made by users and
users, consumers and consumers.
i) Communicate and inform in advance about the interruption of the service, to the corresponding authorities and to the
users and users, consumers and consumers affected.
j) Exhibit qualification certifications or other documents that certify the capabilities or service offers
specialized.
k) Deliver to the user and the user, in the case of services, written evidence of the conditions, rights and
Obligations of both parties, a copy of the signed contract, the annexes and all related documentation. Without
To the detriment of this, they must keep such information available to users and users in their offices of
attention to the public or in other means of information suitable for the effect.
l) Permanently train its staff regarding the care of users and users, consumers and
the consumers.
m) Enter information on the rights and obligations of users and users, consumers and
consumers, in the billing that is extended.
n) Others established by specific regulations.
CHAPTER FIVE
INSTITUTIONALITY AND PUBLIC MANAGEMENT
Page 2

Article 41. (COORDINATION AND COOPERATION). For the effective exercise of the rights and guarantees of the users and
Users, consumers and consumers, all levels of the State will establish mechanisms for cooperation and
coordination.

Article 42. (PUBLIC POLICIES). The Ministry of Justice and Institutional Transparency may propose, promote and
promote general policies, programs and projects at the central level of the State and national in scope on the rights of women
users and users, consumers and consumers, as well as implement education and dissemination programs and projects
of these rights.

Article 43. (PLURINATIONAL PLAN FOR THE PROMOTION AND PROTECTION OF THE RIGHTS OF USERS AND
USERS, CONSUMERS AND CONSUMERS). The Ministry of Justice and Institutional Transparency,
will formulate, in coordination with the competent entities, the Plurinational Plan of the Rights of the Users and the Users, the
Consumers and Consumers.
Article 44. (FOLLOW-UP AND MONITORING). The Ministry of Justice and Institutional Transparency, within the framework of the
current regulations, will follow up and monitor the Plurinational Plan of the Rights of Users and Users, the
Consumers and Consumers.

Article 45. (SECTORAL COORDINATION COUNCILS). In accordance with the Framework Law of Autonomies and
Decentralization "Andrés Ibáñez", the entities of the central level related to the rights of the users, the
consumers, will be able to generate spaces for joint coordination with the regional levels, according to their
institutional competencies and needs, through the formation of Sector Coordination Councils.

Article 46. (INFORMATION SYSTEM ON THE USER AND THE USER, THE CONSUMER AND THE
CONSUMER).
I.

The Ministry of Justice and Institutional Transparency will implement a computer system on the user and the user, the
consumer and consumer, which will contain the registry of defense organizations, information on claims and
another of relevance, allowing support in the adoption of general and sectoral policies on the rights of
the users and the users, the consumers and the consumers.

II.

The entities responsible for approving model contracts and receiving complaints will send information digitally or in
other formats to the Ministry of Justice, according to regulations.
Article 47. (SOCIAL CONTROL). Public policies, programs and projects for the promotion and protection of

Rights of users and users, consumers and consumers, will be subject to social control, according to Law.
Article 48. (DEFENSE ORGANIZATIONS OF THE USER AND THE USER, THE CONSUMER AND THE
CONSUMER).
I.

Users and users, consumers and consumers may organize in order to participate in the
promotion and defense of their individual, collective or diffuse rights.

II.

The organizations will not be for profit and are prohibited from receiving financial resources, directly or
indirect, from any provider.

III.

The form of participation of these organizations, in the defense of the rights of the users, the
consumers and consumers, will be determined in regulation.
CHAPTER SIX
LIABILITY FOR VIOLATION OF RIGHTS
OF THE USER AND THE USER, OF THE CONSUMER AND THE CONSUMER
Article 49. (APPLICABILITY). The provisions established in this Chapter will be applicable by the entities

of the central level and of the autonomous governments, within the framework of their powers.
SECTION I
LIABILITY OF THE SUPPLIER TO THE USERS AND THE
USERS, CONSUMERS AND CONSUMERS
Article 50. (LIABILITY). Suppliers will be responsible for the violation of the rights and guarantees of
the users and the users, the consumers and the consumers, established in the present Law and the specific regulations,
emerging the responsibility of restorative order, without prejudice to the corresponding administrative, civil or criminal responsibility.
Article 51. (RESPONSIBILITY REGIME). The responsibility of suppliers is governed as follows:
a) Suppliers that carry out manufacturing, production, import, distribution or marketing activities
Finally, they will be jointly and severally liable to the consumer and the consumer, who may claim their rights to
any of them. The provider that complied with the reparation for the violation of rights, may repeat in front of
the other providers.
b) The provider that provides services will be solely responsible to the user and the user.
SECTION II
RULES FOR PROCESSING THE
ADMINISTRATIVE CLAIM
Article 52. (NATURE).
I.

Its purpose is the immediate restitution of the violated right to the users, the consumers and the
consumers.

II.

The rules established in this Section must be applied and developed by the entities in charge of
resolve claims for infringement of the rights of users and users, consumers and
consumers, in their respective administrative claim procedures.
Article 53. (PROCEDURAL PRINCIPLES). In addition to the principles established in specific regulations, the

The procedure will be guided by the principles of honesty, legality, material truth, promptness, immediacy, orality, gratuity,
efficiency, informalism and reversal of the burden of proof.

Article 54. (MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS). The procedure will establish minimally the following aspects:
a) It may be initiated at the request of a party or ex officio, verbally or in writing.
b) It may be raised by the user and the user, the consumer and the affected consumer or by an organization of
the users and the users, the consumers and the consumers.
c) Identification of the violated rights for its restoration, as well as the responsible provider.
d) Does not require any legal sponsorship.
e) It will establish mechanisms for the protection of the identity of the users and the users, the consumers and the
affected consumers, when there are reasons that justify it.
f) Every claim must always be resolved, even if the claimant abandons it.
g) When there are several processes with the same claim and they are derived from the same fact, they will be accumulated at
first known claim.
h) Promote the restoration of rights, resorting to conciliation as an alternative means of solution.
Article 55. (PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES).
I.

The precautionary measures to be adopted are intended to avoid a greater impact on the rights of the
users and users, consumers and consumers.

II.

Depending on the case and without prejudice to those established in specific regulations, the following may be adopted:
a) Temporary confiscation of the product or suspension of the service.
b) Temporary prohibition of the production, distribution, commercialization, provision or supply of the product or service.
c) Temporary withdrawal of the product.
d) Temporary withdrawal of advertising or information to the user.
e) Granting of guarantees that ensure compliance with the restoration.
f) Others that by their nature avoid greater affectation.

III.

For the fulfillment of the precautionary measures, the assistance of the public force may be required.
Article 56. (SCOPE OF THE CONCILIATION).

I.

The procedure may begin with the promotion of conciliation between the parties, on available aspects, provided that
do not contravene the provisions of the Political Constitution of the State and this Law.

II.

If a partial conciliation is reached, the competent authority that knows the claim, will establish with precision the
facts on which the procedure will continue.
Article 57. (ANALYSIS AND ASSESSMENT). The competent authority shall analyze and assess the claim in accordance with the

antecedents and the evidence for the charge and defense presented.
Article 58. (RESOLUTION).
I.

The resolution must establish the existence or not of the violation of the right and determine the responsibility of the
supplier.

II.

In case of establishing the violation of the right, the corresponding restoration measures will be determined, without
detriment of submitting antecedents to the corresponding instance.
Article 59. (APPEAL FOR REVIEW). The resolution indicated in the previous Article may be challenged before the same

authority that pronounced it, and resolved by the higher hierarchical authority or the one designated by specific regulations.
Article 60. (EXHAUST OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE WAY). The resolution issued in the appeal for review, puts an end to the
Administrative route.
Article 61. (NON-COMPLIANCE). Failure to comply with the decisions taken will lead to sanctions
administrative procedures that are determined in the sanctioning procedure established in specific regulations.
Article 62. (FORMS OF RESTORATION). In addition to the forms of replacement established in regulations
specific, violations of the guarantees and rights of users and users, consumers and consumers, may
be restored as follows:
1. Moral, which consists of a formal apology, public or other satisfaction, admonition or warning.
2. Substitution through social services of health, education or other work for the benefit of the community.
3. Positive restoration that consists of dictating, among others, the following measures:
a) Repair of the good or product, and if this is not possible, the exchange of the good or product for others of
identical or similar characteristics.
b) Execute the service or obligation assumed, and if it is not possible or not reasonable, another of equivalent effects
including cash benefits.
c) Return the amounts paid by the consumer plus legal interest, when the repair, replacement or
fulfillment of the provision or obligation, as the case may be, is not possible.
d) Return the amounts plus the legal interest calculated to date, when improper payments are made or in
excess, in cash or through the generation of credit in favor of the user and the user.
e) Determine the elimination of the abusive clauses identified.
ADDITIONAL PROVISION
ONLY. For the compliance and implementation of this Law, the responsible public sector entities,

will allocate the necessary resources within their institutional budget, regardless of the source of financing, not
must represent additional resources to the General State Treasury.
FINAL PROVISIONS
FIRST. The Executive Branch, within one hundred and twenty (120) days of the publication of this Law, will develop the
corresponding regulation for its application.
SECOND. The sectorial regulation and oversight entities, within a period of sixty (60) days after the approval of the
regulations of this Law, they must adapt their regulations accordingly, in accordance with this Law.
THIRD. The sanctioning procedures for claims of users and users that are in process
At the time of the entry into force of the regulations of this Law, they will culminate with the provisions established in the
Supreme Decree No. 27172 of September 15, 2003, Supreme Decree No. 71 of April 9, 2009, and other sector regulations
current.
ABROGATORY AND REPEAL PROVISION
ONLY. All provisions contrary to this Law are abrogated and repealed.
Refer to the Executive Branch for constitutional purposes.
It is given in the Hall of Sessions of the Plurinational Legislative Assembly, on the twenty-sixth day of the month of November of year two.
one thousand thirteen.
Signed. Nélida Sifuentes Cueto, Lucio Marca Mamani, Andrés Agustín Villca Daza, Claudia Jimena Torres Chávez, Marcelo Elío
Chávez, Carlos E. Subirana G.
Therefore, I promulgate it so that it is upheld and enforced as a Law of the Plurinational State of Bolivia.
Government Palace of the city of La Paz, on the fourth day of the month of December of the year two thousand and thirteen.
FDO. EVO MORALES AYMA, Juan Ramón Quintana Taborga, Luis Alberto Arce Catacora, Ana Teresa Morales Olivera, Cecilia
Luisa Ayllon Quinteros, Juan Carlos Calvimontes Camargo, Roberto Iván Aguilar Gómez, Claudia Stacy Peña Claros, Amanda Dávila Torres.
SOURCE: GACETA

IMPORTANT:
THE NATIONAL LAWS SHOWN ON THIS WEBSITE ARE THE RESULT OF THE REGISTRATION AND UPDATING OF THE EXPRESS ABROGATIONS AND DEROGATIONS APPROVED BY THE LEGISLATIVE BODY SINCE 1825. THE DOCUMENTS PRESENTED HERE CANNOT BE OF ANY
WAY TO BE USED AS A LEGAL REFERENCE, SINCE SUCH ATTRIBUTION CORRESPONDS TO THE OFFICIAL STATUS GAZETTE.

SILEP - Legal Information System of the Plurinational State
Vice Presidency of the Plurinational State. 2021

