Page 1

SUPREME DECREE N ° 1391
EVO MORALES AYMA
CONSTITUTIONAL PRESIDENT OF THE PLURINATIONAL STATE OF
BOLIVIA

CONSIDERING:

That Paragraph I of Article 20 of the Political Constitution of the State,
determines that everyone has the right to universal and equitable access to
basic services of drinking water, sewerage, electricity, home gas, postal and
telecommunications.

That Paragraph II of Article 20 of the Constitutional Text, establishes that it is
responsibility of the State, at all levels of government, the provision of
basic services through public, mixed, cooperative or community entities.
In the cases of electricity, residential gas and telecommunications, the
service through contracts with the private company. The provision of services must
respond to the criteria of universality, responsibility, accessibility, continuity,
quality, efficiency, effectiveness, fair rates and necessary coverage; with participation
and social control.

That Paragraph I of Article 348 of the Political Constitution of the State,
states that they are natural resources, minerals in all their states,
hydrocarbons, water, air, soil and subsoil, forests, biodiversity, the
electromagnetic spectrum and all those elements and physical forces susceptible to
exploitation.

That Paragraph I of Article 349 of the Constitutional Text indicates that the
Natural resources are the property and direct, indivisible and imprescriptible domain of the
Bolivian people, and its administration will correspond to the State according to the interest
collective.

Page 2

That Article 1 of Law No. 164, of August 8, 2011, General Law of
Telecommunications, Information and Communication Technologies, determines that the
It is intended to establish the general regime of telecommunications and
information and communication technologies, the postal service and the
regulation, in order to live well, guaranteeing individual human right and
collective communication, with respect to economic, social, legal plurality,
political and cultural.

That Paragraph II of Article 8 of Law No. 164, establishes that the
administration, assignment, authorization, control, supervision and supervision of the use of
electromagnetic frequencies in telecommunications, broadcasting and other networks
in the national territory corresponds to the central level of the State through the Authority
Regulation and Supervision of Telecommunications and Transportation, according to the Plan
National Frequencies.

That the Sixth Transitory Provision of Law No. 164, provides that all
aspects that are required for the application of the aforementioned Law, will be regulated by
the Executive Branch and regulated by the Authority for the Regulation and Inspection of
Telecommunications and Transportation.

That the Seventh Transitory Provision of Law No. 164, indicates that the
The aforementioned Law will enter into force on the date of its publication, with application
progressive according to the approval of its specific regulations; as long as
these are approved, the current telecommunications and postal regulations will be applied in
everything that does not contravene said Law.

That the Ninth Transitory Provision of Law No. 164, determines that the
Supervision and Social Control Authority of Telecommunications and Transport ATT, hereinafter referred to as the Authority for the Regulation and Supervision of
Telecommunications and Transport - ATT and will assume the attributions, competences,
rights and obligations regarding telecommunications and technologies of the
information and communication, transport and the postal service, under the supervision of the
Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing.

Page 3

That Paragraph I of Article 6 of Law No. 211, of December 23,
2011, of the General State Budget - Management 2012, authorizes the Executive Branch
transfer public resources in cash and / or in kind and productive investments to
economic-productive organizations, territorial organizations,
private national non-profit organizations, to indigenous organizations
native farmers and natural persons, with the aim of stimulating the activity
development, food security, productive reconversion, education, health and
housing, within the framework of the National Development Plan and Sector Plans. All
transfers indicated above, the amount, use and destination of these resources
It will be authorized by Supreme Decree and must have regulations
specific.

That Paragraph II of the Sole Article of Supreme Decree No. 0572, of
July 2010, establishes that at the request of the competent entities, the Ministry of
Economy and Public Finance and the Ministry head of the corresponding sector
will update the List of Goods subject to Prior Authorization and / or Certification
by means of a Bi-Ministerial Resolution, within a period of thirty (30) calendar days, of
according to health, economic, environmental, technological, control and
other

That it is necessary to guarantee the application and fulfillment of the objectives and
principles established in the General Law of Telecommunications,
Information and Communication, through the regulations of the aforementioned law.

ON THE COUNCIL OF MINISTERS,

DECREE:

SOLE ARTICLE.I. The General Regulations to Law No. 164, of August 8, 2011, Law
General of Telecommunications, Information and Communication Technologies,
for the Telecommunications Sector, which in the Annex is an integral part of the

Page 4

present Supreme Decree.

II. All complementary aspects that are required for the application of Law No.
164 and of the General Regulations for the Telecommunications Sector, will be
established by Ministerial Resolution by the Ministry of Works
Public, Services and Housing.

TRANSITORY DISPOSITIONS

TRANSITIONAL PROVISION FIRST.- The contracts signed between
operators or between an operator and a provider, related to the access and use of
infrastructure, must comply with this Supreme Decree within a period of
six (6) months from its publication.

SECOND TRANSITORY PROVISION.-

I. The Telecommunications and Transportation Regulation and Supervision Authority ATT, will prepare and present to the Ministry of Public Works, Services and
Housing for approval, the proposed formula for calculating the
Right to Use Frequencies based on the criteria established in the
regulation and within a period of forty (40) days from its publication.

II. As long as this new calculation formula is approved and applied, it is in force
for the payment of Rights of Use of Frequencies, what is established in the
Regulatory Administrative Resolution ATT-DJ-RA TL 0897/2011, of 22 of
December 2011, issued by the ATT.

III. The payment formula for the Right to Use Frequency will come into effect as of
January 1, 2013.

Page 5

THIRD TRANSITIONAL PROVISION.- The ATT, within a period not
greater than six (6) months from the publication of this Supreme Decree,
It will establish the technical instructions and procedures for the approval of equipment.

FOURTH TRANSITORY PROVISION.-

I. For telecommunications services to the public and broadcasting, the ATT
present to the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing the proposals
on service areas, within a period of no more than nine (9) months from the date of
publication of this Supreme Decree, for its approval through
Ministerial Resolution.

II. While the new service areas are approved, for the services of
telecommunications to the public shall be understood as:
a) Rural Service Area - ASR, to localities with a population of less than
two thousand (2,000) inhabitants;
b) Urban Service Area - ASU, those that are not included
as ASR;
c) For the mobile service, the Mobile Service Area will be applied as the new
National Authorization Area - AAN.

FIFTH TRANSITORY PROVISION.- The expiration processes of
Special Transitory Authorizations that have been initiated in accordance with the
previous regulatory regulations, will be adapted to the transfer regime to the new owner
established in Law No. 164 and in this Supreme Decree.

TRANSITIONAL PROVISION SIX.-

Page 6

I. The rates arising from the application of the price cap in effect on the date of
publication of this Supreme Decree, will be applied until the
validity of the new initial price cap established by the ATT.

II. Until the entry into force of the new initial price cap defined by the ATT, the
will evaluate the rates through the control factor, maintaining the periods
rates established in the previous regulations, as well as a factor of
productivity of zero (0) optionally.

III. The ATT will put into effect the new initial price caps within the maximum term
twelve (12) months after the publication of this Supreme Decree.

IV. For this purpose, the operators or providers of the various regulated services,
must send the ATT all the information necessary to carry out the
calculations, in the form and opportunity in which it is requested, in case there is no
complete and sufficient information is provided, the ATT will be in the
power to use alternative referential sources to correct the lack of
such information.

SEVENTH TRANSITIONAL PROVISION.-

I. The ATT, within a period of nine (9) months from the publication of this
Supreme Decree will determine the values ​of the new positions of
interconnection for telecommunications services to the public, the same
that will enter into force according to the Administrative Resolution that it issues.

II. For the application of the initial methodology of interconnection charges, the ATT
you should consider the following criteria where applicable:

Page 7

a) Historical costs adjusted to an efficient network;
b) In the cases that warrant, after verification between the ATT and the
operator, adjusting the value of investments to the average value of
operators with similar characteristics;
c) Application of the weighted average cost of capital rate per
services.

III. For the mobile service, as long as the new values ​are calculated and come into effect
of interconnection charges, the ATT, within a period not exceeding fifteen (15) days
of the publication of this Supreme Decree, will determine its
corresponding interconnection charge based on comparative studies
(Benchmarking), which consider the economic variables in force at the
time of study. The results will be applied temporarily according to
the Administrative Resolution.

IV. For other services, as long as the new values ​are calculated and come into effect
of interconnection charges, network elements and essential facilities,
will keep the current values ​in force, not being able to be subject to any
update type.

V. The values ​of interconnection charges according to Paragraph I, may be
applied gradually until reaching the target value in a period no longer than
two (2) years from its determination.

EIGHTH TRANSITIONAL PROVISION.- The ownership of the call
fixed - mobile will become effective nine (9) months from the publication of this
Supreme decret.

NINTH TRANSITIONAL PROVISION.- The contribution of the operators and
providers to the National Telecommunications Program for Social Inclusion PRONTIS corresponding to the first semester of the 2012 management, will be carried out in

Page 8

according to the procedure established in this Supreme Decree, expanding the
terms in an additional month.

TENTH TRANSITORY PROVISION.- The ATT will deposit the amounts
collected from PRONTIS of the 2012 management in the respective accounts, within the
ten (10) days after the request made by the Ministry of Works
Public, Services and Housing.

ABROGATORY AND REPEAL PROVISIONS

ABROGATING PROVISIONS.- The following are repealed
provisions:

- Supreme Decree No. 24132, of September 27, 1995;
- Supreme Decree No. 24778, of July 31, 1997;
- Supreme Decree No. 26011, of December 1, 2000;
- Supreme Decree No. 26074, of February 16, 2001;
- Supreme Decree No. 26624, of May 14, 2002;
- Supreme Decree No. 28038, of March 7, 2005;
- Supreme Decree No. 28364, of September 21, 2005;
- Supreme Decree No. 28566, of December 22, 2005;
- Supreme Decree No. 28978, of December 20, 2006;
- Supreme Decree No. 28994, of January 1, 2007;
- Supreme Decree No. 29174, of June 20, 2007;
- Supreme Decree No. 29456, of February 27, 2008;
- Supreme Decree No. 29543, of May 1, 2008;
- Supreme Decree No. 29550, of May 8, 2008;
- Supreme Decree No. 29674, of August 20, 2008.

REPEALING PROVISIONS.- Articles 2, 4, 5 and 6 are repealed.

Page 9

of Supreme Decree No. 29616, of June 25, 2008.

All provisions contrary to this Decree are abrogated and repealed.
Supreme.

FINAL PROVISIONS

FINAL PROVISION FIRST.- The ATT, within a period of no more than three
(3) computable months from the publication of this Supreme Decree,
will prepare and update the Fundamental Technical Plans, considering the
Recommendations of the International Telecommunication Union - ITU or others, in
coordination with the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing; meanwhile, the
current will remain in effect.

SECOND FINAL PROVISION.- The operators and suppliers that
currently provide services in rural areas, as a result of expansion goals or
universal access defined in their contracts, they must continue to provide said
uninterrupted services complying with defined quality standards
by ATT. Likewise, in the event that alternative or substitute services are installed by
the same or another operator that make the continuity of these unsustainable or unnecessary
services, at the request of the operator or provider, the ATT within a period of no more than three (3)
months, will authorize or not the suspension of the service.

THIRD FINAL PROVISION.- Within six (6) months from
the validity of this Supreme Decree, the ATT will approve the technical standards of
quality for telecommunications services, information technology and
communication and broadcasting.
FOURTH FINAL PROVISION.- Administrative acts of a character
general issued before the approval of Law No. 164 and the publication of the
present Supreme Decree, will remain in force and will be applicable as long as they are not
contrary to Law No. 164 and its regulations.

FIFTH FINAL PROVISION.- The service contracts that the

Page 10

operators or providers subscribed with their users, they must be
appropriate to the new contract models approved by the ATT, within a period not
greater than six (6) months from the publication of this Supreme Decree. The
users or users will automatically migrate to these new contracts, after
operator or supplier communication

FINAL PROVISION SIX.-

I. The ATT will adapt its actions regarding migration, in accordance with the present
Supreme Decree and current regulations of the sector.

II. Data transmission services, circuit rental, mobile service of
dispatch (trunking), space station service and pager, are
They will adapt to the new legal framework according to their own characteristics.

III. Broadcasting operators in compliance with the new legal regime, a
Once the term of your qualifying title established in the regime has concluded
above, if required, they must process a new license according to the
established in the regulation according to its nature and the distribution of
frequencies established in Law No. 164.

IV. As long as the ATT concludes the adaptation of the qualifying titles of the operators of
telecommunications to the new regulatory framework, operators and providers,
They may request specific authorizations for new services.

SEVENTH FINAL PROVISION.- To expand the infrastructure of
broadband internet, the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing, through
of the Vice Ministry of Telecommunications, will prepare the National Broadband Plan,
that includes, among others, connections for international exit and regional integration,
as well as connections from capital cities and intermediate cities.

FINAL PROVISION EIGHT.- For the purposes of the regulation, the services

Page 11

broadcasting services provided by public entities or strategic companies of the State
Plurinational Corporation of Bolivia, which as of the date of publication of this Supreme Decree,
are operating or that by means of a Supreme Decree are intended to create
the provision of broadcasting services, are declared as official.

FINAL PROVISION NINE.- The National Frequency Plan will be
approved by Ministerial Resolution by the Ministry of Public Works,
Services and Housing, within a maximum period of ten (10) administrative business days
computable as of the publication of this Supreme Decree. At the time of
its approval, Supreme Resolution No. 216900, of 18
November 1996 and its modifications.

TENTH FINAL PROVISION.- Requests for the use of goods
public and easement for the telecommunications sector presented with
prior to the publication of this Supreme Decree, they must continue their
process until its conclusion within a maximum period of two (2) years, as
established in the regulations in force at the time of your request.

FINAL PROVISION ELEVENTH.- The Ministry of Works
Public, Services and Housing will make a public-private transfer to the
National Telecommunications Company Sociedad Anónima - ENTEL SA de la
all the resources of PRONTIS corresponding to the period August - December
of the management 2011 collected by concepts of payments for rights of allocation and use
of frequencies, fines, amounts of the bids for the granting of titles
qualifying agents, auctions of goods, execution of guarantee certificates, surplus
transfers to new owners and other resources, to finance projects
telecommunications of social interest, charged to the 2012 management budget,
by signing an agreement.

The Minister of State in the Office of Public Works, Services and
Housing, is in charge of the execution and fulfillment of this Decree
Supreme.

It is given in the Government Palace of the city of La Paz, at twenty-four
October day of the year two thousand twelve.

Page 12

FDO. EVO MORALES AYMA, David Choquehuanca Céspedes, Juan
Ramón Quintana Taborga, Carlos Gustavo Romero Bonifaz, Rubén Aldo Saavedra
Soto, Elba Viviana Caro Hinojosa, Luis Alberto Arce Catacora, Juan José Hernando
Sosa Soruco, Ana Teresa Morales Olivera, Arturo Vladimir Sánchez Escobar, Mario
Virreira Iporre, Cecilia Luisa Ayllon Quinteros, Daniel Santalla Torrez, Juan Carlos
Calvimontes Camargo, José Antonio Zamora Gutiérrez, Roberto Iván Aguilar Gómez,
Nemesia Achacollo Tola, Claudia Stacy Peña Claros, Nardy Suxo Iturry, Pablo Cesar
Groux Canedo, Amanda Dávila Torres.

GENERAL REGULATION TO LAW No. 164, OF AUGUST 8, 2011,
GENERAL OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS, TECHNOLOGIES OF
INFORMATION
AND COMMUNICATION FOR THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR

TITLE I
GENERAL DISPOSITION

SINGLE CHAPTER
GENERAL DISPOSITION

ARTICLE 1.- (PURPOSE). Regulate the activities of the
telecommunications in application of Law No. 164, of August 8, 2011, General of

Page 13

Telecommunications, Information and Communication Technologies for the
Telecommunications

ARTICLE 2.- (SCOPE OF APPLICATION). This Regulation is
apply to:

a) Natural or legal persons, public or private, national or foreign,
cooperatives and community, that carry out activities and provide services
telecommunications and information and communication technologies
originated, in transit or terminated in the territory of the State
Plurinational of Bolivia, users of these services;
b) Autonomous departmental, municipal and indigenous territorial entities
original peasant.

ARTICLE 3.- (PRINCIPLES). Without prejudice to the provisions of Law No.
164, activities in telecommunications, information technology and
communication, and the services provided to the user or end user, must
observe compliance with the following principles:

a) Efficiency.- Satisfaction in the services of
telecommunications; operators and suppliers, holders of a
license, they will adapt their facilities for efficient care and
good quality to users and users;

b) Due diligence.- Any operator or service provider in
telecommunications, its administrators, partners, shareholders or members,
must ensure the regular provision of the service, ensuring that their
administrative-financial management is transparent, legal and responsive
always in the interests of the user or end user;

c) Protection.- The participation of the user is recognized as vitally important.
and user in the provision of telecommunications services,
guaranteeing their defense and the protection of their rights within the framework of

Page 14

your legal relationships with the operator or service provider;

d) Effective provision of the service.- In no case, the operators or
telecommunications service providers, will proceed to collect
a service provided, if it was not performed on a regular basis and
effective, the operator or supplier, in case of dispute,
reliably demonstrate that the user received the service
that contemplates the invoicing;

e) Timely information.- Operators or service providers in
telecommunications are obliged to provide the information
related to the user or user in a timely manner, as long as
when the request is made by the owner of the information or his
legal representative and does not violate the principle of inviolability of
telecommunications.

ARTICLE 4.- (DEFINITIONS). In addition to technical definitions
established in Law No. 164, for the fulfillment of this Supreme Decree,
adopt the following definitions:

1. Regarding telecommunications services.

a) Carrier Services.- These are the services provided through a network
public telecommunications, which consist of the establishment of
point-point or point-multipoint links, through physical connections or
virtual, for the transmission of signals or data at different speeds,
in the formation of public or private networks that allow to carry out
encrypted, switched or dedicated communications between computers
located in different places, without causing change in the information
transmitted from end to end;

b) Mobile Dispatch Service (Trunking) .- It is the service that involves

Page 15

the use of frequencies in fixed or mobile stations to communicate with
a specific fixed or mobile terminal equipment within a defined group or
simultaneously with the group, in order to coordinate activities
user, user or group specific;

c) Pager Service.- It is a wireless mobile service that consists of
in sending a one-way alert signal or a voice message or
data, other than in real time, to a mobile terminal equipment, even if
advanced pager systems can allow a short message
return, from the mobile terminal equipment to the initiator of the contact.

2. Regarding the rate regulation.

a) Control Factor .- It is the value calculated for each rate period, in
function to inflation and the productivity factor, and which is constituted in
the maximum value of the variation of rates in said rate period;

b) Productivity Factor .- It is the component that reflects the change in the
level of productivity of suppliers or industry in the sector of
telecommunications;

c) Relevant Market .- It is the geographical area in which the
telecommunications and information technology services and
communication, taking into account substitute services from the point
from a technical and economic point of view, access restrictions and
existing commercial level;

d) Effective Period .- It is the period of three (3) years, consisting of six (6)
tariff periods, in which the factor of
productivity and the initial price cap;

e) Rate Period .- It is the period of six (6) calendar months, in which the

Page 16

control factor and price cap will remain constant;

f) Dominant Position .- It is the control of the relevant market exercised by a
operator or provider of telecommunications services and that
allows you to act independently of your competitors, users,
users or providers, due to the absence of effective competition in
said market;

g) Predatory Practice .- It is understood as a predatory practice when a
provider with a dominant position provides its services below
costs in a given period, in order to eliminate the
competition or potential rivals and then increase the price to your
monopoly level;

h) Weighted Average Price .- It is the average price of a basket of
services provided by a provider, weighted by gross revenue
received or the number of users or users, corresponding to each
rate category;

i) Rate .- It is the value set by the operator or provider for the provision of
a telecommunications service;

j) Price Cap .- It is the maximum limit of prices, rates or charges of
telecommunications services established based on a methodology of
rate regulation;

k) Variation of Rates .- Corresponds to the variation of average rates
weighted proposed by a service provider, for a basket of
services, in a specific rate period, with respect to rates
approved in the previous period.

Page 17

3. Regarding Interconnection.

a) Co-location. It is the availability of physical spaces, technical conditions
security that a telecommunications operator offers to others, to
the physical installation of your equipment;

b) Essential Facilities. They are the network elements that you use, own or
controls an operator for the provision of services
telecommunications, which at the same time is essential for the purposes of
interconnection for another operator that wishes to interconnect and provide
Telecommunications services;

c) Interconnection. It is the service provided between operators that allows
connection of two or more public telecommunications networks, which is
offered in one or more interconnection nodes or physical, logical or
virtual interconnection, making it possible to exchange traffic
electronic communications, so that all users
of these networks can communicate with each other and can have access to
services of the different operators;

d) Interoperability. It is the capacity of the components of a public network
telecommunications to operate with all its technical characteristics
and functional with another telecommunications network;

e) Roaming or Roaming. It is the capacity and availability of a user or
mobile service user to make and receive voice calls, send or
receive data and use other value-added services within a network
visited that is outside the geographical coverage of the network of origin;

f) Interconnection Node. It is the node directly linked to the point of
interconnection;

Page 18

g) Basic Interconnection Offer - OBI. It is the detail of the nodes of
interconnection with its minimum elements of a technical, economic,
commercial, legal and administrative, support services, facilities
essentials and network elements that a public network operator offers for the
interconnection;

h) Traffic Exchange Point - PIT. It is the point where
Internet Access Service Providers - ISPs, are interconnected
with each other through one or more nodes for the exchange of traffic of
data;

i) Interconnection Point. It is the specific place of the public network of
telecommunications where interconnection with other networks is established.

4. Of the Industrial, Scientific and other Teams.

a) Industrial, scientific and medical equipment . They are those teams designed
to locally generate and use electromagnetic frequencies to
industrial, scientific, medical purposes, excluding applications in
the telecommunications branch;

b) Involuntary radiators. They are equipment that is not designed to emit
electromagnetic energy outside the device itself, but emitted in
the course of your operation;

c) Voluntary radiators with very low power. They are teams that
intentionally generate and emit electromagnetic frequencies to
use in telecommunications or for industrial, scientific or medical uses
whose effective radiated power is less than the limit determined by
technical instructions issued by the ATT.

Page 19

ARTICLE 5.- (PROHIBITION).

I. Except as provided for broadcasting licenses, the rights granted by the
Plurinational State of Bolivia, through the Authority for Regulation and
Telecommunications and Transportation Inspection - ATT, through contracts
license or administrative resolutions for activities in
telecommunications within the national territory may not be transferred,
assigned, leased or subject to any act of disposition, without having
the authorization of the regulator, in accordance with current regulations.

II. Notwithstanding the foregoing, assignments, transfers and any act of
provision of the rights granted by the Plurinational State of Bolivia,
that do not affect the effective control of the holder, will be carried out freely and not
require the approval of the regulatory body, except for timely communication to
the ATT for the purposes of registration and updating of information.

ARTICLE 6.- (PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT). The
activities and services of telecommunications, information technologies and
communication, will be carried out in accordance with the principle of environmental protection and
sustainable development, in accordance with current regulations.
TITLE II
RADIOELECTRIC SPECTRUM

CHAPTER I
NATIONAL FREQUENCY PLAN

ARTICLE 7.- (NATIONAL FREQUENCY PLAN). The plan
Nacional de Frequencies - PNF, establishes the allocation of the frequency bands of the
radioelectric spectrum in the Plurinational State of Bolivia between the different types
radiocommunication services.

Page 20

ARTICLE 8.- (PREPARATION, UPDATING AND
APPROVAL OF THE PNF).

I. The preparation and updating of the PNF corresponds to the Ministry of Public Works
Services and Housing and its approval will be through Ministerial Resolution by
the designated Ministry.

II. The Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing in coordination with the ATT,
Through Ministerial Resolution, it will approve the channeling of the bands of
frequencies established in the PNF, when required.

CHAPTER II
USE OF THE RADIO SPECTRUM

ARTICLE 9.- (USE OF THE RADIOELECTRIC SPECTRUM).

I. The ATT will grant licenses for the provision of network operation services
telecommunications and information and communication technologies, which make
use of frequencies of the radioelectric spectrum according to the PNF, provided that
comply with the established requirements and when so determined by the plans
approved by the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing.

II. The radioelectric spectrum is a natural resource of a limited nature and legally
is inalienable and imprescriptible, which is why the rights of use of the
radioelectric spectrum derived from a license do not grant the right
owner.

ARTICLE 10.- (EXCEPTIONAL CASES).

Page 21

I. Licenses for the use of frequencies intended for broadcasting may
exceptionally and with prior authorization from the ATT, through Resolution
Administrative, transferred in the following special and specific cases:

a) Due to the death or judicial declaration of interdiction of the holder;
b) For the commercial sector, as of five (5) years after the end of the
period of validity of the license for the use of frequency, term that
will be re-computed and taken into account for the new owner if it occurs
a new transfer of a broadcasting license.

II. When the death or judicial declaration of interdiction of the holder occurs,
who owns or shares effective control, of a license for the use of
frequency intended for broadcasting, the ATT may authorize by means of
Administrative Resolution, the continuity of the license in favor of whoever
requests, as long as legal interest in the right granted to the
deceased or declared an injunction.

ARTICLE 11.- (MEDICAL, SCIENTIFIC AND
INDUSTRIAL).

I. No license is required for medical, scientific and industrial equipment, and that do
use of the radioelectric spectrum in a reduced area, as well as the operation of
involuntary radiators and voluntary radiators with very low power.

II. The ATT will issue technical instructions to regulate and control the emissions of
radio waves from devices that do not require a license, in order to
prevent them from causing harmful interference.

ARTICLE 12.- (FREQUENCIES OF FREE USE).

I. The users of the free use bands established in the PNF, do not

Page 22

require licensing and must meet technical parameters
established by the ATT.

II. The frequencies of free use may not be used for the operation and provision of
telecommunications services and information and communication technologies
to the public, nor for radio links of public or private networks, if said
activities will mean the realization of charges to the users or users.

CHAPTER III
REGISTRATION, APPROVAL AND INTERMISSION OF EQUIPMENT

ARTICLE 13.- (REGISTRATION OF SUPPLIERS AND
EQUIPMENT DEALERS). The ATT will be the entity that registers
manufacturers, suppliers or marketers of telecommunications equipment and
information and communication technologies, including transmission equipment
voice, data and others that use frequencies and radio frequency bands of
free use. The requirements for registration will be established by the ATT.

ARTICLE 14.- (APPROVAL OF EQUIPMENT).

I. Homologation is understood as the procedure carried out by the ATT for verification
of the compatibility of operation and operation of equipment or terminals
with a telecommunications network, according to national standards
prepared by the ATT and approved by the Ministry of Public Works,
Services and Housing, as well as international standards, mainly
in order to:

a) Protect from harmful interference to the services of
telecommunications from authorized operators or providers,
guaranteeing the appropriate use of the radioelectric spectrum;
b) Verify that the equipment or terminals have the technical characteristics
suitable for the type of authorized service.

Page 23

II. The ATT will issue technical instructions for homologation which will be
updated periodically.

III. When required, the ATT may hire third parties for the tests
homologation techniques, which will be called Entities
Verifiers and their hiring may be for specific cases or by term
determined in accordance with current applicable regulations.

IV. Natural or legal persons may not be designated Verifying Entities
who are holders of authorizations to provide services of
telecommunications and information and communication technologies or that have
direct relationship with suppliers or marketers of equipment or operators
and service providers.

V. For the application for homologation of telecommunications equipment included
those using free-use radio frequencies, manufacturers,
suppliers or marketers must previously be registered in the
ATT registration.

ARTICLE 15.- (APPROVAL PROCEDURE).

I. At the request of the interested parties, be they manufacturers, service operators, suppliers
or marketers of equipment for telecommunications networks, the
ATT will proceed to the homologation of the same, by means of Resolution
Administrative within a maximum period of thirty (30) days, as long as
meet the requirements established in the technical instructions of
homologation.

II. For equipment that requires laboratory tests in order to be approved,
ATT may request from the interested party a prototype for each type of equipment to be
approved, the same that will be delivered to the ATT until the end of the

Page 24

tests.

III. The ATT will publish on its website permanently the teams that have
been approved and therefore will be authorized for their use and
commercialization in the national territory.

ARTICLE 16.- (IMPORT AND INTERNATION OF EQUIPMENT OF
TELECOMMUNICATIONS). For the importation and importation of equipment of
telecommunications in general, as well as equipment and antennas used in reception
satellite, suppliers or marketers must request prior authorization or
certified to the ATT, in accordance with current regulations.

CHAPTER IV
FREQUENCY DISTRIBUTION AND ASSIGNMENT
FOR BROADCASTING

ARTICLE 17.- (DISTRIBUTION). For the purposes of this Regulation,
referred to the distribution of broadcasting frequencies in application of Article 10
of Law No. 164, it will be understood as:

a) State : Those entities and companies of the central level of the State, the
Autonomous Territorial Entities within the framework of the applicable regulations
in force, and the Public Universities, whose purpose is to provide
broadcasting services;

b) Commercial : To natural and legal persons in the private sphere that are
are constituted to carry out broadcasting activities with
profit;

c) Community Social : To individuals, social organizations,

Page 25

cooperatives and associations, whose function is educational, participatory,
representative of their community and its cultural diversity, which
promote their specific values ​and interests, do not pursue ends of
profit and broadcasting services are accessible to the community;

d) Peasant Indigenous Peoples - PIOC and Communities
Intercultural and Afro-Bolivian - CiyA: Those organizations of
these towns and communities that provide broadcasting services
accessible to the community and non-profit, that have uses and
customs, language, historical tradition, territoriality and worldview,
representatives of their peoples who ensure the revaluation of their
identity, culture and education.

ARTICLE 18.- (AVAILABILITY OF FREQUENCIES). The
available analog television and sound broadcasting frequencies that are
released as a result of compliance with the term of the license or the
revocation of the same, as well as those emerging from a new channeling in the
corresponding band, will be arranged in accordance with the policies and plans of
allocation of frequencies issued by the Ministry of Public Works, Services and
Housing, according to the following:

a) The ATT will periodically inform and make known to the Ministry of
Public Works, Services and Housing, on the availability of
frequencies by service areas;
b) The Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing will prepare the plans
allocation of broadcasting frequencies, according to the
needs of the sector;
c) In compliance with the frequency assignment plans of
broadcasting, the ATT will establish the corresponding
direct awarding, bids and invitations to competitions of
Projects.

ARTICLE 19.- (ORDER FOR THE ASSIGNMENT OF
FREQUENCIES).

I. The assignment of frequencies for the sound broadcasting service in frequency

Page 26

modulated and analog television, it will be carried out respecting the distribution
established in Article 10 of Law No. 164 for each service area, of
one frequency at a time per sector, according to the availability of
frequencies, until reaching the percentages established by Law.
II. The order in the allocation of broadcasting frequencies according to Paragraph
above, it will be done as follows:

a) State;
b) Indigenous Peasant Native People and Intercultural Communities and
Afro-Bolivian;
c) Community Social;
d) Commercial.

III. The assignment of amplitude modulated and short wave bands for the service of
broadcasting, must achieve the same distribution established in Article
10 of Law No. 164, taking into account the policies approved by the
Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing, applying the same
order of assignment of Paragraph II of this Regulation.

ARTICLE 20.- (ASSIGNMENT OF FREQUENCIES).

I. The ATT, through Administrative Resolution, will assign the use of frequencies for the
broadcasting service according to frequency assignment plans
and the mechanisms described in the previous article:

a) For the State, the use of frequencies will be assigned directly, a
frequency for radio broadcasting and another for analog television in
its jurisdiction, based on frequency assignment plans,
issued by the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing, the
availability of frequencies reported by the ATT and the order of
submission of applications;
b) For the Community Social sector and the Indigenous Indigenous Peoples sector
Peasants and Intercultural and Afro-Bolivian Communities, must
proceed to the assignment of frequencies through the procedure of
Project Contest;

Page 27

c) For the Commercial sector, the frequencies must be assigned
through the Public Tender procedure.

II. The ATT may take cognizance of expressions of interest for informational purposes.
to report them to the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing, for the
preparation of frequency assignment plans.

CHAPTER V
INTERFERENCE

ARTICLE 21.- (HARMFUL INTERFERENCE).

I. Harmful interference to the radio spectrum must be avoided by all
operators and if it is evidenced that their emissions generate signals in
radio frequencies outside the authorized bands causing
interference, they must solve it within the framework of the standards
technicians issued by the ATT in this regard.

II. The ATT will carry out monitoring and other actions related to spectrum control
radio to detect unauthorized emissions and prevent interference
harmful, guaranteeing the operation of the frequencies legally
authorized.

III. The operator affected by harmful interference must file a complaint
formally to the ATT, with information on the frequencies affected,
including additional information that helps to identify the offender,
and the ATT must execute the pertinent regulatory actions.

ARTICLE 22.- (PROTECTION AGAINST INTERFERENCE).

Page 28

I. Operators and providers of telecommunications services, technologies of
information and communication as well as broadcasting, must comply with the
technical standards established by the ATT to prevent its emissions from
radio signal generate interference.

II. Industrial, scientific, medical and free-use band equipment must
function without causing interference to legally established services,
according to the technical standards established by the ATT.

III. The ATT, in case of verifying that the signals emitted by a device cause
interference, you will need to take appropriate action.

CHAPTER VI
PUBLIC NETWORK TERMINALS

ARTICLE 23.- (TERMINAL POINT). The end point between a network
public and terminal equipment should consider the following:

a) The terminal point between a public network and connected terminal equipment will be
established by the ATT through technical instructions, taking into
consideration: the uses and functions of the equipment to be connected to the
network, the technical requirements of the network operator and recommendations
relevant international and regional organizations that dictate the
standards;
b) For local service, provided through a physical line, the terminal point
will constitute the terminal box or telephone distribution board of the
building or dwelling. Internal wiring within the home or building
as well as the terminal equipment connected to it, will be the responsibility of
the user or user;
c) The terminal point of a public network will be part of said network and controlled by
the network operator.

Page 29

ARTICLE 24.- (FIXED WIRELESS ACCESS). For access
fixed wireless local service, the following shall be understood:

a) Restricted coverage.- It is the signal coverage of the local service provided
by a radio base or cell with restriction to perform transfer of
calls between base stations or cells;

b) Terminal equipment with restricted coverage.- It is the terminal equipment
wireless with portability features, the same as it should be
activated and enabled for operation within the coverage of
a single radio base or cell, the same that must operate within the
facilities and characteristics of the local service. The ATT will establish the
technical standards for the provision of local service through access
fixed wireless.

TITLE III
GRANTING OF LICENSES

CHAPTER I
AUTHORIZATIONS AND GRANTING OF LICENSES

ARTICLE 25.- (FORMS OF GRANTING OF LICENSES).

I. The Single License and the Broadcasting License must be granted by the ATT
through the signing of contracts.

II. Licenses for Private Networks, Value Added Services and Provision of

Page 30

Satellite Services, as well as Specific Qualifications, will be granted
by the ATT through Administrative Resolutions, which contain the
relevant and uniform information for each type of authorization.

III. The Licenses for the Use of Frequencies destined to services of
telecommunications to the public, will be granted by the ATT as appropriate,
through a public bidding process or directly, through Resolutions
Administrative.

IV. For the purposes of this Regulation, the granting of licenses in a manner
direct should be understood as the granting of a license based on
the plans approved by the Ministry of Public Works, Services and
Housing, the availability of frequencies and prior compliance with the
requirements for each case.

ARTICLE 26.- (SINGLE REGISTRY OF LICENSES). The ATT,
it will incorporate the Single Registry of Licenses to the Sectorial Information System.

ARTICLE 27.- (AUTHORIZATION AND SERVICE AREAS).

I. The following Authorization Areas are established for the provision of services of
telecommunications depending on the geographic scope of the license.

a) National Authorization Area - AAN, is one that includes all the
territory of the Plurinational State of Bolivia;
b) Departmental Authorization Area - AAD, is one that includes all the
territory of a department.

II. The following Service Areas are established:

a) Urban Service Area - ASU: It is the geographical area that comprises one or more

Page 31

more towns or cities, for the provision of a service;
b) Rural Service Area - ASR: It is any geographical area of ​a department
that is outside the established urban service areas, to
the provision of a service.

III. Operators and providers of telecommunications services and technologies
information and communication will provide services within the ASU and ASR
enabled, within the AAN or AAD authorized in their corresponding
licenses granted by the ATT.

IV. The determined service areas must be common to all operators.

V. This Article shall not apply to broadcasting licenses.

ARTICLE 28.- (PROCESSING AND MONITORING).

I. The ATT will establish the internal administrative procedures for the processing of
licensing and monitoring. These procedures will be
issued in order to ensure equal treatment of all applications for
licenses, their subsequent regulation, supervision and control.

II. During the process to grant licenses, the transfer or modification in the
effective control of the applicant, will mean the rejection of the application and
will lead to the start of a new procedure by the new owner.

III. During the process of obtaining a license, the information and documentation
technical and economic, which is presented by the applicants for the
licensing, will be considered by the ATT as confidential.

ARTICLE 29.- (LICENSE HOLDER).

Page 32

I. The natural and legal persons who have applied for themselves and
for itself an enabling title for the provision of services in
telecommunications or for private networks within the national territory.

II. In the case of commercial companies, the owner of effective control is considered to be the
natural or legal person who has control of decisions within the
society within the framework of the provisions of the Commercial Code.

III. In the case of community societies, de facto associations or any other
form of association legally recognized by the Plurinational State of
Bolivia, it will be presumed that effective control is exercised by all of the
partners or members.

IV. In the case of public entities, strategic public companies or companies
companies with majority participation of the Plurinational State of Bolivia,
For representation purposes, the licensee is the Highest Authority
Executive or General Manager, as appropriate.

V. If a commercial company maintains the ownership of a license within a
corporation or holding company, it will be presumed that who has effective control is the
matrix of these.

ARTICLE 30.- (HOLDING). For the purposes of these Regulations,
Holding shall be understood as the group of companies in the sector, organized around a
holding company or parent company incorporated within or outside the national territory, which
manages and controls all or a significant part of the capital quotas or
actions of a dependent.
ARTICLE 31.- (PROHIBITIONS AND LIMITATIONS).

I. Natural or legal persons may not be subjects of the granting of rights,

Page 33

members of boards or boards of directors and partners of legal persons to
who for any reason have had their license revoked to operate a
network and provide telecommunications and information technology services and
communication or revoked the license to make use of the radioelectric spectrum.
This prohibition will apply to services similar to the service or operation of the
network that was revoked and for a period of five (5) years.

II. The prohibition established by Law No. 164, for the granting of licenses by
cause of license revocation, it is not applicable when the revocation of
license would have been produced at the express request of the operator or provider.

III. No applicant in violation of the regulatory regulations may acquire new
rights, renew, modify or revoke those in force, without ceasing the
irregular acts that gave rise to the sanctioning process.

IV. Licenses or applications in progress to obtain licenses may not be
transferred, assigned or leased, except those established in the present
Regulation; If this is verified, it will be grounds for revocation of the
license or the rejection of the application by the ATT.

V. National or international providers of the signal distribution service
satellite channels DTH (Direct To Home), that its signal has coverage in the
territory of the Plurinational State of Bolivia may not provide this service
without having the corresponding enabling title.

CHAPTER II
LICENSING

ARTICLE 32.- (GRANTING OF LICENSES).

Page 34

I. Those interested in obtaining a license to operate networks and provide services of
telecommunications and information and communication technologies, must
comply with the presentation of the legal, economic and technical requirements of
according to the type of service requested.

II. In the granting of licenses for private and public networks that require the
use of frequencies and consequently of the license for the use of
frequencies, may be considered in their presentation together,
containing the information and requirements required for both licenses,
following their independent awarding process.

ARTICLE 33.- (CHARACTER OF SWORN STATEMENT). All the
documentation submitted to the ATT for license application procedures, will have
character of affidavit.

ARTICLE 34.- (DOCUMENTATION AND PROCEDURE FOR
APPLICATION FOR LICENSES AND SPECIFIC HABILITATIONS). The
Applications for obtaining specific licenses and ratings must
be accompanied by legal, technical and economic documentation, as appropriate,
determined by Ministerial Resolution issued by the Ministry of Works
Public Services, Services and Housing, which will also establish the procedure for the
grant.

ARTICLE 35.- (ROUTING PRIVATE NETWORKS).

I. Licenses for the private network of companies that, due to their work in the
implementation of projects in specific areas of operation require
frequent and significant changes in geographic location, may
request modifications of your license to the ATT prior compliance with the
established requirements, without this being considered a new request for
license.

II. The private networks mentioned in the previous paragraph, to benefit from this

Page 35

type of license modification, must preserve the technical characteristics
of network equipment, frequencies to be used, bandwidth, number of
channels, powers and number of mobile units.

ARTICLE 36.- (EXEMPTION FROM PAYMENT OF FEES AND RIGHTS).
In the cases established in Law No. 164, requests for exemption from payments for
Right of Frequency Assignment - DAF and Right of Use of Frequencies DUF, as well as the Tax and Regulation Fee, will be presented to the ATT for
its corresponding evaluation of compliance with legal and technical aspects
established for the granting of the license, in order to refer to the Ministry of Works
Public, Services and Housing, the request with the technical and legal reports for the
respective authorization, through Ministerial Resolution, that instructs the exemption of the
payment of respective fees and rights, if applicable.

CHAPTER III
SINGLE LICENSE, SPECIFIC ENABLING
AND FREQUENCY USE LICENSE

ARTICLE 37.- (SINGLE LICENSE).

I. The ATT will grant a Single License for the operation of networks or the provision of
telecommunications services and information and communication technologies,
with departmental or national scope, through the signing of a contract,
prior compliance with legal, economic and technical requirements and the
procedure established by the Ministry of Public Works, Services and
Housing through Ministerial Resolution.
II. The interested party in time to request the Single License, must require minimally
the authorization of a service through a specific authorization.

III. Operators of public telecommunications networks and technologies of
information and communication that require the use of
frequencies, they must request the License for the Use of Frequencies.

Page 36

ARTICLE 38.- (SPECIFIC ENABLING).

I. At the express request of the operators and service providers of
telecommunications and information and communication technologies, ATT
Through Administrative Resolution, you can enable a service that does not
it would have been implemented at the time of granting the Single License.

II. Licenses for services that require the use of frequency must be subject to
to the frequency assignment plans that will be issued by the Ministry
of Public Works, Services and Housing.

ARTICLE 39.- (LICENSE FOR THE USE OF FREQUENCIES). The
ATT, will grant licenses for the use of radioelectric frequencies to the operators or
telecommunications and information technology service providers and
communication, broadcasting and private networks, as long as they comply with the
established in the National Frequency Plan, if there is availability and it is according to
the forms of granting defined in this Regulation.

ARTICLE 40.- (PROCEDURE FOR GRANTING
LICENSES FOR THE USE OF FREQUENCIES).

I. The granting of licenses for the use of frequencies destined to the services of
telecommunications to the public, will be carried out through public bidding or
directly and will be subject to the procedure established by the Ministry of
Public Works, Services and Housing by Ministerial Resolution.

II. Licenses for the use of frequencies for broadcasting services,
will be granted subject to the procedure established by the Ministry of
Public Works, Services and Housing through Ministerial Resolution, of the
Following way:

Page 37

a) Directly for the State;
b) By competition of projects for the community social sector and towns
native indigenous peasants and intercultural communities and
Afro-Bolivian;

c) By Public Tender for the commercial sector.

III. Licenses for the use of frequencies destined for private networks will be granted according to
directly and will be subject to the procedure established by the Ministry of
Public Works, Services and Housing by Ministerial Resolution.

ARTICLE 41.- (USE OF FREQUENCY WITH CHARACTER
EXPERIMENTAL).

I. To promote research and development of telecommunications through the
use of new technologies, the ATT may grant licenses for the use of frequency
on an experimental basis for a period of up to six (6) non-renewable months,
for experiments in the radio spectrum consistent with standards
as long as these experiments are within the framework of the
current regulations, serve the public interest and do not cause interference
harmful.

II. Applicants must comply with the presentation of legal requirements and
technicians required by the ATT as applicable in each case and according to
instructions prepared by the ATT.

III. The ATT will set the payment of twelfths according to the term for the rights of
assignment and use of DAF and DUF frequencies for licensing
experimental.

ARTICLE 42.- (USE OF CHARACTER FREQUENCY
EXCEPTIONAL).

Page 38

I. Diplomatic delegations may access an authorization for the use of
exceptional frequencies for a period not exceeding one (1) month, in
case of official visits, communicated to the ATT by the Ministry of Foreign Relations
Foreign, within the framework of international conventions.

II. In cases of declared emergency, in coordination with the National System of
Risk Reduction and Attention to Disasters and / or Emergencies - SISRADE,
ATT may grant Licenses for the use of frequency at no cost, for a
term no longer than three (3) months, and this term may be extended in the event of
continue the emergency period.

III. With prior authorization from the ATT, operators licensed to use
frequencies will be able to make new locations of radio bases or other
infrastructure for a limited period and established in the authorization for the
provision of telecommunications services to the public, at specific sites
where public events are held.

ARTICLE 43.- (PROHIBITION OF USE OF FREQUENCIES WITHOUT
LICENSE). No natural or legal person within the national territory of the
Plurinational State of Bolivia, may make use of radio frequencies
established in the PNF, without previously having the corresponding license issued
by the ATT, except for free use frequencies established in said plan.

CHAPTER IV
PRIVATE NETWORK LICENSE AND HAMMER ACTIVITY

ARTICLE 44.- (PRIVATE NETWORK LICENSE).

Page 39

I. The ATT, will grant a License for Private Networks, for the operation of networks of
telecommunications and information and communication technologies that
extend outside the premises of the owner of the same and radio amateurs, to
through Administrative Resolution, after compliance with the requirements
legal and technical established by the Ministry of Public Works, Services and
Living place.
II. Operators of private telecommunications networks and technologies
information and communication that require the use of
radioelectric frequencies, must additionally and previously count
with the license for the respective frequency use.

ARTICLE 45.- (RADIO AMATEUR ACTIVITY). The bands
and frequencies assigned in the PNF for the activity of radio amateurs, may be
used as long as you have the proper amateur radio license. These
bands and frequencies may not be assigned to the exclusive use of any person
individual or collective.

ARTICLE 46.- (OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES).

I. Radio amateurs, for the purposes of community service, may not
have a commercial purpose or give rise to economic benefits, and must
meet collaboration requirements.

II. Radio amateurs will be responsible for adopting technical precautions and
security to avoid interference and disturbances in the other services of
telecommunications, becoming subject to the sanctions established in the
Regulation of Infractions and Sanctions, in case of presenting them.

III. Radio amateurs are strictly prohibited from interconnecting their
computers to public networks for profit.

Page 40

ARTICLE 47.- (EMISSIONS CONTROL). The ATT will control that
broadcasts from amateur radio stations meet the technical standard
established for the effect.

CHAPTER V
LICENSE FOR VALUE ADDED SERVICES

ARTICLE 48.- (VALUE ADDED SERVICES).

I. The ATT will regulate the operation, the granting of the license, the terms and
conditions of the provision of the service, as well as the payment of the
Supervision and Regulation of value added services.

II. Operators or providers of public networks with a Single License, legally
constituted in the Plurinational State of Bolivia, may provide services of
added value directly, without requiring a license for services of
added value, for which they must request the ATT authorization
correspondent.

ARTICLE 49.- (PROVISION OF SERVICES).

I. Operators or suppliers that provide value-added services must carry
an accounting according to the accounting information system of the ATT.

II. Public network operators and service providers to the public are
obliged to require the presentation of the license for valuable services

Page 41

aggregate or single license, as appropriate, to providers of this
service, prior to the assignment of a line or circuit for rent or
any other facility of access to the network.

ARTICLE 50.- (ENABLING AND DISABLING).

I. Operators or providers of value-added services must provide their
users or users the enabling and disabling of the services that
lend under the same conditions.

II. Operators or providers of value-added services, prior to subscription
of a user or user to any of the services offered, have the
obligation to communicate to the subscriber about the service to which he will access, form
of payment and form of termination of the subscription. If the subscription involves the
continuous provision of a service, the operator or provider must request the
express acceptance of the user indicating the term, cost of the
subscription and complaint mechanisms.

ARTICLE 51.- (SUSPENSION OF SERVICES).

I. The ATT, after a technical and legal report, may order the suspension of the provision of the
value-added services in the following cases:

a) When it is shown that its operation is causing damage to the correct
operation of the telecommunications network that supports it;
b) When the service attacks the users;
c) In the case of operations or applications outside the scope of their
licenses.

II. Said suspension will be maintained, until it is proven that the operator has resolved

Page 42

satisfactorily the cause that originated it.

CHAPTER VI
LICENSE FOR THE PROVISION OF THE SATELLITE SERVICE

ARTICLE 52.- (RADIOELECTRIC SPECTRUM ASSOCIATED WITH
SATELLITE NETWORKS). The ATT will assign, control, supervise, supervise and
will manage the radioelectric spectrum associated with satellite networks in the
geographic location of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, in accordance with the policies of the
of Public Works, Services and Housing and by the provisions contained in the
these Regulations, as well as international recommendations.

ARTICLE 53.- (SATELLITE SERVICE).

I. The following shall be understood as satellite services:

a) Space Station Service;
b) Earth Station Service;
c) Satellite radio links.

II. A single license will be required for the provision of the station satellite service
terrestrial and satellite radio links.

ARTICLE 54.- (REGISTRATION OF GROUND STATIONS).

I. Operators or providers of telecommunications services to the public must
register their receiving earth stations with the ATT in order to have
protection against interference in the established frequency bands.

Page 43

II. Earth stations that do not provide services to the public and are used by
part of users or end users in the reception of satellite signals without
coding, whether national or foreign, does not require registration.

ARTICLE 55.- (REQUIREMENTS OF GROUND STATIONS
RECEIVERS). The Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing, through
Ministerial Resolution will define the requirements for the registration of earth stations
receivers.

CHAPTER VII
BROADCASTING LICENSE

ARTICLE 56.- (BROADCASTING LICENSE). The ATT, through
the signing of contracts, will grant broadcasting licenses for the operation of
networks and provision of radio and television services with local, departmental or
national, according to the broadcasting service areas.
ARTICLE 57.- (BROADCASTING NETWORKS).

I. The providers of sound and television broadcasting services may establish
communicational or informational networks with local, departmental and
national, with other stations and television channels, without implying the
formation of monopolies or oligopolies.

II. The links and repeaters destined to the formation of broadcasting networks or
the expansion of the coverage area, they must have licenses for the use
corresponding frequencies, in accordance with the provisions of this
Regulation.

ARTICLE 58.- (USE OF FREQUENCIES FOR BROADCASTING).

Page 44

The application for a license for broadcasting requires obtaining the corresponding
license for the use of frequencies, the same that will be subject to the procedure
established by the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing, through
Ministerial Resolution.

ARTICLE 59.- (PROJECTS OF THE SOCIAL SECTOR
COMMUNITY AND INDIGENOUS PEOPLES PEASANTS AND
INTERCULTURAL AND AFROBOLIVIAN COMMUNITIES). The projects
to be presented by the Community Social Sector and Indigenous Indigenous Peoples
Peasants and Intercultural and Afro-Bolivian Communities , must contain the
aspects established in the Ministerial Resolution issued by the Ministry of Works
Public, Services and Housing.

ARTICLE 60.- (EVALUATION OF PROJECTS).

I. The ATT will form a Multidisciplinary Commission for the evaluation and
qualification of projects according to the characteristics of the call, the
qualification will be made based on the indicators and weightings, established
by the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing through Resolution
Ministerial.

II. The exercise of participation and social control will be governed by the Political Constitution
of the State, Law No. 164 and the Law related to its exercise.

ARTICLE 61.- (OBLIGATIONS). In case the ATT establishes that
applicants for broadcasting licenses, whether natural or legal persons,
owners, shareholders or majority partners, who have no direct relationship with the
communications and information must be included in the license agreements in a manner
expresses that said operators or suppliers guarantee compliance with the
principles established in Article 21 numerals 2, 3, 5 and 6, as well as Articles
106 and 107 of the Political Constitution of the State, the breach of which will be grounds for
revocation of the license.

ARTICLE 62.- (TIME AND POWER AT THE START OF

Page 45

OPERATIONS). To ensure efficient use of the frequency spectrum
intended for broadcasting, the ATT may require a minimum use of the spectrum
authorized in terms of emission time or signal power, at the beginning of the
operations or in the period prior to the full use of the granted resource.

ARTICLE 63.- (INCORPORATION TO THE SERVICE GRID
OF SIGNAL DISTRIBUTION).

I. The programming broadcast by the channels of the State Television Company BOLIVIA TV, as well as the channels of the Bolivian University Network of
Information - RED RUBI, in its corresponding service area, will be
incorporated by the operators of the signal distribution service in their
channel grid of the area of ​your license to proceed with the retransmission of the
uninterrupted programming, except in cases of impossibility
supervening or express request of BOLIVIA TV and RED RUBI.

II. There will be no consideration for the parties for the incorporation of the
BOLIVIA TV channels and RED RUBI to the grid of the services of
signal distribution.

III. The national channels of the television broadcasting service will be arranged
in a single block of the channel grid of the signal distribution service,
in the same order as that observed in the television broadcasting service
open in each service area, except technical impossibility verified by the
ATT.

ARTICLE 64.- (TRANSMISSION RIGHTS).
I. The providers of broadcasting services must be legitimate owners or
have the express authorization of the legitimate owners or distributors, of
the rights of emission, transmission, retransmission, diffusion or promotion of
movies, novels, series, miniseries, events and other programs, any
be its nature.

Page 46

II. The providers of the signal distribution services that retransmit in the
signals from national or foreign channels must have the
express authorization of the legitimate owners or distributors of the rights
corresponding broadcasts.

III. For broadcasting in Bolivian territory of programs or special events,
the provider of the broadcasting or signal distribution services must
prove that it has the respective emission rights or, otherwise,
refrain from promoting and broadcasting those programs for which they do not
have the corresponding emission rights.

IV. Failure to comply with the provisions of this Article, will give rise to the process
corresponding administrative sanctioning carried out by the ATT, without
prejudice to the responsibilities and determinations that may be established
in court or other instances.

CHAPTER VIII
LICENSES FOR THE RURAL AREA

ARTICLE 65.- (DETERMINATION OF THE SERVICE AREA
RURAL). The ATT will periodically present to the Ministry of Public Works,
Services and Housing for your approval, the list of locations considered within the
Rural Service Area, based on population data provided by the Institute
National Statistics - INE and other socioeconomic indicators.

ARTICLE 66.- (REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES FOR
GRANT LICENSES IN RURAL AREAS).

I. The ATT will directly grant licenses for the operation of networks and the provision
of telecommunications services and information technologies and

Page 47

communication in rural areas, to cover these localities according to the
plans issued by the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing and the
availability of frequencies when they are required.

II. The licenses that will be granted are the following:

a) Unique License and Specific Qualification, for the operation of networks and
provision of telecommunications services and technologies
information and communication to the public;
b) License for the Use of Frequencies.

III. Applications received by the ATT to grant a single license or rating
specific to rural areas, they must meet the same requirements of
application and be processed with the same allocation procedures
direct, as appropriate, single license or specific qualification,
established by the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing
by Ministerial Resolution.

ARTICLE 67.- (MEANS OF ATTENTION TO THE PUBLIC IN AREAS
RURAL).

I. The operator or provider, directly or through third parties, must ensure that the
users in rural areas can access facilities for the
request for services, claims, purchase of prepaid cards or other benefits,
under the same conditions established for each type of service and product
offered.

II. Requests for services, claims, inquiries may be made through the lines
toll-free telephone numbers, email or other means made public by the
operator or provider.

III. The ATT will issue the instructions necessary to determine the parameters

Page 48

minimum requirements for compliance with this provision.

CHAPTER IX
DIRECTLY GRANTED LICENSES

ARTICLE 68.- (PROCEDURE TO GRANT LICENSES
IN A DIRECT WAY). The ATT will grant licenses directly according to the
procedure established by the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing
by Ministerial Resolution, in the following cases:

a) For the operation of public networks and provision of services of
telecommunications and information and communication technologies, as well
as well as for the use of frequencies, to strategic public companies
defined by the central level of the State in the sector of
telecommunications and information and communication technologies and
telecommunications companies with majority state participation;
b) For the operation of public networks and provision of services
telecommunications and information and communication technologies, as well
as for the use of frequencies in rural areas;
c) For the assignment of frequencies to services intended for safety and
defense of the state;
d) For private networks and radio links required for networks in
functioning;
e) For the broadcasting services of the State, according to the present
Regulation.

ARTICLE 69.- (PAYMENTS).

I. Strategic public companies defined by the central level of the State in the
telecommunications or information and communication technologies sector and
telecommunications companies with majority state participation,
will make the payment of the amount by DAF according to the calculation made by the
ATT based on economic technical criteria and in accordance with regulations
current.

Page 49

II. Payments for DUF, Tax and Regulation Tax and contributions for the
National Telecommunications Program for Social Inclusion - PRONTIS, se
They will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of these Regulations.

CHAPTER X
CONDITIONS APPLICABLE TO LICENSE HOLDERS

ARTICLE 70.- (PROHIBITIONS). Installation is prohibited,
commissioning, use and operation of public or private networks of
telecommunications and information and communication technologies without the
corresponding license or outside the parameters authorized by the ATT.

ARTICLE 71.- (COMMUNICATION OF THE START OF ACTIVITIES
FOR PUBLIC NETWORKS).

I. As of the granting of a license and within the legally established term,
the holder must notify the ATT of the date of commencement of operations with a
at least ten (10) days in advance, to schedule an inspection
administrative.

II. For the start of operations of operators that have a License of
Broadcasting, the ATT will issue the Certificate of Start of Operations,
supported by the administrative inspection that certifies that the emissions
strictly comply with the parameters of the technical standard linked to the
license and others that the ATT deems necessary.

III. When operators or service providers are getting ready to start operations
specific networks for enabled services, in areas where previously there was no
provided them, they must communicate the start of commercial operations
with a minimum notice of five (5) days to the ATT, for it to be considered

Page 50

registered the network in said area, according to the instructions prepared by the
ATT.

IV. Wireless telecommunications service providers,
must notify the start of operations of new fixed stations with a
minimum notice of five (5) days to the ATT, according to the instructions
prepared by the ATT.

V. Failure to comply with this Article will lead to consider the activity as
outside the scope of your license and will be subject to penalty.

ARTICLE 72.- (CESSATION OR INTERRUPTION OF OPERATIONS).

I. Operators and providers of telecommunications services to the public, as well
as the broadcasting services must communicate in writing in a manner
the cessation or interruption of operations is justified to the ATT.

II. The ATT will include in the license agreements that the cessation or interruption of
operations of telecommunications services to the public as well as
broadcasting services that exceed six (6) months, will be subject to the
revocation of your license.

ARTICLE 73.- (CONSTRUCTION OF FACILITIES).

I. The licensee must build and maintain his facilities directly
related to the operation of the network and provision of the service, observing the
technical quality standards defined by the ATT according to the type of
service, whose non-compliance will give rise to the applicable sanctions.

II. The interested parties, under their responsibility, must obtain from the authorities

Page 51

competent the necessary permits, including those for construction,
environmental and others not directly linked to the
telecommunications, in accordance with the relevant rules and regulations.

ARTICLE 74.- (FIELD REGULATIONS
ELECTROMAGNETICS). The ATT will issue technical standards on the limits of
exposure to radio frequency electromagnetic fields. Licensees
will be responsible for ensuring that the use of their equipment and facilities linked to
their licenses do not exceed the electromagnetic field generation limit of
radio frequency.

ARTICLE 75.- (INSPECTIONS).

I. ATT may inspect, without prior notice, any facility or equipment of the
holder of a license during working hours, and with notice of at least
minus six (6) hours for non-business days. These inspections will be
executed by the ATT taking the necessary provisions to avoid damage to the
network or the provision of services.

II. Licensees must keep a copy of their license at all times.
license and present it to the ATT officials, if requested.
Likewise, they must make available to the ATT representatives in a
immediate, all information and documentation required.

ARTICLE 76.- (MODIFICATION OF LICENSE).

I. The ATT may modify the licenses, without affecting the services provided to the
public, in compliance with provisions of the Executive Branch that
modify the National Frequency Plan and in the cases established in the
Law No. 164. When implementing said modifications, the ATT will establish a
reasonable period of adequacy. In these cases there will be no type of
compensatory payment or any compensation.

Page 52

II. The holder of a license may request the ATT the non-substantial modification of
the license conditions, according to the requirements specified by the
regulatory body.

III. Important modifications in relation to the service provided, coverage area,
frequencies used outside the assigned bandwidth or transfer of
transmission stations outside the authorized service area, will be
considered as a substantial change and consequently, you must
be routed as a new license application.

IV. The ATT will attend partially or totally the requested modifications,
establishing the necessary technical and economic conditions.

ARTICLE 77.- (RENEWAL OF LICENSES).

I. The intention to renew the licenses for the operation of Public Networks and
Broadcasting licenses must be presented to the ATT at least with a
(1) year prior to the expiration date of the license; if the intention
was not presented or was outside the period indicated in this
Paragraph, the license will not be renewed.

II. The license renewal intentions must be accompanied by the
legal and technical documentation established in the respective Resolution
Ministerial issued by the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing,
for the granting of the corresponding license to be renewed.

III. In the event that there are pending uncontested charges, the ATT will not accept the
request until they are corrected within a maximum period of fifteen
(15 days.

IV. The determination of renewal or not, must be communicated by the ATT in a
maximum term of ninety (90) days from receipt of the request.

Page 53

V. In the case of renewal, operators or suppliers must make the payments of
DAF and DUF, in accordance with the provisions of this Regulation, for the
new license period.

ARTICLE 78.- (TRANSFER TO THE NEW OPERATOR).

I. Upon expiration, expiration, termination or revocation of a license or contract, the
ATT by means of a motivated Administrative Resolution, will determine the start of the
transfer process to guarantee the continuity of services, based on
to the Plans approved by the Ministry of Public Works, Services and
Housing, according to the following:

a) The ATT will appoint an auditor as long as the transfer to the
new operator. Said auditor will be in charge of carrying out an appraisal
on the value of facilities, equipment and works of the unemployed operator;
b) The ATT will call a public tender in order to grant the titles
qualifiers corresponding to the new owner, in addition to the transfer
of all the facilities, equipment and works of the unemployed operator;
c) The base price of the public tender will consider the book value or the
amount determined through the appraisal, whichever is less and the costs
related to the granting of the respective enabling titles.

II. The amount of the tender will be paid as follows:

a) The amounts related to the allocation of the qualifying titles will be
canceled by the new operator to the ATT;
b) The amounts related to the operator's facilities, equipment and works
unemployed, they will be canceled by the new operator, paying the value
in books or the amount determined through the appraisal, whichever is less,
deducting the expenses incurred in the bidding process, fines and other
pending payments, amounts that will be paid by the new operator to the
ATT;
c) The contract signed between the ATT and the new operator must state that

Page 54

he complied with the aforementioned obligations, both with the ATT and with the
unemployed operator.

III. Once the license is transferred to another operator, the ATT will grant the
right to use the frequency and, in the case of licenses that are not intended
the use of a radio frequency, the rights to provide the service,
with more facilities, equipment and works directly related to the
network operation and service provision.

IV. The provisions contained in this Article do not apply to the services of
broadcasting or private networks.

ARTICLE 79.- (AUTHORIZATION OF TRANSFERS). In case
that the holder of a public or private network license requesting authorization
For the assignment, transfer or any act of disposition on it, you must
present the documentation and abide by the procedure established by the Ministry of
Public Works, Services and Housing by Ministerial Resolution.

ARTICLE 80.- (REVOCATION OF LICENSES).

I. The ATT may revoke licenses for the reasons established in Law No. 164,
under the following procedure:

a) The ATT, having verified the existence of a cause for revocation, will notify the
fulfillment of the obligation, setting a reasonable term for this purpose. The
notification of the summons will have the effect of transferring charges;
b) The ATT will order the conclusion of the procedure and the filing of the
actions if the regulated operator or provider accepts the summons
through the fulfillment of the obligation within the period set at the
effect, otherwise, the process will continue in accordance with the
investigation procedure to complaint or ex officio established in the
Supreme Decree No. 27172, of September 15, 2002.

Page 55

II. Acceptance of the summons, through compliance with the obligation, does not
will prevent the initiation of a sanctioning process for the imposition of other
penalties that may apply.

ARTICLE 81.- (LICENSES IN THE SAME SERVICE AREA).

I. In order to avoid monopolies or oligopolies, no natural or legal person, for
Yes or through an intermediary person, you can obtain a Broadcasting license for more
of a station in the same service area, according to the following:

a) In sound broadcasting in the same frequency band;
b) In broadcasting of analog television;
c) In digital television broadcasting.

II. These restrictions are applicable to shareholders, associates, members of the
legal persons that are licensed for such services.

ARTICLE 82.- (CONTRACT PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE).

I. The ATT, prior to the signing of contracts for the granting of licenses,
must require the applicant, for each authorized service and separately or
optional way for all services, the presentation of a ballot
guarantee for seven percent (7%) of the value of annual income
projected for the first year, valid for one (1) year from the start of
activities indicated in the project execution schedule.

Page 56

II. The guarantee ticket must be renewed for each management by five percent
(5%) of the value of the gross annual income of the previous management declared
in your financial statements and filed with the Tax Service
Nationals for the effective term of their license.

III. The contract will establish the causes of execution of said guarantees.

CHAPTER XI
INTERVENTION TO OPERATORS OR SUPPLIERS

ARTICLE 83.- (INTERVENTION PROCEDURE).

I. In order to guarantee the continuity of services, the ATT will order the intervention
prevention of an operator or provider of telecommunications services to
public, except for value-added services and broadcasting, in the
following cases:

a) If you consider that an operator or service provider
telecommunications to the public, has put the continuity of the
provision of a public service, either due to irregularities in the
operations or due to a situation of illiquidity that entails a high probability of
suspension of payments or other action that may cause the interruption in
the provision of services, and the ATT must notify the operator with
said determination;
b) By declaration of revocation and termination of contracts signed with
the former Superintendency of Telecommunications or the ATT, while
proceed to grant the corresponding licenses in favor of a new
operator, and the ATT must notify the operator with this determination.

II. Through Administrative Resolution duly substantiated and notified to the
operator or provider, ATT will appoint a technically qualified auditor
to supervise, administer and operate the intervened entity, for the term of

Page 57

ninety (90) days, who from that moment will exercise their functions until
the end of the Intervention period.

III. The controller, if a longer period is required for the fulfillment of his
objective, may request, through a duly substantiated report, the
extension of the intervention for a (1) similar period. The ATT will prepare the
corresponding report to the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing,
recommending the extension or conclusion of this measure.

ARTICLE 84.- (INTERVENTOR).

I. The controller must have a professional title, with knowledge of the sector, and
he may or may not be a public servant of the ATT. The source and remuneration of the
controller will be established by the ATT.

II. The designated auditor will have the following powers:

a) Assume the legal representation of the intervened operator or supplier;
b) Have the power to take the necessary actions in order to ensure the
continuity of service, being responsible for their decisions and
Actions;
c) Order the suspension of directors and trustees until they are
appointed by the corresponding authorities, and the administrators and
managers of the entity;
d) Carry out all the necessary acts to take care of the entity's assets,
including its valuation;
e) Report to the ATT on its management through monthly reports or
extraordinary as many times as required;
f) Require the assistance of the public force for the fulfillment of their
functions if you need it;
g) Other attributions that the ATT deems necessary for the adequate
exercise of the intervention;

Page 58

III. Prior to the expiration of the intervention period, the auditor must
raise a report on the situation of the entity intervened, recommending
the measures that the operator or supplier involved must adopt or if
the declaration of revocation of the license corresponds. Measures
recommended will include a plan to regularize and normalize the situation
of the intervened entity.
ARTICLE 85.- (CONCLUSION OF THE INTERVENTION). For the case
of preventive intervention, provided that the auditor's report establishes that the
operator or supplier involved is in a position to comply with the
measures ordered by the ATT, the Administrative Resolution will be issued that authorizes the
resumption of operations by the owners of the operator or provider
intervened. Otherwise, the revocation of the license and termination will be determined
of the contract in accordance with current regulations.

ARTICLE 86.- (INTERVENTION BY REVOCATION).

I. In the event of appointing an auditor as a result of a Declaration of Revocation,
he must focus his activities on the objective of the intervention
administrative, which is the transfer to the new operator.

II. During the term of the intervention, the ATT will have the process to grant the
corresponding licenses in favor of a new operator, so that the
the transfer at the end of the Intervention period in accordance with the
regulations in force.

TITLE IV
ACCESS TO THE INTERNET AND PUBLIC SERVICES ON THE INTERNET

CHAPTER I
INTERNET ACCESS SERVICE

Page 59

ARTICLE 87.- (PROVISION OF THE ACCESS SERVICE TO
INTERNET). The providers of the Internet Access Service - ISP, must obtain
the Single License for the provision of public telecommunications services and
information and communication technologies or specific enablement according to
corresponds, to provide the service, the same that is subject to the conditions
established in these regulations.

ARTICLE 88.- (TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THE SERVICE OF
INTERNET ACCESS).

I. The provider of the Internet Access Service must comply with the terms and
conditions that the users have contracted, being the responsibility
operators or providers timely inform users and
users regarding the characteristics of the service.

II. The ATT will establish the quality standard that minimally contains the
parameters or quality indicators to which the service must be governed, taking into account
consideration of the particularities of the same both between suppliers to
users and users, as well as other ISPs.

CHAPTER II
VOICE SERVICE OVER THE INTERNET

ARTICLE 89.- (VOICE SERVICE ON THE INTERNET) .

I. The Voice over Internet Service allows the provision of voice communications
over the internet from or to the public telephone network or other service
telecommunications public, does not include those services that are provided

Page 60

entirely over the internet network and that do not allow receiving communications
from public networks or make calls to them.

II. The user or user of the public voice over internet service will have coverage in
the entire Bolivian territory being able to access the service from any
location that has internet access service in each
communication. The Fundamental Numbering Plan will record a
specific numbering for the public voice over internet service that will have
the characteristic of being non-geographic numbers of national scope.

III. The installation, operation and exploitation of the Public Voice over Internet Service,
will require a Single License for the provision of public services of
telecommunications and information and communication technologies or
specific rating as appropriate.

IV. The provision of the Public Service of Voice over Internet in cybercafés, telecentres,
call centers or similar should be done through phone booths
controlled by time through a voice over internet operator
legally established and in accordance with the provisions of the instructions issued by the
ATT.

ARTICLE 90.- (CONDITIONS OF THE SERVICE).

I. Voice over Internet Service providers must inform users and
users the minimum conditions of the Internet Access Service that must be
have contracted to access the Public Voice over Internet Service in the
conditions of opportunity and quality offered and contracted.

II. The operators or providers of this service must not discriminate in the quality of
communications made with users of the public network
telephone, with respect to the one they provide for communications between their
own users and users of the Voice over Internet Service.

Page 61

III. The ATT will establish quality standards for the Voice Over Service.
Internet, as well as the obligation to communicate to its users the
quality offered to them and the necessary conditions of their access to
internet to achieve it.

ARTICLE 91.- (TELECENTRIES AND SIMILAR). Internet cafes,
telecentres, call centers or similar, that provide Internet services, or
Voice Over Internet to the public, they must obtain their services from operators legally
established in Bolivia. The ATT shall establish within a period of six (6) months a plan
to establish the mandatory nature of registration of these telecentres and the conditions of
quality of service of the same.

ARTICLE 92.- (INTERNET CONNECTION FOR THE SERVICE
PUBLIC VOICE ON INTERNET) .

I. The systems of the Public Voice over Internet Service will be structured based on the
following physical and logical elements: internet connection, hardware and
software for receiving and sending traffic via the internet; device for
interconnection with the public and central network or switching node.

II. When a user of the Public Voice over Internet Service hires the
Internet access service from another provider, the commercial legal relationship
concerning said access will be limited to the user and the
provider regardless of the existing link with the provider of the
Public Voice over Internet Service.

III. The responsibility and obligations derived from the provision of the Public Service of
Voice over Internet to users or users, will be exclusively of the
operators or providers of said service and will not affect or compromise
directly or indirectly to the provider of the broadband access service or
to the ISP that provides the internet access that meets the quality standard
from service.

Page 62

IV. The providers of the internet access service will not be able, except in the case of impossibility
technique verified by the ATT, block, interfere, discriminate, hinder or
restrict the right of any user or internet user to use,
send, receive or offer any content, application or legal service to
through the internet, as well as any other type of activity or legal use
made through the internet.

ARTICLE 93.- (SERVICE AREA).

I. The service area of ​the Public Voice over Internet Service providers will be
the National Authorization Area. Suppliers will provide the service to their
users, whatever the physical location from which they
access the Internet network in each communication, without being able to establish
discriminations or distinctions in consideration of this circumstance.

II. The Fundamental Technical Plan of Numbering will contemplate the numbering and
identification of users or users for the voice over internet service.

ARTICLE 94.- (COMMUNICATIONS).

I. Communications made between users of the internet service
(computer to computer), will be freely established, in accordance with the
treatment of any internet application since they do not use numbering
of the public telephone network.

II. Communications made between users of the Public Service of
Voice over the Internet and users of the public telephone network, or
vice versa, they will be established according to the Fundamental Technical Plans and
the quality parameters established by the ATT for this service.

ARTICLE 95.- (INTERCONNECTION WITH VOICE NETWORKS ON

Page 63

INTERNET). Voice over internet service providers will establish the
interconnections with all operators of the public telephone network and other
voice over internet service providers, as provided herein
regulation.

ARTICLE 96.- (QUALITY CONDITIONS).

I. The parameters for evaluating the quality of the public voice service on
internet, will be determined by the ATT according to its own characteristics
of its technology taking into account the means of access and its integration with the
service.

II. Suppliers must timely and adequately inform the public regarding
the quality of service they are able to deliver and the conditions of
optimal performance for this, having to comply with the quality standards of the
service.

III. Public voice over internet service providers must comply with the
obligations regarding attention to queries and claims of its users or
users and may agree to both the contracting of the service and other
benefits by electronic means.

ARTICLE 97.- (EMERGENCY SERVICES). Providers of
voice services over the internet, they will be obliged to give their users access
free to emergency services, at least in the area where the service was activated in
function to technical feasibility and availability of emergency services, of
according to what is established in the Fundamental Technical Plan of Numbering, except when
there are causes that have the character of a fortuitous event or force majeure.

TITLE V
FUNDAMENTAL NUMBERING TECHNICAL PLAN

Page 64

SINGLE CHAPTER
NUMERATION

ARTICLE 98.- (FUNDAMENTAL TECHNICAL PLAN OF
NUMERATION).

I. The Fundamental Technical Plan of Numbering - PTFN, is the technical document
normative that establishes, the numbers and series of numbers suitable for
all telecommunications and information technology services and
communication.

II. The PTFN will be prepared, controlled, administered and supervised throughout the territory
of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, by the ATT, reviewed, approved and
updated by the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing.
III. The ATT may establish specific instructions to administer or order the
numbering for value-added services.

IV. The PTFN will establish the form of dialing between the different services of
telecommunications to the public, including emergency services and
attention to users.

ARTICLE 99.- (CHANGE OF NUMBERING).

I. The assigned number can only be changed at the request of the user or by the
service operator due to fully justified technical reasons and that
are previously approved by the ATT, in no case will it be justified
the change of telephone number due to a change in the technology through which the

Page 65

provides the service, unless authorized by the ATT.

II. In the event that the change in the numbering of the user is justified
the operator will follow the procedure established by the
Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing, through Resolution
Ministerial.

ARTICLE 100.- (GRANTING OF RESOURCES OF
NUMBERING FOR PUBLIC SERVICES).

I. For public services, the numbering resources will be granted at the request of the
authorized operator, after presentation and assessment by the ATT of
a report with information broken down by months of the last three (3)
steps prior to the request, specifying the following minimally:

to. The amount of Numbering Resources actually in use;
b. The amount of effectively free Numbering Resources.

II. The ATT may request additional reports inherent to the network for which it is
require numbering resources.

III. In case the resource is limited, the price for authorization and allocation
of a numbering range for telecommunications services shall
consider the technical and economic criteria necessary for the assignment in
based on availability and PTFN.

TITLE VI
TELECOMMUNICATIONS INFRASTRUCTURE

Page 66

CHAPTER I
GENERAL FEATURES

ARTICLE 101.- (ACCESS AND SHARED USE).

I. Access and shared use is the provision of another operator, under conditions
defined, infrastructure resources or services for the purpose of providing
telecommunications services to the public. This term encompasses, among others
aspects, the following: access to network elements, resources or services
partners including access to the local loop, access to infrastructure
physical, such as buildings, towers, cameras and ducts, poles, fiber optics and the
access to computer systems for operational support.

II. Unless agreed between parties, the requesting operator may not sublet access and
shared use of the requested operator's infrastructure or transfer it,
being able to provide the services for which it is enabled
only to users or end users or operators or providers of
telecommunications services, without applying anti-competitive rates that are
outside of what is determined by the ATT.

ARTICLE 102.- (MANDATORY).

I. It is the obligation of public network operators to grant access and shared use
of infrastructure in their networks to other operators or providers that
request, respecting the principles of non-discrimination, neutrality,
proportionality, transparency, efficiency and good faith, except in those
cases where there is no availability demonstrated by the operator
requested and verified by the ATT.

Page 67

II. The access and shared use of infrastructure granted by a requested operator to a
requesting operator or supplier, may not be interrupted except prior
authorization of the ATT, upon expiration of the respective contract or when the
requesting party expressly communicate its decision to dispense with access
and infrastructure sharing granted by the requested operator.

ARTICLE 103.- (PRICES FOR ACCESS). Prices for the
Access and sharing of infrastructure will be determined between the parties,
considering the costs incurred for access to network elements and use of
infrastructure. In the event that the operators do not reach an agreement, the ATT may
establish prices of facilities based on reasonable costs, considering between
others the operating costs of all capacities.

ARTICLE 104.- (ACCESS AND SHARED USE OF
INFRASTRUCTURE). Any operator or provider who wants access and use
shared infrastructure, you must present the operator that owns the
infrastructure your request by note, in accordance with the provisions of the Ministry
of Public Works, Services and Housing by Ministerial Resolution.

ARTICLE 105.- (CONTRACT OF ACCESS AND SHARED USE
OF INFRASTRUCTURE).

I. The contracts for access and shared use of infrastructure that are signed between
the parts must be presented by the requesting operator to the ATT for its
corresponding record in the information system database
sectorial, within ten (10) days after its signature.

II. The infrastructure access and shared use contract must contain the
aspects indicated by the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing
by Ministerial Resolution.

Page 68

ARTICLE 106.- (MEDIATION OF THE ATT). In the case of not reaching a
agreement between the parties, the requesting operator or supplier may go to the ATT, to
object that this instance is the one that has and authorizes the shared use of
requested infrastructure, for which purpose the applicant must prove his legitimate interest and
present the technical justification.

ARTICLE 107.- (PARTIAL OR TOTAL SUSPENSION).

I. At the request of a party duly justified by the operator that provides access and
shared use of infrastructure, the ATT within fifteen (15) days
may order the other operator to comply with the
conditions of the contract, including the payment of financial obligations
owed for more than two (2) continuous or discontinuous months. In case of
Failure to comply with the notice, the ATT may authorize the operator that provides
the access and sharing of infrastructure, the total or partial suspension of the
access and sharing of infrastructure, until compliance with the
conditions or payment.

II. The ATT will issue the Administrative Resolution on the total or partial suspension of
an access and shared use of infrastructure and must dictate in the same act
the previous measures that will be applied in order to minimize the damage
to the users or users involved.

CHAPTER II
EASTS

ARTICLE 108.- (ASSETS SUBJECT TO EASE).

I. A property subject to easement is understood as the elements that do not belong to
a telecommunications network infrastructure including so

Page 69

not limited to the following: land, property, civil works,
sidewalks, pipelines, pipelines, underground chambers, right-of-way,
works of art on roads (bridges, retaining walls, tunnels or others),
poles, towers or others, that allow the installation of physical means and constructions
necessary for the provision of telecommunications services.

II. The regulation of easements in telecommunications on property of
public domain will be established by Ministerial Resolution issued by
the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing in coordination with the
corresponding sector in accordance with current legal regulations.

ARTICLE 109.- (SERVICE ON PRIVATE PROPERTY).

I. When the easement has to be imposed on private property, the
compensation or compensatory amount will be established in direct negotiation
between the operator or supplier and the owner of the property. The owner must
adapt their actions to good common sense and best practices.

II. The modalities of the easement, term of validity, form of payment and others
conditions will be established in a contract between the operator or supplier and the
owner of the property, which must be presented to the ATT for registration purposes in
the database of the sectorial information system.
ARTICLE 110.- (EXCAVATIONS FOR DUCTS).

I. To carry out excavations for the laying of ducts or cables in the streets of
cities and other public spaces, the authorized operator or provider will be
obliged to coordinate with providers of other services to the public to
ensure no damage is caused to pipelines, power lines, and other infrastructure
previously installed.

II. The authorized telecommunications operator or provider with the right to
easement, with at least three (3) months prior to the execution of the
works, you must communicate to other operators and service providers of

Page 70

telecommunications in the area, trenching plans so that in their
In this case, these same excavations can be shared by distributing the
costs, without causing delays or damages to the operator or initial supplier. The
ATT, must be informed of these notifications and agreements reached.

III. The operator or provider of telecommunications services is obliged to
maintain technical details, plans and other information corresponding to the
established easements.

ARTICLE 111.- (TERM OF EASE). The term of the
easement, may not exceed the term of validity of the licenses granted to the
requesting operator or supplier.

ARTICLE 112.- (CONTINUITY OF SERVICE). The
easement will continue automatically, in case of registering any act of
disposition of the property subject to easement.

ARTICLE 113.- (RESOLUTION OF THE ATT). If not
an agreement could be reached between the operators or suppliers and the owners of the
either servant in private property, within thirty (30) days, the operators
may go to the ATT, in order for this authority to rule on the
easement required.

ARTICLE 114.- ( IMPOSITION OF EASTS). The process of
Request for the imposition of easement on private property will be made as follows
way:
1. The presentation of the request to the ATT by means of a note attaching the information
It must contain, but not limited to, the following information:

a) Technical rationale;
b) Location with indication of the geographical area within the department,
province, municipality or community;
c) Condition of the goods, land or areas to be affected, with an indication of the

Page 71

existing works, works, constructions and improvements;
d) Name and address of the owners and occupants of the land or areas
affected by easements;
e) Technical report.

2. Once the request has been accepted, the ATT within a maximum period of ten (10) days will put in
knowledge of the owner of the property to be affected, so that this and the
applicant could reach an agreement, or present their observations, within
within the period of ten (10) days from its legal notification.

3. Once the term established in the preceding Numeral has expired and in the event that the parties
have not reached an agreement, the ATT, within a maximum period of ten (10) days
will issue the Administrative Resolution imposing or not the easement, the payment
compensation or compensation when appropriate and providing what
relevant.

ARTICLE 115.- (PAYMENT OF INDEMNITY OR COMPENSATION).
Once the Administrative Resolution is executed at the administrative headquarters, the operator
or supplier shall pay the owner of the servant property the compensation or
compensation that corresponds, if so established by the Resolution. The operator or
supplier that does not make the payment within the term set by the Resolution, will lose the
right to servitude.

ARTICLE 116.- (USE OF PUBLIC FORCE). In case the
owner of the servant estate opposes or obstructs the implementation of the
easement, the ATT at the request of the operator or provider, may go to the
jurisdictional authorities and request the use of public force.

ARTICLE 117.- (CAUSES OF EXTINCTION OF
EASTS). The ATT, at the request of the owner of the private servant property,
may declare the extinction of the easements already established, when there is a
of the following causes:

a) If the operator or supplier that obtained a resolution to impose the

Page 72

easement does not carry out the corresponding work within the term
three (3) months;
b) If once the works are finished, they remain unused for at least
less for three (3) consecutive months;
c) If the term of the license expires;
d) If the owner of the servient asset demonstrates that the operator or supplier
abused his right;
e) If the authorized operator does not make the payment or does not deposit the amount of the
compensation set in the agreed deadlines or in cases of payments
compensatory monthly payments, non-compliance for three (3) periods
in a row;
f) If the owner of the property requests it and the operator or supplier does not oppose it.

TITLE VII
TARIFF REGULATION
OF PUBLIC TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES

CHAPTER I
RATE POLICY

Article 118.- (BILLING BY TIME AND VOLUME).

I. The appraisal, pricing and billing of voice telecommunications services
that are charged by time of consumption or by pulse of limited duration,
will be carried out for effective communication time and with installments at the
second, no type of major rounding is allowed, except
technical impossibility verified by the ATT.

II. The billing of internet access services that is charged by volume of
data, it will be done by the volume of data traffic effectively
transferred. The ATT will determine the value of the volume fractionation of

Page 73

data, the same that may be updated based on technological progress.

ARTICLE 119.- (NON-DISCRIMINATION OF RATES).

I. In the provision of the same type of service, a provider may not discriminate or
give any preference in the application of rates to users of a
same rate category or that are in similar conditions.

II. Within a service area, the rates of a provider for the same service to the
public cannot be different for geographical reasons, by type of dwelling
of the user, nor by the provider to which the user is subscribed or
recipient user of the communication.

III. Exceptionally, the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing
Through Ministerial Resolution, it may establish rate conditions
special to apply in the services provided in localities or communities of the
rural area that are benefited with social connectivity projects.

ARTICLE 120.- (PROHIBITIONS AND CONDITIONS FOR THE
PROVISION OF THE SERVICE).

I. The operators or providers of Telecommunications Services may not require
the users any type of pledge or mortgage guarantee, for the provision
of the service or to ensure payment of the same.

II. Operators or service providers may not condition the provision of
its services for the acquisition of shares, participation fees, equipment
terminals, other goods or services or any other type of contribution or payment that is not
part of the rate structure of the service, nor require that they be partners or
members of the organization.

Page 74

III. Operators or providers of telecommunications services to the public of
voice, they should not charge any type of fee to their users for calls
received, either on your network or while roaming within the national territory, except
collect calls.

IV. Operators or providers of telecommunications services to the public voice
that offer the prepaid payment method, should consider the following
features:

a) The validity of any credit that is loaded may not be less than sixty
(60) calendar days;
b) Upon expiration of its term, the credit or balance not consumed will be added to the
new to load;
c) At the expiration of the validity of a credit if the user does not
recharges, the line must remain enabled for reception
calls and access to free and emergency numbers, at least
for an additional thirty (30) calendar days.

V. The operators or providers of telecommunications services to the public voice
that offer the post-payment payment method should consider the following
features:

a) Various monthly consumption limits may be offered to choose the
user, in order to make it possible to control the consumption of services;
b) In the corresponding plans, the credit or balance not consumed in the month,
must be accumulated the following month with a minimum validity of two
(2) months for consumption.

SAW. Every operator or provider of telecommunications services will have the
obligation to offer and provide, within its rate structure, a category in
the one that is charged only for the communications actually made and
without application of a monthly fixed basic rate, under the following
features:

Page 75

a) To access this category, it will not be required to have the status of partner or
provider member;
b) The consumption of the service may be charged in the pre-payment modalities
payment or post-payment, as decided by the provider, not being able to require in
none of these modalities a minimum monthly consumption.

VII. In the pre-paid and post-paid mode, for the internet access service, in the
that is charged for the volume of data transferred, it should be considered:

to. Plans in which different volumes of data and validity times are offered;
b. In the pre-paid mode, the volume of data not consumed will be added to the
next month's data volume;
c. In the prepaid mode, for packages by byte volumes, the volume does not
consumed will be added to the next volume of data acquired, as long as
when the user makes a purchase of the same package or another
similar in a period no longer than two (2) months;
d. For both modes, each unconsumed data volume will be accumulated
for a minimum of two (2) months.

VIII. Internet access service providers must inform their users and
users the minimum speeds that they guarantee under normal conditions in
their different plans. Regardless of what is stated, these speeds
minimums should be adjusted and updated according to the standards
technicians defined by the ATT, based on the advancement of technology.

IX. It is forbidden for the operator or provider to migrate from a fare category to
another, without the consent of the user , unless the migration represents
greater benefits and are accepted by users.

ARTICLE 121.- (TIME SLOTS).

I. In the pre-paid mobile service and the local service in its variable rate will be established

Page 76

three (3) time slots for the fees charged for communication time,
under the name of normal hours, reduced hours and super hours
reduced.

II. The duration of the time slots and the conditions for their application will be
established by Ministerial Resolution issued by the Ministry of
Public Works, Services and Housing.

III. The ATT will propose the application of time slots for the mobile service after
payment, for the public access service, national long distance or new
services whose rates are charged for communication time, for your
approval by Ministerial Resolution issued by the Ministry of Works
Public, Services and Housing.

CHAPTER II
RELEVANT MARKET AND DOMINANT POSITION

ARTICLE 122.- (DETERMINATION OF THE MARKET
RELEVANT). The relevant market will be established according to the scope
geographic area and scope of service, according to established criteria and conditions
by the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing through Resolution
Ministerial.

ARTICLE 123.- (SUPPLIER WITH DOMINANT POSITION).

Page 77

I. The ATT will declare a supplier with a dominant position in a relevant market, at the
telecommunications service provider that has had the largest
share of gross income received in said market, in a
period of twelve (12) previous consecutive months, provided that said
participation is higher, on average, than forty percent (40%) and that the
difference in market share with the second competitor is equal
or greater than ten (10) percentage points.
II. The ATT will verify the existence or not of a dominant position in a market
relevant, ex officio or at the request of a party, after at least one (1) year
since the last revision, or when there are indications that there may be a
abusive practice by an undeclared dominant provider, which
would have acquired market power before the end of the year since the
last revision.

ARTICLE 124.- (OBLIGATION OF THE SUPPLIER WITH POSITION
DOMINANT). Any supplier that has been declared as a supplier with
dominant position in a relevant market, will be subject to the following obligations:

a) Their prices and rates applicable to the relevant market will be subject to
price cap regime;
b) Its rate structure, in a minimum period of six (6) months prior to
your verification, you must cover at least the average cost in any
basket of services of the relevant market.

CHAPTER III
TARIFF REGIME OF SERVICES
OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES
AND COMMUNICATION

ARTICLE 125.- (TARIFF REGULATION REGIME).

Page 78

I. The suppliers with a dominant position will establish their prices and rates for each
one of the rate categories included in your service baskets,
Likewise, they may include new rate categories, modify them or
discontinue them, as long as, in all cases, they comply with the regime
price cap and the procedures established in this regulation.

II. The Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing, will approve through
Ministerial Resolution the price cap formulas, the composition of the
baskets, the procedures for applying the price cap regime and the
penalty for non-compliance, the establishment of the productivity factor and
the procedure for its modification; as well as, the initial conditions for
the service tariffs of the new operator with a dominant position and the
conditions of abandonment of dominance, proposed by the ATT.

ARTICLE 126.- (TARIFF INFORMATION). All the information
that supports the application of the rates of the providers must be found
available for review and verification by ATT. For the purpose, the
operator or provider will allow ATT access to all information that
support what is required.

CHAPTER IV
MINIMUM PRICE REGIME

ARTICLE 127.- (ESTABLISHMENT OF MINIMUM PRICE).
When it is determined that a supplier with a dominant position in a market
relevant, is engaging in a predatory practice, the ATT will establish a minimum price
for said provider, for immediate application for a period of no less than six (6)
months.

ARTICLE 128.- (DETERMINATION OF THE MINIMUM PRICE). The
minimum price will be the equivalent to the average variable cost of providing the service,
obtained in the verification of the predatory practice, from the cost structure

Page 79

of the supplier with a dominant position, which engaged in such practice.

ARTICLE 129.- (INTERNATIONAL TERMINATION RATES).
The minimum rates for the termination of incoming international telephone traffic,
they will be established by the ATT.

CHAPTER V
RATES IN TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES
OF SOCIAL INCLUSION

ARTICLE 130.- (REGULATION OF RATES).

I. All rural service providers and internet access service in the area
rural areas, regardless of their market share, will establish the
user fees, as long as they do not exceed price caps
determined by the ATT.

II. For other services provided in rural areas, approved by the Ministry of Works
Public, Services and Housing, the ATT may establish price caps, if
corresponds.

TITLE VIII
INTERCONNECTION

CHAPTER I
GENERAL PROVISIONS OF THE INTERCONNECTION

Page 80

ARTICLE 131.- (MANDATORY INTERCONNECTION).

I. Public telecommunications networks must be compulsorily
interconnected directly or indirectly in order to promote the
technological convergence and contribute to universal access so that the
users are connected ensuring their interoperability.

II. Internet access service providers must interconnect with each other at
through a traffic exchange point, under conditions and mechanisms
specific provisions established in this Regulation.

III. The obligation to interconnect persists until legal remedies,
administrative procedures filed by any of the requesting operators or
requested to reach final enforcement.

IV. In interconnections in operation, no conflict or breach of the
interconnected operators may lead to the interruption of the
interconnection, unless prior authorization from the ATT, in accordance with the
these Regulations.

ARTICLE 132.- (CONDITIONS OF INTERCONNECTION).

I. Interconnection must be provided under terms and conditions that are not
discriminatory, complying with the standards, technical specifications and
economic with a quality no less favorable than that provided to their own
services.

II. Aspects relating to limitation, interconnection, points and routes,
contrary practices and the Interconnection Registry, will be established through
Ministerial Resolution issued by the Ministry of Public Works, Services and
Living place.

Page 81

ARTICLE 133.- (INTERRUPTION OF THE INTERCONNECTION).

I. The ATT, through an Administrative Resolution, may authorize the interruption
total or partial of an approved interconnection in the following cases:

a) When there is a breach of economic obligations established in
an interconnection mechanism approved by the ATT, by two (2) or more
continuous months;
b) When an operator reports that a network interconnected to his disturbs
the normal operation of this, or of the services it provides, causes
technical damage or does not meet essential requirements;
c) When one of the interconnected operators reports that the interconnection
is used by the other for unauthorized purposes or when the same
represents a danger to your facilities, networks and equipment;
d) Duly authorized scheduled interconnection;
e) When the interruption is due to reasons of sudden breakdown, fortuitous event or
overwhelming force.

II. The Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing, through Resolution
Ministerial, will establish the conditions and procedures of the interruption
referred to in the previous paragraph.

CHAPTER II
INTERCONNECTION MECHANISMS

ARTICLE 134.- (INTERCONNECTION MECHANISMS).

Page 82

I. Interconnection can be done through one of the following mechanisms:

a) By adhering to the Basic Interconnection Offer - OBI of the operator with
who wants to establish the interconnection with the approval of the ATT,
through an adhesion contract in which the terms will be included,
conditions and services to which the applicant adheres;
b) By interconnection agreement negotiated and defined between parties, with the
approval of the ATT, by contract between the parties;
c) By interconnection agreement or adherence to the basic interconnection offer
of a third operator, interconnected to the operator with whom you want
establish interconnection.

II. In case the interconnection is not made effective, through any of the mechanisms
established, the ATT will provide the conditions that will govern it through
of the issuance of the corresponding Administrative Resolution.

ARTICLE 135.- (NETWORK ELEMENTS AND INSTALLATIONS
ESSENTIALS AND SUPPORT SERVICES).

I. The network elements, essential facilities and support services that the
operators are required to provide minimally within the scope of their
authorizations and contracts are as follows:

a) Commutation within the service area;
b) Transit switching;
c) Transmission between nodes;
d) Billing, collection and court services;
e) Co-location and access to auxiliary elements and common use by both
parts, such as, electric power, air conditioning and others.

II. The ATT may establish network elements and essential facilities or services of
Complementary support through an Administrative Resolution.

Page 83

ARTICLE 136.- (BASIC INTERCONNECTION OFFER - OBI).

I. The operators of local, mobile, long distance or voice over internet services,
have the obligation to prepare and present the OBI based on a basic offer
reference interconnection prepared by the ATT.

II. The reference OBI prepared by the ATT must contain, in addition to the aspects
general, technical aspects such as the description of the network elements and
essential facilities, nodes and interconnection points,
support and others; economic and commercial aspects including prices; Y
legal and administrative aspects related to interconnection.

III. The ATT may extend the obligation to present the OBI to operators and
providers of other services.

ARTICLE 137.- (PRESENTATION AND APPROVAL OF THE
BASIC INTERCONNECTION OFFER). Operators must present their
basic interconnection offers for approval within six (6) months
following the start of their operations. The OBI must be updated annually or
when there is a substantial change in your network.

ARTICLE 138.- (NON-EXISTENCE OF BASIC OFFER OF
INTERCONNECTION).

I. The non-existence of a basic interconnection offer approved by the ATT, in any
This case will exempt the requested operator from the obligation to interconnect.

II. In the event that the operators of public telecommunications services do not
submit the basic interconnection offers within the term established in the

Page 84

these Regulations, or do not correct the observations, the ATT, will determine
the minimum interconnection conditions, which will be in compliance
mandatory, without prejudice to the application of the sanctions inherent to the
non-compliance with the presentation, provided for in the Regulations to the Law.

ARTICLE 139.- (CONDITIONS OF THE REQUESTING OPERATOR
FOR INTERCONNECTION). To interconnect, the requesting operator must
be in a position to reach the interconnection point or points chosen from the offer
basic interconnection of the operator requested or established in the agreement between
parts. The investment in the adaptation, operation and maintenance of the facilities
necessary to reach these points, will be borne by the requesting operator,
unless agreed by parties.
ARTICLE 140.- (INTERCONNECTION AGREEMENTS). The agreements of
interconnection must contain minimally, the general, technical aspects;
economic and commercial including prices; and legal aspects and
administrative procedures related to interconnection based on an agreement
reference interconnection prepared by the ATT.

ARTICLE 141.- (QUALITY OF SERVICE IN THE
INTERCONNECTION). Public network operators and service providers
telecommunications, must comply with the quality standard of the
interconnection.

CHAPTER III
INTERCONNECTION CHARGES

ARTICLE 142.- (CLASSIFICATION OF CHARGES OF
INTERCONNECTION). Interconnection charges will be based on costs that
demand the efficient provision of said interconnection and will be established according to
this regulation; These charges are classified as recurring and non-recurring:

a) Non-recurring charges refer to the costs of the items that
expand or improve the network of the requested operator to carry out the
interconnection and support the services and traffic planned for the
herself;

Page 85

b) Recurring charges refer to the cost of using the network part
necessary to carry out the interconnection and will be charged according to the
use of the service.

ARTICLE 143.- (CRITERIA FOR THE DETERMINATION OF
NON-RECURRING CHARGES).

I. The requested operator will carry out at its own cost the extensions of its network that are
necessary to carry out the interconnection, or to maintain or improve the
quality of service, as well as to meet the increased traffic generated
by interconnection. These costs will not be part of the non-recurring charge.

II. In case the requesting operator requires additional elements to the offer
basic interconnection, it will negotiate with the requested operator the value of the
non-recurring charge and will pay the same to cover the additional costs in the
incurred by the requested operator when adapting or improving the network to operate the
quantity and types of traffic required by the requesting operator. These
costs will not be computed for the calculation of recurring costs of
interconnection.

ARTICLE 144.- (METHODOLOGY AND APPLICATION OF CHARGES
RECURRING).

I. The maximum prices of recurring interconnection charges, network elements

and essential facilities and support services will be established by the ATT
based on the long-term incremental cost calculation methodology,
that recognizes an adequate allocation of direct, joint and
common that correspond to the interconnection service, or based on studies
national or international comparatives or others that apply to the case.

II. The long-term incremental cost methodology applied to determine
of the local service charge, will additionally consider the costs of the networks
access, in the corresponding proportion.

Page 86

III. Operators and providers of regulated services must submit to the ATT
all the information necessary to perform the calculations in the form and
opportunity in which this authority requests it. In case the operators or
providers do not provide complete and sufficient information, the ATT will be
in the power to use alternative referential sources to correct the
lack of such information.

IV. Recurring charges will be applied fractionally to the second and for
effective communication time, by capacity or bandwidth in the
data transfer or by interconnection capacity; these may
access volume discounts and they will be applied in national currency. The
ATT will determine the feasibility of applying recurring interconnection charges
differentiated in the established time slots.

ARTICLE 145.- (PAYMENT OF RECURRING CHARGES).

I. For the payment of recurring interconnection charges, the following will apply:

a) In the interconnection between two (2) operators that carry traffic of the
local, rural, mobile services, voice over internet, public access through
of public telephones or other equivalent, will be the operator that originates the
call whoever sets and receives the rate, and pays the recurring charge to the
operator who receives it;
b) In long distance voice telecommunications services, the operator
of the fixed long distance service and receives the fee and pays the
corresponding interconnection charges for both origination and
termination to operators who have direct connection with users
and users;
c) In long distance voice telecommunications services originating in
an operator of the public access service, the operator of the
public access sets and receives the fee and pays the recurring charges that
correspond.

Page 87

II. There will be no interconnection charges between two (2) or more interconnected operators
that provide local service in the same service area.

III. Recurring interconnection charges do not apply between service providers
voice over internet.

IV. For incoming or outgoing communications interconnection traffic, the operator
who receives the recurring charge will not be able to receive any other income other than this
position.

V. The Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing, through Resolution
Ministerial, may establish criteria for payment of interconnection charges for
other telecommunications services to the public that allow communication
between users.

ARTICLE 146.- (ADVANCE PAYMENT). In the Contracts of
Interconnection Regardless of the interconnection mechanism, the operator
requested may apply the method of advance payment for charges of
interconnection, when it is estimated that the traffic volumes it will receive will be
significantly higher than the traffic it will send. The prepayment method does not
it may be used as a discriminatory or anti-competitive practice.

ARTICLE 147.- (CONFLICT IN THE INTERCONNECTION). Any
Interconnection conflict will be resolved between the parties. If
that they do not reach an understanding that ends the conflict, it must be
submitted to the ATT for consideration by either party. The ATT shall
resolve the conflict within a maximum period of thirty (30) days from
the receipt of the request.

CHAPTER IV

Page 88

SUPPORT SERVICES FOR
BILLING, COLLECTION AND JOINT CUTTING

ARTICLE 148.- (OBLIGATIONS AND MODALITIES OF THE
SUPPORTING SERVICES).

I. Providers or operators of telecommunications services, technologies of
information and communication that have direct connection with equipment
terminals of users and users are obliged to provide in a way not
discriminatory support service for billing, collection and court that
requested by service providers using the same access.

II. In case the requesting provider is a reseller of services of
telecommunications, information and communication technologies, the terms
and conditions for the provision of the billing support service, collection
and court, must be established through an express contract, based on the
agreement signed with the operator from which you resell services and prior approval
of the ATT.

III. Operators of public telecommunications services networks that have
obligation to provide support services for billing, collection and
cut, must include in the corresponding Interconnection mechanism, a
of the following modalities: billing, collection and court on your own account
of the supplier requesting or billing, collection and joint cut.

IV. The conditions and minimum characteristics of the modalities will be established
through Ministerial Resolution issued by the Ministry of Public Works,
Services and Housing.

ARTICLE 149.- (OBLIGATIONS BETWEEN OPERATORS BY THE
JOINT COLLECTION).

Page 89

I. The operator in charge of joint collection must effect the transfer of
the amounts collected from collections made within a period of fourteen (14)
days, unless agreed between parties. In case of delays in payments between
operators and suppliers, at the request of one of them that was affected, the
ATT may intimidate and subsequently sanction the debtor in case of verification
non-compliance with the agreement signed between operator and provider.

II. The collections for joint collection received by the operator in charge of the
collection, may not be recorded as own income, since these are
owned by the requesting operator.

III. The application of interest for late payments by operators
requested from the requesting suppliers, will be subject in accordance with
provided in the interconnection agreement that has been signed between the operator
and service provider.

CHAPTER V
ROAMING IN RURAL AREAS

ARTICLE 150.- (SCOPE). Mobile service operators must
guarantee the compatibility of their networks for the provision of the service in rural areas
through your network or roaming or roaming service where there is no coverage,
in such a way that its use is transparent for any user.

ARTICLE 151.- (OBLIGATION).

I. To guarantee all users of the mobile service coverage in areas
rural, minimally for voice telecommunications services, all
mobile service operator is obliged to provide the support service
roaming.

Page 90

II. Operators that do not have coverage in a certain rural area must
obligatorily request the service with another operator that has coverage in
said area, to ensure that its users are communicated.

III. Operators must take measures to prevent roaming or roaming
inadvertent in border areas, according to the instructions issued by the
ATT.

IV. The Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing by Resolution
Ministerial, will establish the procedure for requesting roaming or
roaming.
ARTICLE 152.- (CONDITIONS OF THE ITINERANCE OR
ROAMING).

I. When a user or roaming user originates calls, the rates that the
requesting operator charges the same, will be at most the prepaid rate that
charges users on its own network.

II. The payment that the requested operator receives from the requesting operator for calls from
the users and users in roaming, will correspond to the rate that the operator
requested charges its own prepaid users during normal hours, discounting
taxes and legal fees.

III. The requested operator will receive the interconnection charges for all calls
terminated on the user or roaming user.

IV. The requested operators will be able to identify their network visited while roaming.

Page 91

V. The requested operators will not be able to carry out marketing and advertising actions
on the users of the requesting operator who are
using roaming or roaming service in rural areas.

SAW. Roaming users should receive services at the same levels of
quality received by users of the visited operator.

CHAPTER VI
INTERCONNECTION BETWEEN INTERNET PROVIDERS

ARTICLE 153.- (INTERCONNECTION BETWEEN SUPPLIERS OF
INTERNET).

I. Internet service providers that have a direct connection to
international providers, must interconnect with each other within the territory
national through the Traffic Exchange Point - PIT, through which the
it will carry the corresponding internet traffic.

II. The interconnection conditions must be subject to what is established in the
these Regulations, as appropriate.

III. The establishment of the PIT does not limit internet providers to have
own international departures.

ARTICLE 154.- (TRAFFIC EXCHANGE POINT).

I. Internet access service providers that have a direct connection to
International suppliers must form the Exchange Point of

Page 92

Traffic - PIT, interconnecting with each other through one or more nodes for the
exchange of data traffic under an implementation plan, which must
establish the technical aspects of interconnection, its administration,
as well as the contribution and payment mechanisms.

II. The Characteristics of the PIT, the technical aspects and the term of the interconnection will be
established by Ministerial Resolution issued by the Ministry of Works
Public, Services and Housing.

TITLE IX
BILLING, COLLECTION AND CUTTING

CHAPTER I
CONDITIONS FOR BILLING, COLLECTION AND CUTTING

ARTICLE 155.- (ISSUE OF INVOICES).

I. The provider of telecommunications services, information technologies and
communication, is obliged to issue by itself or through third parties, the
corresponding invoices without charge to users and users through places
authorized collection or by any other legally valid means that
provided by the operator or supplier, except when there is no consumption by the
service during one or more billing cycles.

II. Billing cycles, bill content, detail of account statement
for telecommunications and information technology services and
communication, the treatment of omissions in billing, the limit of
consumption, among others, will be established in Ministerial Resolution issued by
the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing.

Page 93

ARTICLE 156.- (BILLING OF OTHER SERVICES). Previous
knowledge of the conditions and effects of joint billing, the user or
user may authorize the billing of all telecommunications services
provided through the same access in a single invoice, except that this invoicing
joint venture has been established within the framework of the interconnection regime between
operators, previously approved by the ATT.

ARTICLE 157.- (CUT OFF OF SERVICE FOR NON-COMPLIANCE
OF PAYMENT). It is established as the deadline for payment of any service
telecommunications the corresponding to thirty (30) calendar days from the date
of disposition of the invoices in the collection points. The cutting procedure will be
established in Ministerial Resolution issued by the Ministry of Public Works,
Services and Housing.

ARTICLE 158.- (REHABILITATION OF THE SERVICE). The operator
must rehabilitate the restricted or cut service within the next twenty-four
(24) hours from the moment the user pays the amount owed
for the service, or from the date agreed by an arrangement between the parties for the payment
of the debt that originated the cut or restriction.

ARTICLE 159.- (CUT FOR FRAUD IN SERVICES).

I. In the event that the operator considers that there is sufficient evidence of fraud or
illegal connections, you can immediately proceed with the outage,
without prejudice to following the pertinent legal actions for the compensation of
damages. The operator who proceeded to cut must refer to the ATT
the relevant information for registration purposes within a period of twenty-four
(24) hours on business days or within the first following business day.

II. In the event that the ATT establishes that the service cut is not justified,
the operator must immediately restore the service, return and
compensation to the user based on the cutting time, without
detriment to the actions that they may pursue through jurisdictional channels

Page 94

corresponding for damages or losses.

CHAPTER II
INFORMATION AVAILABLE FOR USERS
AND USERS AND CALL DETAILS

ARTICLE 160.- (INFORMATION ON BILLING,
COLLECTION AND CUT). The telecommunications service provider,
information and communication technologies must make available to users and
users the information referred to the billing, collection and cut-off of the services that
lend. The content, formats and conditions of the information and the details of calls
will be established in a Ministerial Resolution issued by the Ministry of Public Works,
Services and Housing.

CHAPTER III
CLAIM, ACCESS RESTRICTION AND PROHIBITIONS

ARTICLE 161.- (CLAIMS ABOUT BILLING). The
user or user may make claims about their billing without the need to
prior total or partial payment of the amount claimed. The procedure will be subject to
established in the sector regulations regarding claims.

ARTICLE 162.- (USERS OR USERS WHO RESTRICT THEIR
ACCESS TO OTHER SERVICES). The provider that provides services in a manner
direct to its users and users, and receive from them an express request for
permanent restriction of access to a specific service, you must apply this restriction
to all operators of the same service.

ARTICLE 163.- (EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION). The
telecommunications service providers may refer to other providers of the
same service, the payroll of users or users who have cut the service for

Page 95

debt for at least three (3) continuous months, for informational and character purposes
reserved, not being able to be published, communicated or exhibited to third parties.

TITLE X
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS

CHAPTER I
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS
OF USERS AND USERS

ARTICLE 164.- (CONTINUITY OF THE SERVICE). Without prejudice to the
rights established in Law No. 164, when the ATT processes claims, regarding
to telecommunications services available to the public; previous analysis may
order the operator or provider to maintain the service or, within the period that
indicate, proceed to reconnect, as appropriate, while resolving the claim
presented.

ARTICLE 165.- (OBLIGATIONS).

I. Users must use the services only for the contracted purposes, not
being able to give it no different use, and they will assume full responsibility for the
acts related to the use made of the contracted services.

II. Users of telecommunications services to the public should not
connect terminal equipment to a public network that could prevent or
interrupt the service, carry out the diversion of communications illegally,
fraudulent or causing damage to the network.

III. It is the obligation of the user and user not to alter the terminal equipment, even if they are

Page 96

of your property, that may cause damage or interference that degrades the
quality of service or in order to produce evasion or alteration of payment
of the fees or charges that apply.

ARTICLE 166.- (TEMPORARY SUSPENSION OF SERVICES).

I. In any form of contracting telecommunications service, the
Users or users may request in writing the providers, the
temporary suspension of your service, which may not be less than one (1) month or
longer than four (4) months, for which the provider will have a maximum of
twenty-four (24) hours for its execution. For the above, the users or
Users must cancel all their outstanding debts with the provider for the
service put on temporary suspension.

II. Once the term of the temporary suspension has been fulfilled, or if expressly requested by the
user or user, the operator or provider must rehabilitate the previous service
communication to the user or user, within a maximum period of one (1) day.

III. No additional penalties or charges may be applied to users.
for carrying out the suspension of their services. Suspension service is
gratuitous.

CHAPTER II
OBLIGATIONS OF OPERATORS AND SUPPLIERS

ARTICLE 167.- (MODELS OF CONTRACTS, TERMS AND
TERMS).

I. The models of service adhesion contracts must be approved by the ATT
and include a summary of the general terms and conditions for the
provision of services. In the case of tacit contracts, the

Page 97

general terms and conditions for the provision of approved services
by the ATT, prior to the start of service provision.
II. The service providers will establish the general terms and conditions for
the provision of services including minimally a description of the
services provided and associated aspects; technical characteristics to opt for
services, authorization of services, billing procedures,
collection and court; quality parameters; rights and obligations of
users and users, and providers, information services, assistance,
claim and emergency, prohibitions in the use of the service, suspension of
service and forms of completion of the provision of the service. The users and
Users who request it, may enter into contracts with conditions
These contracts must be reported to the ATT.

III. All providers must present the proposed terms and conditions to the ATT.
for the provision of each service and the respective model of contract of
provision of service, as well as updates thereof, for your
approval within fifteen (15) days of its presentation.

ARTICLE 168.- (OBLIGATIONS). In accordance with the established
in Law No. 164, the following obligations shall be considered, among others:

a) Operators or providers must offer their customers free of charge
users, access to special telephone numbers of
emergency services, fire, police or others that are established by
express rule. In the same way, they will have free access to
fault reporting services, telephone procedures, consultation of
billing and filing of claims for violation of rights
of the users of telecommunications services;
b) Every operator or supplier must inform users of the
authorized coverage areas for your telecommunications services,
whose formats and contents will be defined by the ATT, which
must be available at the corresponding agencies and the pages
web, duly updated;
c) Operators or suppliers must have the means of information

that inform the user about the consumption made during a
billing period;
d) Telecommunications service providers and operators must
respect the right of the user or the user to disconnect from a
certain service. In addition to respecting their will to the

Page 98

resolution of a contract. In the event of disconnection or resolution of the
contract, those obligations of the user will remain in force or
user pending compliance;
e) The operators or suppliers that provide telecommunications services,
information technologies, and communication and broadcasting should
present to the ATT statistical, technical and economic information
financial, in accordance with principles, criteria and conditions approved by the
regulator for the Sector Information System;
f) Operators or service providers must publish the models of
contracts, terms and conditions approved by the ATT on its website and
make available to the public in all offices of the operator or
supplier;
g) The operators or providers of the local service must put
available to users and users their printed telephone book of
annually during the first quarter of each year and in its
web, having to send proof to the ATT;
h) Telecommunications service providers and operators have the
obligation to control all polluting elements that originate
in its infrastructure facilities, as well as in its activities, in
compliance with the applicable legal regulations, so that they do not damage the
health and the environment.

ARTICLE 169.- (MAINTENANCE OF DOCUMENTS). The
operators or providers of telecommunications services, must preserve the
documentation and physical and electronic information regarding the activity carried out at the
less five (5) years from its issuance or creation, except technical impossibility
verified by ATT.
ARTICLE 170.- (INTERRUPTION OF THE SERVICE).

I. A public service provider may not interrupt the operation of its network
public, or part of it, nor may it suspend the provision of said
services, without the prior written authorization of ATT and after having
informed to affected users through communication
direct or a mass communication medium, at least with five (5) days
in advance, on interruptions of more than thirty (30) continuous minutes.

II. In cases of emergency, force majeure events or acts of God that justify the
performance of the operator or supplier, it must report to the ATT in the least

Page 99

possible term, which in no case may exceed three (3) business days of
the event occurred.

III. Scheduled interruptions lasting less than or equal to thirty (30) minutes
they do not require authorization from the ATT.

IV. In case of service interruptions greater than twelve (12) hours, the provider
must compensate this time or deduct the resulting amount on the invoice of the
month, except in cases of force majeure and acts of God

ARTICLE 171.- (SPECIAL CONDITIONS). The ATT will establish
the specifications and technical conditions for the implementation, by the
operators and providers of telecommunications services, facilities for the use
public access services for people with disabilities, as well as
to the elderly.

CHAPTER III
CORRECTIVE MEASURES AND
ANTI-COMPETITIVE PRACTICES

ARTICLE 172.- (APPLICATION OF CORRECTIVE MEASURES).

I. When it is determined that in a market there is no effective competition for a
service, the ATT will establish specific obligations applicable to
operators to promote it. If market distortions could not be
corrected, the ATT will apply the necessary corrective measures that will cease
when verifying that there is a degree of effective competition in the market.

II. The regulation on effective competition, corrective measures and their
application procedure will be established by Ministerial Resolution

Page 100

issued by the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing.

ARTICLE 173.- (ANTI-COMPETITIVE PRACTICES).

I. In application of the provisions of Law No. 164, it is prohibited to operators or
suppliers, engage in abusive practices that had the purpose or effect of
harm your competitors and users, leading to situations
anti-competitive. These practices may consist of:

a) The direct or indirect imposition of purchase or sale prices and other
unfair business conditions;
b) The application of unequal conditions for equivalent operations, which
represent a disadvantage for users;
c) Subordinate the signing of contracts to the acceptance by the counterpart of
additional obligations that, by their nature, or according to the practices
commercial, are not inherent to the object of said contracts;
d) Require that whoever requests the provision of a service, assume the condition of
partner or shareholder;
e) The subsidy of one service by another, provided by the same operator or
supplier;
f) Set prices for services below their costs;
g) Deceptive promotional campaigns;
h) Illegal discounts in connection with services or others.

II. The ATT will present to the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing the
qualification of other anti-competitive, abusive and unfair practices
for approval by Ministerial Resolution.

CHAPTER IV
INVIOLABILITY AND SECRET OF COMMUNICATIONS

Page 101

ARTICLE 174.- (INVIOLABILITY AND SECRET OF THE
COMMUNICATIONS).

I. Operators and providers of public telecommunications services and
Information and communication technologies must guarantee users and
users the inviolability and secrecy of communications, unless authorized
judicial. Neither public authority nor any person or body may intercept
conversations or private communications through facilities that
control or centralize.

II. The inviolability and secrecy of communications is violated, when
deliberately a person other than the originator or recipient of the communication,
steals, intercepts, interferes, obstructs, changes or alters its content, diverts its
course, publishes, disseminates, disseminates, uses, tries to know or facilitates that he
himself or another person is aware of the existence or content of any
communication.

III. The inviolability and secrecy of communications is violated when the
people who by reason of their function, have knowledge or access to the
content of a communication made through public services or
disclose its content.

ARTICLE 175.- (REQUIRED INFORMATION ON
COMMUNICATIONS). When there is a request for information by order
judicial, which requires details of calls, information referring to centrals or radio bases
through which calls or communications were made or other that is required to
crime investigation, public network operators and service providers
telecommunications and information and communication technologies must deliver
the required information, without such delivery constituting a violation of inviolability and
telecommunications secret.

ARTICLE 176.- (PROTECTION OF PERSONAL DATA).

I. The personnel of operators and providers of telecommunications services and

Page 102

information and communication technologies, is obliged to keep the secrecy of
the existence or content of the communications and the protection of data
personal and privacy of users.

II. Operators and service providers are obliged to adopt the measures
most suitable for guaranteeing, preserving and maintaining the confidentiality and
protection of the personal data of the users of the service, except in the
following cases:

a) If there is a specific court order;
b) With the prior, express and written consent of the owner user;
c) In cases where the information is necessary for the issuance of guides
telephone numbers, invoices, details of calls to the accredited holder, or for the
attention to claims, provision of information services and
assistance established by these Regulations, or for the
compliance with the obligations related to the interconnection of
support networks and services.

III. The operator or service provider must assist in the identification of the
alleged perpetrators of violations of inviolability, secret of the
communications, protection of personal data and privacy of
users, that their staff could commit at the operator's facilities or
supplier.

IV. The ATT will approve the procedures and measures used by the operators and
providers to safeguard the inviolability and secrecy of the
communications and the protection of personal data and the privacy of
users.

V. It is prohibited for operators and service providers to allow access to
records or databases of its users, either individually or
through lists of users, users or numbers, for commercial or
advertising, except prior, express and written authorization of the user or user
you want to receive such advertising.

Page 103

TITLE XI
ECONOMIC OBLIGATIONS OF OPERATORS AND SUPPLIERS

CHAPTER I
PAYMENTS FOR ASSIGNMENT AND USE OF THE RADIO SPECTRUM

ARTICLE 177.- (RIGHT TO ASSIGN FREQUENCY) .

I. The Right to Assign Frequencies - DAF is the single payment made by
each frequency assignment.

II. The DAF will be paid before the issuance of the Administrative Resolution of assignment
frequencies, within a period of ten (10) days from the date of
notification with the collection note issued by the ATT. In case of not being
effective said payment, will proceed ex officio to the file of works, declaring
the rejection of the process.

III. The amount corresponding to the DAF will be:

a) For licenses awarded through bidding processes, the highest amount
offered by the winner of the tender, according to the terms
established in the corresponding specification sheet on the
base price calculated by ATT based on technical criteria
economic;
b) For private network licenses, the DAF amount will be fifteen (15) times
the annual value established as rights for the use of frequencies;
c) For licenses granted directly, the amount will be determined by the
ATT based on an economic technical study.

Page 104

IV. For licenses linked to the Single License, the payment will be linked to the term of the
main license

ARTICLE 178.- (RIGHT TO USE FREQUENCY) .

I. Network operators and telecommunications service providers and
information and communication technologies that require the use of frequencies
For their operation, they must pay annually for the Right of Use of
Frequencies - DUF as follows:

a) The initial payment at the time of obtaining the License for the Use of
Frequencies will be calculated by the ATT for the period between
the date of granting of the License and the end of management and must be
canceled before the issuance of the Administrative Resolution of
assignment of frequencies within ten (10) days from the date of
notification to the operator with the collection note issued by the ATT;
b) The annual payment must be paid in advance until the 31st of
January of each year, provided that the Administrative Resolution of
assignment does not establish a different form of payment. ATT until
January 15 of each management, will make available to the holders of
licenses, the settlement for the annual payment of the rights to use
frequencies;
c) The payment for license modification that produces a variation in the
amount per DUF established for it, will be calculated between the period
modification or change of the network and the end of the management and must be
canceled before the issuance of the Administrative Resolution of
license modification within ten (10) days from the date of
notification to the operator with the collection note issued by the ATT.

II. In the cases of license modifications that do not require a Resolution
Administrative for authorization (for example, number of fixed stations or
mobile), the DUF payment will be calculated between the modification period of the
network and the end of the management and must be canceled until the last business day of the
month in which the modification was made, and notified to the ATT according to
the forms established for this purpose.

Page 105

III. The payments established in this Article will be made in the accounts
banking services indicated by the ATT and in accordance with the procedures and
current standards.

ARTICLE 179.- (PAYMENT FOR USE OF FREQUENCIES).

I. Annual payments for Frequency Use Rights, both for networks
public and private networks should be calculated based on a
formula that considers at least the following criteria:

a) Number of Fixed Stations;
b) Number of Terminals, mobile, fixed or restricted coverage, as well as
mobile stations of public or private networks;
c) Assessment of the frequency bands for the services of
telecommunications;
d) Bandwidth;
e) Radioelectric coverage or Service Area;
f) Spectrum Saturation;
g) Demographic indicators.

II. The valuation of the frequency bands destined to services of
existing telecommunications or new ones for public or private networks,
may be modified by Ministerial Resolution of the Ministry of
Public Works, Services and Housing at the request and proposal of the ATT, based on
in technical economic studies that justify said modifications.

ARTICLE 180.- (APPLICATION OF FINES AND INTEREST).

I. The ATT will establish fines and interest for non-compliance with the timely payment of
frequency usage rights. The fine is set at ten percent
(10%) additional of the total amount owed for the frequency use of each

Page 106

management. Interest runs from the day following the date of
payment due.

II. The interest rate to be applied will be six percent (6%) per year of the use of
frequency of each management.

CHAPTER II
AUDIT AND REGULATION RATE

ARTICLE 181.- (AUDIT AND REGULATION RATE).

I. The amounts and forms of payment of the Audit and Regulation Fee are calculated
according to the following:

a) For Private Network License holders, one percent (1%) per year
of the market value of the equipment used, which is not owned
of a third party declared in the application process. Excludes
activity of radio amateurs from the application of this rate;
b) For operators or suppliers that provide public services or services of
value added, one percent (1%) of your gross income from
operation of the previous year, obtained by the provision of the service;
c) For television broadcasting or signal distribution services, the
one percent (1%) of the gross operating income of the previous year;
d) For sound broadcasting services, half a percent (0.5%) of the
gross operating income for the previous year;
e) For broadcasting services provided by the social sectors
community and rural native indigenous peoples, and
intercultural and Afro-Bolivian communities outside the rural area, the
half percent (0.5%) of its gross operating income for the year
previous;

Page 107

f) For new operators or service providers of
telecommunications to the public will be considered as a taxable basis for the
first year, the projected revenue in your business plan, which
will be recalculated once the operator or supplier submits their
real income to ATT.

II. The holder is obliged to pay the inspection and regulation fee that is determined,
regardless of any administrative challenge that could
have started against.

III. Payments of the Audit and Regulation Fee will be made in the form and
deadlines established by the ATT.

ARTICLE 182.- (DELAY IN PAYMENT).

I. The operator that fails to comply with the date established for the payment of the
Inspection and Regulation, will be considered an operator in default without need
of intimation or any requirement.

II. The ATT will establish the following penalties in case of late payment of the Fee
Inspection and Regulation:

a) Fine of ten percent (10%) on the total amount owed;
b) Interest rate of six percent (6%) per year on the amount owed.

III. Interest runs from the day following the due date of the payment.

IV. The payment for the fine and the corresponding interest must
be paid jointly with the Tax and Regulation Fee

Page 108

overdue.

ARTICLE 183.- (TRANSFER OF AMOUNTS
COLLECTED). The collection for the Tax and Regulation Fee,
as well as their interests and penalties for late payment, will be deposited by the ATT in a
semester until ten (10) days of the following month, after the semester, to the Account
Unique to the Treasury - CUT.

TITLE XII
UNIVERSAL ACCESS AND SERVICE

CHAPTER I
GENERAL PROVISIONS OF UNIVERSAL ACCESS AND SERVICE

ARTICLE 184.- (NATIONAL PROGRAM OF
TELECOMMUNICATIONS OF SOCIAL INCLUSION).

I. The National Telecommunications Program for Social Inclusion - PRONTIS, has
in order to contribute to universal access to telecommunications services
and information and communication technologies, through the co-financing of
Projects.

II. PRONTIS resources may not be used for purposes other than those indicated
by law, or cause anti-competitive practices.

III. The projects co-financed by PRONTIS will be able to access the mechanisms of
granting of licenses and exemptions from payment of fees and rights of
allocation and use of frequencies for rural areas.
ARTICLE 185.- (OBJECTIVES OF PRONTIS). They are objectives of the

Page 109

PRONTIS the following:

a) Reduce inequalities in access to telecommunications services and
information and communication technologies in rural areas, places that
are considered of social interest that do not have
telecommunications or that they are limited with respect to
provided in urban centers;
b) Promote access to telecommunications services and technology
information and communication, provided in a timely manner, under conditions
of quality, efficiency, continuity and with affordable rates;
c) Contribute to integral human, economic and cultural development, through the
use and exploitation of information technologies and
communication, in the appropriation and dissemination of community knowledge,
generation of content related to education, health, uses
productive and public management services, in rural areas, places that are
considered of social interest;
d) Provide connectivity or telecommunications services and technologies of
information and communication to rural localities where there is
institutions, public educational units and public health centers.

ARTICLE 186.- (CONTINUOUS PROVISION OF SERVICES). The
operators that access the co-financing of projects through PRONTIS are
obliged to the continuous provision of the services object of the co-financing of
compliance with current regulations.

CHAPTER II
EXECUTION OF THE NATIONAL PROGRAM
TELECOMMUNICATIONS OF SOCIAL INCLUSION

ARTICLE 187.- (OF THE PROJECT EXECUTION UNIT
OF THE PRONTIS). The PRONTIS Execution Unit must carry out the activities
necessary to guarantee the fulfillment of the aims and objectives of the Program
National Telecommunications of Social Inclusion according to current regulations.

Page 110

ARTICLE 188.- (FINANCING OF PRONTIS).

I. PRONTIS will be financed with resources from:

a) The amounts collected by the ATT, for license payments,
rights to assign and use frequencies, fines, auction of goods,
execution of guarantee tickets and transfer surpluses to new
holders, after deduction of:

1. Payment of obligations to the International Union of
Telecommunications - ITU;
2. The resources required for the investment to control the spectrum
radioelectric up to twenty percent (20%) of the total collected
for these concepts, prior approval of the Ministry of Works
Public, Services and Housing. In the absence of
investment projects for control of the radioelectric spectrum, not
this deduction will be made;
3. The aforementioned deductions will be deposited in the
Single Treasury Account - CUT quarterly.

b) Contributions from network and service providers and operators
telecommunications and information and communication technologies of
in accordance with the provisions of Law No. 164 and these Regulations;
c) External resources, donations and international cooperation.

II. The amounts collected by the ATT, for the concept of PRONTIS after the
deductions indicated in subsection a) of this Article, will be deposited
in the Single Treasury Account corresponding to the Ministry of Works
Public, Services and Housing, quarterly or at the request of this
Ministry.

Page 111

ARTICLE 189.- (DISTRIBUTION OF THE RESOURCES OF THE
PRONTIS) . The resources indicated in paragraphs a) and b) of the preceding article, to
each management, will be distributed as follows:

a) Up to one percent (1%) for operating expenses of the Unit of
Execution of PRONTIS Projects;
b) The balance of the resources will be used for investment expenses in
projects framed in the PRONTIS.

ARTICLE 190.- (PUBLIC - PUBLIC TRANSFERS AND
PRIVATE PUBLIC).

I. The Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing is authorized to carry out
public - public or public - private transfers with the resources of the
PRONTIS to legally authorized telecommunications operators and
awarded for the execution of emergent projects of PRONTIS.
II. The amount, use and destination of public - public or public - private transfers
and the specific regulations must be approved by Resolution
Ministerial of the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing.

ARTICLE 191.- (MODALITIES AND CONDITIONS OF
FINANCING).

I. The geographical areas of intervention of PRONTIS will be mainly those
that do not have the public telecommunications service proposed in the
project and that are in rural areas or in those considered of interest
Social.

II. Financing should be used for investment projects in infrastructure and networks
telecommunications and information and communication technologies, as well as
the development of content and computer applications for government
electronic, tele-education, telehealth and productive development, for the achievement of

Page 112

universal access and service in rural areas and areas of social interest.

III. Resources cannot be assigned as direct subsidies to users.

IV. The programs and projects will be financed according to the following
modalities:

a) Partial financing contract or co-financing, through the
granting of non-reimbursable resources to the investment, so that
telecommunications companies with majority state participation,
execute projects through a direct invitation process;
b) Partial financing contract or co-financing, through tender
with award to the lowest co-financing requested among the
telecommunications service operators or development companies
of content and applications established in the country.

ARTICLE 192.- (OF THE CONTRACTS). The content of the contract,
terms, procedure and conditions of the co-financing will be established through
Ministerial Resolution of the Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing.

ARTICLE 193.- (CO-FINANCED INFRASTRUCTURE).

I. The networks that benefit from the co-financing of PRONTIS projects,
must be accessible to other operators according to the mechanisms of
interconnection, access and shared use of infrastructure, except during the
validity of the co-financing contract.

II. The infrastructure co-financed with PRONTIS resources and used by a
operator for the execution of inclusive telecommunications projects
may not be sold, transferred or encumbered, during the term of the
Co-financing contract, it may not be subject to judicial measures either
preventive or executive.

Page 113

ARTICLE 194.- (OWNERSHIP OF ASSETS).

I. Assets resulting from the co-financing of projects under PRONTIS,
will become the property of the awarded operator, when the
co-financing is fully met.

II. In the event of non-compliance with the co-financing Contract, the
resolution of the same, the execution of the respective guarantee certificates,
the awarded operator must return all resources
transferred.

ARTICLE 195.- (OPERATION IN THE RURAL AREA). Operation of
public networks and provision of services exclusively in rural areas existing at the
time of publication of this Regulation, as well as the new ones, are exempt
of the contributions to PRONTIS.

ARTICLE 196.- (CONTRIBUTIONS TO PRONTIS).

I. Operators and providers of telecommunications networks and services and
information and communication technologies with the exception of suppliers
broadcasting services, will contribute to the National Program of
Telecommunications for Social Inclusion, PRONTIS, considering:

a) The percentage of contribution applicable to the gross income emerging from the
provision of telecommunications services for the semester
previous;
b) The total income of the operator or supplier with the highest income according to
data from the Uniform Coded Financial Information System SIFCU for the previous semester, deducting income from services
provided in the rural area by the operator or provider;
c) The total income of the operator or supplier from which the contribution is calculated

Page 114

according to SIFCU data, deducting income from services in the area
rural;
d) The deduction of the contribution of fifty percent (50%) of the investments
in rural areas carried out to provide telecommunications services
to the public the previous semester.

II. The Ministry of Public Works, Services and Housing, through Resolution
Ministerial will establish the formula according to what is indicated in the Paragraph
previous.

ARTICLE 197.- (INVESTMENTS IN THE RURAL AREA).

I. Investment in rural areas shall be understood to mean all contracting of goods, works and
services for the supply, installation and commissioning of a network,
intended solely to provide telecommunications services to the public in
rural areas, framed within the objectives of PRONTIS and prior approval
of the PRONTIS Execution Unit.

II. The deduction of the investment contribution in rural areas will not apply to those
co-financed with resources from PRONTIS.

III. Deductions to the contribution to PRONTIS will not mean a contribution less than one per
one hundred (1%) and they will not be accumulated for the next semester.

ARTICLE 198.- (PAYMENT METHOD).

I. The annual payment of the contribution to PRONTIS will be made in semi-annual installments based on the
financial statements of the immediate previous management, according to the
procedure established by the Ministry of Public Works, Services and
Housing through Ministerial Resolution.

Page 115

II. The date established for the payment of the contribution to PRONTIS has expired, if it has not been
canceled, it will become delinquent without the need for notice or requirement
any.

III. In the event of late payment of the contribution to PRONTIS, the
the interest rate of six percent (6%) per year, on the amount owed,
must be paid jointly with the overdue contribution.

TITLE XIII
EMERGENCIES AND NATIONAL SECURITY

SINGLE CHAPTER
PROVISIONS FOR EMERGENCIES
AND NATIONAL SECURITY

ARTICLE 199.- (EMERGENCY PLAN).

I. The ATT will prepare the Emergency Plan for the telecommunications sector and
information and communication technologies, in coordination with the Ministry
of Public Works, Services and Housing and other institutions of the Body
Executive who are related to disaster and emergency issues, the
same that will be periodically updated.

II. In cases of declaration of national or departmental emergency, the ATT
will implement the Emergency Plan to make available to SISRADE
telecommunications services, for which purpose the operators or
Suppliers may not deny their cooperation.

III. It will be considered a case of national emergency when the Executive Branch so

Page 116

establish through the corresponding legal instrument.

ARTICLE 200.- (PRIORITIES). Services have absolute priority
of telecommunications that are carried out in the areas of emergency operations
declared and those that connect them with the rest of the country, including in the Networks
Private

TITLE XIV
ADMINISTRATION AND REGISTRATION OF THE “.bo” DOMAIN NAMES

SINGLE CHAPTER
DOMAIN ADMINISTRATION ".bo"

ARTICLE 201.- (ADMINISTRATION OF THE “.bo” DOMAIN). The
administration of the .bo domain, will be regulated by the Agency for the Development of the
Information Society in Bolivia - ADSIB, which will determine the principles and
general guidelines for the registration of domain names under the Domain of
Country Code Top Level - ccTLD “.bo” (ccTLD)
"Country code Top Level Domain").

ARTICLE 202.- (SECOND AND THIRD LEVEL DOMAINS). The
ADSIB, will register and manage the names of Second and Third level domains
of the Country Code Top Level Domain - ccTLD or sub domains, of the
following types:

1. Second Level Domain Name.- It will conform to the following format:
"Name.bo.";

2. Third Level Domain Name.- It will be adjusted according to the following:

Page 117

a) nombre.com.bo.- Sub domain assigned to natural persons or
legal;
b) name.net.bo.- Sub domain assigned for service providers
Internet - ISP;
c) nombre.org.bo.- Sub domain assigned for organizations and
Non-profit entities;
d) nombre.gob.bo.- Sub domain restricted and exclusively assigned
for government entities or institutions in all their
levels of government of the Plurinational State of Bolivia;
e) nombre.edu.bo.- Sub domain restricted and exclusively assigned
for public or private universities, entities, agencies
and educational institutions;
f) name.mil.bo.- Sub domain restricted and exclusively assigned
for military entities and units of the Armed Forces
the Plurinational State of Bolivia;
g) nombre.int.bo.- Sub domain restricted and exclusively assigned
for international organizations, embassies, consulates,
Representations and others legally accredited in the State
Plurinational of Bolivia;
h) nombre.tv.bo.- Sub domain assigned for media
television;
i) Other Domain Names that could be created later in the
Country Code Top Level Domain - ccTLD.

3. The valid characters and the total length of the domain name will be
established and compatible by the ADSIB according to standards
international;

4. The ADSIB may generate the corresponding provisions for other
Sub domain names that could be created in the ccTLD.bo, like this
such as the shape and length of domain names depending on the
technological evolution.

ARTICLE 203.- (REQUIREMENTS FOR THE APPLICATION).

Page 118

I. Applications for second-level and third-level domain names do not
restricted and registration, may be carried out online via the web at the address
electronics and conditions established by ADSIB.

II. Third-level domain names under the ccTLD.bo restricted, require
for its registration the presentation of documentation, according to requirements and
procedures established by Administrative Resolution issued by
the ADSIB.

ARTICLE 204.- (CHARGE FOR THE REGISTRATION OR MAINTENANCE
OF DOMAIN). The ADSIB will make the annual payment in advance for the
domain registration or maintenance to its users according to the Tariff
approved by ATT.

ARTICLE 205.- (PROHIBITION). In no case the owner, the contacts
or registrant of a domain name .bo, will offer services that include the
delegation of "subdomains" of the authority zone, partial or total, to third parties,
assigned by ADSIB when registering the name.

ARTICLE 206.- (ELIMINATION OF DOMAIN NAME). The
ADSIB may delete a domain name for the following reasons:

a) At the express request of the owner of the domain;
b) By due date of annual payment of the domain;
c) For handling fraudulent information at the time of registering the domain;
d) As a consequence of a judicial sentence executed within the framework of the
national regulations, due to domain name dispute.

ARTICLE 207.- (SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES). The
dispute resolution procedure regarding domain names

Page 119

registered under the ccTLD .bo, it will be governed by a specific Regulation of solution of
controversies regarding domain names registered under the ccTLD .bo,
approved by Administrative Resolution by ADSIB.

- or -

Page 120

DEFENSE ACTIONS

ACCORDING TO THE POLITICAL CONSTITUTION OF THE STATE

SECTION I
FREEDOM ACTION

Article 125. Any person who considers that his life is in danger, which is
illegally persecuted, or who is unduly prosecuted or deprived of liberty
personal, may file a Freedom Action and go, orally or in writing, by itself

Page 121

or by anyone in his name and without any procedural formality, before any judge or
competent court in criminal matters, and will request guardianship of his life, cease the
undue prosecution, legal formalities are restored or your right is restored
to freedom.
Article 126.
I. The judicial authority will immediately indicate the day and time of the public hearing, which
it will take place within twenty-four hours of filing the action, and
will order that the plaintiff be brought into his presence or will go to the
place of detention. With said order, the summons will be practiced, personally or by
ID, to the authority or the person denounced, an order that will be obeyed without
observation or excuse, both by the authority or the person denounced as
by those in charge of prisons or places of detention, without the latter,
once summoned, they may disobey.
II. In any case the audience may be suspended. In the absence of the defendant, for
Absence or abandonment, will be carried out in your rebellion.
III. Knowing the antecedents and hearing the allegations, the judicial authority,
obligatorily and under responsibility, will dictate sentence in the same
audience. The sentence may order the protection of life, the restitution of the
right to liberty, reparation of legal defects, cessation of
undue prosecution or referral of the case to the competent judge. In all the
cases, the parties will be notified with the reading of the sentence.
IV. The court ruling will be executed immediately. Notwithstanding, the decision is
will raise in review, ex officio, before the Plurinational Constitutional Court, in
within twenty-four hours of its issuance.
Article 127.
I. Public servants or private persons who resist judicial decisions
In the cases provided for by this action, they will be sent by order of the
authority that learned of the action before the Public Ministry for its
criminal prosecution for violation of constitutional guarantees.
II. The judicial authority that does not proceed in accordance with the provisions of this article
It will be subject to sanction, in accordance with the Constitution and the law.

Page 122

SECTION II
CONSTITUTIONAL AMPARO ACTION

Article 128. The Constitutional Amparo Action will take place against acts
or illegal or improper omissions of public servants, or of an individual or
collective, that restrict, suppress or threaten to restrict or suppress the rights
recognized by the Constitution and the law.

Article 129.
I. The Constitutional Amparo Action will be filed by the person who is created
affected, by another in his name with sufficient power or by the authority
according to the Constitution, before any judge or court
competent, provided that there is no other means or legal recourse for the
immediate protection of rights and guarantees restricted, suppressed or
threatened.
II. The Constitutional Amparo Action may be filed within a maximum period of six
months, computable from the commission of the alleged violation or
notified the last administrative or judicial decision.
III. The defendant authority or person will be summoned in the manner provided for the Action
of Liberty, in order to provide information and present, where appropriate, the
actions concerning the denounced fact, within a maximum period of forty
and eight hours from the presentation of the Action.
IV. The final resolution will be pronounced in a public hearing immediately upon receipt of the
information from the authority or person sued and, in the absence thereof, will do so
based on the evidence offered by the plaintiff. The authority
The court will examine the competence of the public servant or server
public or of the defendant and, in case of finding true and effective the
demand, will grant the requested protection. The decision that is pronounced is
will raise, ex officio, for review before the Plurinational Constitutional Court in
the period of twenty-four hours following the issuance of the ruling.
V . The final decision that grants the Constitutional Amparo Action will be executed

Page 123

immediately and without observation. In case of resistance, the
in accordance with the provisions of the Action for Freedom. The judicial authority that does not
proceed in accordance with the provisions of this article, it will be subject to the
sanctions provided by law.

CONSULTATION TEXT

Official Gazette of the Plurinational State of Bolivia
All Rights Reserved © 2014
www.gacetaoficialdebolivia.gob.bo

