Page 1

PENAL CODE BOLIVIA
BOOK FIRST
GENERAL PART
TITLE I
THE CRIMINAL LAW
SINGLE CHAPTER
RULES FOR ITS APPLICATION
Art. 1 .- (REGARDING THE SPACE). This Code will apply:
1. To crimes committed in the territory of Bolivia or in places subject to its
jurisdiction.
2. To crimes committed abroad, the results of which have occurred or should have
occur in the territory of Bolivia or in places subject to its jurisdiction.
3. To crimes committed abroad by a Bolivian, provided that he is
is in national territory and has not been punished in the place where he committed the crime.
4. To crimes committed abroad against State security, public faith and
the national economy. This provision will be extended to foreigners, if they have been
by extradition or found within the territory of the Republic.
5. To crimes committed in Bolivian ships, aircraft or other means of transport
in a foreign country, when they are not tried there.
6. To crimes committed abroad by officials at the service of the Nation, in the
performance of their position or commission.
7. To crimes that by treaty or convention of the Republic has been obliged to repress,
even when they were not committed in its territory.
Art. 2 .- (FOREIGN JUDGMENT). In the cases provided for in the previous article,
when the agent is tried in Bolivia, having already been sentenced abroad,
The part of the sentence served in that one will be computed if it is of the same species and if it is
otherwise, the judge will in any case reduce the amount imposed on the author.
Art. 3 .- (EXTRADITION). No person subject to the jurisdiction of the laws
Bolivian women may be delivered by extradition to another State, unless a treaty
international or reciprocity agreement provides otherwise.
The validity or inadmissibility of the extradition will be resolved by the Supreme Court.
In case of reciprocity, the extradition may not be carried out if the fact for which the
claim does not constitute a crime under the law of the State requesting the extradition and the
that he must grant it.

Page 2

Art. 4 .- (REGARDING TIME). No one may be condemned or subjected to the measure of
security for a fact that is not expressly provided as a crime by criminal law
in force at the time it was committed, nor subject to penalties or criminal security measures
that are not established in it.
If the law in force at the time of committing the crime is different from that which exists at the
the ruling or the ruling in force in the intervening time, will always apply the most
favorable.
If a more benign law is passed while serving the sentence, this will be the
that applies.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding paragraphs, the laws enacted to govern only
for a specified time shall apply to all the acts committed during his
validity.
Art. 5 ° .- (AS TO PEOPLE). Criminal law does not recognize any jurisdiction or
personal privilege, but its provisions shall apply to persons who at the time
of the fact they were older than sixteen years.
Art. 6 ° .- (COLLISION OF LAWS). If the same matter is provided for by a law or
special provision and by a law or provision of a general nature, the
first the first as long as it does not provide otherwise.
Art. 7 ° .- (SUPPLETORY RULE). The general provisions of this code are
will apply to all crimes provided for by special laws, insofar as these
do not expressly establish otherwise.

TITLE II
THE CRIME, FOUNDATIONS OF THE PUNIBILITY AND THE OFFENDER
CHAPTER I
FORMS OF APPEARANCE OF THE CRIME
Art. 8 ° .- (TENTATIVE). He who through suitable or unequivocal acts will begin the
execution of the crime and not consummate it for reasons beyond his control, he will be sanctioned
with two thirds of the penalty established for the consummated crime.
Art. 9 ° .- (WITHDRAWAL AND EFFECTIVE REPENTANCE). You will not be sanctioned with
any penalty:
1. Whoever voluntarily desists from committing the crime.
2. Anyone who likewise prevents or contributes to preventing the result from occurring at
unless the acts carried out constitute crimes in themselves.
Art. 10 ° .- (IMPOSSIBLE CRIME). If the result is not produced because the
means used or due to improper object, the judge may only impose measures of
safety.

Page 3

CHAPTER II
BASIS OF PUNIBILITY
Art. 11 ° .I. It is exempt from liability:
1) (LEGITIMATE DEFENSE) .- He who in defense of any right, his own or that of others,
rejects an unjust or actual aggression, provided there is a rational need for the
defense and there was no obvious disproportion of the means used.
2) (EXERCISE OF A RIGHT, JOB OR POSITION, COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAW OR
OF A DUTY) .- He who in the legitimate exercise of a right, office or position,
compliance with the law or a duty, violates a foreign legal asset.
II. Excess in the above situations will be sanctioned with the penalty set for the
wrongful crime. When it comes from excitement or disturbance justifiable by the
Concomitant circumstances at the time of the fact, will be exempt from penalty.
Art. 12 ° .- (STATE OF NEED) .- It is exempt from liability who to avoid
an injury to one's own or someone else's legal good, not surmountable in any other way, incurs a
criminal type, when the following requirements are met:
1) That the injury caused is not greater than the one to be avoided, taking into account,
mainly, the equivalence in the quality of the committed legal assets;
2) That the injury being avoided is imminent or current, and important;
3) That the situation of need had not been intentionally caused by the
subject; Y,
4) That the needy does not have, due to his office or position, the obligation to face danger.
Art. 13 ° .- (THERE IS NO PENALTY WITHOUT GUILT). No penalty may be imposed on the agent,
if his actions are not criminally reprehensible. Guilt and not the result is the limit
of grief.
If the law binds a greater penalty to a special consequence of the fact, this only applies
will apply when the action that causes the most serious result has been carried out by
less guiltily.
Art. 13 bis.- (COMMISSION BY OMISSION). The crimes that consist in the production of
a result will only be understood as committed by omission when failure to avoid them,
for the violation of a special legal duty of the author that places him in a position of
guarantor, is equivalent, according to the meaning of the law, to its causation.
Art. 13 ° ter.- (CRIMINAL LIABILITY OF THE BODY AND THE REPRESENTATIVE).
Whoever acts as a de facto or legal administrator of a legal person, or in
name or legal or voluntary representation of another, will always respond personally
that the entity or person in whose name or representation acts the

Page 4

special relationships, qualities or personal circumstances that the corresponding type
criminal required for the agent.
Art. 13 ° quater.- (PAINFUL CRIME AND GUILTY). When the law does not mandate
The wrongful crime is expressly punishable, only the fraudulent crime is punishable.
Art. 14 ° .- (DOLO). The person who carries out an act foreseen in a criminal offense acts maliciously
with knowledge and will. For this, it is sufficient that the author seriously consider
its realization possible and accept this possibility.
Art. 15 ° .- (GUILT). He who does not observe the care to which he is obliged acts guilty
according to the circumstances and your personal conditions and, therefore:
1. You are not aware that you are doing the legal type.
2. It is possible to carry out the criminal offense and, despite this provision, it is carried out
in the confidence that you will avoid the result.
Art. 16 ° .- (ERROR).
1. (TYPE ERROR) .- The invincible error on a constitutive element of the criminal offense
excludes criminal liability for this crime. If the error, taken care of the circumstances
of the fact and the personal of the author, if beatable, the infraction will be sanctioned with the
penalty of culpable crime, when the law condemns it with penalty.
The error on a fact that qualifies the offense or on an aggravating circumstance,
it will prevent the application of the aggravated sentence.
The crime committed by mistake that can be beaten on the circumstances that would have justified or
If the fact is exonerated, it will be sanctioned as a culpable crime when the law orders it with
pain.
2. (PROHIBITION ERROR) .- The invincible error regarding the illegality of the constitutive act
of the criminal type excludes criminal liability. If the error is beatable, the penalty may
attenuated in accordance with article 39.
Art. 17 ° .- (UNIMPUTABILITY). It is exempt from penalty that at the time of the fact by
mental illness or serious disturbance of consciousness or serious insufficiency of
intelligence, cannot understand the unlawfulness of their action or behave
according to this understanding.
Art. 18 ° .- (SEMI-IMPUTABILITY). When the circumstances of the aforementioned causes
in the previous article do not totally exclude the ability to understand the
unlawfulness of their action or to conduct themselves in accordance with this understanding, but that the
decrease notably, the judge will lessen the penalty in accordance with article 39 or will order the
most convenient security measure.
Art. 19 ° .- ("ACTIO LIBERA IN CAUSA"). Whoever voluntarily causes his
inability to commit a crime, will be punished with the penalty provided for the crime
malicious; if he should have foreseen the execution of the criminal type, he will be sanctioned with the penalty
wrongful crime.

Page 5

CHAPTER III
CRIMINAL PARTICIPATION
Art. 20 ° .- (AUTHORS). Authors are the ones who carry out the fact on their own,
jointly, through another or those who fraudulently provide such cooperation
nature, without which the willful unlawful act could not have been committed
The mediate author is the one who fraudulently uses another as an instrument for
carrying out the crime.
Art. 21 ° .- (Repealed)
Art. 22 ° .- (INSTIGATOR). It is instigator who fraudulently determines another to the
commission of a fraudulent unlawful act. It will be sanctioned with the penalty foreseen for the
perpetrator of the crime.
Art. 23 ° .- (COMPLICITY). Anyone who fraudulently facilitates or cooperates with the
execution of the fraudulent unlawful act, in such a way that even without that help, the
task; and whoever, by virtue of previous promises, provides assistance or assistance with
after the fact. It will be punished with the penalty provided for the crime, attenuated
in accordance with article 39.
Art. 24 ° .- (INCOMUNICABILITY). Each participant will be penalized according to their
guilt, regardless of the guilt of others.
The special relationships, qualities and personal circumstances that merge, exclude,
increase or decrease responsibility, do not communicate between any of the
participants.
Lacking in the instigator or accomplice, special relationships, qualities and circumstances
personal that found the perpetrator's punishment, his sentence will be reduced in accordance with the article
39.

TITLE III
THE MISERIES
CHAPTER I
LESSONS
Art. 25 ° .- (THE SANCTION). The sanction includes penalties and security measures.
Its purposes are the amendment and social rehabilitation of the offender, as well as the
fulfillment of preventive functions in general and special.
Art. 26 ° .- (LISTING). The main penalties are:
1) Presidio
2) Seclusion

Page 6

) Provision of work
4) Days - fine
Special disqualification is an accessory penalty.

GENERAL RULES
Art. 27 ° .- (PRIVACY OF FREEDOM). The following are custodial sentences:
1. (PRESIDIO). The imprisonment will be applied to crimes that are more serious and will have
duration from one to thirty years. In the contest the maximum may not, in any case,
exceed thirty years.
2. (SECLUSION). Seclusion will be applied to less serious crimes and their duration
it will be from one month to eight years.
3. (APPLICATION). In the case of any of these sanctions, the judge may apply
one or the other in accordance with article thirty-seven.
Art. 28 ° .- (JOB BENEFIT). The penalty of rendering work for profit
of the community obliges the convicted person to lend their work in useful activities
that do not violate their dignity and are in accordance with their capacity.
The provision of work will not interfere with the normal work activity of the convicted person,
will comply in public establishments and in associations of general interest in the
schedules determined by the judge.
It will have a maximum duration of forty-eight weeks, and weekly may not
exceed sixteen hours, nor be less than three hours.
The provision of work may only be executed with the consent of the convicted person. On
If the convicted person does not give his consent, the sanction will become a penalty
deprivation of liberty. For this purpose, one day of deprivation of liberty is equivalent to two hours
weekly work. This substitution will be carried out only once, and once it has been made
it will not be able to stop running.
The surveillance judge must require reports on the performance of the work to the entity
employer. In case the reports are not favorable it will become deprivation
freedom according to the previous paragraph.
Art. 29 ° .- (DAYS-FINE). The fine consists of the payment to the Reparation Fund, of
an amount of money that will be set by the judge in fine-days, depending on the capacity
economic status of the convicted person, their daily income, their aptitude for work and their burdens
family members, considered at the time of sentencing. The minimum will be one day
fine and the maximum of five hundred.

Page 7

The fees that the convicted person must pay will not exceed the maximum attainable of his
salary, if this were your only source of resources. The maximum total amount of the fine day no
it may exceed twenty-five national monthly minimum wages.
If the convicted person does not give enough information about his income, assets or other
bases for calculating a daily quota, then it can be estimated.
The resolution will indicate the number of fine days, the amount of the daily fee and the term
of payment.
Art. 30 ° .- (CONVERSION). When the penalty of days fine and
deprivation of liberty, the conversion of the fine days into deprivation of liberty
Liberty. In all other cases, the conversion will proceed when the solvent convicted person does not
I will pay the fine.
Before conversion, the judge may authorize the sentenced person to repay the sentence
pecuniary, through the provision of work. You can also authorize the payment of the fine
by installments, setting the amount and date of payments, according to your economic condition or
try to satisfy the fine by making it effective on the goods, salaries or other
tickets of the condemned.
The payment of the fine at any time, renders the conversion ineffective, discounting
the time of imprisonment that the convicted person has served, in the established proportion.
For the purposes of conversion and amortization, one day of confinement is equivalent to three days
fine and a four-hour work day equals one day fine.
Art. 31 ° .- (EXTENSIVE APPLICATION). The penalty of days fine established in law
special penalties in force, will be applied in accordance with the provisions of articles
previous.
Art. 32 ° .- (Repealed)
Art. 33 ° .- (Repealed)
Art. 34 ° .- (SPECIAL DISMISSAL). The special disqualification consists of:
1. Loss of public mandate, position, job or commission.
2. The inability to obtain public mandates, positions, jobs or commissions, due to
popular election or appointment.
3. The prohibition to exercise a profession or activity whose exercise depends on
authorization or license from the public power.
Art. 35 ° .- (Repealed)
Art. 36 ° .- (APPLICATION OF THE SPECIAL DISMISSAL). Disqualification will be imposed
special from six months to ten years, after serving the main sentence,
when the crime committed amounts to violation or disregard of rights and duties
corresponding to the mandate, position, employment or commission, incompetence or abuse of

Page 8

professions or activities referred to in article 34 and in the case of crimes
tasks:
1. By public officials, agents, commissioners, in the exercise of their functions;
2. By physicians, lawyers, engineers, financial auditors, and other professionals in the
exercise of their functions or;
3. By those who carry out industrial, commercial or other activities.
In the above cases, the special disqualification is inherent to the compliance time.
of the custodial sentence.
The minimum penalty of special disqualification will be five years, in the following
cases:
1. If the death of one or more people occurs as a result of a serious
culpable violation of duty of care.
2. If the crime is committed by a public official in the exercise of his functions.

CHAPTER II
APPLICATION OF PENALTIES
Art. 37 ° .- (SETTING OF THE PENALTY). It is up to the judge, taking into account the personality of the
author, the greater or lesser gravity of the fact, the circumstances and the consequences of the
crime:
1. Take direct knowledge of the subject, the victim and the circumstances of the fact,
to the extent required for each case.
Determine the penalty applicable to each crime, within the legal limits.
Art. 38 ° .- (CIRCUMSTANCES)
1. To appreciate the personality of the author, it will be taken into account mainly:
a) The age, education, customs and previous and subsequent conduct of the subject,
the motives that prompted him to commit a crime and his economic and social situation.
b) The special conditions in which it was at the time of the execution of the
crime and other personal antecedents and conditions, as well as their ties of
kinship, friendship or born from other relationships, the quality of the people
offended and other circumstances of a subjective nature.
It will also take into account: premeditation, low antisocial motive, treachery and
cruelty.
2. To assess the seriousness of the event, the following will be taken into account: the nature of the action,
of the means used, the extent of the damage caused and the danger incurred.

Page 9

Art. 39 ° .- (SPECIAL ATTENUANTS). In cases where this code has
expressly special attenuation, proceed as follows:
1. The prison sentence of thirty years shall be reduced to fifteen.
2. When the crime is sentenced to imprisonment with a minimum of more than one
year, the sentence imposed may be reduced to the legal minimum of the criminal scale of the
presidio.
3. When the crime is sentenced to imprisonment for a minimum of one year or
imprisonment for a minimum of more than one month, the sentence imposed may be reduced
up to the legal minimum of the penal scale of imprisonment.
Art. 40 ° .- (GENERAL ATTENUANTS). The penalty may also be mitigated:
1. When the author has acted for an honorable motive, or driven by misery, or under
the influence of serious and unjust moral ailments, or under the impression of a
serious threat, or by the ascendancy of a person to whom you owe obedience or of the
which depends.
2. When he has distinguished himself in the previous life by a particularly
meritorious.
3. When you have demonstrated your repentance through actions and especially repairing
damages, insofar as it has been possible.
4. When the agent is an indigenous person with no education and his / her
ignorance of the law.
Art. 41 ° .- (REINCIDENCE). There is recidivism, provided that the convicted person in Bolivia or the
foreigner by enforceable sentence, commit a new crime, if it has not elapsed since
the fulfillment of the sentence within five years.
Art. 42 ° .- (Repealed)
Art. 43 ° .- (SANCTIONS FOR THE PREVIOUS CASES). To the repeat offender, in addition to
the penalties that correspond to the crimes committed, the judge will impose the measures
more convenient security.
Art. 44 ° .- (IDEAL CONTEST). He who with a single action or omission violates various
legal provisions that are not mutually exclusive, will be punished with the penalty of the crime
more serious, the judge being able to increase the maximum by up to a quarter.
Art. 45 ° .- (REAL CONTEST). The one who with independent designs, with one or more
actions or omissions, commit two or more crimes, will be sanctioned with the penalty of the most
serious, the judge being able to increase the maximum to half.
Art. 46 ° .- (SOLE JUDGMENT). In all cases of plurality of crimes, it corresponds
to the judge who hears the most serious case, issue the sole sentence, determining the penalty

Page 10

definitive for all of them, subject to the rules of the Code of
Penal procedure.

CHAPTER III
COMPLIANCE AND EXECUTION OF PENALTIES
Art. 47 ° .- (PENITENTIARY REGIME). Penalties will be executed in the established manner
by this Code and the special law for the application of the penitentiary regime.
Art. 48 ° .- (PRISON PENALTY). The prison sentence will be served in a penitentiary
organized according to the principles of the progressive system, in which work
compulsory paid and educational assistance constitute means of rehabilitation
Social.
Art. 49 ° .- (TRANSFER TO CRIMINAL COLONY). If they had fulfilled more than half
of the sentence in a penitentiary and observed good conduct, the convicted may be
transferred to an industrial agricultural penal colony.
Art. 50 ° .- (PENALTY OF DEMONSTRATION). The sentence of imprisonment shall be served, in part, in
a special section of penitentiaries, also organized according to the system
progressive and, in part, in an agricultural-industrial penal colony, previous reports
relevant.
Art. 51 ° .- (CRIMINAL COLONIES). The open industrial agricultural penal colonies,
They may be organized independently or as dependencies of the penitentiaries,
outside the towns and on large lands that allow agricultural and
industrialists of the colonies.
Art. 52 ° .- (RETURN TO THE PENITENTIARY). In the event of misconduct, attempted escape
of the colonies, the judge may order the return of the sentenced to the penitentiary.
Art. 53 ° .- (SPECIAL ESTABLISHMENTS FOR WOMEN). The penalties of
deprivation of liberty imposed on women, will be carried out in special establishments or
well in other dependencies of the penitentiaries, but always separated from the men.
Art. 54 ° .- (OFFICE OR INSTRUCTION). The condemned who had no known trade,
they must learn one. Illiterates will receive fundamental education
correspondent.
Art. 55 ° .- (Repealed)
Art. 56 ° .- (WORK OF WOMEN, MINORS AND SICK). Women,
those under twenty-one years of age and the sick may only be assigned to jobs
within the establishment and according to its capacity.
Art. 57 ° .- (DEFERRED EXECUTION). When the custodial sentence falls on a
seriously ill person, or in a pregnant woman or with a child under six
months, the judge may defer its execution.

Page 11

Art. 58 ° .- (HOME DETENTION). When the penalty does not exceed six months,
Women of good records and women with good backgrounds may be detained in their own homes.
people over sixty years of age or valetudinarians.

CHAPTER IV
CONDITIONAL SUSPENSION OF PENALTY AND JUDICIAL FORGIVENESS
Art. 59 ° .- (CONDITIONAL SUSPENSION OF THE PENALTY). The judge, in a reasoned sentence and
prior the necessary reports, you may conditionally suspend compliance and
execution of the sentence, when the following requirements are met:
1. The imprisonment sentence imposed does not exceed three years;
2. The agent has not been the subject of a previous national or foreign conviction for a crime
malicious; Y,
3. The personality and motives of the agent, the nature and modality of the event and the
expressed desire to repair as much as possible the consequences of it, do not allow
infer that the convicted person will commit new crimes.
Art. 60 ° .- (GUILTY CRIMES). The conditional suspension of the sentence may be granted,
for a second time, in the case of culpable crimes that had a designated privative penalty
of freedom.
Art. 61 ° .- (TRIAL PERIOD). In the reasoned sentence, the judge will indicate the
rules of conduct that the beneficiary must comply with: not incur in another willful crime,
dedicate themselves to a trade or profession, reside or not in a specific place, abstain from
gambling and alcoholic beverages, within a term that the judge deems appropriate between
two and five years, from the date of the conviction.
The surveillance judge will periodically inform the judge of the accusation about the conduct
observed by the beneficiary during said period.
Art. 62 ° .- (REVOCATION). If during the trial period the beneficiary violates
without just cause the rules of conduct imposed, the suspension will be revoked and
will apply the sanction already established. If you commit another crime, you will be subject to compliance
of all penalties, as established in article 45 for the actual contest.
Art. 63 ° .- (EXTINCTION OF THE PENALTY). If the suspension had not been revoked during
the trial period, the penalty will be extinguished.
Art. 64 ° .- (JUDICIAL FORGIVENESS). The judge may grant, exceptionally, the pardon
judicial authority to the author of a first crime whose sanction is not greater than one year, when
special lightness of the fact and the determining reasons, there are many probabilities
that he will not commit a crime again.
Art. 65 ° .- (CIVIL LIABILITY). Conditional suspension of sentence and pardon
judicial, do not understand civil liability, which must always be satisfied.

Page 12

CHAPTER V
CONDITIONAL FREEDOM
Art. 66 ° .- (PAROLE). The judge of the case, by means of a reasoned sentence,
may grant conditional release, for a single time, to the sentenced to imprisonment
freedom greater than three years, after a report from the management of the establishment
prison and surveillance judge, in accordance with the following requirements:
1. Have completed the different stages of the progressive system or two-thirds
of the penalty imposed.
2. To have given evident proofs of good conduct, during the execution of the sentence.
3. Have satisfied the civil liability resulting from the crime.
4. If the examination of your personality and your social environment could reasonably
be induced to behave properly in freedom.
ARTICLE 67.- (CONDITIONS). The reasoned sentence that grants freedom,
must impose the following conditions on the convicted person:
1. Observe the rules of conduct indicated in article 61.
2. Submit to the surveillance of the authorities.
3. Provide a guarantee of good conduct.
4. Appear periodically before the surveillance judge.
Art. 68 ° .- (REVOCATION). Probation shall be revoked if the parolee commits
any fraudulent crime or does not meet the conditions established in the sentence, in force
until the expiration of the term of the sentence.
Art. 69 ° .- (EFFECTS). The effects are:
1. The revocation will oblige the released person to fulfill the rest of the sentence.
2. If the probation has not been revoked until the expiration of the term to which
referred to in the previous article, the penalty will be extinguished.

CHAPTER VI
COMMON PROVISIONS
Art. 70 ° .- ("NULLA POENA SINE JUDITIO"). No one will be sentenced to any sanction, without
have been heard and tried in accordance with the Code of Criminal Procedure.
No sanction may be executed except by virtue of a sentence issued by authority
competent judicial system and in compliance with a law, nor be executed in a different way than the
established therein.

Page 13

Art. 71 ° .- (CONFISCATION). The commission of a crime entails the loss of
instruments with which it was performed and the effects that come from it, the
which will be confiscated, unless they belonged to a non-responsible third party,
who will be able to recover them.
Confiscated instruments may be sold at public auction if they are lawful.
commerce, to cover civil liability in cases of insolvency; if they weren't, I know
they would destroy or render useless.
They may also eventually become the property of the State.
Art. 71 bis.- (CONFISCATION OF RESOURCES AND ASSETS). In cases of legitimation of
illicit earnings from the crimes indicated in article 185 bis,
will order the confiscation:
1. Of the resources and assets derived directly or indirectly from the legitimation of
illicit gains acquired from the date of the oldest of the acts that there is
justified his sentence; Y,
2. Of the resources and assets derived directly or indirectly from the crime, including
the income and other advantages that may have been obtained from them, and not belonging to the
convicted, unless their owner proves that they have acquired them by paying
effectively its fair price or change of benefits corresponding to its value; in the
In the case of free donations and transfers, the donee or beneficiary must
prove their participation in good faith and ignorance of the illicit origin of the goods,
resources or rights.
When the resources derived directly or indirectly from the crime are merged with a
property acquired legitimately, the confiscation of that property will only be ordered up to the value
estimated by the judge or court, of the resources that have joined him.
The confiscation will be ordered with the intervention of a notary of public faith, who
will proceed to the inventory of the goods with all the necessary details to be able to
identify and locate them
When confiscated property cannot be presented, confiscation may be ordered
of its value.
Any act carried out for consideration or free of charge directly or by person will be null.
filed or by any indirect means, whose purpose is to hide assets from the
confiscation measures that could be the object.
The confiscated resources and assets will become the property of the State and will continue
encumbered by the real rights legally constituted on them for the benefit of
third parties, up to the value of such rights. Its administration and fate will be determined
by regulation.
Art. 72 ° .- (VIGILANCE JUDGE). For the due compliance and execution of the
sanctions, there will be a surveillance judge in each judicial district who will be in charge of:

Page 14

1. Request to the judge of the case, previous the reports of the case, the review of the sanctions
that are unequivocally contrary to the purposes of amendment and rehabilitation
of the damned.
2. Inform about the substitution, extension or release of sanctions.
3. Report on everything related to the conditional suspension of the sentence, the freedom
conditional and judicial pardon.
4. Also, regarding rehabilitation and other cases provided for by this Code.
5. Mandatory visit to all penal and reform establishments in your district,
to verify their status and operation and obtain the necessary reports
of the governors or directors of prisons and authorities
judicial.
Art. 73 ° .- (COMPUTATION OF PREVENTIVE DETENTION). The time of detention
preventive will be considered as a completed part of the custodial sentence, at the rate of a
day of detention for a day of imprisonment, confinement or work provision.
If the penalty is a fine, at the rate of one day of detention for three days - fine.
The computation of the deprivation of liberty will be practiced taking into account even the
detention suffered by the convicted person from the day of his arrest, still at the police headquarters.
Art. 74 ° .- (CASE OF MENTAL ALIENATION). In case the convicted person is
attacked of mental derangement after the sentence has been pronounced, the
execution of the custodial sentence and the insurance measure of
internment in a nursing home.
If he regains his health, he will serve his sentence again in the respective establishment,
the time spent in the health home should be discounted, such as
part of the sentence served, unless there has been fraud on the part of the convicted person to
determine or prolong the measure, in which case the judge will order that it not be computed,
totally or partially, said time.
Art. 75 ° .- (DISTRIBUTION OF THE WORK PRODUCT). The product of the work of
the condemned will be applied to the following destinations:
1. To repair and compensate the damages and losses caused by the crime, forty per
hundred.
2. Create a reserve fund that will be delivered to the convicted person upon his departure, or to his
heirs if he dies before, thirty percent.
3. Take care of your family, if it needs help, thirty percent.
If the civil liability has been satisfied, or if the family is not in need,
the reserve fund will be increased.

Page 15

Art. 76 ° .- (PEASANT OFFENDER). In all cases in which the convicted person is
a peasant, the sanction imposed will preferably be served in a penal colony
agricultural.
Art. 77 ° .- (COMPUTATION OF PENALTIES DEPRIVING FREEDOM). The term of the
The sentence will begin to run from the moment of entry into the establishment that
is concerned.
The day will be counted as twenty-four hours; the month and the year, according to the calendar.
Art. 78 ° .- (SOCIAL ASSISTANCE). The State, by means of a special law, will organize a
Specialized Social Assistance Service in order to assist the victim, the
sanctioned, the released and their families.
TITLE IV
SECURITY MEASURES
SINGLE CHAPTER
Art. 79 ° .- (SECURITY MEASURES). They are security measures:
1. Internment, which may be in asylums or health homes, in a
adequate educational establishment, in a work or reform house, or in a
agricultural colony.
2. The suspension or prohibition of exercising a certain industry, trade, traffic,
profession, position, employment, trade or authority.
3. Surveillance by authority
4. The surety of good conduct.
Art. 80 ° .- (INTERNATION). When the accused is declared unimpeachable and
acquitted for this cause in accordance with article 17, the judge may order, after an opinion
of experts, their admission to the corresponding establishment, if due to their
In the state, there is a danger that he will harm himself or others.
If there is no adequate facility, the unimputable person will be admitted to the
that more approximately can fulfill this end or it will be left in the power of his family, if
In the judgment of the judge, it will offer a sufficient guarantee for the same purpose.
This confinement will last for the entire time required for safety, education, or healing.
Every two years, the judge will rule ex officio on the maintenance, modification or
cessation of the measure, without prejudice to being able to do so at any time, requiring
previously, in any case, the pertinent reports and the opinion of experts.
Art. 81 ° .- (INTERMISSION OF SEMI-ATTRIBUTABLE). The semi-attributable to
referred to in article 18, may be subjected to special treatment if required by your
status or transfer to a suitable facility will be arranged.

Page 16

This hospitalization may not exceed the term of the sentence imposed, except in the case in which
for security reasons it is necessary to extend it.
The length of stay will be counted as part of the penalty imposed.
The judge may also order the transfer of the boarding school to an establishment
penitentiary, if it considers it unnecessary to continue the hospitalization prior to the reports of the
director of the establishment and the opinion of the experts.
Art. 82 ° .- (INTERMISSION FOR REINCIDENTS). To repeat offenders, after
Once the penalties that correspond to them have been completed, they will be placed in the house of
work or reform, or in an agricultural penal colony, or any of the measures
provided for by Article 79, in accordance with Article 43, for the time deemed
necessary for their social rehabilitation with periodic ex officio review every two years.
ART. 83 ° .- (Repealed)
Art. 84 ° .- (SURVEILLANCE BY THE AUTHORITY). The surveillance may last from one month to two
years and will have the effect of subjecting the convicted person to special surveillance, in charge of the
competent authority, in accordance with the indications of the surveillance judge, who may
to arrange for social assistance to be provided to the former, if required.
Once the term has elapsed and the reasons that determined the application of this
measure, subject to the case reports, may be converted into one or more others.
Art. 85 ° .- (CAUTION OF GOOD CONDUCT). The surety of good conduct, which
will last from six months to three years, imposes on the convicted person the obligation to provide
that you will observe good behavior.
The bond will be determined by the judge, taking into account the financial situation of the person who owes
give it and the circumstances of the fact and, if it is real, it will never be less than
five hundred bolivian pesos. If it is personal, the guarantor must meet the conditions set
by the Civil Code.
If during the established period, the guarantor observes good conduct, the amount of the
The deposit will be returned to the depositor or the bond will be canceled. Otherwise, the
The judge may substitute the bond with another or other security measures that are deemed
necessary.
Art. 86 ° .- (EXECUTION OF SECURITY MEASURES). In cases where
jointly apply a penalty and a security measure, this will be executed after
of the fulfillment of that one.
TITLE V
CIVIL LIABILITY AND REPAIR BOX
CHAPTER I
CIVIL LIABILITY

Page 17

Art. 87 ° .- (CIVIL LIABILITY). Every person criminally liable is
also civilly and is obliged to repair material and moral damages
caused by the crime.
ARTICLE 88 ° .- (PREFERENCE). The civil responsibility will be preferred to the payment of the
fine and any other obligation that the person responsible may have contracted after
committed the crime.
Art. 89 ° .- (EXEMPTION OF LIABILITY). They are only exempt from the
civil liability those who are protected by a justified cause, except
the cause of the state of need.
In cases where the cause is not determined, they will be liable for the
civil the persons in whose favor the evil has been guarded, in proportion to the benefit
obtained by each of them, and subsidiarily, the State.
Art. 90 ° .- (LEGAL MORTGAGE, KIDNAPPING AND RETENTION). From the moment of
commission of a crime, the real estate of those responsible will be considered
mortgaged especially for civil liability.
It may also be ordered by the judge, the seizure of movable property, and the retention
in your case.
Art. 91 ° .- (EXTENSION). Civil liability includes:
1. The restitution of the offended property, which will be delivered even for a
third holder.
2. Reparation of the damage caused.
3. Compensation for all damage caused to the victim, his family or a third party,
setting the amount prudently by the judge, in the absence of full evidence. In all
compensation will always include the expenses incurred by the victim, for their
healing, restoration and reeducation.
Art. 92 ° .- (JOINT COMMUNITY AND TRANSMISSIBILITY OF OBLIGATIONS). The
Civil liability will be shared by all those responsible for the crime.
This obligation for the heirs of the person in charge and the right to demand it is transmitted
to the heirs of the victim.
Art. 93 ° .- (PARTICIPATION OF THE PRODUCT OF THE CRIME). The one who for profit
participates in the proceeds of a crime, will be obliged to redress, up to the amount in
that has benefited.
If the person in charge or the participants have acted as agents of someone or as
representatives or members of a collective person and the proceeds or profit of the crime
benefit the principal or represented, they will be equally obliged to compensate in
the same proportion as above.
CHAPTER II

Page 18

REPAIR BOX
Art. 94.- (REPAIR BOX). The State will create and regulate the
operation of a Repair Fund to meet the payment of liability
civil in the following cases:
1. To the victims of the crime, in the event of the insolvency or incapacity of the convicted person.
2. To victims of judicial error.
3. To the victims, if the cause of the state of necessity is not determined.
In addition to the resources indicated by law and those indicated in this Code, the fund of the
Cash will be increased with:
a) The vacant inheritances of those responsible for the crime.
b) The values ​and property confiscated as the object of the crime, which were not claimed
within six months of the sentence being pronounced.
c) Donations made in favor of the Fund.
Art. 95 ° .- (INDEMNIFICATION TO THE INNOCENTS). Any person who after having
been subjected to a criminal trial is declared innocent, you will have the right to
compensation for all damages suffered as a result of said
judgment.
The compensation will be made by the accuser or complainant, or the judge if fraudulently or for
ignorance or negligence would have contributed to the injustice of the judgment.
If the trial has been followed ex officio or by prosecution or by intervention of
any other public official, the compensation will be made by the judge, prosecutor and
officials who have caused or caused or cooperated in the fraudulent trial or
guiltily.

TITLE VI
REHABILITATION
SINGLE CHAPTER
Art. 96 ° .- (REQUIREMENTS). The person sentenced to disqualification may ask the judge of the case,
two years after all sanctions have been served, his rehabilitation to regain his
use and enjoyment of the rights and capacities of which was private, prior compliance with the
following
requirements:
1. To have given effective evidence of good conduct, which show their
social rehabilitation.
2. Have satisfied the civil liability.

Page 19

If the convicted person is included in the provisions of articles 43 and 82,
it will double the term indicated in the first paragraph.
Art. 97 ° .- (EFFECTS). Rehabilitation produces the following effects:
1. Cancellation of all criminal records.
2. The disappearance of all incapacity, prohibition or restriction for criminal reasons.
Art. 98 ° .- (REVOCATION). If the rehabilitated has committed another crime, the rehabilitation
will be revoked. The registration of criminal records will recover in this case all its
vigor.
Art. 99 ° .- (REHABILITATION OF THE INNOCENT AND OF THE CONDEMNED BY ERROR
JUDICIAL). The convicted by judicial error and the innocent, will deserve a special sentence
full rehabilitation. This sentence will be given the greatest publicity.
TITLE VII
EXTINCTION OF CRIMINAL ACTION AND PENALTY
SINGLE CHAPTER
ARTICLE 100.- (TERMINATION OF CRIMINAL ACTION). The power to exercise
action, it is extinguished:
1. Due to the death of the author.
2. For amnesty.
3. By prescription.
4. Due to the resignation or withdrawal of the offended person in the crimes of private action.
Art. 101 ° .- (PRESCRIPTION OF THE ACTION). The power to exercise the action,
prescribes:
a) In eight years, for crimes that have a designated custodial sentence
six or more than six years.
b) In five years, for those who have designated custodial sentences of less than
six and older than two years.
c) In three years, for other crimes.
In crimes punishable by indeterminate penalties, the judge will always take into account
the maximum of the indicated penalty.
Art. 102 ° .- (BEGINNING OF THE TERM OF THE PRESCRIPTION). The prescription
will start running from midnight on the day the crime was committed, provided that
the corresponding instruction has not been initiated. In case it had already been given

Page 20

commencement, the term of the prescription of the action will be computed from the last
performance.
Crimes committed against the economy of the State and its institutions in general, as well as
such as penalties and the power to exercise criminal or any other action to recover
The resources of the State and its Institutions are essential, the Ministry being able to
Public and State agencies, prosecute and execute said crimes committed against
the state patrimony, at any time.
Art. 103 ° .- (EFFECTS OF THE RESIGNATION OF THE OFFENDED). In case of being several
offended, the resignation or withdrawal of one of them will have no effect with respect to the
the rest.
The resignation or withdrawal in favor of one of the participants in the crime, benefits the
others.
Art. 104 ° .- (EXTINCTION OF THE PENALTY). The power to execute the penalty imposed by
sentence executed, it is extinguished:
1) Due to the death of the author.
2) For the amnesty.
3) By prescription.
4) For judicial forgiveness and that of the offended party, in the cases provided for in this Code.
Art. 105 ° .- (TERMS OF THE PRESCRIPTION OF THE PENALTY). The power to execute
the penalty, prescribes:
1) In ten years, if it is a custodial sentence greater than six years.
2) In seven years, in the case of custodial sentences of less than six years and
older than two.
3) In five years, if it is about the other penalties.
These terms will begin to run from the day of notification with the sentence
conviction or from the breach of the sentence, if it has begun to
be fulfilled.
Art. 106 ° .- (INTERRUPTION OF THE TERM OF THE PRESCRIPTION). Both the term
of the prescription of the action and that of the penalty, are interrupted by the commission of another
crime, with the exception of politicians.
Art. 107 ° .- (VALIDITY OF CIVIL LIABILITY). Amnesty and prescription
of the penalty do not invalidate civil liability, the same that may prescribe
according to the rules of the Civil Code.
Art. 108 ° .- (ACCESSORY SANCTIONS AND SECURITY MEASURES). The sanctions
accessories will prescribe in three years, counted from the day they should start

Page 21

be fulfilled, and the security measures, when their application, at the discretion of the judge and prior
the pertinent reports is unnecessary, because the social readjustment has been verified
of the condemned.
BOOK TWO
SPECIAL PART
TITLE I
CRIMES AGAINST THE SECURITY OF THE STATE
CHAPTER I
CRIMES AGAINST THE FOREIGN SECURITY OF THE STATE
Art. 109 ° .- (TREASON). The Bolivian who takes up arms against the country, joins his
enemies, assist them, or be in complicity with the enemy during the
state of foreign war, will be punished with thirty years of imprisonment without the right to
pardon.
Art. 110 ° .- (TOTAL OR PARTIAL SUBMISSION OF THE NATION TO THE DOMAIN
FOREIGN). The one who will perform the acts provided for in the previous article, tending to
subject the Nation totally or partially to foreign domination or to undermine its
independence or integrity, will be sanctioned with thirty years of imprisonment.
Art. 111 ° .- (ESPIONAGE). Whoever procures documents, objects or information
political or military secrets relating to security, the means of defense or
foreign relations for the purpose of espionage in favor of other countries in time of
peace, which endanger the security of the State, shall incur the penalty of thirty years
imprisonment without the right to pardon.
Art. 112 ° .- (CLANDESTINE INTRODUCTION AND POSSESSION OF MEANS OF
ESPIONAGE). Whoever in time of war enters clandestinely, with deception or
violence, in a military place or zone or was surprised in such places or in their
vicinity in unjustified possession of means of espionage, will incur in deprivation of
freedom from five to ten years.
Art. 113 ° .- (CRIMES COMMITTED BY FOREIGNERS). Foreigners residing in
Bolivian territory are included in the previous articles and the
sanctions indicated in them, except as established by treaties or by the right to
people about diplomatic officials.
Art. 114 ° .- (HOSTILE ACTS). Whoever, without the knowledge or influence of the Government, commits
hostilities against any foreign power and expose the State for this cause to
serious danger of a declaration of war or of harassment or retaliation
against their nationals abroad or the breakdown of diplomatic relations, it will be
punished with deprivation of liberty for two to four years.
If war results from said hostilities, the penalty shall be ten years'
presidio.

Page 22

Art. 115 ° .- (DISCLOSURE OF SECRETS). The one who reveals secrets of a political nature
or military matters concerning the security of the State, the means of defense or the
foreign relations, will incur in deprivation of liberty from one to six years.
The penalty will be increased by one third, if the agent perpetrates this crime by abusing the
function, employment or commission conferred by the public authority.
Art. 116 ° .- (CRIME OF GUILT). If the revelation of the secrets mentioned in the
previous article was committed by the fault of the person in possession, by virtue of his
employment or trade, the sanction will be imprisonment from six months to two years.
Art. 117 ° .- (INFIDELITY IN STATE BUSINESSES). The representative or
commissioned by the Government of Bolivia to negotiate a treaty, agreement or agreement with
another State, which deviates from its instructions in such a way that it may cause damages
In the national interest, he will incur a prison term of two to six years.
The penalty will be increased by one half, if the crime is perpetrated for profit or in
Wartime.
Art. 118 ° .- (SABOTAGE). He who in time of war will destroy or render useless
facilities, roads, works or other means of defense, communication, transportation,
provisioning, etc., for the purpose of impairing the capacity or war effort of
the Nation, will be punished with thirty years of imprisonment.
Art. 119 ° .- (BREACH OF CONTRACTS OF MILITARY INTEREST). The one in
wartime failure to properly fulfill contractual obligations relating to
needs of the armed forces or national defense, will incur in prison of two
to six years

Art. 120 ° .- (CRIMES AGAINST AN ALLIED STATE). The established provisions
in the previous articles will also apply when the events provided for in them
were committed against an allied power of Bolivia, at war against an enemy
common.

CHAPTER II
CRIMES AGAINST THE INTERNAL SECURITY OF THE STATE
Art. 121 ° .- (ARMED RAISES AGAINST THE SECURITY AND SOVEREIGNTY OF THE
CONDITION). Those who take up arms in order to change the Political Constitution or the
form of government established in it, depose some of the public powers of the
national government or prevent, even temporarily, the free exercise of its
constitutional powers or their renewal in their legal terms, will be sanctioned
with deprivation of liberty from five to fifteen years.
Those who organize or integrate irregular, urban or rural armed groups, under
internal or external influence, to promote armed confrontations with forces
regular or public security, or to commit attacks against the life and safety of
the people, the territorial integrity or the sovereignty of the State, will be sanctioned with the
sentence of fifteen to thirty years in prison.

Page 23

Art. 122 ° .- (GRANT OF EXTRAORDINARY POWERS). Will incur
deprivation of liberty from two to six years the members of Congress or those who in meeting
popular grant to the Executive Power extraordinary powers, the sum of the Power
Public or supremacy by which the life, property and honor of Bolivians remain
at the mercy of the government or someone else.
Art. 123 ° .- (SEDITION). Those who without
disregard the authority of the legally constituted Government, publicly rise up and
in open hostility, to depose a public official or employee, prevent his
possession or oppose compliance with laws, decrees or judicial decisions or
administrative, exercise any act of hatred or revenge on the person or property of
any authority or individuals or disrupt or disturb in any other way the
public order.
Public officials who have not resisted a rebellion or sedition by all the
The means at their disposal will incur imprisonment for one to two years.
Art. 124 ° .- (ATTRIBUTING THE RIGHTS OF THE PEOPLE). With the same pain they will be
sanctioned those who are part of an armed force or a gathering of people
that they attribute the rights of the people and intend to exercise such rights to their
Name.
Art. 125 ° .- (PROVISIONS COMMON TO THE CRIMES OF REBELLION AND SEDITION).
In the event that the rebels or seditious submit to the first requirement of the
public authority, without having caused any damage other than the momentary disturbance of the
order, only the promoters or directors will be sanctioned, to whom the
the penalty indicated for the crime.
Art. 126 ° .- (CONSPIRACY). Whoever takes part in a conspiracy of three or more
persons to commit the crimes of rebellion or sedition, will be punished with the penalty of
crime to be perpetrated, decreased by one half.
Participants who voluntarily withdraw before the
execution of the proposed act and those that spontaneously prevent the execution of the
crime.
Art. 127 ° .- (SEDUCTION OF TROOPS). Whoever seduces troops or usurps the command of
them or illegally retains a political or military command, to commit a rebellion or a
sedition, will be punished with half of the penalty corresponding to the crime that
perpetrate.
Art. 128.- (ATTACKS AGAINST THE PRESIDENT AND OTHER OFFICIALS OF
CONDITION). Anyone who attempts against the life or safety of the President of the Republic,
Vice President, Ministers of State and President of the National Congress, will be sanctioned
with the penalty of five to ten years of deprivation of liberty.
If death occurs as a result of the attack committed, the penalty will be applied
maximum that corresponds to it; if serious injuries result in the victim, the sanction
applicable to the event will be increased by one third.

Page 24

Art. 129 ° .- (ULTRATION TO NATIONAL SYMBOLS). The one who will publicly outrage
the flag, the shield or the anthem of the Nation, will be sanctioned with a resolution of six
months to two years.
CHAPTER III
CRIMES AGAINST PUBLIC TRANQUILITY
Art. 130 ° .- (PUBLIC INSTIGATION TO DELINQUER). Whoever publicly instigates the
commission of a specific crime will be punished with imprisonment from one month to one year.
If the instigation refers to a crime, against the security of the State, the public function or
the national economy, the applicable penalty will be imprisonment from three months to two years.
Art. 131 ° .- (PUBLIC APOLOGY OF A CRIME). He will be held in confinement from one month to a
year, the one who publicly apologizes for a crime or a convicted person.
Art. 132 ° .- (DELICTUOUS ASSOCIATION). Whoever will be part of an association of
four or more people, destined to commit crimes, will be punished with imprisonment of
six months to two years or work benefit from one month to one year.
The same penalty will be applied to those who are part of youth gangs in order to
provoke disorders, outrages, insults or any other crime.
Art. 132 bis.- (CRIMINAL ORGANIZATION). Whoever will be part of an association of
three or more people organized permanently, under rules of discipline or
control, destined to commit the following crimes: genocide, destruction or deterioration of
State property and national wealth, abduction of a minor or incapacitated person, deprivation of
freedom, harassment and torture, kidnapping, legitimation of illicit profits, manufacture or
illicit trafficking of controlled substances, environmental crimes provided for in special laws,
crimes against intellectual property, or take advantage of structures, commercial or
businesses, to commit such crimes, will be punished with imprisonment from one to three years.
Those who run the organization will be punished with imprisonment for two to six years.
The penalty will be increased by one third when the organization uses minors or
incapable of committing the crimes referred to in this article, and when the member of the
the organization is a public official in charge of preventing, investigating or prosecuting
commission of crimes.
Art. 133 ° .- (TERRORISM). The one who will be part of, act at the service or collaborate with
an armed organization destined to commit crimes against the common security, life,
bodily integrity, freedom of movement or property, for the purpose of
subvert the constitutional order or keep in a state of anxiety, alarm or panic
collective to the population or a sector of it, will be sanctioned with imprisonment of fifteen to
twenty years, without prejudice to the penalty that corresponds to him if such crimes are committed.
Art. 134 ° .- (DISORDERS OR PUBLIC DISTURBANCE). Those who in order
prevent or disturb a lawful meeting, cause riots, disturbances or other disorders,
they will be sanctioned with the provision of work from one month to one year.
CHAPTER IV

Page 25

CRIMES AGAINST INTERNATIONAL LAW
Art. 135 ° .- (CRIMES AGAINST FOREIGN HEADS OF STATE). The one who will attempt
directly and in fact against the life, security, liberty or honor of the Head of a
Foreign state that is in Bolivian territory, will incur the penalty applicable to the
fact, with the increase of a quarter.
Art. 136 ° .- (VIOLATION OF IMMUNITIES). Whoever violates the immunities of the Head of
a State or the representative of a foreign power, or whoever is protected
Due to diplomatic immunities, he will incur in deprivation of liberty from six months to two years.
The same penalty shall be incurred by the one who offends their dignity or decorum, while
I will find in Bolivian territory.
Art. 137 ° .- (VIOLATION OF TREATIES, TRIPS, ARMISTICIES OR
SAFEGUARDS). Whoever violates treaties, truce or armistice celebrated between the
Nation and the enemy or between its belligerent forces, or the safe conducts duly
issued, will be punished with deprivation of liberty from six months to two years.
Art. 138 ° .- (GENOCIDE). Whoever with the purpose of totally or partially destroying a
national, ethnic or religious group, kills or injures members of the
group, or subject them to conditions of inhumane subsistence, or impose measures
intended to prevent their reproduction, or carry out with violence the displacement of
children or adults to other groups, will be punished with imprisonment from ten to twenty years.
The author or authors, or other direct or indirect culprits of
bloody massacres in the country.
If the guilty or guilty are authorities or public officials, the penalty will be aggravated
with a fine of one hundred to five hundred days.
Art. 139 ° .- (PIRACY). The one that seizes, will deviate from his established route, or
destroy ships or aircraft, capture, kill, injure their crew or passengers,
or commits an act of predation, will be punished with deprivation of liberty of two
to eight years.
With the same penalty will be sanctioned that from the territory of the Republic, to
knowingly, smuggle pirates or provide aid to them.
Art. 140 ° .- (UNDUE DELIVERY OF PERSON). The public official or authority that
deliver or cause to deliver to another Government a national or a foreigner residing in
Bolivia, without being strictly subject to international treaties, conventions or customs or without
comply with the formalities established by them, will incur in deprivation of liberty from one to
two years.
Art. 141 ° .- (ULTRATION TO THE FLAG, THE SHIELD OR THE HYMN OF A STATE
FOREIGN). Whoever publicly insults the flag, the shield or the anthem of a
foreign nation, will be punished with imprisonment from three months to one year.
TITLE II
CRIMES AGAINST PUBLIC SERVICE

Page 26

CHAPTER I
CRIMES COMMITTED BY PUBLIC OFFICIALS
Art. 142 ° .- (PECULATED). The public official who, taking advantage of the position that
performs it appropriates money, securities or goods whose administration, collection or
custody is in charge, will be punished with deprivation of liberty from three to eight
years and a fine of sixty to two hundred days.
Art. 143 ° .- (GUILTY SIN). The public official who culpably gives rise
to the commission of said crime, will be sanctioned with presentation of work of one month to
one year and a fine of twenty to fifty days.
Art. 144 ° .- (EVIL). The public official who gives the flows that
administers, receives or custody, an application other than the one to which they were
destined, will incur imprisonment from one month to one year or a fine of twenty to two hundred
Fourty days.
If the fact results in damage or hindrance to the public service, the sanction will be
aggravated by one third.
Art. 145 ° .- (OWN LIABILITY BRIBERY). The public official or authority that stops
do or fail to do an act related to their duties or contrary to the duties of their
charge, receives directly or through an intermediary person, for himself or a third party, gifts or
any other advantage or accept offers or promises, will be punished with imprisonment
from two to six years and a fine of thirty to one hundred days.
Art. 146 ° .- (MISUSE OF INFLUENCES). The public official or authority who,
directly or through an intermediary person and taking advantage of the functions exercised or
improperly using the influences derived from them, obtain advantages or
benefits, for himself or for a third party, will be punished with imprisonment from two to eight years and
fine of one hundred to five hundred days.
Art. 147 ° .- (BENEFITS BY REASON OF THE POSITION). The public official or authority
that in consideration of his position admits gifts or other benefits, will be sanctioned
with imprisonment of one to three years and a fine of sixty to two hundred days.
Art. 148 ° .- (COMMON PROVISION). The above provisions shall apply, in the
respective cases, to the representatives, officials and employees of the entities
autonomous, autarkic, mixed and decentralized, as well as the representatives of
charities, public instruction, sports and others that
administer or guard the assets that are in their charge.
Art. 149 ° .- (OMISSION OF DECLARATION OF ASSETS AND INCOME). The official
public that according to the law is obliged to declare their assets and income on time
If he takes office and does not do so, he will be punished with a thirty-day fine.
Art. 150 ° .- (NEGOTIATIONS INCOMPATIBLE WITH THE EXERCISE OF FUNCTIONS
PUBLIC). The public official who by himself or by an interposed person or by act
simulated will be interested in and obtain for himself or for a third party an illicit benefit in any

Page 27

contract, supply, auction or operation in which he intervenes by reason of his position,
He will incur in deprivation of liberty for one to three years and a fine of thirty to five hundred days.
This provision is applicable to arbitrators, experts, auditors, accountants, auctioneers or
auctioneers and other professionals regarding the acts in which, by reason of their
office, the tutors, curators, executors and trustees already intervene, with respect to the assets
belonging to his wards, curators, testamentary, contests, liquidations and acts
analogs.
Art. 151 ° .- (CONCUSSION). The public official or authority who with abuse of his
condition or functions, directly or indirectly, requires or obtains money or other advantage
illegitimate or in a proportion greater than that established by law, for their own benefit or that of a
third, he will be punished with imprisonment for two to five years.
Art. 152 ° .- (EXACTIONS). The public official who demands or obtains the levies
expressed in the previous article to convert them to the benefit of the administration
public, will be sanctioned with imprisonment from one month to two years.
If any violence is used in the cases of the two previous articles, the sanction
it will be aggravated by one third.

AUTHORITY ABUSE
Art. 153 ° .- (RESOLUTIONS CONTRARY TO THE CONSTITUTION AND THE LAWS). The
public official or authority issuing resolutions or orders contrary to the
Constitution and laws or execute or cause to execute said resolutions or orders,
he will incur in confinement from one month to two years.
Art. 154 ° .- (BREACH OF DUTIES). The public official who illegally
omit, refuse to do or delay any act proper to his function, he will incur seclusion
from one month to two years.
Art. 155 ° .- (REFUSAL OF AID). The officer in charge of the public force
that refuses, omits or delays, without just cause, the provision of assistance
legally required by the competent authority, will be punished with imprisonment of six
months to two years.
Art. 156 ° .- (ABANDONMENT OF POSITION). The public official or employee who, with damage
of the public service, will leave his position without having legally ceased in the performance
of this, it will be sanctioned with a fine of thirty days.
Anyone who incites the collective abandonment of work to civil servants or public employees,
He will incur in confinement from one month to one year and a fine of thirty to sixty days.
Art. 157 ° .- (ILLEGAL APPOINTMENTS). It will be sanctioned with a fine of thirty to one hundred
days, the public official who proposed in shortlist or appointed for a public position a
person who does not meet the legal conditions for their performance.

CHAPTER II

Page 28

OFFENSES COMMITTED BY INDIVIDUALS
Art. 158 ° .- (ACTIVE BRIBERY). The one who directly or through an intermediary person, gives or
Promises a public official or authority, gifts or any other advantage, for
doing or not doing something related to their functions will be sanctioned with the penalty of Art.
145, decreased by a third.
The individual who has agreed will be exempt from penalty for this crime.
occasionally at the request for a gift or advantage required by an authority or official
public and report the fact to the competent authority before the opening of the
corresponding criminal procedure.
Art. 159 ° .- (RESISTANCE TO AUTHORITY). He who resists or opposes, using
of violence or intimidation, to the execution of an act carried out by a public official
or authority in the legitimate exercise of their functions or to the person who will provide
assistance at the request of those or by virtue of a legal obligation, will be
sanctioned with imprisonment from one month to one year.
Art. 160 ° .- (DISOBEDIENCE TO THE AUTHORITY). Whoever disobeys an order
emanated from a public official or authority, given in the legitimate exercise of their
functions, will incur a fine of thirty to one hundred days.
Art. 161 ° .- (PREVENTING OR HINDERING THE EXERCISE OF ITS FUNCTIONS). The fact that
prevents or hinders a public official from the exercise of his functions, will incur
imprisonment from one month to one year.
Art. 162 ° .- (DESACATO). Anyone who by any means slanders, insults or defames
a public official in the exercise of his functions or because of them, will be sanctioned
with deprivation of liberty from one month to two years.
If the previous acts were directed against the President or Vice President of the
Republic, Ministers of State or the Supreme Court or a member of Congress, the
penalty will be aggravated in half.
Art. 163 ° .- (ANTICIPATION OR EXTENSION OF FUNCTIONS). The one who exercises
public functions without title or appointment issued by competent authority and without
having fulfilled other requirements demanded by law, will be sanctioned with the provision of work
two to six months.
The same penalty shall be incurred by the person who, after having been officially informed that he has
ceased in the performance of a public office, I will continue to exercise it in whole or in part.
Art. 164 ° .- (UNDUE EXERCISE OF PROFESSION). The one who improperly exercises
a profession for which a special title, license, authorization or registration is required, will be
sanctioned with deprivation of liberty for one to two years.
Art. 165 ° .- (MEANING OF TERMS USED). For the purposes of
application of this Code, will be designated with the terms "public officials" and
"public employee" who participates, permanently or temporarily, in the exercise of
public functions, either by popular election or by appointment.

Page 29

An "authority" is considered to be someone who by himself or as belonging to an institution or
court, has a mandate or exercises its own jurisdiction.
If the crime has been committed during the exercise of public function, the
the provisions of this Code even when the author has ceased to be an official.

TITLE III
CRIMES AGAINST THE JUDICIAL FUNCTION
CHAPTER I
CRIMES AGAINST JUDICIAL ACTIVITY
Art. 166 ° .- (ACCUSATION AND FALSE COMPLAINT). He who knowingly accuses or
I will denounce as the author or participant of a crime of public action a person who does not
committed, leading to the initiation of the corresponding criminal process, will be sanctioned
with deprivation of liberty from one to three years.
If as a consequence the conviction of the person denounced or accused occurs, the
The penalty will be deprivation of liberty for two to six years.
Art. 167 ° .- (SIMULATION OF CRIME). Whoever knowingly denounces or makes believe
an authority having committed a crime of non-existent public action, which will give rise to
the instruction of a process to verify it, will be sanctioned with the provision of work of
three months to a year.
Art. 168 ° .- (AUTOCALUMNIA). Whoever, through a declaration or confession made before the
competent authority to lift the first judicial police proceedings or to
instruct the process, falsely accuse himself of having committed a crime of public action
or of a crime of the same nature perpetrated by another, will be sanctioned with provision
working from a month to a year.
If the act is carried out in the interest of a close relative or a person of intimate
friendship, the author may be exempted from penalty.
Art. 169 ° .- (FALSE TESTIMONY). The witness, expert, interpreter, translator or any other
who is questioned in a judicial or administrative process, who affirms a falsehood or
I will deny or silence the truth, in all or part of those who know about the fact or it
concerned, will incur in seclusion from one to fifteen months.
If the false testimony is committed in a criminal trial, to the detriment of the accused, the penalty
It will be deprivation of liberty for one to three years.
When the false testimony is perpetrated by bribery, the preceding penalty shall be
will increase by a third.
Art. 170 ° .- (BRIBERY). Whoever offers or promises money or any other advantage
appreciable to the people referred to in the previous article, in order to achieve the false
testimony, even if the offer or promise has not been accepted or being, the falsehood, not
was committed, he will incur in confinement of one to two years and a fine of thirty to one hundred days.

Page 30

Art. 171 ° .- (COVERAGE). The one who after having committed a crime, without
previous promise, I will help someone to evade the action of justice or fail to report the
If he is obliged to do so, he will incur imprisonment from six months to two years.
Art. 172 ° .- (RECEPTION). Whoever after a crime has been committed will help
someone to ensure the benefit or result thereof or receive, hide, sell or
I will knowingly buy the instruments that were used to commit the crime or the things
obtained by criminal means, will be punished with imprisonment from six months to two
years.
Whoever conceals their ascendants, descendants or
consort.
Art. 173 ° .- (PREVARICATE). The judge who in the exercise of his functions will dictate
resolutions manifestly contrary to the law will be sanctioned with imprisonment of two to
four years.
If as a result of prevarication in criminal proceedings, a person is sentenced
innocent, a heavier sentence than justifiable or illegitimately applied
preventive detention, the penalty will be imprisonment from three to eight years.
The provisions of the first paragraph of this article are applicable to arbitrators or friendly
composers or whoever performs analogous decision or resolution functions.
Art. 173 ° bis.- (PASSIVE BRIBERY OF THE JUDGE). The judge who will accept a promise or gift
to dictate, delay or omit to issue a resolution or ruling, in a matter submitted to its
competition, will be punished with imprisonment from three to eight years and a fine of
two hundred to five hundred days.
Art. 174 ° .- (CONSORTIUM OF JUDGES AND LAWYERS). The judge who will arrange the
formation of consortia with one or more lawyers, or I will be part of them, with the
object of procuring illicit economic advantages, to the detriment of sound administration
of justice, will be punished with imprisonment of two to four years.
The same sanction will be imposed on the lawyer (s) who, with the same purpose and effect,
agree to such consortia with one or more judges, or also form part of them.
Art. 175 ° .- (IMPROPER ADVOCACY AND MANDATE). The one that without being professionally
authorized to practice as a lawyer or agent, directly or indirectly
as such, it will incur in the provision of work from one month to one year and a fine of thirty to one hundred
days.
Art. 176 ° .- (UNFAITHFUL SPONSORSHIP). The lawyer or representative who defends or
I will represent opposing parties in the same trial or that in any way will harm
deliberately the interests entrusted to him, he will be sanctioned with the provision of
I work from a month to a year and a fine of one hundred to three hundred days.
Art. 177 ° .- (NEGATIVE OR DELAY OF JUSTICE). The judge who will deny, or refuse or
knowingly delay the administration of justice, protection or redress, or any
another remedy that is legally requested or that the public cause requires, will be sanctioned with
deprivation of liberty for one to three years and a fine of thirty to one hundred days.

Page 31

If he does not do it knowingly, but due to negligence, carelessness or other analogous cause, the penalty
it will be lowered by one half.
Art. 178 ° .- (OMISSION OF COMPLAINT). The judge or public official who being by
reason for his position, obliged to promote the reporting or prosecution of crimes and
delinquents, I will stop doing it, will be sanctioned with imprisonment from three months to a year or
fine of sixty to two hundred and forty days, unless it proves that its omission came from
of an unsurpassed motive.
Art. 179 ° .- (JUDICIAL DISOBEDIENCE). The one who summoned, summoned or notified
legally by the competent judicial authority as a witness, expert, translator or
interpreter, refrains from appearing, without just cause, and whoever is present
refuses to lend its contest, will incur in the provision of work from one to three months or
fine of twenty to sixty days.
Art. 179 bis.- (DISOBEDIENCE TO RESOLUTIONS IN HABEAS PROCESSES
CORPUS AND CONSTITUTIONAL AMPARO). The official or individual who does not give
exact compliance with the judicial decisions, issued in habeas corpus proceedings
or constitutional protection, will be sanctioned with imprisonment of two to six years and a fine of
one hundred to three hundred days.
Art. 179 ° ter.- (COMMON PROVISION). The events provided for in articles 173, 173
bis and 177 will constitute a very serious offense for the purposes of disciplinary responsibility that
determined by the competent authority. If the administrative disciplinary procedure is
substance prior to the criminal process, will have priority over the latter in its
processing. The administrative resolution that is issued will not produce the effect of res judicata.
in relation to the subsequent criminal process that is carried out, having to adjust to the content
of the criminal sentence that is issued subsequently.
CHAPTER II
CRIMES AGAINST THE JUDICIAL DECISION AUTHORITY
Art. 180 ° .- (EVASION). Anyone who evades, being legally detained or convicted,
He will be punished with imprisonment from one to six months.
If the act is perpetrated using violence or intimidation on people or force on
things, the penalty will be imprisonment from six months to two years
Art. 181 ° .- (FAVORING OF THE EVASION). The one who knowingly favors,
Directly or indirectly, the evasion of a detainee or sentenced person will incur in
working from one to six months.
If the author is a public official, the penalty will be increased by one third.
It will be decreased in the same proportion, if the author were ascendant, descendant,
spouse or brother of the escapee.
Art. 182 ° .- (EVASION FOR GUILT). If the evasion occurs because of a
public official, a fine of thirty to one hundred days will be imposed on him.

Page 32

Art. 183 ° .- (BREACH OF THE SANCTION). Whoever evades the execution of a
criminal sanction imposed by final judgment, will incur in deprivation of liberty of one month to
one year.
Anyone who violates compliance with a firm sanction that has already begun
comply, will incur in deprivation of liberty from three months to two years.
Art. 184 ° .- (NON-COMPLIANCE AND EXTENSION OF SANCTION). The person in charge of
enforce a firm criminal sanction that I will knowingly fail to execute totally or
partially or continue to enforce it once the term of the same has elapsed,
will be punished with imprisonment from one month to one year.
Art. 185 ° .- (RECEPTION AND UNDUE DELIVERY). The manager of a place of
detention or sentence that a person receives as arrested, imprisoned or detained, without
copy the corresponding mandate in your registry, outside of the case provided in Art. 11 of
the Constitution, will incur in seclusion from one month to one year.
He will incur the same penalty, if he surrenders improperly, even to an authority or
public official, an arrested or convicted person.
CHAPTER III
CRIMINAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE REGIME FOR THE LEGITIMATION OF PROFITS
ILLICIT
Art. 185 bis.- (LEGITIMATION OF ILLICIT PROFITS). Whoever acquires, converts or
transfer goods, resources or rights, which come from crimes related to illicit trafficking
controlled substances, crimes committed by public officials in the exercise of
of their functions or of crimes committed by criminal organizations, with the purpose of
conceal or conceal their nature, origin, location, destination, movement or ownership
true, will be punished with imprisonment from one to six years and a fine of one hundred to
five hundred days.
This criminal type will be applied to the behaviors described previously, although the crimes of
which proceeds the illicit gains have been committed totally or partially in
another country, provided that these acts are considered criminal in both countries
Art. 185 ° ter.- (ADMINISTRATIVE REGIME OF THE LEGITIMATION OF EARNINGS
ILLICIT). Create the Financial Investigations Unit, which will be part of the
organic structure of the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Entities. The power
Executive, through Supreme Decree, will establish its organization, powers, the
creation of decentralized units in the financial regulation system, the
procedure, the form of transmission and the content of the declarations that are
send, the regime of administrative offenses and the procedures for the imposition
administrative sanctions.
Financial entities and their directors, managers, administrators or officials who
contravene the obligations established in the Supreme Regulatory Decree,
They will be subject to the imposition of the administrative sanctions established in the
legal norms that regulate the financial system. Directors, managers,
administrators or officials in charge of reporting possible cases of legitimation
of illicit profits to the Financial Investigations Unit will be exempt from

Page 33

administrative, civil and criminal responsibility, as long as the complaint complies with the rules
established in the regulatory decree.
The highest executive authority of the Financial Investigations Unit will substantiate
the determination of administrative responsibility and the Superintendent will apply the
consequent sanctions, subject to the legally established regime. To determine
the corresponding sanction, the seriousness of the breach and the
degree of participation and guilt of those responsible. In these cases, the
system of challenges and resources of its resolutions, will be subject to the provisions
by law.
Financial entities and their bodies may not invoke bank secrecy when
the agents of the Financial Investigations Unit require information for the
adequate fulfillment of its functions. The information obtained by the Unit of
Financial Investigations may only be used to investigate the legitimacy
of illicit profits.
TITLE IV
CRIMES AGAINST PUBLIC FAITH
CHAPTER I
COUNTERFEIT OF CURRENCY, BANK NOTES, BEARER SECURITIES AND
CREDIT DOCUMENTS
Art. 186 ° .- (COUNTERFEIT OF CURRENCY). The one who counterfeits metallic currency or paper
legal tender, national or foreign, manufacturing, altering or cutting it, and
Whoever introduces, expends or puts it into circulation, will be punished with deprivation
of freedom from two to eight years.
Art. 187 ° .- (CIRCULATION OF FALSE CURRENCY RECEIVED IN GOOD FAITH). The fact that
having received counterfeit currency in good faith, he knowingly put it into circulation
of falsehood, will be sanctioned with a fine of thirty to one hundred days.
Art. 188 ° .- (EQUIPMENT OF VALUES TO THE CURRENCY). For the purposes of the law
criminal, are equated to the currency:
1. Legally authorized banknotes
2. The national debt bonds.
3. The titles, certificates and bearer shares, legally issued by the Banks,
entities, companies or societies authorized to do so.
4. Checks.
Art. 189 ° .- (ILLEGAL ISSUANCE). The person in charge of the issuance or manufacture of currency, who
knowingly authorize, issue or manufacture currency that does not meet the requirements
legal tender, or put into circulation currency that is not already legal tender, will incur
imprisonment from one to five years.

Page 34

The same penalty will apply to the issuer of titles, certificates or bearer shares, in
amount higher than authorized.

CHAPTER II
FORGERY OF STAMPS, SEALED PAPER, STAMPS, MARKS AND
Passwords
Art. 190 ° .- (FORGERY OF STAMPS, SEALED PAPER AND STAMPS). The fact that
I will forge official stamps, stamped paper, official lottery tickets, postage stamps,
any stamped effect or printed formulas whose issuance is reserved to the authority,
will be punished with deprivation of liberty from one to six years.
The same sanction will be imposed on the person who knowingly introduces, expends or uses them.
Art. 191 ° .- (FRAUDULENT IMPRESSION OF OFFICIAL SEAL). The one who printed
fraudulently an authentic official seal, will be sanctioned with imprisonment from one to three
years.
Art. 192 ° .- (RECEPTION OF GOOD FAITH). The one who, having received the
values ​and effects indicated in Art. 190, and knowing later that they are false, I will introduce them
or put into circulation, it will be sanctioned with a fine of thirty to one hundred days.
Art. 193 ° .- (FALSIFICATION AND IMPROPER APPLICATION OF TRADEMARKS AND
PASSWORDS). Anyone who falsifies brands, passwords or officially used signatures
to contrast weights or measures, identify any object or certify its quality,
quantity or content, and who will apply them to objects other than those to which they should be
applied, will be punished with imprisonment from six months to three years.
The same sanction shall be incurred by the one who performs the same acts that affect factories or
private establishments.
Art. 194 ° .- (COUNTERFEITING OF TICKETS OF PUBLIC COMPANIES OF
TRANSPORT). Anyone who falsifies or alters banknotes of public or private companies of
transportation, will be sanctioned with imprisonment from one to six months or a fine of twenty to one hundred
twenty days.
Anyone who introduces, expends or puts them into circulation shall incur the same sanction.
Art. 195 ° .- (FORGERY OF TICKETS). The one who falsifies or alters in order to
profit, tickets or tickets that allow access to a public show, it will be
sanctioned with imprisonment from one to six months or a fine of twenty to one hundred and twenty days.
Art. 196 ° .- (USE OF WHAT ALREADY USED). He who in order to use or sell stamps,
ringtones, trademarks, passwords or other ringing effects, will make the sign that
indicate its use, it will be sanctioned with a fine of thirty to one hundred days.
Art. 197 ° .- (USEFUL TO FALSIFY). The one who makes, introduces in the country,
keep in his possession or negotiate materials or instruments unequivocally
destined to commit any of the forgeries legislated in the two chapters
above, will be punished with imprisonment from six months to two years.

Page 35

CHAPTER III
FORGERY OF DOCUMENTS IN GENERAL
Art. 198 ° .- (MATERIAL FALSE). The one who will forge a document in whole or in part
false public or alter a true one, so that it may be detrimental, will incur
deprivation of liberty from one to six years.
Art. 199 ° .- (IDEOLOGICAL FALSEHOOD). Whoever inserts or causes to be inserted in a
true public instrument false statements concerning a fact that the
document must prove, so that damage may result, will be sanctioned with
deprivation of liberty from one to six years.
In both falsehoods, if the author is a public official and commits them in the
exercise of their functions, the sanction will be deprivation of liberty from two to eight years.
Art. 200 ° .- (FORGERY OF PRIVATE DOCUMENT). He who falsifies material or
ideologically a private document, will incur in deprivation of liberty for six months to
two years, provided that its use may cause some damage.
Art. 201 ° .- (IDEOLOGICAL FALSE IN MEDICAL CERTIFICATE). The doctor who gives
a false certificate, referring to the existence or non-existence of any illness or injury,
It will be sanctioned with imprisonment from one month to one year and a fine of thirty to one hundred days.
If the false certificate has the consequence that a healthy person is admitted to
an asylum or a health home, will be punished with imprisonment from six months to two
years and a fine of thirty to one hundred days.
Art. 202 ° .- (SUPPRESSION OR DESTRUCTION OF DOCUMENT). The one who suppresses,
conceal or destroy, in whole or in part, a file or a document, so that
may result damage, will incur the sanction of Art. 200.
Art. 203 ° .- (USE OF COUNTERFEIT INSTRUMENT). He who knowingly makes use of
a false or adulterated document will be sanctioned as if it were the author of the falsity.
CHAPTER IV
CHECK WITHOUT PROVISION OF FUNDS
Art. 204 ° .- (DISCOVERED CHECK). The one who will write a check without having enough
provision of funds or express authorization to overdraw, and will not pay your
amount within seventy-two hours of being notified of the non-payment
by bank notice, communication from the merchant or any other documented form
interpellation, will be punished with imprisonment from one to four years and a fine of
thirty to one hundred days.
The same sanction shall be incurred by the person who writes a check without being authorized to do so, or who
I will use as a credit or guarantee document. In these cases the checks are void
full right.
Payment of the amount of the check plus interest and court costs in any state
of the process or the determination of nullity for the causes indicated in paragraph

Page 36

above, will constitute grounds for termination of the criminal action for this crime. Judge
criminal of the case, before declaring the extinction of the criminal action, will determine the amount
of the interests and costs, as well as the existence of the grounds that produce the nullity
of the check.
Art. 205 ° .- (DEFECTIVE DRAFT OF CHECK). In the same sanction of the article
above will incur the one who knowingly writes a check that, due to lack of the requirements
legal or customary, it must not be paid, or counterorder the drawee so that it does not
make cash.
TITLE V
CRIMES AGAINST COMMON SECURITY
CHAPTER I
FIRES AND OTHER DETAILS
Art. 206 ° .- (FIRE). The one that through fire creates a common danger for
property or persons, will be punished with deprivation of liberty for two to six years.
Anyone who, in order to burn their
arable fields or pastures, will cause a fire that spreads and produces
damages to someone else's property.
Art. 207 ° .- (OTHER STRIPES). Whoever causes havoc through the flood,
explosion, collapse, collapse of a building or by any other powerful means
destruction, will be punished with deprivation of liberty from three to eight years.
Art. 208 ° .- (DANGER OF STRAGE). Whoever by any means creates the danger of
a havoc, he will incur in deprivation of liberty for one to four years.
Art. 209 ° .- (ACTS DIRECTED TO PREVENT COMMON DEFENSE). The one to prevent
the extinction of a fire or the defense against any other damage, subtract, hide
or make useless materials, instruments or other means intended for the extinction or
the common defense, will be punished with deprivation of liberty from two to six years.
Art. 210 ° .- (DANGEROUS DRIVING OF VEHICLES). The one who when driving a
vehicle, due to non-observance of the Traffic regulations or for any other cause
originates or gives rise to a danger to common security, will be sanctioned with
imprisonment from six months to two years.
Art. 211 ° .- (MANUFACTURE, TRADE OR HOLDING OF SUBSTANCES
EXPLOSIVES, ASPHYXIANS, ETC). The one who in order to create a common danger to the
life, bodily integrity or property of others, manufacture, supply, acquire, substrain
or has bombs, explosive, flammable, asphyxiating or toxic materials, as well as
instruments and materials destined to its composition or elaboration, will be sanctioned
with deprivation of liberty from one to four years.
CHAPTER II
CRIMES AGAINST THE SECURITY OF THE MEANS OF TRANSPORTATION AND
COMMUNICATION

Page 37

Art. 212 ° .- (DISASTER IN MEANS OF TRANSPORTATION). It will be punished with imprisonment
from one to ten years:
1. The one that will cause a railway disaster or in any other means of transport
land.
2. The one that will cause the shipwreck of a ship or the fall of an air transport.

Art. 213 ° .- (ATTACK AGAINST THE SECURITY OF TRANSPORTATION). The fact that
by any means prevents, disturbs or endangers the safety or
regularity of public transport, by land, air or water, will be sanctioned with
imprisonment from one to four years.
Art. 214 ° .- (ATTACK AGAINST THE SECURITY OF PUBLIC SERVICES). The
that, by any means, threatens the security or normal operation of the
public services of water, electricity, energy substances, electrical energy or others, and the
circulation on public roads, will incur in deprivation of liberty for two to six years.
The same sanction will be incurred by those who attempt against the security and normality of the
telephone, telegraphic, radio or other services.
Art. 215 ° .- (COMMON PROVISION). Yes of the events provided in the two chapters
previous results will result in the destruction of assets of great scientific, artistic, historical,
religious, military or economic, the penalty increased by one third.
CHAPTER III
CRIMES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH
Art. 216 ° .- (CRIMES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH). He will incur in deprivation of liberty
from one to ten years, which:
1. I will spread serious or contagious diseases or cause epidemics.
2. Poison, pollute or adulterate waters intended for public consumption or use
industrial, agricultural and fish farming.
3. Poison, contaminate or adulterate medicinal substances and products
food.
4. I will trade with substances that are harmful to health or with food and beverages.
errands disable.
5. Commits acts contrary to provisions on hygiene and health or alters
medical prescriptions
6. Cause a shortage or increase in the cost of food and medicinal items, in
harm to public health.
7. I will break livestock health measures or spread epizootics and plant pests.

Page 38

8. Sells or supplies drugs or medicinal substances in kind, quality or
amount not corresponding to the prescription.
9. I will perform any other act that in one way or another affects the health of the population.
Art. 217 ° .- (Repealed)
Art. 218 ° .- (ILLEGAL EXERCISE OF MEDICINE). It will be sanctioned with imprisonment of
three months to two years or a fine of thirty to one hundred days:
1. Anyone who, without title or authorization, exercises a medical, health or similar profession.
2. He who with title or authorization announces or promises the cure of diseases to
fixed term or by secret or infallible means.
3. He who with the same title or authorization will lend his name to another who does not have it, to
who exercises the professions referred to in subsection 1).
4. Anyone who performs unnecessary surgical intervention or medical treatment.
Art. 219 ° .- (COMMON PROVISIONS). In any of the three cases
previous chapters, the penalty will be increased:
1. In a room, if there is danger of death for someone.
2. In one third, if the act is the immediate cause of the death or serious injury of
someone.
Art. 220 ° .- (GUILT FORMS). When any of the above events are
committed by fault, imprisonment of six months to two years will be imposed, if it is not
illness or death of a person, and imprisonment increased by half, if it is
illness or death.
TITLE VI
CRIMES AGAINST THE NATIONAL ECONOMY, INDUSTRY AND TRADE
CHAPTER I
CRIMES AGAINST THE NATIONAL ECONOMY
Art. 221 ° .- (CONTRACTS INJURIOUS TO THE STATE). The public official who,
knowingly, enter into contracts to the detriment of the State or autonomous entities,
autarkic, mixed or decentralized, will be sanctioned with deprivation of liberty of one
to five years.
In the event that he acted guiltily, the penalty will be deprivation of liberty for six
months to two years.
The individual who, under the same conditions above, enters into a contract that is detrimental to the
National Economy, will be punished with imprisonment from one to three years.

Page 39

Art. 222 ° .- (BREACH OF CONTRACTS). The one who having entered into contracts
with the State or with the entities referred to in the previous article, does not comply with them without
just cause, will be punished with imprisonment from one to three years.
If the breach derives from the fault of the obligor, he will be sanctioned with imprisonment.
from three months to two years.
Art. 223 ° .- (DESTRUCTION OR DETERIORATION OF GOODS OF THE STATE AND WEALTH
NATIONAL). Anyone who destroys, deteriorates, subtracts or exports a property belonging to
to the public domain, a source of wealth, monuments or heritage objects
national archaeological, historical or artistic will incur in deprivation of liberty from one to six
years.
Art. 224 ° .- (ANTI-ECONOMIC BEHAVIOR). The public official or the one who is
in the exercise of managerial or other positions of responsibility, in institutions or
state companies, causes, for mismanagement or technical direction, or for any
other cause, damage to their patrimony or to the interests of the State, will be sanctioned with
deprivation of liberty from one to six years.
If he acted guiltily, the penalty will be imprisonment from three months to two years.
Art. 225 ° .- (ECONOMIC INFIDENCE). The public operation or the one that by reason of
his position or functions will be in possession of data or news that he must keep in
reservation, relating to economic policy and disclosure, will be sanctioned with deprivation of
freedom from one to three years.
The same sanction, aggravated by one third, shall incur the public official or the one who
the above conditions I will use or disclose said data or news, for my own benefit or
third.
If he acted negligently, the penalty will be reduced by one third.
Art. 226 ° .- (AGIO). Whoever seeks to raise or lower the price of merchandise, wages or
securities negotiable in the market or on the stock exchange, through fake news, negotiations
feigned or any other fraudulent device, will incur in deprivation of liberty of six
months to three years, worsening by a third if any of these effects occurs.
Anyone who hoards or conceals merchandise will be punished with the same penalty, causing
artificially raising prices.
Art. 227 ° .- (DESTRUCTION OF PRODUCTS). He who destroys articles of
daily supply, raw materials or agricultural or industrial products or means of
production, with serious damage to wealth or national consumption, will be sanctioned
with deprivation of liberty from one to three years.
Art. 228 ° .- (ILLEGITIMATE CONTRIBUTIONS AND ADVANTAGES). The one who abusing his
condition of union leader or one who simulating functions, representations,
superior instructions or orders, by himself or by an intermediary person, requires or obtains
money or other economic advantage, for their own benefit or that of a third party, will be sanctioned with
deprivation of liberty from one to three years.

Page 40

If the author is a public official, the penalty will be aggravated by one third.
Art. 229 ° .- (FICTICE COMPANIES OR ASSOCIATIONS). The one who will organize or direct
societies, cooperatives or other fictitious associations, to obtain by this means
undue benefits or privileges, will be punished with deprivation of liberty of six
months to three years and a fine of one hundred to five hundred days.
If it is a public official who, by himself or through an intermediary, commits the crime,
He will incur in deprivation of liberty for one to five years and a fine of thirty to one hundred days.
Art. 230 ° .- (ILLEGAL FRANCHISES, RELEASES OR PRIVILEGES). The fact that
Obtain, use or negotiate illegally releases, franchises, diplomatic privileges
or of another nature, it will be sanctioned with a fine of thirty to three hundred days.
The public official who illegally grants, uses or negotiates such releases,
franchises or privileges, will incur a fine of one hundred to five hundred days.
Art. 231 ° .- (TAX EVASION). The one who is legally bound or required for the
payment of taxes will not satisfy or hide them, will not declare or decrease the real value
of their assets or income, in order to avoid said payment or defraud the treasury, it will be
sanctioned with work provision from one month to one year and a fine of twenty to fifty
days.
CHAPTER II
CRIMES AGAINST INDUSTRY AND COMMERCE
Art. 232 ° .- (SABOTAGE). He who in order to prevent or hinder the normal development of the
work or production, invade or occupy industrial, agricultural or
miners, or cause damage to the machines, supplies, apparatus or instruments in them
existing will be punished with deprivation of liberty from one to eight years.
Art. 233 ° .- (MONOPOLY OF IMPORT, PRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF
GOODS). Whoever monopolizes the import, production or distribution of
goods, in order to artificially raise prices, will be punished with imprisonment
from six months to three years and a fine of one hundred to five hundred days.
Art. 234 ° .- (LOCK-OUT, STRIKES AND ILLEGAL STOPS). Whoever promotes the lock-out,
strike or stoppage declared illegal by the labor authorities, will be sanctioned with
deprivation of liberty for one to three years and a fine of one hundred to three hundred days.
Art. 235 ° .- (COMMERCIAL FRAUD). The one who in a public place or open to the public will deceive
to the buyer by giving him one thing for another, as long as it is not a more serious crime,
will be punished with deprivation of liberty from six months to three years.
Art. 236 ° .- (DECEPTION IN INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS). The one that puts up for sale
industrial products with names and signs that mislead their origin,
origin, quantity or quality, will be punished with deprivation of liberty of six months
to three years.
Art. 237 ° .- (CUSTOMER DIVERSION). The one who, using false statements,
suspicions, fraudulent devices or any other means of unfair propaganda, divert

Page 41

the clientele of a commercial or industrial establishment for their own benefit or that of a third party
and to the detriment of the competitor, to obtain undue advantage, will incur the penalty of
fine of thirty to one hundred days.
Art. 238 ° .- (CORRUPTION OF DEPENDENTS). Whoever gives an employee or
dependent on the competitor, so that by lacking the duties of the job, he provides
improper gains or profits, will incur the penalty of a fine of thirty to one hundred days.
Art. 239 ° .- (HOLDING, USE AND MANUFACTURE OF FALSE WEIGHTS AND MEASURES). The fact that
knowingly has in his possession false weights and measures, he will be sanctioned with provision
of work from one to six months or a fine of twenty to one hundred and twenty days.
The penalty will be increased by one third, for the one who knowingly uses or makes weights and
false measurements.
TITLE VII
CRIMES AGAINST THE FAMILY
CHAPTER I
CRIMES AGAINST MARRIAGE AND CIVIL STATUS
Art. 240 ° .- (BIGAMIA). Whoever contracts a new marriage knowing that the
Before he was linked, he will incur in deprivation of liberty for two to four years.
Art. 241 ° .- (OTHER ILLEGAL MARRIAGES). It will be sanctioned:
1. With deprivation of liberty for one to three years, whoever is not married contracts to
knowingly marriage to a married person.
2. With deprivation of liberty of two to four years, whoever has misled
essential to the other contracting party.
3. With deprivation of liberty for two to four years, whoever has concealed impediment
legal regarding your own marital status or that of the other party.
Art. 242 ° .- (RESPONSIBILITY OF THE CIVIL REGISTRY OFFICER). The Officer of the
Civil Registry that knowingly authorizes a marriage of those described in the articles
240 and 241, or proceed to the celebration of a marriage without having observed the
formalities required by law, will be punished with deprivation of liberty from two to six
years.
Art. 243 ° .- (MARRIAGE SIMULATION). Whoever is attributed authority for the
celebration of a marriage, or the one who simulates marriage by deception, will be
sanctioned with deprivation of liberty from two to six years
Art. 244 ° .- (ALTERATION OR SUBSTITUTION OF CIVIL STATUS). Will incur seclusion
from one to five years:
1. Whoever has a non-existent person registered in the Civil Registry.

Page 42

2. Anyone who makes inserting false facts that alter the state in the birth registry
civil or order of a newborn.
3. The one that by means of concealment, substitution or exposure, although it does not involve
abandonment, I will leave a newborn without marital status, I will make uncertain or alter the
corresponds.
4. The one who feigns pregnancy or childbirth, to give an alleged child rights that are not
correspond.
If the Civil Registry Officer knowingly authorizes the inscriptions to which they refer
subsections 1). and 2)., the penalty for him will be aggravated by one third.
Art. 245 ° .- (ATTENUATION FOR CAUSE OF HONOR). The one who to save his own honor
or that of his wife, mother, descendant, adopted daughter or sister, has incurred the
cases of subsections 2). and 3). of the previous article, will be sanctioned with the attenuated penalty
in one half.
If the act was committed with the protection or help of feeding, care or
education of the minor or incapable, the penalty will be mitigated by one half, or there will be no
any sanction, depending on the circumstances.
Art. 246 ° .- (SUBSTRACTION OF A MINOR OR INCAPABLE). The one who will subtract a
under the age of sixteen or a disabled person, under the authority of their parents, adopters,
guardians or curators, and whoever retains the minor against his will, will be sanctioned with
deprivation of liberty from one to three years.
The same penalty will apply if the minor was over sixteen years old and does not mediate
consent on your part.
Art. 247 ° .- (INDUCTION TO THE ESCAPE OF A MINOR). Whoever induces a minor to escape
sixteen years or an incapacitated person or with his consent and for the same purpose I will subtract him
of the power of their parents, guardians or curators will incur in deprivation of liberty of a
month to a year.
The same penalty shall apply to those who retain the minor or incapable against the will of the
parent, guardian or conservator
CHAPTER II
CRIMES AGAINST FAMILY ASSISTANCE DUTIES
Art. 248 ° .- (ABANDONMENT OF FAMILY). He who without just cause does not comply with the
obligations of support, housing, clothing, education and assistance inherent to the
parental authority, guardianship or status of spouse or partner, or abandon the
family domicile or substracted from the fulfillment of the indicated obligations, it will be
sanctioned with imprisonment from six months to two years or a fine of one hundred to four hundred days.
The same penalty shall be incurred by anyone who does not provide assistance or does not subscribe to the
essential needs of their ascendants or descendants, disabled elderly, or
I will stop complying with financial means, a legal food allowance
imposed.

Page 43

Art. 249 ° .- (BREACH OF DUTIES OF ASSISTANCE). Will incur deprivation
of freedom from six months to two years, the parent, guardian, curator, of a minor or incapable, and
will be disqualified from exercising the authority of a parent, guardian or conservatorship, in the
following cases:
1. If I fail to provide without just cause the primary instruction of a minor
school.
2. If it allows the minor to frequent gambling houses or houses of a bad reputation or to live with
vicious or bad life person.
3. If you allow the least frequent spectacles capable of perverting you or
offend modesty, or that the minor participate in representation of the same nature.
4. If I authorize you to reside or work in a prostitution house.
5. If you allow the minor to beg or serve as a beggar to inspire compassion.
Art. 250 ° .- (ABANDONMENT OF PREGNANT WOMAN). The one who was married
has made a woman pregnant and abandons her without giving her the necessary assistance,
He will be punished with imprisonment from six months to three years.
The penalty will be deprivation of liberty for one to five years, if as a result of the
abandonment the woman commits a crime of abortion, infanticide, exposure or abandonment of the
newborn, or commit suicide.
TITLE VIII
CRIMES AGAINST LIFE AND BODY INTEGRITY
CHAPTER I
HOMICIDE
Art. 251 ° .- (HOMICIDE). Whoever kills another will be punished with a prison sentence of five to
twenty years.
Art. 252 ° .- (MURDER). He will be punished with a prison sentence of thirty years, without
right to pardon, the one who kills:
1. To their descendants or spouse, or partner, knowing that they are.
2. For futile or low motives.
3. With treachery or cruelty.
4. By virtue of price, gifts or promises.
5. By means of poisonous or other similar substances.
6. To facilitate, consummate or conceal another crime, or to ensure its results.

Page 44

7. To overcome the resistance of the victim or prevent the offender from being arrested.
Art. 253 ° .- (PARRICIDE). The one who kills his father or mother, or his grandfather or another
ascendant in a straight line, knowing who he is, will be punished with the penalty of imprisonment
thirty years without the right to pardon.
Art. 254 ° .- (HOMICIDE BY VIOLENT EMOTION). The one who will kill another in a state of
excusable violent emotion or motivated by honorable motives, will be sanctioned with
imprisonment from one to six years.
The penalty will be from two to eight years for the one who kills his ascendant, descendant,
spouse or partner, in said state.
Art. 255 ° .- (HOMICIDE IN SPORTS PRACTICES). The athlete who is taking
party to an authorized sport will cause the death of another athlete in the act of
sport, with evident infraction in the respective regulations, will be sanctioned with
imprisonment from six months to two years.
The penalty will be imprisonment from three months to one year, if in the previous case it occurs
injury.
Art. 256 ° .- (HOMICIDE - SUICIDE). Whoever instigates another to suicide or helps him
committing it, if the death has been attempted or consummated, will incur in seclusion from two to
six years.
If injuries occur as a result of the attempt, the sanction will be imprisonment of one
to five years.
Even if the consent of the victim has been mediated in the double suicide, it will be imposed
to the survivor the sentence of imprisonment of two to six years.
Art. 257 ° .- (PIOUS HOMICIDE). The sentence of imprisonment will be imposed from one to three
years, if the pious motives already pressing the
instances of the interested party, in order to hasten an imminent death or to put an end to
serious illnesses or bodily injuries that are probably incurable, and may
apply the rule of article 39 and even exceptionally grant judicial pardon.
Art. 258 ° .- (INFANTICIDE). The mother who, to cover up her frailty or disgrace, gives
death to your child during delivery or up to three days later, you will be deprived of
freedom from one to three years.
Art. 259 ° .- (HOMICIDE IN KIDNEY OR AS A CONSEQUENCE OF AGGRESSION). Those in
quarrel or fight in which more than two people take part, causing the death of one,
Without the perpetrator, they will be punished with deprivation of liberty from one to six years.
If the cause of the injury to the victim is not identified either, deprivation will be imposed
of freedom from one to four years to those who have intervened in the quarrel or fight.
Art. 260 ° .- (GUILTY HOMICIDE). The one who by fault causes the death of a person,
He will incur in confinement from six months to three years.

Page 45

If death occurs as a consequence of a serious culpable violation of the
duties inherent to a profession, trade or position, the sanction will be imprisonment from one to
five years.
Art. 261 ° .- (HOMICIDE AND SERIOUS AND SERIOUS INJURIES IN ACCIDENTS OF
TRANSIT). Anyone who is guilty of death or serious injury or
very serious of one or more people caused with a motorized means of transport,
He will be punished with imprisonment for one to three years. If the event occurred while the
perpetrator dependent on alcohol or narcotics, the penalty will be imprisonment of one
to five years and will be imposed on the author of the fact, disqualification to drive for a period
from one to five years.
In case of recidivism, the maximum of the foreseen penalty will be applied.
If death or serious or very serious injuries occur as a result of a
serious non-observance of the law, the code and the traffic regulations that establish the
duties of care of the owner, manager or administrator of a business of
transport, it will be sanctioned with imprisonment of one to two years
Art. 262 ° .- (OMISSION OF HELP). If in the case of the previous article the author escapes
the scene of the event or fails to stop to provide relief or assistance to the victims,
will be punished with deprivation of liberty from one to four years.
The penalty will be deprivation of liberty from six months to two years, when the driver of the
another vehicle does not stop to provide aid or assistance to the driver or occupants of the
crashed vehicle, the penalty being aggravated by one half, if the accident and the omission of
assistance occurs in an uninhabited place.
CHAPTER II
ABORTION
Art. 263 ° .- (ABORTION). Whoever causes the death of a fetus in the womb or
cause his premature expulsion, he will be sanctioned:
1) With deprivation of liberty for two to six years, if the abortion was performed without the
consent of the woman or if she is less than sixteen years old.
2) With deprivation of liberty from one to three years, if practiced with consent
of the woman.
3) With imprisonment from one to three years, to the woman who has given her consent.
The attempt of the woman is not punishable.
Art. 264 ° .- (ABORTION FOLLOWED BY INJURY OR DEATH). When abortion with him
consent of the woman is followed by injury, the penalty will be deprivation of liberty
from one to four years; and if death occurs, the penalty will be aggravated by one half.
When the non-consensual abortion results in an injury, the author will be sentenced to
deprivation of liberty from one to seven years; if death occurs, the deprivation will be applied
of freedom from two to nine years.

Page 46

Art. 265 ° .- (ABORTION HONORIS CAUSE). If the crime was committed to save honor
of the woman, either by herself or by third parties, with her consent,
will impose imprisonment from six months to two years, aggravating the sanction by one third, if
death ensues.
Art. 266 ° .- (ABORTION UNPUNISHED). When the abortion was the consequence of a crime
of rape, abduction not followed by marriage, rape or incest, no sanction will be applied
any, provided that the criminal action has been initiated.
Nor will it be punishable if the abortion has been practiced in order to avoid a danger
for the life or health of the mother and if this danger could not be avoided by other means.
In both cases, the abortion must be performed by a doctor, with the consent
of the woman and judicial authorization in her case.
Art. 267 ° .- (PRETERINTENTIONAL ABORTION). He who through violence gives rise to
abortion without intention to cause it, but the pregnancy being noticeable or causing it,
He will be punished with imprisonment from three months to three years.
Art. 268 ° .- (GUILTY ABORTION). He who by fault causes an abortion, will incur
provision of work up to one year.
Art. 269 ° .- (HABITUAL PRACTICE OF ABORTION). The one who habitually dedicates himself to
practice of abortion, will incur in deprivation of liberty from one to six years.
CHAPTER III
CRIMES AGAINST BODY INTEGRITY AND HEALTH
Art. 270 ° .- (SERIOUS INJURIES). The author shall incur the penalty of deprivation of
freedom from two to eight years, when the injury results:
1) A mental or bodily illness, certain or probably incurable.
2) The permanent impairment of health or the loss or use of a sense, of a
member or role.
3) Permanent incapacity for work or that exceeding one hundred and eighty days.
4) The indelible mark or permanent deformation of the face.
5) The imminent danger of losing your life.
Art. 271 ° .- (SERIOUS AND MINOR INJURIES). The one who in any way causes another
damage to the body or health, not included in the cases of the previous article, of the
Who derives incapacity for work from thirty to one hundred and eighty days, will be sanctioned
with imprisonment from one to four years.
If the disability lasts up to twenty-nine days, the author will be imprisoned for six
months to two years or benefit of work up to the maximum.

Page 47

Art. 272 ​° .- (AGRAVATION AND ATTENUATION). In the cases of the two articles
above, the penalty will be aggravated by one third of the maximum or minimum, when mediated
the circumstances listed in Art 252; and decreased in half, if it were the
indicated in articles 254 and 259.
Art. 273.- (INJURY FOLLOWED BY DEATH). The one who in order to cause damage to the
body or health produces the death of a person, without this having been
wanted by the author, but which could have been foreseen, will be punished with deprivation of
freedom from one to five years.
In the case of the cases provided for in article 254, paragraph 1, the penalty decreased
it will be in a third.
Art. 274 ° .- (GUILTY INJURIES). He who guiltily causes another one of the
injuries provided for in this chapter, will be sanctioned with a fine of up to two hundred
forty days or work benefit up to one year.
Art. 275 ° .- (SELF-HARM). They will incur in seclusion from three months to three years:
1) Whoever causes an injury or voluntarily aggravates the consequences of the
itself, to not fulfill a duty, service or other provision imposed by law, or to
obtain an illicit profit.
2) Anyone who allows another to cause an injury, for the same purposes.
3) Whoever injures another with their consent.
Art. 276 ° .- (CAUSE OF IMPUNITY). No sanction will be applied, when the
injuries were minor and had been caused by spouses, ancestors,
descendants, brothers, related in a straight line, brothers-in-law, when they live together.
Art. 277 ° .- (VENEREAL CONTAGION). Whoever knowingly found himself attacked by a
venereal disease, endangers another person through intercourse
sexual, extrasexual or nutritional, will be punished with deprivation of liberty from one month to a
year.
If contagion occurs, the penalty will be deprivation of liberty for one to three years.
Art. 277 bis.- (GENETIC ALTERATION). It will be sanctioned with deprivation of liberty of
two to four years and special disqualification who with a purpose other than therapeutic
manipulate human genes in a way that alters the genotype.
CHAPTER IV
ABANDONMENT OF CHILDREN OR OTHER INCAPABLE PERSONS
Art. 278 ° .- (ABANDONMENT OF MINORS). Whoever abandons a minor under twelve,
He will be punished with imprisonment from three months to two years.
If the abandonment results in serious bodily injury or death, the penalty will be aggravated in a
third.

Page 48

Art. 279 ° .- (ABANDONMENT FOR CAUSE OF HONOR). The mother who will abandon the child
newborn to save his honor, will be punished with imprisonment from one month to one year.
If the fact leads to death or serious injury, the penalty will be increased to three or two
years respectively.
Art. 280 ° .- (ABANDONMENT OF DISABLED PEOPLE). He will incur the penalty of imprisonment
from one month to two years, the one who, having under his care, supervision or authority,
I will abandon a person incapable of defending or fending for himself for
any reason.
Art. 281 ° .- (REFUSAL OF AID). The one who must provide assistance, without risk
a person under the age of twelve or a person who is incapable, helpless or in distress or
exposed to serious and imminent danger, fails to provide the necessary assistance or not
demand the assistance or assistance of the public authority or other people, it will be
sanctioned with imprisonment from one month to one year.
TITLE IX
CRIMES AGAINST HONOR
SINGLE CHAPTER
DEFAMATION, CALUMNIA AND INJURY
Art. 282 ° .- (DEFAMATION). Whoever publicly, tendentiously and repeatedly, reveals or
I will disclose a fact, a quality, or a conduct capable of affecting the reputation of a
individual or collective person, will incur in the provision of work from one month to one year or
fine of twenty to two hundred and forty days.
Art. 283 ° .- (CALUMNIA). Whoever by any means falsely imputes the
commission of a crime, will be punished with deprivation of liberty from six months to two
years and a fine of one hundred to three hundred days.
Art. 284 ° .- (OFFENSE TO THE MEMORY OF DECEASED). Whoever offends the memory of
a deceased with defamatory expressions or with libelous accusations, will incur the
same penalties of the two previous articles.
Art. 285 ° .- (PROPALATION OF OFFENSES). Whoever propagates or reproduces by any
half the facts referred to in articles 282, 283 and 284, will be sanctioned as
author of the same.
Art. 286 ° .- (TRUTH EXCEPTION). The author of libel and slander shall not be
punishable if the charges consist of true statements, but the accused only
You can prove the truth of the accusation:
1) In the case of offenses directed at a public official and with reference to his
functions.
2) When the complainant requests proof of the accusation, provided that such proof does not
affects third-party rights or secrets.

Page 49

Art. 287.- (INJURY). He who by any means and in a direct way offends another in
their dignity or decorum, will incur in the provision of work from one month to one year and a fine of
thirty to one hundred days.
If the fact provided for in Art. 283 and the injury referred to in this article were
committed by means of printed, typewritten or manuscript, their author will be considered
accused of infamous libel and punished with a fine of sixty to one hundred and fifty days, without
prejudice to the corresponding penalties.
Art. 288 ° .- (INTERDICTION OF THE EVIDENCE). The test will not be admitted except in the
cases indicated in article 286.
Art. 289 ° .- (RETRACTATION). The accused of a crime against honor will be exempt
of penalty, if he retracts before or in time to give his inquiry.

A second retraction on the same fact will not be admitted.
Art. 290 ° .- (MUTUAL OFFENSES). If the offenses or accusations are reciprocal,
The judge may, according to the circumstances, exempt both parties or any of the
they.
TITLE X
CRIMES AGAINST FREEDOM
CHAPTER I
CRIMES AGAINST INDIVIDUAL FREEDOM
Art. 291 ° .- (REDUCTION TO SLAVERY OR ANALOGUE STATE). The one that will reduce to
a person to slavery or analogous state, will be sanctioned with deprivation of liberty of
two to eight years.
Art. 292 ° .- (DEPRIVATION OF FREEDOM). He who in any way deprives another of his
personal freedom, will incur imprisonment from six months to two years and a fine of thirty to one hundred
days.
The sanction will be aggravated by one third, when the act is committed:
1) By a public official, with abuse of his authority.
2) About an ascendant, descendant or spouse.
3) If the deprivation of liberty exceeds forty-eight hours.
Art. 293 ° .- (THREATS). Whoever, through serious threats, alarms or intimidates
a person, will be sanctioned with a work benefit from one month to one year and a fine
up to sixty days.
The penalty will be imprisonment from three to eighteen months, if the threat has been made.
with a weapon or by three or more people gathered.

Page 50

Art. 294 ° .- (COACTION). He who with violence or serious threats forces another to do,
Failure to do, or tolerate something that you are not obligated to do, will incur in seclusion from six months to two
years.
The sanction will be imprisonment from one to four years, if for the fact it has been used
weapons.
Art. 295 ° .- (VEJATIONS AND TORTURES). It will be sanctioned with deprivation of liberty of
six months to two years, the official who harasses, orders or allows to harass a
stopped.
The penalty will be deprivation of liberty for two to four years, if any
kind of torment or torture.
If they cause injuries, the penalty will be deprivation of liberty for two to six years; what if
cause death, the sentence of imprisonment of ten years will be applied.
Art. 296 ° .- (CRIMES AGAINST FREEDOM OF THE PRESS). It will be sanctioned with
imprisonment from six months to three years and a fine of thirty to two hundred days, which
illegally prevents or hinders the free emission of thought by any means of
diffusion, as well as the free circulation of a book, newspaper or any other form.
Art. 297 ° .- (ATTACKS AGAINST THE FREEDOM OF EDUCATION). The one that by
any means that violates the freedom of education, will be punished with imprisonment
from six months to three years and a fine of thirty to one hundred days.
CHAPTER II
CRIMES AGAINST THE INVOLABILITY OF THE HOME
Art. 298 ° .- (SEIZURE OF ADDRESS OR ITS DEPENDENCES). The fact that
arbitrarily enter someone else's home or its dependencies, or into an inhabited area
by another, or in a workplace, or remain in the same way, will incur the
punishment of deprivation of liberty from three months to two years and a fine of thirty to one hundred days,
The sanction will be aggravated by a third, if the crime is committed at night, or with force in
things or violence in people, or with weapons, or by several people gathered.
Art. 299 ° .- (BY PUBLIC OFFICIAL). The public official or agent of the
authority, that with abuse of their functions or without the formalities provided by law
commits the facts described in the previous article, will be sanctioned with deprivation of
freedom from one to four years.
CHAPTER III
CRIMES AGAINST THE INVIOLABILITY OF THE SECRET
Art. 300.- (VIOLATION OF CORRESPONDENCE AND PRIVATE PAPERS). The fact that
improperly opens a letter, a closed sheet or a telegraphic communication,
radiotelegraph or telephone, addressed to another person, or who, without opening the
correspondence, by technical means is imposed on a content, will be sanctioned with
imprisonment from three months to one year or a fine of sixty to two hundred and forty days.

Page 51

Anyone who in the same way seizes, conceals or
I will destroy a letter, a sheet, an office or other private paper, even if they are open,
or the one who arbitrarily diverted from its destination the correspondence that does not belong to him.
The maximum of the sanction will be raised to two years, when the author of such acts
I will disclose the content of the indicated correspondence and dispatches.
Art. 301 ° .- (VIOLATION OF SECRETS IN CORRESPONDENCE NOT ADDRESSED TO
ADVERTISING). Whoever records the words of another not intended for the public, without his
consent, or the one who through technical procedures will listen to manifestations
that are not addressed to him, or whoever does the same with private papers or with
an epistolary or telegraphic correspondence even if they have been addressed to him, provided that
the fact may cause any damage, will be sanctioned with deprivation of freedom of
three months to a year.
Art. 302 ° .- (DISCLOSURE OF PROFESSIONAL SECRET). The one having knowledge
of secrets by virtue of their status, ministry, profession, employment, trade, art or commission,
I will reveal them without just cause, or I will use them for my own benefit or that of others, if it follows.
any damage, will be punished with deprivation of liberty from three months to one year and a fine
thirty to one hundred days.
CHAPTER IV
CRIMES AGAINST THE FREEDOM OF WORK
Art. 303 ° .- (ATTACKS AGAINST THE FREEDOM OF WORK). The one who prevents,
hinder or restrict freedom of work, profession or trade, trade or industry,
He will be held in confinement for one to three years.
Art. 304 ° .- (WORK MONOPOLY). Whoever exercises any type of monopoly of
a lawful activity of work, trade or industry, will be sanctioned with imprisonment of one
to three years and a fine of thirty to sixty days.
Art. 305 ° .- (GUILTY CONDUCT). The public official who culpably allows
the commission of the crimes foreseen in the two previous articles, will be sanctioned with
imprisonment from three months to two years.
Art. 306 ° .- (VIOLENCES OR THREATS, BY WORKERS AND EMPLOYEES). The worker or
employee who exercises violence or uses threats to compel another or others
to take part in a strike or boycott, they will be held in prison for three months to two years.
Art. 307 ° .- (COACTIONS BY EMPLOYEE, EMPLOYEE OR EMPLOYEE). It will incur the
sanction of the previous article the employer, employer or employee to take part in a
lock-out, joining a certain worker or employer society, or leaving it.
Seclusion from three months to three years will be imposed, when use has been made of
weapons.
TITLE XI
CRIMES AGAINST SEXUAL FREEDOM
CHAPTER I

Page 52

RAPE, STUPRO, AND DISHONEST ABUSE
Art. 308 ° .- (VIOLATION). Whoever has carnal access to a person of either sex,
will incur in deprivation of liberty from four to ten years, in the following cases:
1) If physical violence or intimidation has been used.
2) If the offended person is mentally alienated or incapacitated, for
any other cause, to resist.
If the violation is of a minor who has not reached the age of puberty, the
fact will be sanctioned with the penalty of ten to twenty years imprisonment; and if how
As a result of the fact, the death of the victim occurs, the penalty will be applied
corresponding to the murder.
Art. 309 ° .- (STUPRO). He who through seduction or deception has carnal access to
A woman who has reached puberty and is under the age of seventeen will incur the
sentence of deprivation of liberty of two to six years.
Art. 310 ° .- (AGRAVATION). The penalty will be aggravated in the cases of crimes
above, with a third:
1) If it results in serious damage to the victim's health.
2) If the author is an ascendant, descendant, brother, half brother, adopter or
in charge of the education or custody of it.
3) If two or more people were present in the execution of the act.
If the death of the offended person occurs, the penalty will be imprisonment from ten to
twenty years in case of rape, and imprisonment from four to ten years, in case of rape.
Art. 311 ° .- (SUBSTITUTION OF PERSON). The one who has carnal access with a woman
through deception or error about the person, will incur in deprivation of freedom of
six months to two years.
Art. 312 ° .- (DISHONEST ABUSE). The one who in the same circumstances and for the
means indicated in article 308 perform libidinal acts not constituting access
carnal, will be punished with deprivation of liberty from one to three years.
The penalty will be aggravated by one half, if the circumstances of article 310 concur.
CHAPTER II
RAPTURE
Art. 313 ° .- (OWN RAPTURE). The one who with lascivious purposes and through violence, threats
serious or deceitful, abducts or retains a person who has not reached the
puberty, will incur a seclusion of one to five years.

Page 53

Art. 314 ° .- (IMPROPER RAPTURE). The one who with the same purpose of the previous article will kidnap a
woman who has reached puberty and is less than seventeen years old, with her
consent will be sanctioned with imprisonment from six months to two years.
Art. 315 ° .- (WITH A MARRIAGE LOOK). The one who with violence, threats or deceit
abducts or retains a person in order to marry, will be sanctioned
with imprisonment from three to eighteen months.
Art. 316 ° .- (ATTENUATION). The penalties will be reduced by one half, if the culprit
spontaneously restored freedom to the abducted person or placed him
in a safe place, available to your family.
Art. 317 ° .- (COMMON PROVISION). There will be no sanction, when the inmates, in the
respective cases, having no impediment, they marry the
offended, before the sentence is enforceable.
CHAPTER III
CRIMES AGAINST SEXUAL MORALITY
Art. 318 ° .- (CORRUPTION OF MINORS). He who through libidinal acts or by
any other means corrupts or contributes to corrupting a person under the age of ten
and seven years, will incur in deprivation of liberty from one to five years.
The sanction may be freely mitigated or the author exempted from punishment, if the minor is
corrupted person.
Art. 319 ° .- (AGGRAVATED CORRUPTION). The penalty will be deprivation of liberty from one to
six years:
1) If the victim is under twelve years of age.
2) If the act was carried out for profit.
3) If there is deception, violence or any other means of intimidation or coercion.
4) If the victim suffers from illness or mental deficiency.
5) If the author is an ascendant, husband, brother, tutor or person in charge of education or
custody of the victim.
Art. 320.- (CORRUPTION OF ELDERLY). He who by any means corrupts or
contribute to the corruption of people over the age of seventeen, will be sanctioned with
imprisonment from three months to two years.
The penalty will be aggravated in one half, in cases 2), 3) and 5) of the previous article.
Art. 321 ° .- (PROXENETISM). The one who to satisfy other people's desires or with the spirit of
profit promotes, facilitates or contributes to the corruption or prostitution of persons of
either sex, will be punished with deprivation of liberty from two to six years and a fine of
thirty to one hundred days.

Page 54

With the same penalty will be sanctioned the one who, on his own account or of a third party, maintains
ostensibly or covertly a house of prostitution or place intended for encounters with
lewd purposes.
The penalty will be deprivation of liberty for two to eight years:
1) If the victim is less than seventeen years old.
2) If the circumstances provided for in sections 2), 3), 4) and 5) of Article 319 mediate.
Art. 322.- (RUFIANERÍA). The one that is maintained by a person who exercises the
prostitution or whoever profits from the profits from that trade, will be
punished with deprivation of liberty from one to six years and a fine of up to one hundred days.
CHAPTER IV
ULTRATION TO PUBLIC SHOCK
Art. 323 ° .- (OBSCENE ACTS). The one who in a public place or exposed to the public will perform
obscene acts or causes them to be carried out by another, will incur in seclusion from three months to two
years.
Art. 324 ° .- (OBSCENE PUBLICATIONS AND SHOWS). The one with any
purpose publicly expose, manufacture, introduce into the country or reproduce books,
obscene writings, drawings, images or other objects, or whoever distributes or places them
in circulation, or the one that publicly offers theatrical or cinematographic shows
or other obscene or transmit auditions of the same nature, will be sanctioned with
imprisonment from three months to two years.
Art. 325 ° .- (COMMON PROVISION). In the cases provided for by this title, when they are
authors the parents, guardians, curators, or custodians, it will also be imposed
of the respective penalties, the loss of such rights, positions or functions.
TITLE XII
CRIMES AGAINST PROPERTY
CHAPTER I
THEFT
Art. 326 ° .- (HURTO). The one who illegitimately seizes someone else's movable thing,
He will incur in confinement from one month to three years.
The penalty will be imprisonment from three months to five years, in especially serious cases.
As a rule, a case is considered especially serious when the crime is committed:
1) With scaling or use of a pick, false key or other similar instrument, to
to penetrate to the place where the object of the subtraction is found.
2) On the occasion of a popular rampage or commotion.
3) Taking advantage of an accident or a particular misfortune.

Page 55

4) On things of artistic, historical, archaeological or scientific value.
5) About things that are beyond the control of the owner.
6) On things of first necessity or intended for a public service, provided that the
Subtraction will cause a loss to it, or a situation of shortage.
7) On things of a church or other building or premises in which a cult is professed
religious.
Art. 327 ° .- (OF THE COMMON THING). The one who being a joint owner, joint heir or partner,
I will subtract for himself or a third party the common thing of power of whoever has it legitimately,
He will be punished with imprisonment from one to six months.
Art. 328 ° .- (OF USE). Whoever without any right, or mediate mutual trust, friendship or
ties of close kinship, take without intention of appropriating something foreign, use it and
return it to its owner or return it to its place, they will incur in the provision of one's work
or six months, provided that the value of the use and of the deterioration or depreciation of the thing
are appreciable, in the judgment of the judge.
Art. 329 ° .- (THEFT OF POSSESSION). The one who, being the owner of a movable thing,
will take away from whoever has it legitimately in their power, to the detriment of the same or a
third, he will incur the penalty of providing work from one to six months.
Art. 330 ° .- (ENERGY SUBSTRACTION). The one that subtracts an energy with value
using it for your own benefit or that of a third party, you will incur a fine of thirty to
hundred days.
CHAPTER II
STOLE
Art. 331 ° .- (THEFT). The one who seizes a foreign movable thing with force in the
things or with violence or intimidation in people, will be punished with deprivation of
freedom from one to five years.
Art. 332 ° .- (AGGRAVATED THEFT). The penalty will be imprisonment for three to ten years:
1) If the robbery was committed with weapons or concealing the identity of the agent.
2) If it is committed by two or more authors.
3) If it is committed in an unpopulated place.
4) If any of the circumstances indicated in paragraph 2 of article 326 concur.
CHAPTER III
EXTORSIONS
Art. 333 ° .- (EXTORTION). Anyone who, through intimidation or serious threat, constrains
a person to do, tolerate doing or not doing something, in order to

Page 56

obtain for himself or a third party undue advantage or economic benefit, will incur seclusion
from one to three years.
Art. 334 ° .- (KIDNAPPING). Whoever kidnaps a person in order to obtain
ransom or other undue advantage or concession for oneself or for others as the price of freedom
of the victim, will be punished with the penalty of five to fifteen years in prison.
If, as a consequence of the act, serious physical damage results to the victim or the
guilty achieves his purpose, the penalty will be from fifteen to thirty years imprisonment.
If the death of the victim is found, the corresponding penalty for murder will be applied.
CHAPTER IV
SCAMS AND OTHER DEFRAUDS
Art. 335 ° .- (SCAM). The one who with the intention of obtaining for himself or a third party a benefit
economic undue, through deception or artifice causes or strengthens error in another than
motivates the realization of an act of patrimonial disposition to the detriment of the subject in error
or a third party, will be punished with imprisonment from one to five years and a fine of sixty to
two hundred days.
Art. 336 ° .- (ABUSE OF BLANK SIGNATURE). The one who will defraud by abusing signature in
white and extending with it a document to the detriment of the person who signed or a
third, he will be punished with deprivation of liberty from one to four years and a fine of
sixty to one hundred and fifty days.
Art. 337 ° .- (STELLIONATE). Whoever sells or encumbers as free goods those who are
litigious or seized or encumbered and whoever sells, encumbers or rents,
as their own, property belonging to others, will be punished with deprivation of liberty from one to five
years.
Art. 338 ° .- (INSURANCE FRAUD). The one who in order to collect for himself or for others the
insurance compensation or to increase it above what is fair, I will destroy,
lose, deteriorate, hide or make the insured disappear, or use any
other fraudulent means will incur the penalty of deprivation of liberty from one to five years.
If I achieve the purpose of collecting the insurance, the penalty will be aggravated by one half and a fine
thirty to one hundred days.
Art. 339 ° .- (DESTRUCTION OF OWN THINGS, TO DEFRAUD). The one that by
any means will destroy or make their own things disappear for the purpose of
defraud the rights of third parties or cause them harm, will incur seclusion from one to
three years.
Art. 340 ° .- (DEFRAUDING OF SERVICES OR FOODS). Whoever consumes
beverages or food in establishments where this trade is carried out, or
provide or use any service of immediate payment and will not pay them when
required, will be sanctioned with imprisonment of one to two years and a fine of thirty to one hundred days.
Art. 341 ° .- (DEFRAUDATION WITH PRETEXT OF REMUNERATION TO
PUBLIC WORKERS). The one who defrauds another on the pretext of supposed

Page 57

remuneration to judges or other public employees, will be sanctioned with benefit
working from a month to a year.
Art. 342 ° .- (DECEPTION OF INCAPABLE PEOPLE). The one to obtain for himself or for
others some profit, abusing needs, passions or inexperience
of a minor person or abusing the state of disease or deficiency
psychic level of a person, even if it is not interdicted or disabled, induces it to
perform an act that involves some legal effect detrimental to herself or others,
will incur in deprivation of liberty for two to six years.
Art. 343 ° .- (BANKRUPTCY). The penalty of deprivation of liberty of two to six years shall be imposed, upon
merchant, company representative or legal representatives who carry out the trade
in the name of minors or disabled persons, whose bankruptcy was declared fraudulent with
according to the Commercial Code.
If the bankruptcy is found guilty, the penalty will be reduced by one third.
The accomplices and instigators shall incur half the penalty established in this article.
that knowingly induce, before or after filing for bankruptcy, to carry out the
illicit acts referred to in the Commercial Code.
Art. 344 ° .- (RAISING OF ASSETS OR CIVIL ASSETS). The one not being
merchant seizes his goods or conceals them or commits another fraud, with the
purpose of harming your creditors, you will incur in deprivation of liberty from two to six
years.
CHAPTER V
UNDUE APPROPRIATION
Art. 345 ° .- (UNDUE APPROPRIATION). The one who appropriates a movable thing or a
foreign value, for the benefit of himself or a third party and of which the author has possession or
legitimate possession and that implies the obligation to deliver or return, will be sanctioned
with imprisonment from three months to three years.
Art. 346 ° .- (ABUSE OF TRUST). The one who, using the trust dispensed by
a person, will cause damage or damage to their property, or retain as owner those who
He has received by possession title, he will incur in seclusion from three months to two years.
Art. 346 bis.- (AGGRAVATION IN CASE OF MULTIPLE VICTIMS). Crimes
typified in articles 335, 337, 343, 344, 345, 346 and 363 bis of this code, when
are carried out to the detriment of multiple victims, they will be sanctioned with imprisonment from three to
ten years and with a fine of one hundred to five hundred days.
Art. 347 ° .- (OF TREASURE, THING LOST OR HAD BY ERROR OR CASE
FORTUITOUS). The following shall incur a fine of up to one hundred days:
1) He who, having found a treasure belonging to another, will appropriate in whole or in part
of the quota to which the owner is entitled.
2) Whoever appropriates a foreign thing that has come into his possession by mistake, fortuitous event or force
of the nature.

Page 58

3) He who, having found a lost foreign thing, will appropriate it, without restoring it
to the owner or legitimate possessor or to deliver it to the competent authority.
Art. 348 ° .- (APPROPRIATION OR SALE OF GARMENT). Whoever will appropriate or sell the
pledge on which you lent money or received as security for any obligation, or
arbitrarily dispose of it, will be sanctioned with the provision of work of a
month to one year and a fine of up to one hundred days.
Art. 349 ° .- (AGRAVATION AND ATTENUATION). In the cases of articles 345, 346 and
348, the penalty will be increased by one third, when the author has received the thing:
1. In deposit required.
2. As guardian, curator, trustee, liquidator, inventor, executor, or
judicial depositary.
3. By reason of their trade, employment or profession.
And attenuated by a third, if the author had only misused the thing received,
in the above cases.
CHAPTER VI
ABIGEATO
Art. 350 ° .- (ABIGEATO). Whoever seizes or misappropriates livestock
Horses, mules, donkeys, cattle, pigs, goats and sheep, will be punished with imprisonment of
one to five years.
The same penalty will incur:
1) Whoever marks, points out, erases or modifies the marks or signs of animals
strangers.
2) Whoever marks or points out in the field or on someone else's property, without the consent of the owner
from the field, eared animals.
3) Whoever marks or points out foreign animals, even if it is in their own field.
The penalty will be aggravated by one third:
1) If any of the aggravating factors indicated in the second paragraph of the article concur
326.
2) If the crime is perpetrated on purebred animals.
If any of the circumstances indicated in article 332 concur, the penalty will be
aggravated in one half.
CHAPTER VII
USURPATION

Page 59

Art. 351 ° .- (DISPOSITION). Whoever, for his own benefit or that of a third party, through violence,
threats, deception, breach of trust or any other means, I will strip another of the
possession or possession of a property, or the exercise of a real right constituted on
it, whether the dispossession occurs by invading the property, staying in it or
expelling the occupants, he will incur in deprivation of liberty from six months to four
years.
Art. 352 ° .- (ALTERATION OF BOUNDARIES). The one who with the purpose of seizing, in everything
or in part, of someone else's real estate, deletes or alters the terms or boundaries, it will be
sanctioned with imprisonment from three months to two years.
Art. 353 ° .- (DISTURBANCE OF POSSESSION). The one who with violence or threats in the
persons, disturb the quiet and peaceful possession of a property, will incur the penalty of
imprisonment from three months to three years.
Art. 354 ° .- (USURPATION OF WATER). The one that to get for himself or for another some
illicit profit and damage to third parties, divert public or private waters in their favor
that do not correspond to him or he will do so in greater amount than due, he will be sanctioned with
imprisonment from three months to two years.
The same penalty shall be incurred by the person who hinders or prevents the exercise in any way.
of the rights that a third party may have over said waters.
Art. 355 ° .- (AGGRAVATED USURPATION). The sanction will be aggravated by one third, if in the
cases of the preceding articles, the acts were committed by several people and
with weapons.
Art. 356 ° .- (HUNTING AND FISHING PROHIBITED). Anyone who violates the provisions relating to
He hunts and fishes or does them in places of fiscal reserve or on someone else's property, which is
cultivated or fenced, without the consent of the owner, will incur in the provision of labor of
one month to one year and a fine of up to sixty days.
CHAPTER VIII
DAMAGE
Art. 357 ° .- (SIMPLE DAMAGE). He who in any way deteriorates, destroys, renders useless,
If he makes someone else's property disappear or damage, he will incur the penalty of imprisonment of one month to one
year and a fine of up to sixty days.
Art. 358 ° .- (QUALIFIED DAMAGE). The sanction will be deprivation of liberty from one to six
years:
1. When the damage falls on means or routes of communication or transit, on
bridges or canals, over product plants or water, electricity or
energetic substances.
2. When it is committed in an unpopulated area and in a gang or gang, or with violence in the
serious people or threats.

Page 60

3. When it falls on things of artistic, archaeological, scientific, historical,
religious, military or economic.
4. When it is carried out by fire, destruction or deterioration of documents of
estimable value.
5. When the destruction of forests, jungles, pastures, crops, or crops occurs, or the
fact will fall on purebred animals.
Art. 359 ° .- (PENALTY EXEMPTION). No sanction will be applied, without prejudice to the
civil action that corresponds to the victim, for the crimes of theft, robbery, extortion,
fraud, stelionate, misappropriation and damage, reciprocally caused:
1. Non-divorced spouses, those not legally separated or cohabiting partners.
2. The ascendants, descendants, adopters and adopted and related in a straight line.
3. Brothers and brothers-in-law, if they live together.
CHAPTER IX
USURY
Art. 360 ° .- (USURA). The one who, taking advantage of the need, the lightness or the inexperience of
a person, gives in any way, for himself or for others, values ​or species in exchange
of interests higher than those fixed by law or other pecuniary advantages evidently
disproportionate to the benefit, will be punished with imprisonment from three months to two
years and a fine of thirty to one hundred days.
The same penalty will be applied to the person who knowingly acquires, transfers or enforces a
usurious credit, or to the intermediary, front man or cooperator.
Art. 361 ° .- (AGGRAVATED USURE). The penalty will be aggravated by one half and a fine up to
of a hundred days:
1. If the author is a professional or habitual usury lender or commissioner.
2. When any artifice or deception has been used to obtain the
consent of the victim.
3. If the fact is covered up by other forms of contract, even as a
penal clause that fixes interests.
4. If the fact constitutes any of the forms of anatocism.
CHAPTER X
CRIMES AGAINST COPYRIGHT
Art. 362 ° .- (CRIMES AGAINST INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY). Who with the spirit of
profit, to the detriment of others, reproduce, plagiarize, distribute, publish on screen or in
TV. in whole or in part, a literary, artistic, musical, scientific, television or
cinematographic, or its transformation, interpretation, artistic execution through

Page 61

any means without the authorization of the owners of the property rights
intellectual property or its licensees or import, export or store copies of such
works, without the aforementioned authorization, will be punished with the sentence of imprisonment of three
months to two years and a fine of sixty days.
Art. 363 ° .- (VIOLATION OF PRIVILEGE OF INVENTION). It will be sanctioned with
imprisonment from three months to two years and a fine of thirty to sixty days, whoever violates the
right of privilege of invention or discovery, in the following cases:
1. Manufacturing without authorization of the concessionaire objects or products covered by a
privilege.
2. Using means or procedure that is the object of a privilege.
CHAPTER XI
CYBERCRIME
Art. 363 bis.- (COMPUTER HANDLING). The one who with the intention of obtaining a
undue benefit for himself or a third party, manipulate a processing or transfer of
computer data that leads to an incorrect result or prevents such a process whose
The result would have been correct, thus causing a transfer of assets
To the detriment of a third party, he will be punished with imprisonment from one to five years and a fine of
sixty to two hundred days.

Art. 363 ° ter.- (ALTERATION, ACCESS AND MISUSE OF DATA
COMPUTERS). Whoever without being authorized seizes, accesses, uses, modifies,
delete or render useless, data stored on a computer or on any medium
computer, causing damage to the owner of the information, will be sanctioned with
provision of work up to one year or a fine up to two hundred days.

FINAL TITLE
TRANSITORY DISPOSITIONS
Art. 364 ° .- (ABROGATORY OF CRIMINAL LAWS). The Penal Code of 6 of
November 1834 and all other laws and provisions that are contrary to the
present Law.
FOUNTAIN
Penal Code. 1st ed. La Paz, Bolivia. Head of Cura Editions, 1999, 128 p.
(modifications by Gonzalo Sánchez de Lozada).
Text provided by Dra. Nancy del Rosario Romero Berríos to the Institute
Latin American of the United Nations for the Prevention of Crime and Treatment of
Offender (ILANUD).
Collated by Lic. Jacqueline Reyes Galicia, Legislative Investigator of the Supreme
Court of Justice of Mexico (SCJN).

