Page 1

REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON PEACE - WORK - FATHERLAND
ogcrer me 2019/1500 22 Wu 2018
on the organization and functioning of
the National Technology Agency
Information and Communication.
THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC,
the Constitution;
Law n ° 2004/010 of 23 July 2001 establishing the minimum service in the
telecommunications sector;
seen
vw
Vu ls loin 2010012 of December 21, 2010 relates to cybersdeurté and a
vw
ve
vw

cybercrime in Cameroon;
Law n ° 2010/013 of December 21, 2010 governing communications
electronics in Cameroon;
Law n ° 2010/021 of December 21, 2010 governing trade
electronics in Cameroon;
Law n ° 2017/010 of 12 July 2017 on the general statute of
public establishments;
Considering the decree n ° 2008/124 of April 15, 2005 on the organization of the Ministry
'Posts and Telecommunications;
Considering the decree n ° 2011408 of 09 December 2011 on the organization of
Gouemament, mod and county by decree 2018/1080 of March 02
DECREES:
CHAPTER
GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 4 ". This decree covers the organization and functioning of
the National Agency for Information and Communication Technologies,
abbreviated as “ANTIC”, hereinafter referred to as “the Agency”.

Page 2

ARTICLE 2.- (1) The Agency is a public technical establishment,
endowed with legal personality and financial autonomy.
(2) Its headquarters are located in Yaoundé.
(8) Antennas can be created as needed
in other cities of the country on deliberation of the Board of Directors

CHAPITREN
MISSIONS AND POWERS
SECTION!
MISSIONS
ARTICLE 3. The Agency ensures on behalf of the State:
a) the promotion and monitoring of the action of the public authorities in the field of
Information and Communication Technologies (ICT);
) the regulation, control and monitoring of activities related to the safety of

ARTICLE 4.- As part of the promotion and follow-up missions
of public authorities in the field of information technologies and
communication. The Agency is in particular responsible for:
) participate in the development or revision and monitoring of the
implementation of the national ICT development strategy;
b) identify the common needs of public services in terms of
computer equipment and software;
©) to ensure the harmonization of technical standards and to propose
+ d) to provide its expertise to administrations for the design and
development of their technical objects;
) to coordinate the realization and to ensure the follow-up of the Internet sites,
State intranet and extranet and public bodies;
9 to contribute to the technical training of university trainers,
grandes écoles, lycées, colleges, normal schools and primary schools;

Page 3

9) to participate in training actions for State personnel in the
ICT field, by issuing recommendations on the content
technical training and exam programs
professionals and competitions;

N) to protect technical cooperation roatons with
public or private international organizations acting in this field,
according to the modalities provided for by the legislation in force. In these
Perspective, she is responsible for registering the names of
Somaines € cm ”;
1) to develop the policy and procedures for registering names of
domains in "cm", hosting, server administration
rache. Gatrbuton registration office approval where
Registrar of the "6m":
1). to ensure the availability of Internet addresses (IP) in Cameroon
their operation in a secure environment;
1) to steal, in the use of ICT, respect for ethics, as well as
protection of Imtelecuele property, consumers,
good morals and private life.
REGULATION. CONTROL AND MONITORING OF ACTIVITIES
RELATED TO THE SECURITY OF COMMUNICATION NETWORKS
ELECTRONICS AND INFORMATION SYSTEMS
ARTICLE 5. (1) Within the framework of the missions of regulation, control and
Monitoring of acivies related to the security of informaion systems and networks
of electronic communications, and electronic cerfication, the Agency has
in particular for missions:
2) to participate in the development of the national security policy for
electronic communications and cerfcaton networks;
b) ensure the security of naonal cyberspace, in particular
online, encryption systems and networks of
electronic communication;
©} to put in place mechanisms to ensure the regulation and
+ Internet security at national level;
&) to set up mechanisms to settle disputes, on the one hand,
between ICT operators and, on the other hand, between operators and
users, for Rs problems with content and quality of
service;

Page 4

€) to investigate accreditation requests and prepare the
responsible for the cerifcation and submitting them for signature
u Minister in charge of telecommunications;
1.ensure, on behalf of the State, the management of the cycle of view of
digital cercats and the secursañon of the applcaions of
administrations and public bodies;
9) ensure the quality of the service

h) to issue opinions on draft service provision contracts
'' in the field of information and communication technologies
in general and in terms of cyberspace in pariculate, between
'administrations and ter;
5) to check the conformity of the electronic signatures issued;
D} to issue a consuitaïf opinion on the texts relating to its field of
"skill ;
K to control the security activities of the networks do. communications
electronic, information and certification systems;
1 to initiate applications for the approval of cryptographic means and
to issue safety equipment approval certificates;
m) prepare mutual recognition agreements with the parties.
and submit them for signature to the Minister responsible for
telecommunications
n) ensure the technological level and issue alerts and
communications network security recommendations
electronic, information and certification systems;
©) ensure the technological watch and issue alerts and
communications network security recommendations
electronic, information and certification systems;

) ensure the monitoring, detection and provision of information on
IT risks and the actions of cybercriminals;
D produce statistics on cybersecurity and
+ cbercriminality;

Page 5

8) to carry out any other mission of general interest that may be entrusted to it by the
State officials.
(2) The Agency is the root certification authority and the
certification of the Public Administration.
(G) The Agency shall ensure the mandatory and periodic safety audit of
electronic communications networks and information systems of
operators and providers of electronic communications services.
(4) The activities of the Agency for the security of cyberspace
encompass preventive and curative acivies.

(5) Operators of electronic communications networks
and the operators of information systems contribute to the ANTIC. all the
collaboration required in its cyberspace security activities and
security audit. This collaboration relates in particular to the deployment of
any device in the care of the network or the information system and on the respect
prescriptions for the correct functioning of the said device.
(6) The Agency participates in inquiries and_in_investigations
digital, of its own inaïve or in collaboration with the sance do
Security.
SECTIONN
POWERS
ARTICLE 6. (1) For the accomplishment of its missions, ANTIC has the
Powers of oversight, investigation, injunction, coercion and
sanction.
In this regard, it is particularly able to:
commit its authorized agents who can, therefore, access
premises, land or means of transport for professional use,
request communication of any professional document and
note cybemetic offenses which can only be revealed
through a systematic, unannounced and plural control of those involved in
the sector, by judicial police officers and agents
sworn in and commissioned for this purpose by ll;
. security software, other security service providers
and security service providers as part of their
convention and their specifications. to ensure compliance by
'these obligations which are imposed on them by the legislators

Page 6

and regulations in force;
know the disputes as a first resort:

»Between approved auditors and between them and the structures
audited;
+ between domain name registrars. in

-_iniger and / or propose sanctions to the certfication authorities,
security service providers, security auditors
and security software vendors who do not comply with
applicable regulations ;
= take the necessary precautionary measures to ensure
a continuity of service and protect the interests of users.
() The Agency has a committee responsible for managing the
differences.
(8) A specific text of the Administrative Council of the Federal Agency
Forganisaton the modus operandi of the Committee 6 to Tab 2 Gsus.
CHAPTER
TUTORSHIP
ARTICLE Z. The Agency is placed under the technical authority of the Ministry in
telecommunications charge.
(At 08 te, the technical tutor ensures:
items purchased by Agency are compliant with ieiaions
government public policies in the sector concerned,
subject to the skills recognized by the Board
Administration;
-_ the compliance of the resolutions of the Board of Directors with the rules and
regulations, as well as the orientations of sectoral policies.
ARTICLE # - The Agency is placed under the Financial Wuiele of the Minister in

Page 7

charge of finances.
+ Ace liter, the financial supervision ensures
—_ the compliance of management operations with a financial impact
the Agency for the regulation of public affairs dune pa, el
the a posteriori regularity of the accounts, on the other hand:
the regularity of the resolutions of the Administrative Council with
financial, the sustainability of financial commitments and the
general consistency of the Agency's peromance plans

ARTICLE $.
in charge of finances contribute, in conjunction with the Administrative Council, to the
monitoring the performance of the Agency.

ARTICLE 40. The Agency is administered by two (02) organs:
board of directors ;
the general direction.
ARTICLE 41. + The Board of Directors of the Agency comprises onzs (11)
members.
(In addition to the President, the Board is composed as follows +
one (01) representative of the Presidency of the Republic;
one (01) representative of the Prime Minister's Services;
one (01) representative of the Ministry in charge of telecommunications;
one (01) representative of the Ministry in charge of finance;
one (01) representative of the Ministry in charge of Communication;
one (01) representative of the Ministry in charge of planning;
one (01) representative of the Ministry in charge of defense;
one (01) representative of the General Delegation at National Security;
+ um (Ut) Een de FAoence of Reguaton of
Telecommunications;
one (01) employee representative elected by his peers.

Page 8

ARTICLE 42. (1) The Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Agency is
appointed by decree of the President of the Republic, for a mandate of kings (03)
years, renewable once (01).
(2) The members of the Board of Directors of the Agency are
appointed by decree of the President of the Republic, for a term of three
(03) years, possibly renewable once (01).

ARTICLE 13. (1) The mandate of Director ends:
by death or resignation;
Al following the loss of the quality which motivated the appointment;
+ _ by revocation following a serious fault or actions
incompatible with the function of Director;
At the normal expiration of its duration.
(2) In the cases provided for in paragraph 1 above, I shall be provided with
replacement thereof in the same forms as its designation.
ARTICLE 14. (1) Six (06) months before the expiration of the mandate of a member of the
Board of Directors, the Chairman of the said Board refers to the structure he
represents for replacement.
(2) No member may sit once his term of office has expired.
(3) If the term of office of the Chairman of the Board expires
Administration, the Minister of technical supervision seized the authority vested with
power of appointment.
(4) In the event of death during the term of office or in all.
assumptions where a Director is no longer able to exercise his mandate,
the body which appointed him appoints another Director for the remainder of the term.
ARTICLE 15.- (1) The President and the members of the Board of Directors
Are subject to restrictive measures and incompatibilities provided for by the
legislation.
(2) The Chairman and the members of the Board of Directors,
as well as all other people invited to take part in the sessions of the
Council are also bound by an obligation of discretion for information,
and acts of which they are aware in the exercise of their functions.

Page 9

ARTICLE 16.- (1) The Chairman of the Board of Directors benefits from
monthly allowance, as well as benefits. The amount of the allowance
monthly, as well as the benefits are set by the Board of Directors,
in accordance with the regulations in force.
(2) Directors benefit from a sessional indemnity
fixed by a resolution of the Board of Directors, in La mie des ceilings
defined by the regulations in force. They can claim the
reimbursement of expenses incurred during the sessions, upon presentation
supporting documents.

(3) The Board of Directors can allocate to 588 members,
'' exceptional compensation for the assignments and mandates assigned to them
see, or autotor the stirring sfr of travel, Ge displacement ai
expenses incurred in the interests of the Agency, subject to
the prior authorization of the said Council,
ARTICLE 47 (1) The Board of Directors defines and directs the. policy
general management of the Agency and assesses its management, within the limits set by 508
missions, and in accordance with the laws and regulations in force.
(At this, the Board of Directors
) set the objectives and approve the action programs of the activities
'' its area of ​expertise in the sector;
b) adopt the budget accompanied by the perormance project of
the Agency and finalize the accounts;
©) approve the annual performance reports;
) adopt organizational chart and Internal Regulations;
€) authorizes the recruitment of all staff, in accordance with the plan
recruitment proposed by the Chief Executive Officer and validated by the
Board of Directors;
D. authorizes the dismissal of the person on the proposal of the Director
General;
9) appoints, on the proposal of the Chief Executive Officer, to the ranks of Deputy
director, director and assimilated;
h) accepts all donations, bequests and subsidies;
approves performance contracts or any other agreements

Page 10

Including loans prepared by the Chief Executive Officer and having
impact on the budget;
1) authorizes any disposal of movable or immovable property,
: bodily or incorporates:
K) ensures compliance with the rules of governance and commits
audits to ensure the proper management of the Agency;
regulations in force, internal regulations and forecasts
budgetary;
m) trust the remuneration and benefits of the Chief Executive Officer and the
Pace Gad At re pa de ns en
eur:
1) authorizes the participation of the Agency in associations,
groups or other professional bodies, whose activity
is necessarily linked to its missions;

0) leads to the annual publication of a report on the state and
development of activities within its purview.
(2) The Board of Directors may delegate some of its
powers to the Chief Executive Officer.
ARTICLE 48.- (1) The President of the Administrative Council convenes and
presides over Council sessions. I vow to the application of its resolutions.
(2) The Chairman of the Board of Directors may invite any
person, because of his competence on an issue on the order of
for the session, to take part in the work of the Council in an advisory capacity.
(1) In the event of the vacancy of the Presidency of the Council
of Administration following the death, resignation or default of the Chairman,
the sessions of the Board of Directors are convened by the Minister
in charge of finance, at the behest of the Chief Executive Officer, or two-thirds
(2/3) of the members of the Board of Directors.
(2) Meetings of the Board of Directors convened
goniomémant à Fainéa 1 idossus are requested by the Mambre du Conte
read by his peers.
ARTICLE 29 (1) When convened by its President, the Council

Page 11

Board of Directors must meet at least two (02) times a year in
ordinary session of which
- a session devoted to the examination of the performance project and
the adoption of the budget, which takes place before the start of the fiscal year
next budget;
a session for closing the accounts, which is held no later than the 30
in.
(2) The Administrative Council may be convened in
extraordinary session on the day before, at the request of the President of the
Board of Directors or two shots (2/5) of its members.
(3) The President of the Administrative Council is in default
when he does not convene at least two (02) sessions of the Council
Administration per year,
(4) In the event of the President's refusal to convene a session
of the Board in accordance with paragraph 1 above, two-thirds (2/3) of
members seize the Minister in charge of finance who convenes the Council on
a specific agenda.

ARTICLE 21.- (1) Notices, accompanied by files to be examined
sent to members by any means leaving written traces, fifteen
(18) days at least before the date scheduled for the session.
(2) In an emergency, the time limit provided for in paragraph 1 above may
be brought back to five (05) bears.
(8) The invitations indicate the date, 1 hour, hour and the order
duour.
ARTICLE 22. (1) Any member of the Board of Directors unable to attend may
have another member represented at meetings.
) No Director may, during the same
un, to represent a gun target ”
(3) Any member present or represented at a session of the

Page 12

(Board of Directors, is considered to have been duly convened.
(4) If the President is unable to attend, the Board
of Administration elect from among its members a Chairman of the meeting by a simple increase of
members present or represented.
ARTICLE 23. (1) The Board of Directors examines any question listed in
the agenda itself by the President, itself at the request of the two lers (2/3) of
'Administrators.
(2) The secretariat of the Board of Directors is provided by the
Director General of the Agency.
ARTICLE 24 (1) The Consal of Administration cannot validly deliberate on
any question on its agenda only if at least two-thirds (2/3)
of its members are present or represented. If the quorum is not ati
"During the first summons, To and, for the next summons brought back to
Moïie of the members of the Council of AGmniraton
(2) Each member has one vote.
3) The resolutions of the Board of Directors are taken at the
simple increase of the votes of the members present or represented. In the event of a tie
of votes, that of the President is preponderant.
ARTICLE 25. (1) The decisions of the Board of Directors take the form
of resolufons. They are signed immediately by the Chairman of the Board.
Board of Directors, or the Chairman of the meeting, if applicable, and a
'Administrator.
not

(2) The decisions of the Board of Directors take effect from
'' from heavy adoption, subject to Gaposiions contrary to the los and
rule in force.
ARTICLE 28.- (1) The deliberations of the Board of Directors are subject to a
minutes entered in a special register kept at the head office of the Agency and
“Co-signed by the President and the meeting secretary. The minutes mention
The names of the members present or represented as well as those of the persons
invited to consuitaif. | ost read and approved by the Administrative Council
during the next session.

Page 13

(2) The minutes of the meeting are recorded in a
Special register kept at the headquarters of the Agency.
ARTICLE _27- (1) For the accomplishment of its missions, the Council
Adrien can rer in aon silk as a beak, from Korea ot
omissions.

(2) Members of Committees or. Commissions
benefit from working facilities and Allowances within the limit of the ceilings
fixed by the regulations in force.
SECTION
OF THE GENERAL MANAGEMENT
ARTICLE 28.- (1) The General Management of the Agency is placed under the authority
a Managing Director possibly assisted by a Deputy Managing Director.
(2) The General Manager and the Deputy General Manager are
appointed by decree of the President of the Republic for a term of three (03)
years, possibly renewable two (02) times.
: (G) The renewal provided for in paragraph 1 above is tacit.
(4) In all cases, the cumulative mandates of the Director
General and the Deputy General Manager cannot exceed nine (08) years.
(5) The General Manager and the Deputy General Manager are
subject to restrictive measures and Incompatibilities provided for by the legislation in
force.
ARTICLE 29 - The Director General and in charge of Management and Fappcaon
general policy of Agence, under the control of the Council
Snaminiraion in Qi round réguiremont cons de 3 pesto

ARTICLE 30.- (1) Under the control of the Board of Directors, the Director
Gérul and hey to appear from La pat générale el ei gesture de
the agency.
To read this, in particular for missions:
8) to ensure the administrative, technical and financial management of
the agency;
) to draw up the annual activity program of the Agency
©) to prepare the draft budget and performance, to produce the

Page 14

administrative account, as well as the annual performance report;
d) to ensure the socrétarat of the work of the Board of Directors to which
i take part with consuitaie voice;
) to prepare the resolutions of the Board of Directors and to approve them
"execution

9 to propose a staff recruitment plan to the Board
Administration
'9) appoint the staff, subject to the powers devolved to the
Administration Council;
) to manage the movable and immovable, tangible and intangible property of
Agency, while respecting its missions and the powers of the Board
Administration,
, (2) The Chief Executive Officer may delegate part of his
powers.
ARTICLE 30. The Director General represents the Agency in all acts of
life cie el en justice.
L- (1) The Managing Director or the Deputy Managing Director
"Possibly, is responsible to the Consall of Administration, which can
sanction in the event of serious misconduct in management or behavior likely to
'' harm the smooth running or image of the Agency.
(2) In the cases provided for in step 1 above, the Chairman of the
Board of Directors is required to convene an extraordinary session at the
during which the General Manager where the Deputy General Manager is
heard.
8) The file including the grievances is sent to the Director
General or to the Deputy General Manager, at least ten (10) days before the date
scheduled for the extraordinary session.

(5) The Board of Directors cannot validly deliberate
only in the presence of at least two ters (23) of its members. Any
representation is not allowed in this case.
ARTICLE 32 (1) The Board of Directors may take action against the
Managing Director or Deputy Managing Director, the following sanctions:

Page 15

suspension of certain powers;
+ suspension of his functions for a limited period, with effect
immediate;
-_ suspension of his functions, with immediate effect, accompanied by a
request for revocation addressed to the authority vested with the power of
nomination.

2) The decisions are transmitted for information to the Minister
in charge of telecommunications and to the Minister in charge of finance,
duty of the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
ARTICLE 33.- In the event of suspension of the functions of the Director General or
Deputy Managing Director, the Board of Directors takes them. provisions
necessary to ensure the smooth running of the Agency.
ARTICLE 34.- (1) In the event of temporary incapacity of the Director General,
the interim is provided by the Director
2) In the event that the General Management does not have a
Deputy Managing Director, the intédim is provided by a manager having at
less rank of Director, Appointed by the Director General.
(3) In the event of a vacancy in the post of the General Director for
cause of death, resignation or term of office, the Board
Administration makes the necessary arrangements for the proper functioning
of the Agency, pending the appointment of a new Director General by
Fautorté Invest of the power of appointment.
ARTICLE 35. The remuneration and benefits of the Chief Executive Officer and the
Deputy General Manager are decided by the Board of Directors by majority
two shots (2/3) of its members, in compliance with the ceilings provided for by
Applicable regulations.

w

Page 16

ARTICLE 36.- (1) The Agency may employ:
The Labor Code made available to the Agency;
occasional, seasonal and temporary staff whose terms
recruitment, remuneration and termination of contract are set
by the Staff Regulations.
Flat
The darker in, awkwardly at the ages of
ques rl real at atarcaman at dl in Guschoman
ARIICLE 38. (1) Civil servants on secondment and State agents
falling under the Labor Code are, whatever their original status, taken
Totally in charge by the Agency.
jurisdiction of ordinary courts.
ARTICLE 40.- The act of appointment of the Director General and the Director
“General-Aajoint does not confer on them the quality of employee of the Agency, unless
to be previously in a contractual relationship with the Agency.
CHAPTER VI
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION!
RESOURCE
ARTICLE 41. (1) The resources of the Agency consist of:
-_products from services;
-_ State subsidies;

15

+ a share from the entry fees evou from the
renewal of authorizations granted to service providers
network and information system security services;
a share of penalties established by the Agency in accordance with the
Legislation in force;

Page 17

parafscal taxes whose collection is authorized by the texts
Hegislafs and regulations;
- a share of the resources of the Special Fund for
Telecommunications (FST)
+ a share of the resources of the Special Fund for the activities of
IT security (FSE);
0.8% of the turnover of operators and operators of
electronic communications relating to the operation of
agencies;
a share of the fee for the use of addresses, preferred and
telephone numbers;
the resources resulting from the management of the "cm";
+ a share resulting from fees for the use of frequencies
deductible from the quota allocated to the Treasury
etiegs donations;
any other resource that could be affected.
ARTICLE 42 - The financial resources of the Agency are public funds.
To this end, they are managed according to the rules provided for by the financial system of
State and other public entities.
SEcroNu
BUDGET AND ACCOUNTS
ARTICLE 43. The financial year of the Agency begins on January 1 and ends
SRE dtcenbe dotanum.

ARTICLE 44. (1) The Director General is the chief budget officer
of the Agency.
(2) On the proposal of the Director General, the authorizing officers
secondary can be appointed by the Administrative Council.
ARTICLE 45. (1) The annual budget proposal together with the performance project,
Including the Agency's investment plans are prepared by the Director
General and adopted by the Board of Directors.
(2) The budget is presented in the form of.

Page 18

coherent, with the objectives of national policies and
16

(3) The Agency's budget must be balanced in terms of revenue and
(4) All Agency revenues and expenses are
included in the budget adopted by the Board of Directors.
ARTICLE 48. (1) The budget adopted by the Board of Directors is transmitted,
For information, to the Minister in charge of telecommunications and to the Minister
in charge of finance, for approval.
(2) The budget is made enforceable as soon as it is adopted by the
Board of Directors, subject to provisions contrary to laws and
regulations in force
ARTICLE 47.- The Agency's accounts must be regular, sincere and
'' give a true picture of its assets and financial situation.
ARTICLE 48. (1) The Agency tries 1 types of accounting +
budgetary accounting for receipts and expenses;
a general accounting;
cost accounting.
(2) The Agency may also keep other types of accounts.
SEcnonu
MANAGEMENT CONTROL AND MONITORING
ARTIGLE 49 The Specialized Financial Controller and Accountant appointed
With the Agency carry out their missions in accordance with the regulations
ô force, except ioposions conrares des eonventons imeratenales Sument
edited by Cameroon and published. In this case, the organic heads of
Agency specify the modalities of anchor geston.
ARTICLE 50.- (1) The Accountant is appointed to the Agency by decree
'of the Minister in charge of finance.
(2) The Accountant records all receipts and all
Agency expenses. It controls the regularity of revenue authorizations,
'money orders and payments ordered by the Director General.
(8) The payment of authorized expenses is incurred only
with the Agency's accounting officer.

Page 19

"

ARTICLE 81.- (1) The specialized Financial Controller is appointed to
the Agency by order of the Minister in charge of finance.
(2) The Financial Controller is responsible for controlling acts
'' revenue generators and responses taken either by the Director General, or
by his subordinates. 1 is responsible, in general, for the control of
Budget execution.
ARTICLE 82. (1) The Director General establishes at the end of each financial year
(2) The Chief Executive Officer presents to the Board of Directors
'and, as the case may be, to the Minister responsible for finance and the Minister responsible for
telecommunications, administrative and management accounts and reports
spnusl of perormence in aix (06) set aside the céure of
exercise.
ARTICLE 54. (1) Monitoring the management and performance of the Agency
provided by the Minister in charge of finance. To this end, the Agency is sending
Minister of Finance All documents and information relating to
of the establishment which must be required, under common law,
disposiion of the administrators and, in particular, the. activity reports,
reports of financial controllers, as well as the annual financial statements.

(2) In addition, the Agency is required to publish an annual note
information presenting the state of its assets and liabilities and summarizing its
annual accounts in a day of legal announcements and in the press
national.
(8) The Minister responsible for finance may also request the
production of financial statements for a period of less than one fiscal year.
ARTICLE 55. Independent audits may be requested by the Council
of Administration, the Minister in charge of finance as well as the Minister in charge of
telecommunications.

Page 20

CHAPTER VI,
CONSERVATORY MEASURES
ARTICLE 86. (1) Notwithstanding the provisions of this decree, in the event of a crisis
serious likely to jeopardize the missions of general interest, the corporate purpose
or the sectoral objectives of the Government, a Provisional Administrator may
'' be appointed by decree of the President of the Republic, in place of the
executive bodies of the Agency
(2) The act of appointing the Provisional Administrator
specifies his powers and the duration of his mandate, which, in any case
cause, cannot exceed one (01) mos.
(G) At the end of his term of office, the Provisional Administrator is required
'' to produce an activity report presenting all of its management actions.
CHAPTER VI
WEALTH MANAGEMENT
ARTICLE 87. (1) Property in the public domain, the national domain and the
private domain of the State, transferred to the Agency in accordance with the
state legislation, retain their original status.
(2) Property in the private domain of the State transferred in ownership to
the Agency, are definitively integrated into its assets.
(8) The assets forming part of the private domain of the Agency are managed
in accordance with common law.
ARTICLE 88. (1) Under the control of the Board of Directors, the management of
farimony of the Agency comes under the authority of the Director General.
(2) The management of the assets referred to in paragraph 1 c-Dossus,
“Concerns the acquisition of goods and their alienation.
ARTICLE 89. (1) In case of alienation of Agency property, ie Director General
requires the prior authorization of the Board of Directors. 1 tent up to date at

Page 21

Board of Directors, the situation of the assets which are the subject of an examination
the occasion of one of its sessions.
) The authorization of the Board of Directors is made by means of
dune réouta adopted paru min of the EP) of 8 name.

CHAPTER TWO
MISCELLANEOUS AND FINAL PROVISIONS
The dissolution and liquidation of the Agency takes place
In accordance with the legislation in force.
ARTICLE 61. (1) The Agency is subject to the public procurement code under
reserve of exceptions provided for by specific texts.
(2) The General Manager is the Contracting Authority for all
public markets.
: The internal public procurement commission created
rh de 0e samir de ges de emparen, de concrence ot de
you pr
ARTICLE 63.- All previous provisions contrary to the
This decree, in particular those of Decree No. 2012/180 of April 10, 2012 on
organization and functioning of the National Agency for
Information and Communication.
ARTICLE 64.- This decree will be registered, published following the procedure
emergency, then inserted in the Official Journal in French and English.
Yaoundé, 2 2 MRS 2019
OF THE REPUBLIC,

