Page 1

/ p. 13 /

Decree n ° 83-166 of April 12, 1983
on the Code of Ethics for doctors
The president of the Republic,
Considering the constitution;
Considering the law n ° 80-06 of July 14, 1980 regulating the exercise of the profession of
doctor ;
Considering the law n ° 80-07 of July 14th, 1980 fixing the organization of the Order of the doctors;
On the advice of the Bar Council.
Decrees:

Title one. - General duties of the doctor
First article. - Respect for life is in all circumstances the primary duty of the
doctor.
Art. 2. - (1) The doctor must treat with the same conscience any patient regardless of his
condition, nationality, religion, reputation and feelings that it inspires in him.
(2) He must in no case exercise his profession under conditions that could compromise the
quality of care and actions.
Art. 3. - (1) Whatever his function or specialty, apart from the sole case of force majeure, the
the doctor must provide extreme emergency assistance to the patient in immediate danger, unless he has made sure
that other medical care likely to avoid the danger is lavished on him.
(2) He cannot abandon his patients, even in the event of public emergency, unless there is a written order from the authority.
competent.
Art. 4. - Unless otherwise provided by law, professional secrecy is binding on the doctor as long as
conscience, it does not affect the interests of the patient.
/ p. 14 /
Art. 5. - In their relations, the doctor and the patient each have the following guarantees:
• free choice of doctor by the patient;
• freedom of prescription for the doctor;
• payment of fees by the patient.
Art. 6. - (1) A physician must not alienate his professional independence in any form whatsoever.
is.
(2) He must refrain, even outside the exercise of his profession, from any act likely to
to discredit this one.
(3) He may not exercise, at the same time as medicine, any other activity incompatible with the
dignity of his profession.
Art. 7. - Medicine should not be practiced like a business. As such:
a) any direct or indirect advertising or publicity process and any event are prohibited.
spectacular relating to medicine and not having exclusively a scientific or educational purpose;
b) the only indications that a doctor is authorized to mention on his prescription sheets or
in a directory are:
- those which facilitate its relations with patients;
- titles, functions and officially recognized qualifications relating to the profession;
- scientific honorary distinctions relating to the profession.
c) the only indications that a doctor is authorized to include on the door of his office are: the names,
first names, titles, qualifications, days and hours of consultations and possibly the floor.
These indications must be presented with measure and according to the practices of the liberal professions. The
plate intended for their inscription must not exceed 25 cm by 30 cm. ., ..

Page 2
Cameroon - Decree n ° 83-166 of April 12, 1983, establishing the Code of Ethics for physicians

2

In the event of possible confusion, the mention of the first name (s) may be required by the Council of the Order.
/ p. 15 /
Art. 8. - The usurpation of title or the use of those not authorized by the Council of
the Order, as well as all procedures intended to deceive the public on this subject.
Art. 9. - The practice of medicine under a pseudonym is prohibited.
Art. 10. - The doctor must practice his profession under the conditions allowing him the regular use
an installation and the technical means necessary for the practice of his art.
Art. 11. - It is forbidden to have a cabinet run by a colleague, except in the case of replacement.
Art. 12. - The practice of fairground medicine is prohibited.
Art. 13. - The following are prohibited:
- any act likely to provide a patient with an unjustified or unlawful material advantage;
- any rebate in money or in kind made to a patient;
- any payment, acceptance or clandestine sharing of money between practitioners;
- any commission to any staff whatsoever;
- the acceptance of a commission for any medical act, and in particular for examinations,
prescription of drugs, devices, dispatch to a specific practice or clinic, health resort, or
health house.
Art. 14. - It is forbidden for any doctor to grant any facility to anyone who engages in illegal practice
of medicine.
Art. 15. - Any collusion between doctor and pharmacists, medical auxiliaries and all other
persons, is prohibited.
It is forbidden to give consultations in commercial premises where products are sold.
medicines or devices, as well as in the outbuildings of said premises.
Art. 16. - It is forbidden to exercise another trade or another profession the profits of which would be
increased by prescriptions or professional advice0.
/ p. 16 /
Art. 17. - It is forbidden to use an elective mandate or an administrative function to increase his
customer base.
Art. 18. - All deceptions likely to bring the profession into disrepute are prohibited, in particular
all the practices of charlatanism.
Art. 19. - Constitutes a serious fault, the fact of deceiving the good faith of the practitioners or the customers
by presenting them as safe or beneficial a new diagnostic or treatment process
insufficiently tested.
Art. 20. - In the exercise of his art, the doctor may issue certificates, attestations or
documents in regulatory forms.
Any certificate, attestation or document issued by a doctor must bear his signature, as well as
mention of his name and address.
Art. 21. - The issuance of a tendentious report or a certificate of convenience constitutes a
serious misconduct.

Title II - Duties of the doctor towards the patient
Art. 22. - The doctor as soon as he is called to give care to a patient and has accepted
to fulfill this mission, undertakes to:
- immediately provide him with all the medical care within his power and desirable in the circumstances,
personally or with the help of qualified third parties;
- always act with correction and kindness towards the patient and to be compassionate towards him.

Page 3
Cameroon - Decree n ° 83-166 of April 12, 1983, establishing the Code of Ethics for physicians

3

Art. 23. - The doctor must always prepare his diagnosis with the greatest care without taking into account the
time it costs him this work.
After making a diagnosis and prescribing treatment, the physician should strive to obtain it.
execution, especially if the patient's life is in danger.
/ p. 17 /
Art. 24. - The doctor, in his prescriptions, must remain within the limits imposed by the condition of the
sick. He should in conscience, prescribe a very expensive treatment only by clarifying this one or its
family about the sacrifices and benefits they can expect from this treatment.
The doctor must never give a patient care for profit.
Art. 25. - The doctor called upon to provide care in a family or in any environment must
provide prophylaxis. It puts the patient and his entourage in the presence of their responsibilities vis-à-vis
themselves and their neighborhood, or failing that, the obligation to transport the patient to a training
sanitary.
He must avoid interfering in the affairs of the family or the community concerned.
Art. 26. - When he is called urgently to a minor or another incapable person, and he is
impossible to obtain in good time the consent of the legal representative of the latter, the doctor
must give the necessary care.
Art. 27. - A serious prognosis can legitimately be concealed from the patient.
A fatal prognosis can only be revealed to him with the greatest caution; it must be
generally to his family, unless the patient has previously had this revelation or designated the
third parties to whom it must be made.
Art. 28. - Apart from the case of emergency and the one in which he would fail in his duties of humanity, the doctor can
refuse treatment for professional or personal reasons, provided that:
- thus not to harm the patient;
- to ensure the continuity of the care given to the patient and to provide
useful information.
/ p. 18 /
Art. 29. - (1) All abortion practices or maneuvers are prohibited.
(2) However, a therapeutic abortion can be performed if this procedure is the only one
means likely to safeguard the life of the mother. In this case, the doctor must
obtain the opinion of two colleagues chosen respectively from among the legal experts and the members
of the Council of the Order. They must certify in writing that the mother's life cannot be saved.
than by means of such an intervention.
The consultation protocol is drawn up in triplicate, one of which is given to the patient, and the
two others kept by the consulting physicians.
In addition, a protocol of the decision taken, not indicating the name of the patient, must be sent under cover.
recommended to the President of the Council of the Order.
(3) In localities where there is only one doctor, and where the opinion of two colleagues cannot be
easily obtained, the decision to induce a therapeutic abortion is left to the judgment
of the attending physician, on condition that he transmit it immediately. a detailed report to
Minister of Public Health and the President of the Council of the Order
(4) The doctor must bow to the possible refusal of the duly informed patient. This rule cannot
suffer exception only in cases of extreme emergency, when the patient is unable to give
his consent.
(5) If the doctor cannot, because of his convictions, perform the abortion, he may withdraw
ensuring continuity of care by a qualified colleague.
Art. 30. - During a dystocic or prolonged abortion; the doctor must consider himself as
being the sole judge of the respective interests of mother and child, without allowing himself to be influenced by
family considerations.

Page 4
Cameroon - Decree n ° 83-166 of April 12, 1983, establishing the Code of Ethics for physicians

4

Art. 31. - The doctor must establish his fee bill himself. He cannot refuse his client
explanations on this note.
/ p. 19 /
He remains free to give his care free of charge when his conscience commands him to do so.
Art. 32. - The fixed price for the duration of treatment is prohibited except for childbirth, an operation
surgical, physiotherapeutic treatment, or obtained in a spa or in a
care facility.
The package for the effectiveness of a treatment is prohibited in all circumstances.
Art. 33. - Any sharing of fees between attending physician, on the one hand, consulting physician,
surgeon or specialist, on the other hand, during a consultation or an operative act, is
strictly forbidden. Each practitioner must present their fee bill separately.
The acceptance, the solicitation or "offer of a sharing of fees, even not followed by effect, constitutes
serious professional misconduct.
Art. 34. - The surgeon has the right to choose his assistant or his operating aids as well as the anesthetist.
Their fees can either be claimed by them directly from the patient, or appear on the
surgeon's note.
However, when the surgeon believes he has to entrust the functions of operating aid or anesthesiologist
the attending physician must separately claim his fees.
Art. 35. - The presence of the attending physician at a surgical operation entitles him to
separate fees if requested or accepted by the patient or his family.

Title III - Duties of the physician in matters of social medicine
Art. 36. - The doctor must, taking into account his age, his state of health and possibly his
specialization lend its support to the action of public authorities in matters of protection of
health and organization of the permanence of care.
/ p. 20 /
It must also inform the health services of communicable diseases, as well as the elements of
statistics necessary for public health.
Art. 37. - (1) Practitioners approved as occupational physicians with industrial companies and
sales representatives must communicate their employment contracts to the ministry responsible for public health
as well as to the Council of the Order in the month preceding their taking up service.
(2) Private doctors who do not own the equipment they use or the premises in
which they practice their profession must communicate the related contracts under the conditions
fixed in the previous paragraph.
Art. 38. - It is forbidden for a doctor to practice medical care, and preventive medicine in a
community or a public screening consultation, to use this function to increase its
customer base.
Art. 39. - No one can be both an expert doctor and a doctor treating the same patient, except
absolute necessity arising from the absence of the doctor in the locality.
Unless the parties agree, a doctor must not accept an expert mission in which the
play the interests of one of its customers, friends, relatives or a group that uses its services. He
The same is true when its own interests are at stake.
Art. 40. - The medical expert must, before undertaking any expert operation, inform him of his
mission the person it needs to examine.
Art. 41. - When he is invested with his mission, the medical expert must recuse himself if he considers that the
questions put to him are foreign to proper medical technique.

Page 5
Cameroon - Decree n ° 83-166 of April 12, 1983, establishing the Code of Ethics for physicians

5

In his report, he must reveal only the elements likely to provide the answers to the questions.
asked in the decision appointing him, and withhold any other information he may have learned to
the occasion of his mission.
/ p. 21 /

Title - Duties of confraternity
Art. 42. - (1) Doctors must maintain good fellowship among themselves. They
need moral assistance.
Whoever has a professional disagreement with his colleague must first try to come to terms with
him. In the event of failure, he must notify the President of the Council of the Order for the purposes of conciliation.
(2) It is prohibited to slander a colleague, to slander him, or to echo words of a nature to
harm him in the practice of his profession.
(3) It is good fellowship to defend a colleague unjustly attacked.
Art. 43. - Any diversion and any attempt to divert customers are prohibited.
Art. 44. - The doctor called to see a patient treated by one of his colleagues must respect the
following rules:
- if the patient intends to give up the care of his first doctor: make sure of this express will
and notify the colleague;
- if the patient simply wanted to ask for an opinion without changing the attending physician: suggest a
joint consultation and withdrawing after providing only emergency care. In case for a
valid reason, the consultation would seem impossible or inappropriate, the doctor can examine the
ill, but must reserve for his colleague his opinion on the diagnosis and treatment;
- if the patient I called, due to the absence of his usual doctor: provide care until
return of the colleague and give him all the useful information.
Art. 45. - Subject to the provisions of article 57, the doctor may accommodate in his office
all patients, regardless of their attending physician.
/ p. 22 /
Art. 46. ​- The doctor treating a patient must offer a consultation as soon as the circumstances
require it.
He must accept any consultation requested by the patient or his entourage.
In both cases, the attending physician suggests the consultant he considers most qualified, but he must
take into account the patient's wishes and accept in principle, unless there is a serious reason, to meet any other
doctor. He is responsible for organizing the terms of the consultation.
If the attending physician does not believe he has to give his approval to the choice made, he has the possibility of
withdraw without being forced to explain his refusal.
Art. 47. - At the end of a consultation between two or more doctors, their conclusions must
be drawn up jointly and in writing, signed by the attending physician and countersigned by the
consulting physicians.
When there is no written consultation, the consultant is expected to fully share the opinion
of the attending physician.
Art. 48. - When, during a consultation between doctors, the advice of the consultant and the doctor
treating differ on essential points, the attending physician is free to discontinue treatment if the opinion of the
consultant prevails.
Art. 49. - Except in an emergency, the doctor who has been called for consultation must not return to
of the patient examined jointly, in the absence of the attending physician, or without his approval, during
of the illness that prompted the consultation. In this case, he informs the attending physician as soon as possible.
promptly.
Art. 50. - The doctor can only be replaced in his clientele temporarily by a
colleague, a student or a doctor not entered on the roll of the Order; the Council informed

Page 6
Cameroon - Decree n ° 83-166 of April 12, 1983, establishing the Code of Ethics for physicians

6

necessarily and immediately assess whether the replacement meets the moral conditions
necessary.
During the replacement period, the student or the doctor comes under the disciplinary jurisdiction.
.
/ p. 23 /
Art. 51. - A doctor who, during or after his studies, replaced a colleague for a period
greater than three months, must not, for a period of two years from the end of this
replacement, move to a position that allows them to compete directly with the doctor
that he replaced unless there is an agreement between them which must be notified to the Council of the Order.
When this agreement cannot be obtained, the case must be submitted to the Council of the Order.
A doctor cannot be replaced by a fellow civil servant or by a doctor in the service of
the State for technical assistance or a confrere serving in a confessional work, to
less shortage of private doctors.
Art. 52. - A physician must not settle in a building in which a colleague of
same specialty.
Art. 53. - Any association or partnership between physicians must be the subject of a written contract which respects
the professional independence of each of them.
Draft contracts must be submitted to the Minister in charge of Public Health and to the Council of
the Order.
Art. 54. - It is forbidden for an individual practicing physician to be assisted in the exercise
normal, customary and organized in the profession, except in emergencies and for a maximum period of
fifteen days, from a doctor practicing under his name.
Title V - Duties of physicians towards members of the paramedical professions and
medical auxiliaries
Art. 55. - In their relations with members of the paramedical professions, in particular
pharmacists and dentists, physicians must respect their independence. They
must avoid any unjustified act tending to harm them vis-à-vis their customers and show themselves
courteous to them.
/ p. 24 /
Art. 56. - The doctor must be courteous and benevolent towards the medical auxiliaries and
try not to harm them thoughtlessly.
Art. 57. - Any draft association or partnership contract having a professional purpose between one or
several members of one of the professions referred to in Articles 55 and 56 above must be subject to
"approval of the Council of the Order.

Title VI - Miscellaneous provisions
Art. 58. - Breaches of the provisions of this Code come under the jurisdiction of the Council of
the Order constituted as a Disciplinary Chamber in accordance with the law.
The initiative for referral to this body belongs concurrently to the Order and to the Minister responsible for
public health.
Art. 59. - Except in cases of force majeure or when the object of the requisition concerns a spouse, a
ascending or descending parent, the required doctor must comply with the requisition in the best
deadlines.
Art. 60. - (1) For the suspension of a practitioner in the event of infirmity or pathological condition
making the exercise of his art dangerous, three experts are empowered to write the report.
(2) These experts are appointed as follows:
- the first by "interested party or his family;

Page 7
Cameroon - Decree n ° 83-166 of April 12, 1983, establishing the Code of Ethics for physicians

7

- the second by the Council of the Order;
- the third by the first two experts.
In case of disagreement between the first two on the choice of the third, this one is designated by
the authority responsible for public health.
Art. 61. - When it is referred to in all the cases covered by this Code, the Council of the Order must
pronounce within 30 days of referral.
If an investigation proves necessary, this period may be extended for a further period which cannot be
exceed two months.
/ p. 25 /
At the expiration of these various deadlines, the Council's opinion is deemed to be favorable.
Art. 62. - Any doctor, when registering on the roll, must affirm before the Council of the Order
that he is aware of this Code of Ethics, and undertake under oath and in writing to the
respect.
Art. 63. - Any doctor who ceases to practice is required to notify the Council of the Order. This one
takes note of his decision, and if the interested party expressly requests it, he is no longer kept on the roll.
This decision is notified to the Minister of Public Health.

Title VII - Of the General Assembly
First chapter. - Organization and functioning of the General Assembly
Section 1 - Organization and functioning of the General Assembly .
Art. 64. - Made up of all the doctors registered on the roll of the Order, the General Assembly
comprises three divisions:
Division A: private or business physicians;
Division 8: doctors of confessional works;
Division C: doctors in public services.
Art. 65. - (1) When convened in a constitutive assembly, the General Assembly is chaired
by the dean of physicians, assisted by two young colleagues.
The functions of this provisional office end with the election of the office of the Council.
/ p. 26 /
(2) Ordinary or extraordinary sessions are chaired by the President of the Council of the Order, or
in the event of impediment by the Vice-President.
Art. 66. - (1) To sit validly, the General Assembly must bring together 2/3 of the members of
each division.
(2) Members unable to attend may be represented by proxy. Every doctor cannot
present only one proxy. These proxies are recorded at the office of the Assembly
general from the start of the session.
(3) When the quorum is not reached, the authority which convened the General Assembly shall proceed to a
new convocation within a minimum of 15 days and a maximum of one month. The assembly
general can then sit validly whatever the number of members present and represented.
(4) Only members who have paid all their contributions participate in the vote.
Section 2 - Operation of the General Assembly
Art. 67. - The convening of the constitutive General Assembly falls within the competence of the authority
responsible for public health. Notices of ordinary general meetings or
extraordinary are carried out by the President of the Council of the Order.
They must be sent, along with the agenda, to the member one month before the date set.
for the session.
Art. 68. - The deliberations of the General Assembly are acquired by simple majority. In case of
sharing of votes, that of the president is preponderant.

Page 8
Cameroon - Decree n ° 83-166 of April 12, 1983, establishing the Code of Ethics for physicians

8

The vote is public.
Art. 69. - During extraordinary sessions, the Assembly can only deliberate on the subject of its
summons.
/ p. 27 /

Chapter II - Election and replacement of the members of the Council of the Order
Art. 70. - When it sits to elect the members and the bureau of the Council of the Order, the Assembly
general meeting must bring together at least 2/3 of the members of each division.
Art. 71. - The members of the Council are elected by the General Assembly, division by division, at the
uninominal secret ballot, and by simple majority of votes.
Each division presents its candidates. The full members and the substitute are elected
individually one after the other.
Art. 72. - The members of the bureau are elected by the General Assembly from among the members of the Council
by secret uninominal ballot and by absolute majority of votes.
Art. 73. - In the event of the death or duly noted default of a member of the Board, the deputy on
replaces of right until new elections in General Assembly.
In the case of an executive member of the Council, his replacement is provided for by way of
elections to the Council.

Title VIII - Final provisions
Art. 74. - All previous provisions are repealed, in particular decree n ° 66-DF-311 of 7
July 1966 on the Code of medical ethics.
Art. 75. - This decree will be registered and then published in the official journal in French and English.
Yaoundé, April 12, 1983.
The President of the Republic, Paul Biya.
/p.28/

Page 9

/p.29/
United Republic of Cameroon
United Republic of Cameroon

Code of Medical Ethics
Code of Ethics for Doctors
Decree N ° 83-166 of 12 April 1983
Decree N ° 83-166 of April 12, 1983

/ p. 31 /

Decree No. 83-166 of 12 April 1983
Code of Medical Ethics
The President of the Republic,
Mindful of the Constitution,
Mindful of Law No. 80-6 of 14 July 1980 to regulate the practice of Medicine;
Mindful of Law No. 80-7 of 14 July 1980 to organize the Medical Association;
Upon the recommendation of the Council of the Medical Association. Hereby decrees as follows:

Part I - General obligations of doctors
1. Respect for life constitutes in every instance the primary duty of a doctor.
2. (1) The doctor must tend ail sick persons with the same diligence, whatever their status, nationality,
religion, reputation and the feelings he may have concerning them.
(2) In no case shall the doctor exercise his profession under conditions pre-judicial to the quality of
medical care and attention.
3. (1) Whatever his official duties or special field may be, every doctor must, except in the case of
force majeure, give help urgently to a sick per-son in immediate danger, unless he has ensured that
other medical care likely to ward off the danger has been given to him.
(2) He may not leave his patients in the event of public danger, except upon an order issued in writing
by the competent authority.
4. Professional secrecy shall be binding on ail doctors, unless otherwise provided by law, provided
that in ail conscience it is not harmful to the interests of the patient.
/p.32/
5. In their relations, the doctor and the patient shall each have the following guarantees:
- freedom for the patient to choose his doctor;
- freedom for the doctor to make prescriptions;
- payment of fees by the patient.
6. (1) A doctor shall not relinguish his professional independence in any way whatsoever.
(2) He must refrain, even outside the practice of his profession, from any action that could bring it into
discusses.
(3) He may not, while practicing medicine, perform any other activity incompatible with the dignity of
the profession.
7. The medical profession shall not be exercised like a trade. For this reason:
(a) Any form, direct or indirect, of publicity or advertisement, and any spectacular occasion
concerning medical matters but not having exclusively a scientific or educational purpose shall be
forbidden.

Page 10
Cameroon - Decree No. 83-166 of 12 April 1983. Code of Medical Ethics

10

(b) The only observations which a doctor is authorized to enter on his prescriptions or in a year book
are:
- those which facilitate his relations with his patients;
- such titles, duties, qualifications that are officially recognized and are related to the profession;
- scientific honors related to the profession.
c) The only information that a doctor is authorized to put up on the door of his consulting room are the
surname, names, titles, qualifications, the days, times for consultation and the floor, where applicable.
Such information must be displayed with due restraint according to the custom of the liberal
professions. The plate on which they are to be inscribed must not be larger than 25 cm by 30 cm.
In the event of possible confusion, the medical association may require that first name (s) be
mentioned.
/p.33/
8. Unauthorized assumption of titles or use of those not authorized by the Council of the Association
and all practices intended to mislead the public shall be forbidden.
9. Practice under an assumed name shall be forbidden.
10. A doctor must exercise his profession under conditions allowing him regular use of premises and
the technical facilities necessary for his profession.
11. It shall be forbidden for a doctor to entrust the running of his consulting room to a colleague,
except in the case of replacement.
12. The exercise of medicine in fairs or markets shall be forbidden.
13. The following shall be forbidden:
- any act that may enable that patient to obtain unjustified or illegal material gain;
- any refund in cash or in kind made to a patient;
- any payment, acceptance or secret sharing of money between practitioners;
- any commission to any member of the staff; and
- acceptance of a commission for any medical act whatever, and in particular in respect of
examinations, prescriptions of drugs or appliances, or consignments to a specific consulting room or
clinic, a sanatorium or nursing home.
14. It shall be forbidden for doctors to grant any facilities to persons indulging in illegal medical
practice.
15. (1) Any collusion between doctors and pharmacists, medical assistants and any other persons shall
be forbidden.
(2) No doctor shall be allowed to give consultation in commercial premises where medicines or
medical appliances are on sale, or in annexes to the said premises.
/p.34/
16. Every doctor shall be forbidden to exercise any other trade or profession permitting him to
increase his profits by giving prescriptions or his professional advice.
17. Any doctor holding an elective or administrative office shall be forbid-den to use his position in
order to increase his clientele.
18. Any deceiptful practices likely to discredit the profession and in particular charlatanism, shall be
forbidden.
19. It shall be a serious offense to mislead practitioners or patients by pro-posing as beneficial or
harmless a new or insufficiently tested procedure for 'diagnosis or treatment.
20. (1) In medical practice, the doctor may issue certificates, attestations or documents in due form.
(2) Any certificate, attestation or document issued by a doctor must bear his signature, his name and
address.
21. It shall be a serious offense to issue a tendentious report or a certificate as a favor.

Page 11
Cameroon - Decree No. 83-166 of 12 April 1983. Code of Medical Ethics

11

Part II - Duties of doctors towards their patients
22. A doctor, from the moment he is called to give attention to a patient and agrees to do this, shall be
bound:
- to give the patient ail the necessary medical care withing his power, either personally or with the help
of qualified third parties;
- to always act correctly and courteously towards the patient and to show himself sympathetic towards
him.
23. (1) A doctor must always formulate his diagnosis with the greatest care, regardless of the time that
this work may cost him.
(2) After having made his diagnosis and prescribed treatment, the doctor must endeavor to ensure
that this treatment is carried out, especially if the patient's life is in danger.
/p.35/
24. (1) A doctor must always prescribe treatment within the limits imposed by the conditions of the
patients. He must in good faith not prescribe very costly treatment for a patient until the patient or his
family have been informed of the sacrifices which this would entail and the benefit which they may
derive from it.
(2) A doctor must never give treatment to a patient with a view to profiting therefrom.
25. (1) A doctor called upon to give medical attention in a particular family or place must take ail
necessary prophylactic measures. He shall inform the patients and their relatives, etc., of their
responsibilities towards themselves and their neighbors. He must, in particular, ensure the respect for
rules of hygiene. In the absence of hygienic conditions, the doctor must instruct the patient to arrange
for transport to a health establishment.
(2) He must avoid getting involved in the affairs of the family or place concerned.
26. When ca lied urgently to consult a minor or any other incapable person and when it is impossible
to obtain the consent of the legal representative of the latter in time, a doctor must give ail medical
care necessary.
27. (1) A serious prognosis may lawfully be concealed from the patient.
(2) A fatal prognosis may not be divulged to him except with the greatest prudence; it must normally
be divulged to his family, unless the patient is already so aware or if he has appointed a third party to
be informed.
28. Except in an emergency and where he would be shirking his human responsibilities, a doctor may
refuse his services for professional or personal reasons, provided that:
- he does not, by doing this, do harm to the patient;
- he ensures that medical treatment is continued and supplies the necessary information for this
purpose.
29. (1) Any practice or act of abortion shall be forbidden.
(2) Therapeutic abortion may however be performed if such action is the only way of safeguarding the
mother's life.
/p.36/
In such a case, the doctor must perforce obtain the opinions of two doctors, one of whom shall be
chosen from the civil court list of experts and the other a member of the council of the Association
who will give a written attestation that the life of the mother can only be preserved by such therapy.
The consultation report shall be drawn up in three copies, one of which shall be given to the patient,
the other two shall be kept by the consulting physicians.
Moreover a report of the decision taken, not containing the patient's name, must be sent by registered
mail to the President of the Council.
(3) In areas where there is only one doctor, or where the opinion of two colleagues cannot easily be
obtained, the decision to induce therapeutic abortion shall be at the discretion of the doctor in charge,

Page 12
Cameroon - Decree No. 83-166 of 12 April 1983. Code of Medical Ethics

who must forthwith send a circumstantial report to the Minister of Public Health and to the President
of the National Council of the Medical Association.
(4) A doctor must if necessary accept the refusal of the patient, who has been duly informed. There
shall be no exception to this rule, save in the case of extreme urgency, and where the patient is not in a
fit state to give her consent.
(5) If the doctor cannot, because of his convictions, practice abortion, he may withdraw his services,
ensuring that treatment is continued by a qualified colleague.
30. During difficult or prolonged labor, the doctor must consider himself as the sole judge of the
respective interests of the mother and child, without let-ting himself be influenced by considerations of
a family nature.
31. (1) A doctor must establish his own fees. He may not refuse to give explanations on these fees to

12

his patient.
(2) He may offer his service free of charge if his conscience so dictates.
32. (1) A fixed fee for the duration of a course of treatment shall be forbidden, except in the case of
childbirth, surgical operation, physical therapy, treatment in a sanatorium or nursing home.
(2) Fixed payment for the effectiveness of treatment shall be forbidden under any circumstances.
/p.37/
33. (1) Any sharing of fees between a practitioner on the one hand and a consultant, surgeon, or
specialist on the other hand, at the time of a consultation or operation, is strictly forbidden. Each
physician must submit his own bill.
(2) acceptance, solicitation, or offer to share fees, even if not followed up, shall be a serious
professional offense.
34. (1) A surgeon shall have the right to select his own assistant or operation assistants, as well as the
anesthetist. The latter persons may either claim their fees directly from the patient, or add such fees to
the surgeon's bill to the patient.
(2) Nevertheless, when the surgeon deems it advisable to entrust the duties of operation assistant or
anesthetist to the medical practitioner, the latter must claim his own fees separately.
35. The presence of the practitioner at a surgical operation shall give him the right to separate fees if
his presence has been requested or accepted by the patient or his family.

Part III - Duties of doctors in matters of social medicine
36. (1) The doctor shall, bearing in mind his age, health and specialized field, as the case may be, give
his assistance with regard to work undertaken by the competent authorities for the protection of health
and organization of health care on a permanent basis.
(2) Doctors must inform the Public Health Services of contagious diseases, and must also supply
statistical data needed by the public health services.
37. (1) Practitioners engaged as labor medical officers by industrial or commercial undertakings must
transmit their contract or engagement to the Ministry in charge of Public Health and to the Council of
the Association within one month preceding their assumption of duties.
(2) Private doctors who do not own their equipment or the premises in which they practice must send
in the contracts relating thereto under the conditions fixed by the preceding paragraph.
/p.38/
38. Any doctor who, while practicing curative medicine, carries out preventive medical treatment in a
community or gives a public consultation for detecting disease, shall be forbidden to make use of such
activities to increase his private clientele.
39. (1) No one may be both specialist and general practitioner for the same patient, except in the event
of absolute necessity due to lack of doctors in the area.

Page 13
Cameroon - Decree No. 83-166 of 12 April 1983. Code of Medical Ethics

13

(2) Unless the parties otherwise agree, a doctor must not agree to undertake an assessment when the
interests involved concern one of his patients, friends, relatives or group which calls upon his services.
The same shall apply when his personal interests are involved.
40. A specialist must, before undertaking any operation of assessment, inform the person he is to
examine of his mission.
41. (1) When entrusted with his mission a specialist must decline to give an opinion if he considers
that the questions put to him are not relevant to medicine properly speaking.
(2) In his report, the specialist must only reveal the information necessary to serve as replies to the
questions asked in the decision appointing him and must not reveal any other information he might
have learned.

Part IV - Duties of colleagues
42. (1) Doctors must maintain good professional relations between themselves. They owe each other
moral support.
A doctor having a professional disagreement with a colleague must first attempt to come to an
agreement with him; if he does not succeed, he must inform the President of the Council of the
Association of the matter.
(2) It shall be forbidden to slander or disparage a colleague, or to repeat any remarks likely to harm
him in the practice of his profession.
(3) Defense of a colleague unjustly criticized shall be deemed good professional conduct.
/p.39/
43. It shall be forbidden to attract and attempt to attract the patients of another doctor.
44. A doctor called to a patient who is being tended by one of his colleagues must respect the
following rules:
- if the patient intends to dispense with his first doctor: the second doctor must obtain the patient's
express wish and advise his colleague;
- if the patient simply wanted to ask an opinion without changing his doctor; the second doctor must
suggest a joint consultation and withdraw after having given only the emergency treatment necessary.
In the case where, for a valid reason consultation seems impossible or inappropriate, the doctor may
examine the patient, but shall reserve for his colleague his opinion on the diagnosis and treatment;
- if the patient has, owing to the absence of his usual doctor, called upon him, he must give him all
treatment necessary until his colleague returns and give him all necessary information.
45. Subject to the provisions of Article 57, a doctor may receive any patient at his surgery, whoever
their usual doctor.
46. ​(1) A Doctor treating a patient must suggest a consultation with a specialist whenever
circumstances so require.
(2) He must accept a consultation requested by the patient or his friends and relations.
(3) In both cases the doctor shall propose the consultant whom he deems most qualified, but he must
take the patient's wishes into account and agree, in principle, save for any serious reasons to meet any
other doctor.
He shall be responsible for organizing the procedure for consultation.
(4) If the examining doctor considers that he should not agree to the choice made, he may withdraw
and shall not be obliged to explain his refusal.
47. (1) At the close of consultation between two or more doctors, their conclusions shall be drawn up
jointly and in writing, then signed by the examining doctor and countersigned by the consulting doctor
or doctors.
(2) When conclusions are not drawn up in writing the consultant is deemed to be fully in agreement
with the opinion of the doctor.
/p.40/

Page 14
Cameroon - Decree No. 83-166 of 12 April 1983. Code of Medical Ethics

14

48. When, during a consultation between doctors, the opinions of the consultant and the examining
doctor basically differ, the examining doctor shall be free to case treatment if the consultant's opinion
prevails.
49. Except in an emergency, a doctor who has been called for consultation must not return to the
patient he examined with his colleague, in the absence of the examining doctor or without his
approval, during the illness which necessitated the consultation. In this case, the examining doctor
must be notified as quickly as possible.
50. (1) A doctor may only have himself replaced temporarily in respect of his patients by a colleague,
a student or doctor whose name does not appear on the Roll of the Association; the Council, which
must compulsorily and immediately be informed, shall decide whether the substitute satisfies the
necessary moral conditions.
(2) During the period of replacement, the student or doctor shall be under the disciplinary jurisdiction.
51. (1) A doctor who, during or after his studies, has replaced a colleague for a period of more than
three months, shall not, within two years after such replacement, set himself up in an establishment,
where he could be in direct competition with the doctor whom he replaced, unless they have reached
an agreement which shall be notified to the Council of the Association.
(2) When such agreement cannot be obtained, the case must be submitted to the Council of the
Association.
(3) A doctor may not be replaced by a government doctor, a doctor serving the State under technical
assistance or a colleague serving a missionary agency, unless there is a shortage of private doctors.
52. No doctor shall set himself up in a building in which a colleague of the same specialty practices.
53. (1) Any associations or partnership between doctors must form the subject of written contract
respecting the professional independence of each doctor.
(2) Draft contracts must be submitted to the Minister in charge of Public Health and to the Council of
the Association.
/p.41/
54. Any doctor practicing on an individual basis shall be forbidden, in the normal, customary and
organized practice of his profession, to obtain the assistance of a doctor practicing on his behalf,
except in an emergency and for a maximum period of fifteen days.

Part V - Duties of doctors towards members of paramedical professions and
auxiliary medical staff
55. In their relations with members of paramedical professions, particularly pharmacists and dental
surgeons, doctors must respect the independence of such persons. They must avoid any unjustified
action likely to harm them in the eyes of their clientele and they must behave courteously towards
them.
56. A doctor must be courteous and benevolent towards auxiliary medical staff refrain from
inconsiderately causing them prejudice.
57. Any proposal of contract, association or partnership having a professional object, between one or
more members of one of the professions mentioned in Articles 55 and 56 above, must be submitted to
the Council of the Association for approval.

Part VI - Miscellaneous provisions
58. (1) Any infringement of the provisions of the present Code shall fall within the jurisdiction of the
Council of the Association sitting as the Disciplinary Board in conformity with the law.
(2) The initiative to refer a matter to this Board shall be jointly taken by the Association and the
Minister in charge of Public Health.
59. Except in unavoidable circumstances or where a requisition concerns a spouse, an ascendant or a
descendant, the summoned medical practitioner must comply with the requisition as soon as possible.

Page 15
Cameroon - Decree No. 83-166 of 12 April 1983. Code of Medical Ethics

15

/p.42/
60. (1) In order to suspend a practitioner in the event of physical disablement or of a pathological
condition rendering the practice of the profession. dangerous, three experts shall be empowered to
draw up the report.
(2) The said experts shall be appointed as follows:
- the first by the person concerned or his family;
- the second by the Council of the Association;
- the third by the first two experts.
In the case where the first two fail to agree on the choice of the third, the latter shall be appointed by
the authority in charge of Public Health.
61. (1) When a matter is referred to the Council of the Association in all the cases referred to in the
present Code, the Council shall give its ruling within 30 (thirty) days after the matter has been referred
to it.
(2) Where it is deemed necessary to carry out an investigation, such period shall be extended for a
further period of not more than two months.
(3) Upon the expiry of these different periods, the recommendation of the Council shall be deemed
favorable.
62. Every doctor shall, at the time of enrollment in the Association, declare before the Council of the
Association that he has cognisance of the present Code of ethics and shall undertake, under oath and in
writing, to abide by it.
63. Any doctor who discontinues practice shall be bound to notify the Council of the Association
thereof. The latter shall give official notice of its decision and where the person concerned expressly
requests it, his name shall be struck off the roll. The Minister in charge of Republic Health shall be
notified of such decision.
/p.43/

Part VII - The General Assembly
Chapter I - Organization and functioning of the General Assembly
64. The General Assembly shall include all doctors inscribed on the Roll of the Association. It shall
be made up of three divisions:
- Division A: medical practitioners engaged in private practice or those employed by enterprises;
- Division B: medical practitioners employed by missionary agencies;
- Division C: Government medical practitioners.
65. (1) When convened in constitute assembly, the General Assembly shall be presided over by the
oldest medical practitioner, assisted by two young colleagues.
The functions of such interim officers shall terminate as soon as the officers of the Council are elected.
(2) The ordinary or extraordinary sessions shall be presided over by the President of the Council or, if
he is unable to attend, by the Vice-President.
66. (1) The quorum of the General Assembly shall be two-thirds of the members of each division.
(2) Members who are unable to attend may be represented by proxy. Each medical practitioner shall
give only one proxy. Such proxies shall be registered by the officers of the General Assembly at the
start of the session.
(3) Where the quorum has not been attained, the authority who convened the General Assembly shall
again convene the Assembly within not less than 15 days and not more than a month. Tea
deliberations of the General Assembly shall then be valid whatever the number of members present
and represented.
(4) Only members who have paid all their contributions shall take part in the vote.
/p.44/
Section 2 - Functioning of the General Assembly
67. (1) The convening of the Constituent General Assembly shall fall within the jurisdiction of the
authority responsible for Public Health.

Page 16
Cameroon - Decree No. 83-166 of 12 April 1983. Code of Medical Ethics

16

2) Ordinary or extraordinary meetings of the General Assembly shall be convened by the President of
the Council.
(3) Notices of meetings shall be forwarded together with the agenda, to members one month before the
appointed date for the session.
68. (1) The decisions of the General Assembly shall be taken by simple majority. In the event of a tie,
the President shall have the casting vote.
(2) The vote shall be open.
69. During extraordinary sessions, the Assembly shall discuss only the items on the agenda.
Chapter II - Election and replacement of members of the council
70. When the General Assembly meets in order to elect the members and officers of the Council, the
quorum shall be two-thirds of the members of each division.
71. (1) The members of the Council shall be elected by the General Assembly according to division.
Voting shall be for a single candidate and by simple majority.
(2) Each division shall propose its candidates. The substantive and alternate members shall be elected
individually, one after the other.
72. The officers shall be elected by the General Assembly from among the members of the Council.
Voting shall be for a single candidate and by absolute majority.
/p.45/
73. (1) In the event of death or duly established default of a member of the Council, the alternate
member shall automatically replace him until new elections are held in the General Assembly.
(2) Where an officer of the Council is concerned, he shall be replaced by elections within the Council.

Part VII - Final provisions
74. All previous provisions, in particular Decree No. 66-DF-311 of July 1966: Code of Medical
Deontology, are hereby repealed.
75. This decree shall be registered and published in the Official Gazette in English and French.
Yaounde, April 12, 1983.
Paul Biya, President of the Republic.
/p.46/

Page 17

/p.47/

Republic of Cameroon

Law on the practice and organization
of the medical profession
Law N ° 90-36 of August 10, 1990
/p.48/
/p.49/

Law N ° 90-36 of August 10, 1990

Relating to the practice and organization of the Profession of Medicine
First article. - This law and the texts adopted for its application regulate the exercise and
organization of the medical profession.

Title one - Exercise of the Profession
Chapter 1 - Conditions of exercise of the profession of doctor
Art. 2. - (1) No one may practice the profession of doctor in Cameroon unless he is registered on the roll of
the Order.
(2) However, may exercise the profession of doctor in Cameroon, the practitioner of foreign nationality
fulfilling the following additional conditions:
- be a national of a country that has signed a reciprocity agreement with Cameroon;
- not have been removed from the Order in his country of origin or in any other country where he has practiced
previously;
- be recruited on contract or under a cooperation agreement on behalf of
administration, a denominational order or an NGO (non-governmental organization) for
non-profit;
- serve on behalf of an approved private company.
Art. 3. - Carrying out professional acts of an administrative and judicial nature, drafting
and the issuance of the related documents are ensured by the doctor, either in the normal exercise of
his functions, or in execution of a special mission for which he is responsible. It is required in this regard / p. 49 /
to comply with any requisition that may be awarded to him.
Art. 4. - The doctor in service in the administration or in the private sector is subject to:
- professional secrecy;
- the Code of ethics of the profession adopted by "National Order of Physicians then approved by
the supervisory authority;
- the statutory provisions of the Order.

Chapter II. - The exercise of the Private Client Profession
Section I. - Conditions of exercise
Art. 5. - (1) The practice of the profession with private clients is subject to an authorization issued by
the Council of the Order under the conditions and modalities established by this law.
(2) The Bar Council also decides on requests for temporary replacement,
change of professional residence or geographical area of ​activity, resumption of activity after
interruption following a disciplinary sanction, under conditions set by regulation.
(3) The authorizations granted by the Council of the Order must comply with the health card
established by regulation.
Any authorization granted in violation of the health card is null and void.

Page 18
Cameroon - Law n ° 90-36 of August 10, 1990, relating to the exercise and organization of the profession of doctor

18

Art. 6. - No one can practice the profession of doctor in private clientele if he does not fulfill the
following conditions:
- be of Cameroonian nationality and enjoy their civic rights;
- be registered on the roll of the Order;
/ p. 51 /
- justify five (5) years of effective practice with a public administration or a
private organization within the national territory or abroad;
- produce a letter of agreement in principle of release when he occupies a salaried job or is
assistant to a colleague working for private clients;
- be of good character;
- produce an insurance policy covering professional risks;
- have paid all their contributions to the Order.
Art. 7. - Unless there is a reciprocity agreement, a doctor of foreign nationality cannot exercise as a
private in Cameroon.
Art. 8. - (1) Requests for approval are submitted in duplicate to the Council of the Order
against receipt.
(2) The Bar Council is required to rule on the file referred to it within thirty
(30) days from the date of filing thereof.
(3) The decision of the Council of the Order is subject to the prior approval of the supervisory authority as soon as
the first working day following this decision. The supervisory authority has a period of thirty (30)
days to decide. After this period, the decision of the Council of the Order becomes enforceable and must
be notified to the applicant.
(4) In all cases, after ninety (90) days from the filing of the file, the
silence kept by the Council of the Order implies acceptance of the request of the postulant who can
settle down.
(5) Any rejection decision must be motivated.
Art. 9. - (1) The decisions of the Council of the Order rendered on applications for accreditation may, in
within thirty (30) days of their notification, be appealed to the Council's Appeals Chamber
of the Order by the applicant if it is a rejection decision or by any member of the Order having
interest to act if it is a decision of acceptance.
The appeal has no suspensive effect except in the case of an acceptance decision.
/ p. 52 /
(3) The Appeals Chamber must rule within two (2) months of the referral. His
decisions are notified in the forms provided by this law and are not subject to appeal
than before the Supreme Court, in the forms of common law.
(4) After the period of two (2) months, the silence kept by the Appeals Chamber constitutes a decision in favor of
the request of the applicant.
Art. 10. - (1) A practice or a clinic may not remain open in the absence of its holder unless this
the latter was regularly replaced.
(2) In the event of impediment, the doctor can be replaced by his clientele either by a
colleague working for private clients, or by an assistant doctor.
The Council of the Order is immediately informed.
(3) The normal duration of a replacement cannot exceed one (1) year; except in cases of force majeure where it
is increased to two (2) years renewable once.
Art. 11. - (1) The doctor may be assisted by one or more colleagues.
(2) The remuneration of the assistant doctor is fixed by agreement between the parties. The Council of the Order is
informed.
Art. 12. - In the event of the death of a practitioner installed as a private clientele, the period during which his
rights holders can keep the practice in business by having it managed by a replacement cannot
exceed five (5) years, renewable once.

Page 19
Cameroon - Law n ° 90-36 of August 10, 1990, relating to the exercise and organization of the profession of doctor

19

If during the aforementioned period, one of the deceased's children is engaged in studies of
medicine, this cabinet can be reserved for him.
The replacement procedures are the same as those provided for the authorization to exercise the
profession in private clients.
/ p. 53 /
Section II. - Incompatibilities
Art. 13. - Subject to specific texts, the exercise of the profession of doctor for clients
private is incompatible with the quality of civil servant, of contractual agent of the administration in
activity or employee in general.
Section III. - Professional civil societies of doctors
Art. 14. - Doctors installed in private clientele in the same locality can associate between
them, and exercise their profession in the form of a professional civil society whose organization and
functioning are fixed by specific texts.
Section IV. - Insurance obligation
Art. 15. - (1) The practitioner or the professional civil society of physicians is required to subscribe
with an approved insurance company a policy intended to cover his professional risks.
Receipt is sent to the Council of the Order at the beginning of each calendar year.
(2) Failure to have an insurance policy results, at the behest of the Bar Council or the authority of
supervision seized for this purpose, the temporary closure of the establishment. This cannot be reopened
only once the receipt justifying payment of the insurance policy is presented.
/ p. 54 /

Chapter III. - The illegal exercise of the profession of doctor
Art. 16. - Is convicted of illegal practice of medicine:
1 - Any practitioner who practices his art under a pseudonym or who gives consultations in
commercial premises where devices prescribed or used are sold;
2 - Any unauthorized person who, even in the presence of a practitioner, usually takes part or
by direction followed, to the establishment of diagnoses or treatment of ailments by acts
professionals, consultations or by any other process:
3 - Any practitioner who practices his art in violation of the provisions of article two (2) above or
which provides assistance to unauthorized persons;
4 - Any practitioner who practices his art despite a temporary or definitive ban which he
is the object.
Art. 17. - (1) Without prejudice to more severe administrative, disciplinary or criminal sanctions,
any person found guilty of illegally practicing the profession of doctor is liable to
imprisonment of six (6) days to six (6) months and a fine of 200,000 to 2,000,000 F or
one of these two penalties only.
2) The court may, if necessary, order the confiscation of the material used for the commission
of the offense and the closure of the establishment.
(3) Anyone found guilty of violating this law shall immediately cease his activity.
In addition, the closure of his office or clinic may be ordered by the Council of the Order
regardless of any judicial decision.
Art. 18. - The Council of the Order may refer the matter to the investigating court or the trial court
or where applicable, become a civil party in any action brought by the public prosecutor against
any person charged or accused of illegal practice of the profession of doctor.
/ p. 55 /

Title II. - From the national order of physicians
Art. 19. - The National Order of Physicians hereinafter also referred to the Order, established by Article 1 st
of the law n ° 80-07 of July 14, 1980 includes obligatorily all the doctors practicing in
Cameroon.

Page 20
Cameroon - Law n ° 90-36 of August 10, 1990, relating to the exercise and organization of the profession of doctor

20

Art. 20. - (1) The Order sees to the maintenance of the principles of morality and dedication essential to
the exercise of the profession of doctor, as well as the respect of the rules decreed by the Code of
deontology.
(2) The Order shall also exercise any powers which may be entrusted to it by this law or by
specific texts.
(3) The Order has legal personality. Its headquarters are located in Yaoundé.
It is placed under the supervision of the authority responsible for public health services.

First chapter. - Organization of the national order of physicians
Art. 21. - The Order fulfills its mission and exercises its powers through the two
following bodies:
- the general Assembly;
- the board.
Section I. - The General Assembly
Art. 22. - (1) The General Assembly is made up of all the doctors registered on the
the Order.
(2) It meets every year in ordinary session when convened by its chairman, and if necessary,
in extraordinary session at the request of / p. 56 / the absolute majority of its members, i.e.
Council of the Order or the supervisory authority for:
- elect the members of the Council of the Order;
- elect six members for the Appeals Chamber;
- rule on the activity report of the President of the Council of the Order;
- set the guidelines likely to ensure the smooth running of the profession;
- adopt the Code of ethics of the profession and the internal regulations of the Order.
(3) The General Assembly elects the President of the Order and an Auditor for a mandate
three (3) years. They are eligible for re-election.
Art. 23. - (1) The agenda of the sessions of the General Assembly relates exclusively to the
questions relating to the practice of the profession. It is established by the President of the Council of the Order who
may be seized one month before the session, questions from either members of the Order or from
the supervisory authority.
(2) The agenda of any session of the General Assembly shall be communicated fifteen (15) days to the
at least before the date of the session to the supervisory authority which is represented at the work of
the general Assembly.
(3) The supervisory authority may prohibit the holding of an ordinary or extraordinary session of
the General Assembly if the agenda did not comply with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.
Art. 24. - The organization and functioning of the General Assembly are defined by the regulations
interior.
Section II. - Of the Council of the Order
Art. 25. - (1) The Council of the Order is the executive body of the latter. It has 12 elected members
for 3 years in the following proportions:
- four members of Division A elected and one deputy (officials).
- four members of division B elected and a substitute (private lay people).
- four members of division C elected and a substitute (private denominational).
/ p. 57 /
(2) All the doctors registered on the roll of the Order are electors and eligible. Members of
Council of the Order are eligible for re-election.
(3) The practical modalities of the organization of the elections of the members of the Council, and the rules
relating to their replacement in the event of failure are set out in the Code of Ethics.

Page 21
Cameroon - Law n ° 90-36 of August 10, 1990, relating to the exercise and organization of the profession of doctor

21

Art. 26. - In addition to the President elected at the General Assembly, the Council of the Order elects from among
a mandate of three (3) years an office comprising:
- a Vice-President;
- a Secretary General;
- a Treasurer.
Art. 27. - (1) After election, the minutes are notified from the first working day following the election.
to the supervisory authority.
(2) Disputes concerning the elections may be referred to the Administrative Chamber of the
Supreme Court, by any doctor having the right to vote, within fifteen (15) days following the
ballot. The supervisory authority must be informed.
Art. 28. - The membership of the Council of the Order ceases:
1. At the end of the term;
2. In the event of unjustified absence from three (3) consecutive meetings of the Council of the Order;
3. In the event of permanent disability or death;
4. In the event of duly certified resignation;
5. In the event of removal from the roll of the Order.
Art. 29. - The Council of the Order can validly deliberate only in the presence of 3/5 of its
members. Its sessions are chaired by its President or, in case of impediment and in the following order
afterwards, by the Vice-President or the dean of the members of the Council of the Order.
/ p. 58 /
Art. 30. - (1) The Council of the Order meets two (2) times a year in ordinary session on
convocation of its President. It can, if necessary, meet in extraordinary session, either on its
own initiative, either at the request of at least half of its members or that of the
guardianship.
(2) The President determines the date, place and time of the meetings.
(3) Each member of the Council of the Order has the right to vote. The decisions of the Council of the Order are
taken by a simple majority of the members present.
(4) The deliberations of the Bar Council are not public.
However, the President may invite any person of his choice because of his skills, to
take part in the deliberations of the Council of the Order in an advisory capacity.
Art. 31. - (1) Within the framework of the provisions of Articles 20, paragraphs 1 and 2 and 21 above, the Council
of the order :
- rule on applications for registration or re-registration on the roll and on the election of its members;
- approves requests to exercise the profession for private clients as well as requests
establishment, temporary replacement, change of professional residence or area
geographical, and resumption of activity after interruption following a disciplinary sanction;
- exercises any competence assigned to it by this law or by specific texts;
- studies all questions submitted to it by the supervisory authority;
- imposes disciplinary sanctions on members of the Order under the conditions provided for by the
this law.
(2) In any case, the Council of the Order does not have to take into account the acts, attitudes, political opinions or
nuns of the members of the Order.
Art. 32. - The Council of the Order fixes the amount of the contributions of the members of the Order. These
are compulsory under penalty of disciplinary sanctions.
/ p. 59 /
Art. 33. - The President of the Council of the Order represents the Order in all acts of civil life and
in justice. He manages the goods of the Order by delegation of the Council of the Order.

Chapter II. - Registration on the roll of the Order
Art. 34. - No one can practice the profession of doctor in Cameroon if he is not previously registered
on the roll of the Order.

Page 22
Cameroon - Law n ° 90-36 of August 10, 1990, relating to the exercise and organization of the profession of doctor

22

This table is kept up to date by the Council of the Order and is regularly communicated to the authority of
guardianship, prefectures, town halls and court offices.
Art. 35. - The conditions for registration on the roll of the Order are as follows:
a) be of Cameroonian nationality and enjoy their civic rights;
b) have the civil majority;
c) hold a State or University degree in Medicine or any other degree
recognized as equivalent by the competent authority when the file is submitted;
d) not to have suffered any conviction for an act contrary to probity (theft, embezzlement
public. fraud, breach of trust, forgery and use of forgery) or good morals;
e) not to have been declared bankrupt or in a state of compulsory liquidation.
Art. 36. - (1) The registration file for the roll of the Order is deposited in duplicate at the
Council of the Order, against receipt.
(2) The Council of the Order is required to decide on the registration file for the roll of the Order,
of which it is seized within thirty (30) days from the date of its filing.
(3) Any decision of the Council of the Order on an application for registration on the roll of the Order must be
subject to the prior approval of the supervisory authority from the first working day following this
decision. The supervisory authority has a period of thirty (30) days to make a decision. After this deadline,
the decision of the Council of the Order becomes enforceable and must be notified to the applicant.
/ p. 60 /
(4) In all cases, after ninety (90) days from the filing of the file, the
failure to respond by the Council of the Order implies acceptance of the applicant's request and its
automatic registration on the roll of the Order.
(5) Any rejection decision must be motivated.
Art. 37. - (1) The decisions of the Council of the Order rendered on applications for registration or
re-registration on the roll of the Order may, within fifteen (15) days of their notification, be
appealed to the Appeals Chamber of the Council of the Order by the applicant if it is a
refusal of registration, or by any member of the Order having an interest in acting, in the case of registration
or a re-registration.
(2) In either case, if the Appeals Chamber does not take a decision within two (2)
month following his referral, the candidate is entered on the roll of the Order.
(3) The appeal has no suspensive effect, except in the case of a decision of acceptance.
Art. 38. - Without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 18 and 36 above, decisions, deliberations,
resolutions or any other act of the General Assembly or the Council of the Order are, on pain of nullity
absolute, subject to the prior approval of the supervisory authority from the first following working day
their intervention.
The supervisory authority has a period of thirty (30) days to make a decision. After this deadline, these acts
become enforceable as of right.
Art. 39. - In the event of cessation of activity, declaration is made by the interested party within fifteen (15)
days to the Council of the Order which proceeds to the cancellation of its registration.
Art. 40. - (1) The Secretary General of the Council of the Order is responsible for keeping the roll of the Order.
(2) The table of the Order only mentions diplomas and professional qualifications
recognized by the competent authority of the country where they were obtained. However, the
degrees and distinction awarded to the doctor by the State.
/ p. 61 /

Chapter III. - Discipline
Art. 41. - (1) The Council of the Order exercises, within the profession of Physician, the competence
disciplinary in first instance.
(2) As such, he appoints a disciplinary chamber from among its members, chaired by the Chairman of the Board and
composed of four (4) elected members. The President can be substituted in case of challenge or
prevention.

Page 23
Cameroon - Law n ° 90-36 of August 10, 1990, relating to the exercise and organization of the profession of doctor

23

Art. 42. - (1) The Disciplinary Chamber may be referred to by the supervisory authority, the public prosecutor or
by any doctor entered on the roll of the Order and having an interest in acting.
(2) The Doctor in the service of the State cannot be brought before the Disciplinary Chamber on occasion
acts of its functions, only by the authority responsible for public health, or by the Council of
the Order after consulting the supervisory authority.
The supervisory authority must decide within thirty (30) days of its referral. After this time, the silence
kept by it constitutes acceptance.
(3) The Disciplinary Chamber can only validly rule in the presence of 3/5 of its members at the
less.
Art. 43. - The following may in particular justify referral to the Disciplinary Chamber:
- any conviction for any offense committed inside or outside the
national territory, and likely to damage the credit or reputation of the profession;
- any conviction for misconduct relating to conduct or behavior vis-à-vis the profession.
Art. 44. - The Disciplinary Chamber may, at the request of the parties or on its own initiative,
order an investigation into the facts the finding of which appears useful to the investigation of the case. The
decision ordering the investigation / p. 62 / indicates the facts to which it must relate and specifies according to the
case, if it will take place before the Disciplinary Chamber, or if it will be carried out by one of its members
who will be transported to the scene.
Art. 45. - (1) Any implicated Doctor may be assisted by a lawyer of his choice.
(2) He may exercise the right of challenge in the forms of common law.
Art. 46. ​- (1) The Disciplinary Chamber keeps a register of deliberations:
(2) Minutes are drawn up after each meeting and signed by all members.
(3) The minutes of the interrogation or hearing must also be drawn up and signed by
interested.
Art. 47. - (1) No disciplinary sanction may be pronounced without the Doctor in question
has been heard or called to appear within thirty (30) days of receipt of his
summons against receipt.
(2) The Disciplinary Chamber may rule when the respondent has not complied with a summons
duly notified.
Art. 48. - (1) The Disciplinary Chamber may impose one of the following sanctions:
- the warning;
- the blame ;
- suspension of activity ranging from three (3) months to one year, depending on the seriousness of the fault committed;
- removal from the roll of the Order.
/ p. 63 /

(2) The first two of these sanctions entail ineligibility for the Council of the Order for two
(2) years from the notification of the sanction. The third sanction results in ineligibility for
three (3) years from the notification.
Art. 49. - (1) The decisions of the Disciplinary Chamber must be motivated.
(2) They are communicated from the first working day following their intervention to the supervisory authority.
guardianship, the public prosecutor and the accused doctor against receipt.
Art. 50. - (1) Where the decision has been rendered by default, the respondent may object in
a period of ten (10) days from the notification made to his person against receipt.
2) When the notification has not been made to his person, the opposition period is thirty (30) days to
from the date of notification to his professional residence.
(3) The opposition is received by simple declaration to the secretariat of the Council of the Order which gives
receipt.
Art. 51. - (1) In the event of adversarial proceedings, the implicated doctor may lodge an appeal
before the Appeals Chamber referred to in Article 52 below, within sixty (60) days of
from the date of notification of the decision of the Disciplinary Chamber.

Page 24
Cameroon - Law n ° 90-36 of August 10, 1990, relating to the exercise and organization of the profession of doctor

24

(2) After this period, the decision is deemed final and becomes enforceable.
Art. 52. - The Appeals Chamber is constituted as follows:
- a magistrate of the Supreme Court appointed by the President of the said Court, President;
- a doctor appointed by the supervisory authority;
- three members of the Order, elected within the General Assembly and not having heard of the matter in
first case.
/ p. 64 /
Art. 53. - (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 9 and 37 above, the Appeals Chamber is
seizure of appeals against decisions of the Bar Council in disciplinary matters.
(2) Its decisions are taken by a simple majority of the members present.
Art. 54. - (1) The appeal is made in the form of an explanatory motion submitted to the secretariat of the Council
of the Order against receipt.
(2) The appeal may be lodged by the doctor concerned, the supervisory authority, the public prosecutor or any
member of the Order having an interest in acting, within thirty (30) days of notification of the
Disciplinary chamber.
(3) It has no suspensive effect.
Art. 55. - (1) The Appeals Chamber must rule within two (2) months of its
referral. Its decisions are taken and notified in the forms provided for in Article 53 above and are not
subject to appeal only to the Supreme Court, in the forms of common law.
(2) After the period of two (2) months, the decision taken at first instance is automatically suspended.
Art. 56. - (1) In the event of removal from the roll of the Order, the doctor concerned may, after a period of
five (5) years, submit a request for resumption of activity to the Council of the Order.
(2) In the event of a favorable outcome, the person concerned is re-registered on the roll of the Order.
(3) In case of rejection of his request, he can only reintroduce it after a further period of two (2) years.
Art. 57. - The exercise of disciplinary action in the forms described above does not prevent:
- nor to the prosecutions that the public prosecutor, the individuals of the Order can bring before the
courts in common law forms;
- nor to the disciplinary action that the supervisory authority can bring against a doctor in his
service.
/ p. 65 /

Title III. - Transitional and final provisions
Art. 58. - The following are authorized to continue to practice the profession of doctor:
1 - Doctors approved within the framework of the provisions of legislation and regulations
earlier.
2 - Doctors recruited for the exclusive service of the Administration.
3- Doctors of foreign nationality exercising their profession in Cameroon or engaged on contract
before the date of publication of this law.
Art. 59. - Are automatically entered on the roll of the Order in accordance with the provisions of this
law, all doctors legally practicing on behalf of the Administration, private companies
or in private clients on the date of promulgation of this law.
Art. 60. - The files under investigation on the date of promulgation of this law, must
meet the conditions and procedures provided for by this law.
Art. 61. - The modalities of application of this law will be, as necessary, fixed by way of
regulatory.
Art. 62. - All previous contrary provisions, in particular those of laws no.
80-07 of July 14, 1980 creating the National Order of Physicians and 80-06 of July 14, 1980
regulating the exercise of the profession of doctor.

Page 25
Cameroon - Law n ° 90-36 of August 10, 1990, relating to the exercise and organization of the profession of doctor

25

Art. 63. - This law will be registered, published following the emergency procedure, then inserted in the
official journal in French and English.
/ p. 66 /

Page 27
26

/ p. 67 /

Republic of Cameroon

Law relating to the Organization and Practice of Medicine
Law No. 90-036 of 10 th August 1990
/ p. 69 /

Section 1. This law and the implementation instruments thereof shall govern the
organization and practice of medicine

Part I. - Practice of medicine
Chapter I. - Conditions of practice of medicine
Section 2. (1) Persons engaged in the practice of medicine in Cameroon shall be subject to registration
with the Medical Association.
(2) However, physicians of foreign nationality who fulfil the following additional conditions may
engage in the practice of medicine in Cameroon;
- nationals of a country with a reciprocity agreement with Cameroon;
- physicians who have not been struck off the roll in their countries of origin or in any other country
where they had practiced medicine;
- physicians recruited on contract or under a co-operation agreement exclusively for the
Administration, a religious body or benevolent Non-Governmental Organization (NGO);
- physicians serving an approved private undertaking.
Section 3. The physician himself shall perform professional acts of an administrative and legal nature
and draft and issue documents relating thereto either in the normal exercise of his duties or in the
carrying out of a special mission assigned to him. He shall be bound in this connection to comply with
any instructions given to him.
Section 4. A physician in service in the Administration or in the private sector shall be bound by:
- professional secrecy;
- the Code of Ethics adopted by the Cameroon Medical Association and approved by the supervisory
authority;
- the statutory provisions of the Association.
/ p. 70 /

Chapter II. - Practice of medicine on a private Basis
I. - Conditions of practice of medicine on a private Basis
Section 5. (1) The practice of medicine on a private basis shall be subject to an authorization issued by
the Council of the Association under the terms and conditions laid down in this law.
(2) The Council of the Association shall also rule on applications for change of professional domicile
or place of activity and resumption of activity after interruption following a disciplinary measure
under conditions laid down by regulations.
(3) Authorizations granted by the Council of the Association must comply with the health map
established by regulations.
Authorizations granted in violation of the health map shall be null and void.
Section 6. Persons engaged in the practice of medicine on a private basis shall be subject to the
following conditions:
- be of cameroonian nationality and enjoy their civic rights;
- be registered with the Medical Association;
- have completed five years of effective practice in a public service or a private body within the
national territory or abroad;

Page 28
Cameroon - Law No. 90-036 of 10 th August 1990 relating to the Organization and Practice of Medicine

28

- produce a letter of discharge in principle where they are gainfully employed or assist a colleague
who is practicing on a private basis;
- be of good conduct;
- produce an insurance policy covering occupational hazards
- have paid all their contributions to the Association.
Section 7. Except in the case of a reciprocity agreement, a foreign physician may not engage in the
practice of medicine on a private basis in Cameroon.
Section 8. (1) Applications for approval shall be deposited in two copies with the Council of the
Association against a receipt.
/p.71/
(2) The Council of the Association shall decide on the application forwarded to it within a period of
thirty days with effect from the date of deposit thereof.
(3) The decision of the Council of the Association shall be subject to prior approval by the supervisory
authority from the first working day following that decision. The supervisory authority shall rule on
the decision within a period of thirty days. After this period, the decision of the Council of the
Association shall be enforceable. It shall be notified to the applicant.
(4) In any case, after a period of 90 (ninety) days with effect from the date of deposit of the
application, silence by the Council of the Association shall imply acceptance of the application and the
applicant may open his surgery.
(5) Every rejection decision shall set out the reasons on which it is based.
Section 9. (1) The decisions of the Council of the Association on approval applications may, within
thirty days of their notification, be appealed against before the Appeal Board of the Council of the
Association by the applicant when it is a rejection decision or by any aggrieved member of the
Association if it is an approval decision.
(2) The appeal shall not bar enforcement of the decisions except where it concerns an approval
decision.
(3) The Board of Appeal shall give its ruling within a period of two months after the matter has been
referred to it. Its decisions shall be notified as provided for by this law and any appeals against them
may only be lodged with the Supreme Court in accordance with ordinary law procedure.
(4) After the period of two months, silence by the Board of Appeal shall be considered as a favorable
decision on the application.
Section 10. (1) No surgery or clinic shall remain open in the absence of its license unless he has
arranged to be replaced in due and proper form.
(2) In the absence of a physician, he may be replaced at his surgery by a colleague practicing on a
private basis or by an additional physician. The Council of the Association shall be informed forthwith
about the replacement.
/p.72/
Section 11. (1) The physician may be assisted by one or more colleagues.
(2) The remuneration of the additional physician shall be determined by mutual agreement. Tea
Council of the Association shall be notified accordingly.
Section 12. (1) In the event of the death of a physician operating on a private basis the period during
which his heirs may have the surgery managed by a locum tenens may not exceed five years; such
period may be renewed once.
(2) Where during the above-mentioned period, one of the children of the deceased is studying
medicine, the said surgery may be reserved for him.
(3) The conditions of replacement shall be the same as those for approval to practice medicine on a
private basis.
II. Incompatibilities
Section 13. Subject to special enactments, civil servants and government contract employees who are
in active service or employed persons in general shall not be authorized to practice medicine on a
private basis.

Page 29
Cameroon - Law No. 90-036 of 10 th August 1990 relating to the Organization and Practice of Medicine

29

III. Partnerships of physicians
Section 14. Physicians operating on a private basis in the same place may enter into an association and
carry out their practice in the form of a partnership whose organization and functioning shall be laid
down in separate instruments.
IV. Obligation to take out an insurance policy
Section 15. (1) Every physician or partnership of physicians shall be bound to take out an insurance
policy from an approved national insurance company to cover his or its occupational hazards.
The receipt of the insurance policy shall be deposited with the Council of the Association at the
beginning of each calendar year.
/p.73/
(2) Failure to take out an insurance policy shall, on the instructions of the Council of the Association
or the supervisory authority, lead to the temporary closure of the establishment. Such establishment
may be re-opened only on presentation of the receipt showing payment of the insurance policy.

Chapter III. - Unlawful practice of medicine
Section 16. The following shall be guilty of unlawful practice of medicine.
(1) any physician who practices under an assumed physician name or who grants consultations in
business premises where some of the apparatus he prescribes or uses are sold;
(2) any unauthorized person who, even in the presence of a physician, habitually or under supervision,
provides diagnosis or treatment for diseases on a personal basis by consultation or by any other
procedure;
(3) any physician who exercises his profession in violation of the provisions under section al above or
who offers his assistance to persons who are not authorized to practice;
(4) any physician who exercises his profession while on temporary or permanent suspension
Section 17. (1) Without prejudice to the application of more severe administrative, disciplinary or
penal sanctions, any person found guilty of unlawful practice of medicine shall be punished with
imprisonment of from 6 (six) days to 6 (six) months or with fine of from 200,000 (two hundred
thousand) to 2,000,000 (two million) francs or with both such imprisonment and fine.
(2) The court may, where applicable rule that the equipment used in the commission of the offense be
confiscated and the establishment be closed.
(3) Any person who violates the provisions of this law shall cease his activity with immediate effect.
Furthermore, the closure of his surgery or clinic may be ordered by the Council of the Association,
irrespective of any court judgment.
/p.74/
Section 18. The Council of the Association may refer the matter to the Legal Department or the trial
court or, where necessary, be a civil party in any action taken at the instance of the Legal Department
against any per-son guilty of unlawful practice of medicine.

Part II. - Cameroon Medical Association
Section 19. The Cameroon Medical Association hereinafter referred to as the Association, established
in Section 1 of law No. 80/7 of 14 July 1980, shall include all physicians practicing their profession
in Cameroon.
Section 20. (1) The Association shall ensure compliance with the principles of moral conduct and
devotion essential to the practice of medicine as weil as observance of the rules prescribed by the
Code of Ethics.
(2) The Association shall equally carry out any duty assigned to it under this law or other separate
instruments.
(3) The Association shall have legal personality. Its headquarters shall be in Yaounde.
The Association shall be under the supervision of the authority in charge of public health.

Page 30
Cameroon - Law No. 90-036 of 10 th August 1990 relating to the Organization and Practice of Medicine

30

Chapter 1. - The Organization of the Cameroon Medical Association
Section 21. The Association shall carry out the duties assigned to it through the following two bodies:
- the General Assembly; and
- the Council.
/ p. 75 /
Section 22. (1) The General Assembly shall include all physicians registered on the Roll of the
Association.
(2) It shall meet every year in ordinary session when convened by its President and, where necessary,
in extraordinary session at the request of the absolute majority of its members, or of the Council of the
Association or of the supervisory authority to:
- elect members of the Council of the Association;
- elect six (6) members for the Appeal Board;
- rule on the progress report of the President of the Council of the Association;
- lay down the guidelines for the smooth running of the profession;
- adopt the Code of Ethics of the profession and the Internal Regulation of the Association.
(3) The General Assembly shall elect the President of the Council of the Association and an Auditor
for a term of three (3) years. They shall be eligible for re-election.
Section 23. (1) The agenda of the General Assembly sessions shall include only items relating to the
practice of the profession. It shall be drawn up by the President of the Council of the Association to
whom questions may be referred one month before the session by members of the Association or by
the supervisory authority.
(2) The agenda of every General Assembly session shall be forwarded at least 15 (fifteen) days before
the session to the supervisory authority who shall send a representative to the General Assembly
deliberations.
(3) The supervisory authority may prohibit the holding of an ordinary or extraordinary session of the
General Assembly if the agenda is not in conformity with the provisions of the preceding subsection.
Section 24. The organization and functioning of the General Assembly shall be defined by internal
Regulations.
/ p. 76 /

The Council of the Association
Section 25. (1) The Council of the Association shall be the executive body of the Association. It shall
included 12 members elected for a period of three years as follows:
- four substantive Division A members and one alternate member (civil servants);
- four substantive division B members and one alternate member (non-religious).
- four sustantive division C members and one alternate member (religious).
(2) All physicians registered on the roll of the Association shall be electors and eligible for election.
The members of the Council shall be eligible for re-election.
(3) The procedure for electing members of the Council and the rules relating to their replacement in
case of default shall be laid down by the Code of Ethics.
Section 26. In addition to the President elected by the General Assembly, the Council of the
Association shall elect its Bureau for a period of three (3) years comprising:
- a Vice-President
- a Secretary-General
- to Treasurer.
Section 27. (1) After each election, a report thereof shall be forwarded on the working day following
the election to the supervisory authority.
(2) Disputes arising from the elections may be referred to the Administrative Bench of the Supreme
Court by any physician entitled to vote, within fifteen days following the elections. The supervisory
authority shall be notified of such action.

Page 31
Cameroon - Law No. 90-036 of 10 th August 1990 relating to the Organization and Practice of Medicine

31

Section 28. Membership within the Council of the Association shall cease;
1 - When the term of office expires;
2 - In case of unjustified absence from three consecutive meetings of the Council of the association;
/ p. 77 /
3 - in case of a permanent disablement or death;
4 - in the event of duly established resignation;
5 - when the officer is struck off the roll of the Association.
Section 29. The quorum of the Council of the Association shall be three-fifths of its members. Its
sessions shall be presided over by its President or, in his absence by the Vice-President or the oldest
member of the Council of the Association.
Section 30. (1) The Council of the Association shall meet in ordinary session twice a year when
convened by its President. It may, where necessary, meet in extraordinary session on the initiative of
its President or at the request of not less than half of its members or of the supervisory authority.
(2) The President shall fix the date venue and time of the meetings.
(3) Every member of the Council shall be entitled to vote. The decisions of the Council of the
Association shall be taken by a simple majority of the members present.
(4) The deliberations of the Council shall be held in camera. Howerer, the President may invite any
person of his choice in view of his competence to attend the meetings of the Council in an advisory
capacity.
Section 31. (1) Under Section 20 (1) and (2) and Section 21 above, the Council of the Association
shall:
- rule on applications for enrollment and re-enrollment with the Association and the election of the
members of the Council;
- approve applications to practice medicine on a private basis as well as applications for establishment,
locum tenens, change of professional domicile or place of practice and resumption of practice after
interruption following a disciplinary measure;
- exercise any powers entrusted to it by this law or special instruments;
- examine any matters referred to it by the supervisory authority;
- take disciplinary measures against defaulting members of the Association under the conditions laid
down by this law.
/ p. 78 /
(2) Under no circumstances, shall the Council take into consideration political or religious acts,
leanings and beliefs of the members of the Association.
Section 32. The Council of the Association shall fix the amount of contributions of members of the
Association which shall be compulsory under pain of disciplinary measures.
Section 33. The President of the Council shall represent the Association in all civil matters and before
the Courts. He shall manage the property of the Association by delegation of the Council.

Chapter II. - Enrollment in the Association
Section 34. Persons engaged in the practice of medicine in Cameroon shall be subject to prior
enrollment in the Association.
The roll of the Association shall be kept up-to-date by the Council. The supervisory authority, Senior
Divisional Officers, Council and the Legal Department shall be notified regularly of such roll.
Section 35. Applicants for enrollment with the Association shall fulfill the following conditions.
(a) be of Cameroonian nationality and enjoy their civic rights.
(b) have attained maturity
(c) hold a State or University diploma of doctor of medicine or any other equivalent diploma
recognized by the competent authority at the time of submission of the application
(d) have not been convicted for any act contrary to honor or morality (theft, false pretence,
misappropriation of public funds, forgery and use of forged documents);

Page 32
Cameroon - Law No. 90-036 of 10 th August 1990 relating to the Organization and Practice of Medicine

32

(e) neither have been declared bankrupt nor liquidated by court order.
Section 36. (1) The application for enrollment in the Association shall be deposited with the Council of
the Association in two copies against upon receipt.
(2) The Council shall decide on the application for enrollment within 30 (thirty) days following the
submission of the application.
(3) Decisions of the Council on applications for enrollment with the Association shall be submitted for
prior approval by the supervisory authority on the first working day following the day the decision
was made. The supervisory authority shall rule on the decision within a period of thirty days. After
this time-limit, the decision of the Council shall be enforceable. It shall be notified to the applicant.
(4) In any case, after a period of 90 (ninety) days following the submission of the application, silence
by the Council of the Association shall imply acceptable of the application and the applicant's
automatic enrollment with the Association.
(5) Every rejection decision shall set out the reasons on which it is based.
Section 37. (1) Decisions of the Council of the Association on applications for enrolment or reenrollment with the Association may, within 15 (fifteen) days of notification thereof, be appealed
against before the appeal Board of the Council by the applicant in the case of a rejection decision or by
any aggrieved member of Association in the case of enrolment or re-enrolment.
(2) In any case, where the Appeal Board fails to take decision within a period of two months from the
date such appeal was brought before it the applicant shall be enrolled with the Association.
(3) The appeal shall not have an interlocutory effect save in the case of an acceptance decision.
Section 38. (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 18 and 36 above, decisions,
proceedings, resolutions or any act of the General Assembly or of the Council of the Association shall
be null and void unless they are submitted for the prior approval of the supervisory authority on the
first working day following the day on which they were made.
(2) The supervisory authority shall rule thereon within a period of thirty days. After this period, the
decision shall be automatically enforceable.
/ p. 80 /
Section 39. In the event of cessation of activity, the person concerned shall, within a period of 15
(fifteen) days, notify the Council thereof. The Council shall strike him off the roll of the Association.
Section 40. (1) The Secretary General of the Council shall keep the roll of the Association.
(2) Only professional diplomas and qualifications recognized by the competent authority of the
country where they were obtained shall figure on the roll of Association. However, titles and
decorations conferred on the physician by the State may be mentioned on the Roll.

Chapter III. - Discipline
Section 41. (1) The Council shall exercise disciplinary jurisdiction at the first instance within the
Medical Association. In this capacity, it shall appoint amongst its members a Disciplinary Board.
(2) The Disciplinary Board which shall be presided over by the president of the Council shall
included four others members elected form within the Council. The President may be replaced in case
of his exclusion and objection or absence.
Section 42. (1) A matter may be referred to the Disciplinary Board by the supervisory authority, the
Legal Department or any physician enrolled with the Association who has an interest at stake.
(2) Only the authority responsible for Public Health or the Council of the Association after
consultation with the supervisory authority may bring a physician serving the State before the
Disciplinary Board for acts committed in the performance of his duties.
The supervisory authority shall take a decision within 30 (thirty) days from the date a matter is
referred to it. After this time-limit, if the supervisory authority does not reply it shall be considered as
upheld.
/ p. 81 /
(3) The quorum of the Disciplinary Board shall be three-fifths of its members.

Page 33
Cameroon - Law No. 90-036 of 10 th August 1990 relating to the Organization and Practice of Medicine

33

Section 43. Matters that may be referred to the Disciplinary Board shall include;
- any conviction for any offense of a nature to discredit or jeopardize the reputation of the profession
committed within or outside the national territory;
- any conviction for professional misconduct.
Section 44. The Disciplinary Board may, at the request of the parties or on its own initiative, order an
inquiry into any facts the findings of which it deems useful for its proceedings. The decision to order
an inquiry shall indicate the matters to be investigated and shall prescribe, according to the
circumstances whether it is to be conducted before the Disciplinary Board or pressed on by a member
of the Board who shall visit the place of occurrence of the matter.
Section 45. (1) Any physician accused of an offense may be assisted by a defense counsel of his
choice.
(2) He may exercise the right of exclusion and objection in accordance with ordinary law procedure.
Section 46. (1) The Disciplinary Board shall keep records of its proceedings.
(2) Minutes shall be drawn up after each meeting and signed by all members.
(3) The minutes of cross-examinations or hearings shall likewise be drawn up and signed by the
persons concerned.
Section 47. (1) No disciplinary sanction may be pronounced unless the physician accused has been
heard or summoned to appear before the Board within a period of 30 (thirty) days following receipt of
the summons with acknowledgment of receipt.
/ p. 82 /
(2) Where the accused physician fails to appear before the Disciplinary Board after a duty notified
summons, the Board may make its rulings.
Section 48. (1) The Disciplinary Board may pronounce any of the following disciplinary sanctions;
- warning
- reprimand
- suspension from practice from three months to one year, depending on the seriousness of the offense
committed;
- striking off the Roll of the Association.
(2) The first two sanctions shall entail ineligibility for membership of the Council of the Association
for 2 (two) years with effect from the date of notification of the sanction. The third sanction shall tail
ineligibility for 3 (three) years with effect from the date of notification of the sanction.
Section 49. (1) The decision of the Disciplinary Board shall set out the reasons on which they are
based.
(2) They shall be notified on the first working day following the date, which they are taken to the
supervisory authority, the Public prosecutor and the accused physician who shall acknowledge receipt
thereof.
Section 50. (1) Where the decision is delivered by default, the accused physician may raise objection
there to within a period of 10 (ten) days with effect from the date he was personally notified of the
decision with acknowledgment of receipt.
(2) Where he is not personally notified of the decision, the time-limit for objection shall be 30 (thirty)
days with effect from the day notice was served at his professional domicile.
(3) The objection shall be in the form of a simple declaration submitted to the Secretariat of the
Council of the Association which shall issue a receipt therefor.
/ p. 83 /
Section 51. (1) Where the decision is made after full argument on both sides, the accused physician
may, within 60 (sixty) days with effect from the date of notification of the decision of the Disciplinary
Board lodge an appeal before the Appeal Board referred to in Section 52 below.
(2) After this time-limit, the decision shall be final and enforceable.
Section 52. The Appeal Board shall include the following Chairman.

Page 34
Cameroon - Law No. 90-036 of 10 th August 1990 relating to the Organization and Practice of Medicine

34

- a Judicial and Legal Office of the Supreme Court designated by the President of the said Court;
members:
- a physician designated by the supervisory authority;
- three members of the Association elected within the General Assembly who did not hear or decide
on the matter in the first instance.
Section 53. (1) Without prejudice to the provisions of Section 9 and 37 above, the Appeal Board shall
hear appeals against decisions of the Council concerning discipline.
(2) The decisions of the Board shall be taken by simple majority of the members present.
Section 54. (1) Appeals shall be in the form of an explanatory motion lodged at the Secretariat of the
Council of the Association against a receipt.
(2) The appeal may be lodged by the physician concerned, the supervisory authority, the Department
of Public prosecutions or any member of the Association with an interest at stake within 30 (thirty)
days following notification of the decision of the Disciplinary Board.
(3) Appeals shall not bar enforcement of the decisions.
Section 55. (1) The Appeal Board shall give its ruling within 2 (two) months from the date the matter
is referred to it. Its decisions shall be taken and notified as provided for in Section 53 above and may
be appealed against only before the Supreme Court according to ordinary law procedure.
/ p. 84 /
(2) After a 2 (two) months period, a decision taken in the first instance shall automatically be
suspended.
Section 56. (1) Where a physician is struck off the Roll of the Association, he may, after a period of 5
(five) years apply to the Council of the Association for resumption of practice.
(2) Should the request be rejected, he may re-apply only after another period of 2 (two) years.
Section 57. The exercise of disciplinary action as provided for hereinabove shall not bar;
- any proceedings instituted by the Legal Department, private individuals or by the Association before
the courts in accordance with ordinary law procedure, or
- any disciplinary action that the supervisory authority may take against a medical Officer.

Part III. - Transitional and Final Provisions
Section 58. The following shall be authorized to continue to practice medicine:
(1) physicians approved under farmer regulations.
(2) physicians recruited to serve exclusively the Administration.
(3) foreign physicians exercising their profession in Cameroon or recruited on a contract basis prior to
the publication of this law.
Section 59. All physicians legally practicing their profession on behalf of the Administration, private
undertakings or on a private basis on the date of enactment of this law shall be automatically enrolled
in the Association in accordance with the previsions of this law.
Section 60. Files being studied on the date of enactment of this law shall be subject to the conditions
and procedures provided for by this law.
/ p. 85 /
Section 61. The conditions of implementation of this law shall, as and when necessary, be laid dawn
by regulations.
Section 62. All previous provisions repugnant hereto, in particular Laws Nos. 80/7 of 14 July 1980 to
set up the National Medical Association and 80/6 of 14 July 1980 to regulate the practice of medicine
are hereby repealed.
Section 63. This law shall be registered, published according to the procedure of urgency and inserted
in the Official Gazette in English and French.
Yaoundé, August 10, 1990
Paul Biya, President of the Republic.

Page 35

/ p. 87 /

Republic of Cameroon
Decree laying down the modalities of application of the law relating to
the practice and organization of the medical profession
Decree No. 92-265-PM of July 22, 1992
fixing the modalities of application of the law n ° 90-36 of August 10, 1990
/ p. 89 /

Decree No. 92-265-PM of July 22, 1992

Establishing the modalities of application of law n ° 90-36
of August 10, 1990 relating to the exercise and organization
of the medical profession
First article. - This decree fixes the modalities of application of the law n ° 90-036 of August 10
1990 relating to the practice and organization of the profession of doctor.

First chapter. - Registration on the Table of the National Order of Physicians
Art. 2. - Registration on the roll of the National Order of Physicians, hereinafter referred to as "the Order", is
authorized by decision of the Council of the said Order.
Art. 3. - (1) The registration file for the roll of the Order, deposited at the headquarters of the Council of the Order, in
duplicate and against receipt, includes:
- a stamped application at the current rate;
- a certified true copy of the birth certificate dated less than three (3) months;
- a certified true copy of the medical doctor's diploma recognized by the authority
competent at the time of submission of the file, as well as a certificate of presentation of
the original of said diploma;
- an extract from the criminal record dated less than three (3) months;
- a certificate of nationality dated less than three (3) months.
(2) In addition to the documents listed in paragraph (1), the doctor of foreign nationality must produce, at
support of his request:
- a certificate of non-prohibition to practice and a certificate of non-registration on the board of
the Order of Physicians of his country of origin, or any other foreign country where he has practiced
previously;
/ p. 90 /
- a copy of the act of recruitment on behalf of a public administration or a
non-governmental organization, or a Cameroonian employment contract when it comes to
from an approved private company or a denominational medical organization.
(3) The certificates referred to in paragraph (2) shall be issued in accordance with the standards applicable in the
foreign countries concerned.
(4) The registration fees are the responsibility of the applicant.
Art. 4. - The registration application referred to in article 3 is processed according to the procedure provided for in
article 36 of law n ° 90-036 of August 10, 1990 referred to above.

Page 36
Cameroon - Decree N ° 92-265-PM of July 22, 1992 . Application of law n ° 90-36

36

Chapter II. - The functioning of the Order
Art. 5. - (1) The code of ethics of the profession and the internal regulations of the Order are adopted
by the General Assembly of the said Order and made enforceable by the order of the Minister in charge of Health
public.
(2) The Minister in charge of Public Health is required to rule on the Code of Ethics and on
the internal regulations referred to it within thirty (30) days from the date of their
filing in accordance with the provisions of article 38 of Law n ° 90-034 of August 10, 1990 referred to above.
After this period, these texts are deemed, approved and become legally enforceable.
Art. 6. - The internal regulations cannot, on pain of relative nullity, institute within the order
other representative bodies than those provided for in Articles 21, 22, 25, 41 and 52 of Law No. 90-036
aforementioned, nor contain provisions contrary to said law.
Art. 7. - The procedures for electing the President of the General Assembly, the members and the President
of the Bar Council, as well as members of the Disciplinary Chamber and the Appeals Chamber
are set by the internal regulations.
/ p. 91 /
Art. 8. - The functions of President of the General Assembly of the Order are incompatible with
those of President or member of the Council of the Order, as well as member of the Chamber of
discipline or the Appeals Chamber.
Art. 9. - (1) Any member who loses the quality or leaves the division for which he was elected ceases
to be part of the Council of the Order.
(2) The alternate member replaces the full member whenever the latter is in
the inability to sit; he replaces him definitively when the full member ceases, for one
any of the reasons provided for by law n ° 90-036 of 10 August 1990 mentioned above, to be part of the
Council of the Order.
(3) When, more than six (6) months before its renewal, the Council of the Order cannot reach the
quorum required because the substitute member who has become titular has lost the capacity in respect of which he
had been elected, or that one or more seat (s) became or became vacant for one of the reasons referred to
in paragraphs (1) and (2), additional members are elected under the same conditions, for the
term of office remaining to run.
(4) The terms of application of this article are set by the Code of ethics of the
profession.
Art. 10. - (1) The vice-president, the secretary general and the treasurer of the office are obligatorily
elected from among the full members of the Order Council.
(2) Their attributions are, as necessary, specified by the internal regulations.

Chapter III. - Provisions concerning the functioning of the chambers of
discipline and appeal
Art. 11. - (1) The Disciplinary Chamber can only sit in odd numbers. The youngest of
members withdraws when the members present are in an even number.
/ p. 92 /
(2) In the event of the President's impediment or challenge, the meeting is chaired by the most senior member.
age.
(3) A secretary appointed by the President attends the meeting.
Art. 12. - (1) The President of the Disciplinary Chamber appoints a rapporteur for each case
among the members of the Chamber.
(2) The complaint is notified to the accused doctor, who has a period of fifteen (15) days to
from the date of notification to produce his written defense.
This period is increased by the same amount, if necessary, if the doctor in question is domiciled outside the
district where he practices his profession, or the seat of the Order.

Page 37
Cameroon - Decree N ° 92-265-PM of July 22, 1992 . Application of law n ° 90-36

37

(3) The rapporteur investigates the case, examines the written evidence and proceeds, if necessary, to
the questioning of the doctor in question, the hearing of witnesses. He draws up the minutes
questioning or hearing signed by the interested parties. He has the capacity to make any findings
useful.
(4) When he has completed the investigation, the rapporteur sends the file, together with a report to the President
of the Disciplinary Chamber.
Art. 13. - (1) The Disciplinary Chamber may, before pronouncing a final decision, order
by decision before saying right, all the investigative measures that it deems appropriate.
(2) The doctor subject to a disciplinary sanction by the Disciplinary Chamber is required to pay
costs resulting from the action taken. The Council of the Order ensures the recovery of these costs.
Art. 14. - (1) The accused or accused doctor is summoned to the hearing, by any means
leaving a written record, by the President of the Disciplinary Chamber, within thirty (30) days by
report on the date of the hearing.
(2) The authority or the person who seized the Disciplinary Chamber is summoned to the hearing within
same form and time limit provided for in paragraph (1).
/ p. 93 /
(3) The person in question is furthermore invited by the corresponding invitation to make known in
a period of eight (8) days, if it chooses one or more defender (s) and, in these cases, the
name (s), first names and address (es) of the latter (s).
The notice referred to in the previous paragraph indicates to the offending doctor the period during which he
He or his defender (s) may take cognizance of the file at the headquarters of the Council of the Order.
(4) When the authority which referred the matter to the Disciplinary Chamber is the Minister in charge of Public Health
or the Public Prosecutor, he may be represented and may make his observations by
written.
Art. 15. - (1) The President of the Disciplinary Chamber directs the debates. He gives the floor to
rapporteur who presents the facts. He questions the questioning.
Any member of the Disciplinary Chamber may also ask questions, with the authorization of the
President of the said chamber.
The President of the Disciplinary Chamber may, if he deems it necessary, in the interest of the debates, withdraw
the word to anyone who abuses it.
(2) The respondent must appear in person. He can be assisted by one or more
defender (s) of their choice.
If the offending doctor does not appear after one (1) summons duly notified within the time limit
provided for in Article 14, paragraph (1), the case may be judged on documents after hearing the rapporteur.
3) The hearing is not public and the deliberation remains secret.
It gives rise to the establishment of a report signed by all members.
Art. 16. - (1) The decision of the Disciplinary Chamber mentions the names and surnames of the members
present.
(2) It is entered in the register of deliberations. This register is listed and initialed by the President
of the Disciplinary Chamber and cannot be communicated to third parties.
/ p. 94 /
(3) The minute of each decision is signed by the President of the Disciplinary Chamber and the
session secretary.
Art. 17. - (1) The decision of the Disciplinary Chamber is notified to all the persons concerned by
the Council of the Order, by any means leaving a written record, within the time limits provided for by law. She is
addressed in the same forms to the Minister in charge of Public Health.
(2) The person whose complaint provoked the referral to the Disciplinary Chamber is informed in writing
of the decision taken by it.
(3) In the case of a person of foreign nationality, the decision shall also be notified to
the competent authority of the State of origin and, where applicable, that of the State of origin.

Page 38
Cameroon - Decree N ° 92-265-PM of July 22, 1992 . Application of law n ° 90-36

38

Art. 18. - The provisions of Articles 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 apply to the Appeals Chamber.
The secretary of the meeting is chosen from among the members of the Council of the Order who have not had
the case at first instance.
However, the deadlines provided for in Articles 12 and 14, paragraph (1) are reduced to eight (8) and fifteen (15) days.
respectively. That provided for in article 14, paragraph (3) is reduced to five (5) days.

Chapter IV. - Authorizations relating to medicine for private clients
Art. 19. - (1) The practice of medicine for private clients is authorized by decision of the Council of
the Order.
(2) The change of professional residence or geographical area of ​activity, and the resumption
activity after interruption following a disciplinary sanction are authorized by decision of the
Council of the Order.
(3) The authorizations to practice referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) may be withdrawn in the same
forms in the event of suspension of the practitioner, or for breach of the provisions governing the exercise of
profession of doctor.
/ p. 95 /
Section I. - Authorization to exercise the profession of doctor in private clients
Art. 20. - (1) Authorization to practice the profession of doctor for private clients is subject to
the production of a file, in duplicate, deposited at the headquarters of the Council against receipt and
comprising:
- a stamped application at the current rate;
- a certificate of nationality not older than three (3) months;
- a certified true copy of the birth certificate dated less than three (3) months;
- a certified true copy of the medical doctor's degree and, where applicable, certificates
of specialization, as well as a certificate of presentation of the original of said diploma and
certificates;
- an extract from the criminal record dated less than three (3) months;
- a certificate of effective professional practice of at least five (5) years on the date of the request
to exercise in a personal capacity, issued by a public administration or body
employer;
- a certificate of registration on the roll of the Order, issued by the Council of the Order;
- a letter of agreement in principle of release, issued by the last employer, if applicable;
- a certificate of payment of all contributions due to the Order, issued by the Council of
the Order.
(2) A doctor of foreign nationality may only be authorized to practice in private practice if the
country of which he is a national has concluded a reciprocity agreement with the Republic of Cameroon.
In support of his request, he must, in addition to the documents listed in paragraph (1), produce a copy of the said
reciprocity agreement, authenticated by the Minister in charge of External Relations.
(3) The procedure for approving the file referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) remains that provided for in Article 8
of Law n ° 90-036 of August 10, 1990 referred to above.
(4) Any request obtained under the conditions provided for in article 8 paragraph (4) of Law n ° 90-036 of
August 10, 1990 mentioned above is null, of no effect if it does not comply with the requirements of the card
sanitary.
/ p. 96 /
Art. 21. - (1) The authorization to practice with private clients is personal and non-transferable. It indicates
the locality where the postulant is called to practice his art.
It is granted to allow working in a private health facility, or to open a
private health facility.
(2) The authorization to practice must, on pain of absolute nullity, comply with the health card fixed by
order of the Minister in charge of public health.

Page 39
Cameroon - Decree N ° 92-265-PM of July 22, 1992 . Application of law n ° 90-36

39

Art. 22. - (1) The doctor authorized to practice in private clients has a period of twelve (12) months
following notification of the approval decision or its entry into force when it is
implicit, to open his health facility to the public, when he decided to create one. After this time
and except extension granted by the Council of the Order, in accordance with the provisions of article 38
of Law n ° 90-036 of August 10, 1990 referred to above, the authorization lapses.
(2) The doctor authorized to practice in private clients must, upon notification of the authorization decision
or when it comes into force when it is implicit and before the start of its formation
health care to the public, provide the Bar Council with a copy of the insurance policy provided for in article
15 of Law n ° 90-036 of August 10, 1990 referred to above. This covers the professional risks of which the
nature is specified by the internal regulations of the profession. Receipt is submitted to the Board of
the Order at the beginning of each calendar year.
(3) The provisions of paragraph (2) also apply to professional civil societies of
doctors provided for in article 14 of the aforementioned law n ° 90-036 of August 10, 1990.
Art. 23. - (1) When the doctor considers that he has completed fitting out his health facility
in accordance with the regulations in force, he informs the Council of the Order, which in turn refers
the Minister in charge of Public Health by any means leaving a written record.
(2) The Bar Council and the Public Health Administration have, upon notification
of the completion of the work, a period of thirty (30) days to visit this training before its
opening to the public. If at the end of this period, the Council of the Order and the Administration responsible for
/ p. 97 / Public health is not manifested, the doctor can open his health facility at
public.
Art. 24. - (1) When the site visit reveals that the installations do not allow the exercise of
profession according to the minimum rules of the art, the shortcomings are notified to the applicant who must
remedy.
(2) The opening of the health facility to the public is only authorized after verification by the Council.
of the Order and the Administration in charge of Public Health, the required modifications.
The verification is carried out in accordance with the procedures provided for in Article 23, paragraph (2).
Art. 25. - (1) The issuance of the letter of agreement in principle of release is compulsory when the
applicant fulfills the seniority condition provided for by law to work with private clients.
(2) The refusal by any employer to issue the letter of agreement in principle of release, without reason
valid, to the applicant who requests it, may entail against the offender the penalties that may range
until withdrawal of the decision to exercise.
When the employer referred to in the previous paragraph is a professional civil society of doctors,
a professional medical organization or a legal person governed by private law, the latter
sanctions up to the closing of the health facility where the candidate works.
(3) The applicant's release is effective only from the day on which, within the time limit prescribed for
Article 22 paragraph (1), he can set up on his own account.
However, the Public Health Administration may, for overriding reasons
service, postpone the release date of the candidate employed by it, without this postponement exceeding
a period of twelve (12) months.
Art. 26. - The doctor authorized to practice in private clients must practice personally and
indeed his profession. He must not practice in more than one health facility at a time or be
owner of more than one health facility.
/ p. 98 /
Section II. - Authorization to change professional residence of geographical area or
of resumption of activity
Art. 27. - (1) The authorization to change professional residence or geographical area is
subject to the production of a file in duplicate, filed against receipt at the headquarters of
Council of the Order and comprising:
- a reasoned and stamped request at the current rate;
- a copy of the authorization to practice.

Page 40
Cameroon - Decree N ° 92-265-PM of July 22, 1992 . Application of law n ° 90-36

40

(2) The change of professional residence or geographical area must, on pain of nullity
absolute, meet the eligibility criteria set by the internal regulations of the Order and comply with
the health card referred to in Article 21 paragraph (2).
Art. 28. - Authorization to resume work after interruption following a disciplinary sanction
is subject to the production of a file in duplicate, filed against receipt of the
Council of the Order and comprising:
- a stamped application at the current rate;
- a certificate of rehabilitation issued by the Council of the Order.
Art. 29. - The requests for approvals referred to in articles 27 and 28 are examined according to the procedure
provided for in article 8 of Law n ° 90-036 of 10 August 1990 mentioned above, without prejudice to
provisions of article 20 paragraph (4) of this decree.

Chapter V. - Exercise of tutorship
Art. 30. - (1) The Order is placed under the supervision of the Minister in charge of Public Health, who exercises the
related powers, in accordance with the provisions of Law n ° 90-036 of August 10, 1990
mentioned above and those of this decree, or of specific texts.
/ p. 99 /
(2) The Minister in charge of Public Health is, moreover, invested with a permanent mission of
control of health facilities.
Art. 31. - (1) For the accomplishment of his missions provided for in article 30, the Minister in charge of
Public health can in particular:
- ask the Council of the Order to suspend or, if necessary, to withdraw definitively
authorization to practice, in the event of deficiency, professional failure or fraud by a doctor,
duly certified by the said Council, the health or judicial authorities;
- order the Council of the Order to exercise the attributions which are granted to it by Law n ° 90-036
of August 10, 1990 and its implementing texts.
(2) When his formal notices or injunctions are not implemented within the time limits
fixed, the Minister in charge of Public Health can replace ex officio the Council of the Order.
Art. 32. - (1) When, for a cause other than that provided for in Article 9, paragraph (3) of this
decree, the organs of the Order are defective or are unable to sit or
function, the Minister in charge of Public Health can take all protective measures,
such as to put an end to the failure, to restore the proper functioning of the organs in question or to ensure
sound application of Law n ° 90-036 of 10 August 1990 mentioned above and its implementing texts.
(2) He may, for this purpose, convene an extraordinary session of the General Assembly of the Order.
Art. 33. - A decree of the Minister responsible for public health sets the minimum conditions for
operation of health facilities with or without hospitalization, after consulting the Board of
the Order.
/ p. 100 /

Chapter VI. - Miscellaneous and final provisions
Art. 34. - The doctor whose application for registration on the roll of the Order has been in accordance with
provisions of Law n ° 90-036 of August 10, 1990 referred to above, must, at the time of registration,
pay their dues to the Order.
Art. 35. - The fee schedule is set by joint order of the Minister in charge of Public Health
and the Minister in charge of prices, on the proposal of the General Assembly of the Order.
Art. 36. - A physician working in private practice may, in the alternative, dispense in the
training establishments, courses corresponding to his specialty.
Art. 37. - When registering applications for registration on the roll of the Order or authorization
to exercise in private clients, the appreciation of the Council of the Order or the supervisory Administration

Page 41
Cameroon - Decree N ° 92-265-PM of July 22, 1992 . Application of law n ° 90-36

concerns, to the exclusion of any consideration of expediency, the sole compliance of the file with Law no.
90-036 of August 10, 1990 mentioned above, to this decree, the internal regulations and / or the Code of
ethics of the profession.
Art. 38. - All previous contrary provisions are repealed, in particular those of decree n ° 82231 of June 17, 1982 laying down the procedures for exercising the profession of doctor in private clients.
Art. 39. - The Minister in charge of Public Health and the Council of the Order are responsible, each in this
which concerns him, of the execution of this decree which will be registered and published according to the procedure
emergency, then inserted in the official journal in French and English and will take effect from the date
of its publication.
Printed in Cameroon by
CyBerSpace
Phone. : 47 30 03/92 72 25 Fax: 4283 18/473003
DOUALA - SEPTEMBER 2000

41

