Page 1

#
é
REPUBLIC OF CAMEROON PEACE - WORK - FATHERLAND
seen
Seen
Seen
Seen
seen
Seen
seen
Seen
seen
seen
641
PE LU OT 14 JUN. 2012
laying down the conditions for portability of the numbers of
subscribers of communications network operators
electronic open to the public.
THE PRIME MINISTER, HEAD OF GOVERNMENT,
the Constitution ;
Law n ° 98/013 of July 14, 1998 relating to competition;
Law n ° 2010/012 of December 21, 2010 relating to cybersecurity and
cybercrime in Cameroon;
Law n ° 2010/013 of December 21, 2010 governing communications
electronics in Cameroon;
the framework law n ° 2011/012 of 06 May 2011 on consumer protection in
Cameroon;
decree n ° 92/089 of 04 May 1992 specifying the powers of the Prime Minister,
amended and supplemented by decree n ° 95/145 bis of August 4, 1995;
Decree No. 2005/124 of April 15, 2008 on the organization and functioning of the
Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications;

Page 2

Decree No. 2011/408 of December 9, 2011 on the organization of
Government;
Decree No. 2011/409 of December 9, 2011 appointing a Premier
Minister, Head of Government;
Decree No. 2012/203 of April 20, 2012 on the organization and functioning of
the Telecommunications Regulatory Agency,
DECREED:
CHAPTER!
GENERAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE 1 ° .- (1) This decree sets the conditions for the portability of
subscriber numbers of communications network operators
electronic systems open to the public.
(2) It is taken in application of article 50 of law n ° 2010/013
of December 21, 2010 governing electronic communications to
Cameroon.
ARTICLE _2.- (1) Operators of communications networks
electronic systems open to the public ensure the right of subscribers to retain the
subscriber number when they change operator.
(2) The operators make available to their subscribers
the information needed to exercise their right to keep their number.
L
ARTICLE 3.- For the application of this decree, the definitions below are
admitted:
A6
Centralized database: database that includes
all the numbers ported, associated with their receiving operators,
viewable by all operators (fixed and mobile) from
from which a call to a number is made;
Decentralized database: database that includes
all the numbers carried by a given operator, making it possible to
route calls to the receiving operator;
System installation cost: expenses resulting from renovations,
network modifications, software and hardware updates and
of an operator's systems in order to provide the portability service of

Page 3

number and / or make a call to the ported numbers as well as the expenses
resulting from test procedures between operators;
Routing delay: porting delay corresponds to the number of days
calendar between, on the one hand, the receipt by the receiving operator of the
elements necessary for processing the subscription request and
the request to keep the subscriber's number and, on the other hand, the
effective number porting;
. E164: recommendation of the International Union of
Telecommunications (ITU) describing the structure of a number
international telephone number and assigning prefixes to member countries
national and thus constituting a numbering plan at the
global basis on the basis of which countries allocate
numbering;
Area code: part of the telephone number corresponding to a zone
geographic;
Subscriber number: number of the national plan for the use of
telephone service and associated services;
Mobile number: number of the national numbering plan (type
E.164) consisting of several digits;
Geographical number: number of the national numbering plan (from
type E.164) with one or more prefixes referring to a zone
precise geographic;
10. Non-Geographical Number: number of the national numbering plan
(of type E.164) not referring to a geographical area;
2
11.0 beneficiary operator: communications network operator
electronic system open to the public to which the French Regulatory Agency
telecommunications assigned ported number;
12.0 donor or transferor operator: network operator of
electronic communications open to the public from which a
number is ported;
13.Receiver operator: communications network operator
electronic open to the public to which the number is ported;
14.Portability of numbers: possibility for a subscriber to use the
same subscription number, regardless of operator or
the operator of the network to which it is subscribed and even if it is

Page 4

changes operator or operator;
15.Operator Identity Report (RIO): alphanumeric code of 12
characters, assigned by any mobile operator to each mobile number
active, for the needs of inter-operator exchanges within the framework of
mobile number portability;
16.Routing: A method of routing calls from a network
electronic communications open to the public to another network.
17.Direct routing: method of routing calls that consists of
direct them to a ported number without passing through
the donor operator, after prior consultation of the database
centralized data;
18.indirect routing: method of routing calls that consists of
direct them to the donor operator, who in turn routes them
calls to the receiving operator, after consulting the database
decentralized data;
19. Prepaid service: service offered to a natural or legal person
and who uses it in mobile telephony under a contract under
from which it is duly identified, emits or receives, at least once at
during a period determined in said contract, a call, an SMS, a
MMS or credit recharge;
20 Post-paid service: service offered to a natural or
legal and who uses it in mobile telephony under a contract in
by virtue of which it is duly identified, transmits or receives, at least once
during a period determined in said contract, a call, an SMS,
an MMS and the service on presentation of an invoice
after consumption;
(2) If the donor operator informs the recipient operator that the
request is ineligible, the latter informs the subscriber as soon as possible.
ARTICLE 8.- Acceptance of the porting request constitutes termination of the
subscription contract between the subscriber and the donor operator.
ARTICLE 9.- Once the response from the donor operator is sent or
that the time limit provided for in article 7 above has passed, the receiving operator
has twenty four (24) hours to complete the actual implementation
portage requested.
ARTICLE 10.- Portability requests are sent by the operator
recipient to the donor operator, every working day of the week.
SECTION II
REFUSAL OF THE PORTAGE REQUEST

Page 5

ARTICLE 11.- The receiving operator cannot refuse the subscriber's request
only in the following cases:
-__ application incomplete or containing incorrect information;
-__ number belonging to another person;
-__ non-compliance with the management rules of the national numbering plan.
ARTICLE 12.- The donor operator cannot refuse the porting request
presented by the receiving operator on behalf of the subscriber only in the cases
following:
-__ incomplete or erroneous data;
-__ number inactive on the day of the porting request;
- number already subject to a portability request not yet
executed;
- existence of a request from the subscriber to change his number;
-_ waiver of the subscriber;
-__ annual limit reached for porting the number.
ARTICLE _13.- The eligibility of the porting request cannot be
cause in the event of exceptional technical constraints involving a postponement
the execution of the porting compared to the date initially planned.
ARTICLE 14.- (1) Any refusal of a porting request must be justified and notified
to the interested party by any means leaving a written record.
(2) Operators cannot evoke the reason for a dispute
with the subscriber or the existence of unpaid invoices to refuse a request
portage.
(3) The donor operator cannot evoke the maintenance of
subscription to other services as a reason for refusing porting of the
number.
(4) The operators cannot mention the non-expiry of the
duration of a subscription contract as a reason for refusing porting.
(5) In all cases, operators are required to inform the
prior to their users of the eligibility conditions necessary for the implementation,
implementation of porting, in compliance with the regulatory provisions in force.
SECTION It!
SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR CARRYING NUMBERS

Page 6

ARTICLE 15.- (1) In addition to the general conditions determined by this
decree allowing number portability, operators are required to
respect the following special conditions:
- the porting of numbers must be ensured in a
permanent by the operators concerned;
- the period during which the user can neither receive nor
making a call after the start of porting cannot be
exceed two (02) hours, from the time of setting
effective implementation of portability;
- the donor and recipient operators must not collect, at the
for the carry transaction, no remuneration of
the user who requests it;
- the same quality of service must be ensured for a call
to a ported number and a call to a non
door.
(2) A subscriber whose number has been ported may not request the
porting the same number as after a period of sixty (60) days.
ARTICLE _16.- (1) A subscriber may not carry his number more than two (02) times
the year.
(2) The number of porterages provided for in paragraph 1 above cannot be
done within thirty (30) consecutive days.
ARTICLE 17.- (1) Numbers released after porting are returned to
the attribute operator.
(2) The receiving operator is required to immediately inform
the operator responsible for terminating the ported number and returning it to him
within a maximum period of ten (10) days from the date of termination.
6
ARTICLE 18.- The registration of the number carried in the telephone directory is
payable by the receiving operator.
ARTICLE 19.- Without prejudice to any other information or schedule set by
Agency, operators have the obligation to provide it, no later than the 15th of
following month, statistical information for the past month relating to
porting of numbers by type, in particular:
- the number of numbers ported to each receiving operator;
- the number of numbers ported from each operator

Page 7

donor;
- the number of numbers returned by the receiving operators;
- the number of ports refused with the reasons for refusal;
- the average carrying time carried out.
SECTION IV
OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF PORTAGE
ARTICLE 20.- (1) After favorable opinion, the donor operator and the operator
receiver determine the date and time of porting and notify them to the requester,
as well as to other third-party operators.
(2) Before the porting time, the receiving operator notifies the
other operators, the routing information that will allow them to provide
technical changes in their networks, so that ported numbers
are accessible from their networks.
(3) The donor operator deactivates the number, sends a
confirmation to the receiving operator and notifies the other operators.
ARTICLE _21.- (1) The carrying process may, before completion, be
stopped at the request of the applicant.
(2) If the procedure is stopped, the receiving operator
Deletes the porting request and notifies the donor operator, as well as the
other operators.
ARTICLE 22.- (1) If the information provided by the applicant proves
fraudulent, the receiving operator and the donor operator consult each other and
terminate the process in case the porting is not yet effective.
(2) If the carry is already effective, the transaction must
be deleted and the number returned to the donor operator with notification
to other operators.
CHAPTER III
OPERATORS 'OBLIGATIONS
ARTICLE _23.- Upon receipt of the request, the operator informs the subscribers
on the portability procedure, the information and documents to be provided, the
carrying period, information on applicable tariffs, as well as
associated costs.
ARTICLE 24.- (1) Operators are required to comply with the method of
routing of number portability determined by the Agency.
(2) The portability method referred to in paragraph 1 above is

Page 8

notified to operators by the Agency.
ARTICLE 25.- If the donor operator or the recipient operator uses the network
of another operator, the latter is subject to the same obligations as
first two.
ARTICLE_26.- Ported numbers are used in accordance with the conditions
below:
- numbering fees for ported numbers
are paid by the receiving operator;
-__ the beneficiary operator cannot assign the ported number to
another subscriber, unless the subscription contract has
been terminated with the receiving operator and the number returned to
the attribute operator.
ARTICLE 27.- Operators are required to give the RIO free of charge to
subscribers who request it.
ARTICLE _28.- During the minimum period of sixty (60) days following
the porting date, the receiving operator is required to inform free of charge any
calling to a number ported before the establishment of the
connection, the identity of its network.
ARTICLE _29.- Failure to comply with the obligations set out in this decree
entails, for its author, the application of the penalties provided for by law
in force.
CHAPTER IV
OF THE PORTABILITY DATABASE
ARTICLE _30.- (1) Under the supervision and in accordance with the prescriptions of
Agency, operators set up a centralized database
common with equal rights and responsibility.
(2) In the event of operator default, the Agency sets the
terms and conditions for the management of the centralized database and
designates, where applicable, the entity called upon to set up and manage it.
(3) The centralized database, connected to the systems
operators, is used to register requests, verify
information provided, keep information on ported numbers and
routing data.
(4) Each operator is required to set up a database
data in its network independently of the database
centralized. However, regardless of the establishment of the
centralized data, each operator is obliged to ensure the portability of
number and routing of calls from one network to another, in accordance with
to this decree.

Page 9

ARTICLE 31.- (1) The use of the centralized database, for the purposes of
other than portability, is subject to the prior approval of the Agency.
(2) The operator is required to take all measures
necessary to ensure continuity of service.
ARTICLE 32.- All costs relating to the establishment of the
centralized data and the remuneration of the entity responsible for managing it are
at the expense of the operators concerned.
CHAPTER V
PORTABILITY AGREEMENTS
ARTICLE _33.- (1) As part of the implementation of portability,
agreements concluded between operators include in particular:
- the technical conditions and the schedule for carrying out the
portability;
the terms of payment of the costs relating to the
place of portability;
the clauses on the quality of service, as well as the penalties
incurred, in the event of non-compliance with the level of service;
the delimitation of the responsibility of the operators concerned.
(2) A copy of the agreement referred to in paragraph 1 above is
transmitted, within five (05) days of the date of its
conclusion, at the Agency by each operator.
ARTICLE 34.- Disputes relating to portability agreements are settled by
the Agency which can set, if necessary, the technical and pricing conditions
related.
CHAPTER VI
FINANCIAL PROVISIONS AND PRINCIPLES OF
COST SHARING
ARTICLE _35.- (1) The operators bear the cost of setting up
place of the system, the costs derived from the tests and modifications to be carried out
in their current systems and the costs of installing software systems
and equipment to route calls to ported numbers or to
provide the portability service.
(2) The costs incurred by carrying one or more
numbers are supported by the receiving operator.
ARTICLE _36.- The costs incurred by the installation, maintenance and
the operation of the centralized database are supported by all

Page 10

operators concerned.
ARTICLE _37.- Costs related to the implementation of number portability
must be justified and are subject to permanent control by the Agency.
CHAPTER VII
MISCELLANEOUS, TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE _38.- Operators are required to set up a system
automated exchange, no later than twelve (12) months from the date
entry into force of this decree, in order to secure exchanges between
them and streamline the number portability procedure.
ARTICLE 39.- Operators of electronic communications networks
open to the public are required, on the date of entry into force of this decree,
apply number portability within the following deadlines:
-__ twelve (12) months for the portability of mobile numbers;
- twenty four (24) months for the portability of geographic numbers and
non-geographic.
ARTICLE _40.- Specific texts of the Minister in charge of
telecommunications specify, as necessary, the terms and conditions
application of this decree.
ARTICLE 41.- This decree will be registered, published following the procedure
emergency, then inserted in the Official Journal in French and English.
Yaoundé, JUN 4. 2012
THE PRIME MINISTER,

