Page 1

www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Chad
Penal Code 2017
Law n ° 2017-01 of May 8, 2017

[ NB - Law n ° 001 / PR / 2017 of May 8, 2017 on the Penal Code ]

Book 1 - General provisions
Title 1 - Criminal law
Chapter 1 - General principles

Art.1 .- Criminal law is of strict interpretation.
Art.2 .- Criminal courts are not competent to interpret acts
regulatory or individual administrative authorities and to assess their legality even if
this examination depends on the solution of the criminal proceedings submitted to them. They are required to
stay the proceedings pending the decision of the administrative court on the
preliminary question raised.

Chapter 2 - Application of criminal law over time

Art.3.- Facts not definitively judged before the express or tacit repeal of the law
criminal cease to be punishable.
Art.4 .- Any new and softer penal provision shall immediately apply to
offenses not definitively judged on the day of its entry into force.
While the new penal provision is more rigorous, offenses committed before its
entry into force continue to be judged in accordance with the softer provisions
of old law.
Art.5.- Immediately ceases to receive execution of any penalty or security measure:

1

Penal Code 2017

Page 2
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

• a) pronounced on account of a fact which, due to the new law, no longer constitutes a
offense;
• b) or which is abolished after the conviction by virtue of the new law.

Chapter 3 - Application of criminal law in space

Art.6 .- Criminal law applies to any fact constituting an offense committed in the territory
national.
Included in the national territory are territorial lake waters, air space
as well as ships and aircraft registered in the Republic of Chad.
However, no member of the crew of a foreign craft or aircraft
author of an offense committed on board to the detriment of another member of the
the crew, even within territorial lake waters or airspace, do not
may be judged by the courts of the Republic unless the assistance of the authority
local law has been demanded or that public order has been compromised.
Art.7 .- Criminal law applies:
• a) any offense one of the constituent elements of which has been carried out on its
territory;
• b) offenses against state security, counterfeiting the state seal or
current national currency, even committed abroad.
However, no foreigner can be tried by the courts of the Republic for
offenses referred to in paragraph b above, unless he has been arrested in the territory
of the Republic or that he has been extradited there.
Art.8.- Are also subject to criminal law:
• a) the facts constituting aiding and abetting and attempted crimes carried out on the
territory of the Republic for the purpose of committing an offense abroad, if this
offense is also punished by foreign law;
• b) the same acts carried out abroad with a view to committing an offense on the
territory of the Republic.
Art.9 .- Criminal law applies to acts committed abroad by a Chadian or by a
resident, provided that these facts are punishable by the law of the place of their
commission and are qualified as crimes or misdemeanors by the laws of the Republic.
A citizen or resident guilty of an offense committed against an individual cannot
however be judged by the courts of the Republic in application of this article
only on the prosecution of the Public Ministry seized of a complaint or a denunciation
official to the Government of the Republic by the Government of the country where the act was
committed.

2

Penal Code 2017

Page 3
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

In the case provided for in this article, the penalty incurred may not be greater than that
fixed by foreign law.
Art.10 .- Criminal law applies to piracy, trafficking in persons, trafficking in
persons, the recruitment of children into armed forces and groups, the trafficking of
drugs, trafficking in toxic waste, money laundering,
cybercrime, corruption and similar offenses, committed even outside
of the territory of the Republic.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, a foreigner cannot be tried on the
territory of the Republic, for acts referred to in this article and committed abroad,
only if he has been arrested on the territory of the Republic and has not been extradited.
In this case, only the Public Ministry can set the public action in motion.
Art.11 .- Can be prosecuted and tried on the territory of the Republic, any person
being on Chadian territory and having committed one of the offenses abroad
following:
• a) war crimes provided for in articles 296 to 299 of this Code;
• b) crimes against humanity provided for in articles 292 to 295 of this Code;
• c) the crime of genocide provided for in articles 303 to 306 of this Code.

Chapter 4 - Foreign law and penal sentences

Art.12 .- Subject to Articles 8 and 9 above, foreign criminal law has no effect
before the courts of the Republic.
Art.13 .- Criminal sentences pronounced by foreign jurisdictions do not produce
effect on the national territory only if the fact is qualified as a crime or an offense under common law
by national criminal law and subject to the lawfulness of the sentence, its
finality and its conformity with public order.
Foreign criminal sentences:
• a) are taken into consideration for the repeat offense, for the granting or revocation of
stay, for revocation of parole, for rehabilitation and
amnesty;
• b) prevent any new prosecution for the same facts in the territory
national.
Art.14 .- When the awards referred to and recorded under the conditions provided for in Article
precedent have been pronounced against citizens or residents and have not been
executed in another country, they are enforceable on the national territory, unless
whether the convicted person has been granted parole, has been pardoned or amnestied,
or that his sentence has been prescribed.

3

Penal Code 2017

Page 4
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

It belongs to the court seised under the conditions provided for in the previous article.
to order the execution of the sentence.

Title 2 - Offenses, penalties and security measures
Chapter 1 - Preliminary provisions

Art.15 .- Offenses are defined by law.
The penalties and security measures are fixed by law and are only pronounced
due to the legally foreseen offenses.
Art.16 .- Offenses are classified as crimes, misdemeanors and contraventions according to the penalties
principal which sanction them.
Are qualified as crimes, offenses punishable by life imprisonment or
deprivation of liberty on time, the minimum of which is greater than ten years.
Offenses punishable by deprivation of liberty or
fine when the custodial sentence incurred exceeds ten days but
does not exceed ten years or when the minimum fine is greater than CFAF 25,000.
Are qualified as contraventions, the infractions punishable by imprisonment which cannot
exceed ten days or a fine which cannot exceed 25,000 FCFA.
The nature of an offense is not changed:
• a) when, as a result of the admission of an excuse or extenuating circumstances, the
the sentence pronounced is that relating to another category of offenses;
• b) in the cases of aggravation provided for in Articles 72 and 73 below.
Art.17.- The penalties are main, alternative, accessory or complementary.
The accessory penalties are attached to the penalties pronounced for felony and apply
as of right.
Additional penalties are left to the discretion of the judge in the cases provided for.
by the law.
Art.18 .- The main penalties are:
• (a) imprisonment for life or time;
• b) the fine.
Art.19 .- The alternative penalties are:
• a) the day-fine penalty;
• b) community service.

4

Penal Code 2017

Page 5
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.20 .- The security measures are:
• a) internment in a nursing home;
• b) special confiscation.

Chapter 2 - The term of imprisonment

Art.21 Imprisonment is a custodial sentence for life or time which
is carried out in a penitentiary establishment and under conditions fixed by the texts
relating to the prison regime.
Art.22 .- If the convicted person is not in pre- trial detention or if an arrest warrant
or deposit is not awarded against him at the hearing under the conditions provided for by the
rules of criminal procedure, the custodial sentence cannot be carried out
only when the conviction has become final.
If a woman sentenced to a custodial sentence is pregnant or comes
to give birth, she does not endure her sentence until three months after giving birth.
The pregnant woman or the one who has just given birth, placed in pre-trial detention,
continue until the expiry of the period referred to in the previous paragraph to benefit from the
custody.
Husband and wife sentenced, even for different offenses, to a penalty
imprisonment for less than one year and not detained on the day of judgment may, on
their request, not to simultaneously undergo their sentence if, justifying a domicile
common course, they have in their care and in their care a child under the age of ten.
eight years.
Art.23 .- The sentence of imprisonment in days is calculated by twenty-four hours. The
one month sentence is thirty days.
The sentence expressed in months and years is calculated from date to date.
Subject to the provisions of article 30 below, the starting point of the sentence
is fixed :
• a) on the day on which the convicted person is imprisoned in execution of the sentence;
• b) in the event of a mix of sentences, on the day of the first execution
of one of the combined convictions.
In the event of an escape, the period during which the convicted person was on the run is excluded from the
calculation of the length of the sentence.
Art.24 .- The duration of pre- trial detention is fully deducted from the sentence
pronounced deprivation of liberty.

5

Penal Code 2017

Page 6
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

When there has been pre-trial detention and the sentence imposed is a fine, the
court seized may, by way of compensation, exonerate the convicted person from the payment of the
all or part of it.

Chapter 3 - Alternative penalties

Art.25 .- When a court rules against a person convicted of a
misdemeanor, a term of imprisonment equal to or less than one year, it can
substitute for the said penalty a penalty of days-fine consisting, for the convicted person, of
pay a sum of money, the total amount of which results from the fixing, in the
decision, a daily contribution for a number of days.
The amount of each day-fine is determined taking into account the resources and
charges of the convicted person.
The number of fine days is fixed having regard to the circumstances of the commission of
the offense. It cannot exceed one hundred and eighty days.
The day-fine penalty cannot be pronounced against the accused if the latter shows
his refusal or is not present at the hearing.
The right to refuse is reminded to the interested party by the President of the court, after the
conviction and fixed sentence.
The answer to the question asked under this paragraph is recorded in the docket.
audience.
In the event of non-execution of the day-fine penalty, the convicted person is summoned by the
Public Prosecutor or summoned to appear at his request before the President of the court
having pronounced the sentence, in order to explain the non-execution.
If the non-performance is due, according to the judgment of the President of the jurisdiction concerned, to
for legitimate reasons and not attributable to the convicted person, the latter is, by ordinance,
returned to the effective execution of the sentence initially pronounced.
If the reasons given by the convicted person to explain the non-execution of the sentence
are not recognized as founded, the President of the court concerned awards against him,
by ordinance, warrant of committal for the execution of the prison sentence
initially pronounced as indicated in paragraph 1 above.
If the convicted person does not comply with the summons or summons, the President of the
concerned jurisdiction issues against him, by order, arrest warrant with a view to
the execution of the prison sentence initially pronounced as indicated in
paragraph 1 st above.
Orders made under paragraphs 8, 9 and 10 above are not susceptible to
of recourse.

6

Penal Code 2017

Page 7
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.26 .- When a court rules against a person convicted of a
misdemeanor a fixed prison sentence equal to or less than one year, she may, as a
substitution, order that the convicted person will accomplish, for a period of between 120
hours, or 15 days, and 240 hours, or 30 days, community service not
paid for the benefit of a legal person governed by public law or an authorized association
to carry out works of general interest.
The sentence of community service cannot be pronounced against the accused if the latter
suffers from an obvious physical or mental incapacity to accomplish such a measure,
expresses his refusal or is not present at the hearing. The right to refuse is reminded to
the person concerned, after the conviction and the fixing of the firm sentence.
The accused's answer to the question asked under this paragraph is recorded in the
plumitif of hearing.
The sentence of community service is chosen from a list of community service
drawn up by deliberation of the competent body of the local authority
decentralized under the jurisdiction of the competent jurisdiction.
The list of community service is filed with the registry of the competent courts
in repressive matters at the beginning of each judicial year and posted at the doors of
Palace of Justice and the headquarters buildings of decentralized territorial communities and
common houses.
In the event of non-execution of the sentence of community service, the convicted person is summoned
by the Public Prosecutor or summoned to appear at his request before the President of the
court which pronounced the sentence, in order to explain the non-execution
noted.
If the non-performance is due, according to the judgment of the President of the jurisdiction, to
valid reasons and not attributable to the convicted person, he is, by order, sent back to
the effective performance of community service.
If the reasons given by the convicted person to explain the non-execution of the sentence
are not recognized as valid, the President of the court awards against him, by
order, warrant of committal for the execution of the prison sentence
initially issued as indicated in paragraph 1 st above.
If the convicted person does not comply with the summons or summons, the President of the
jurisdiction issues against him by ordinance, warrant of arrest for the execution of the
prison sentence initially pronounced as indicated in paragraph 1 above.
Orders made under paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 above are not susceptible to
of recourse.

7

Penal Code 2017

Page 8
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Chapter 4 - Accessory penalties

Art.27 .- Civic degradation is a penalty accessory to any conviction for
crime. Civic degradation includes:
• a) dismissal and exclusion from all public functions, jobs or offices;
• b) deprivation of all civic and political rights and the right to wear a
decoration;
• c) the inability to be an assessor in a court. expert, legal representative,
witness in any act and to testify in court, other than to give
simple information;
• d) the inability to be tutor, subrogee-tutor, curator or judicial counsel, except
of their own children and to be part of a family council
• e) deprivation of the right to carry weapons, to run a school, to teach and to be
employed in an educational institution as a teacher, teacher or
supervisor;
• f) deprivation of the right to direct or manage a capital company and to
part of the board of directors of such a company.

Chapter 5 - Additional penalties

Art.28 .- The additional penalties are:
• the stay ban:
• inadmissibility;
• the prohibition of certain rights;
• confiscation of certain property;
• the closure of an establishment;
• prohibition from exercising a profession or activity;
• publicity of the conviction.
Except in cases where the pronouncement of an additional sentence is compulsory for the judge,
any decision must include a statement of the reasons justifying the pronouncement of a
additional penalty.
Additional penalties may be cumulative, except when incompatible. The difficulties
execution are submitted by the Public Prosecutor's Office to the court which pronounced the
last conviction.
Art.29 .- The ban on residence consists in the ban on the convicted person from
appear in certain places for a certain period of time which cannot be more than five
years in matters of misdemeanor and ten years in matters of crime.
The stay ban includes surveillance and assistance measures. The
foreigners may be banned from staying throughout the national territory.

8

Penal Code 2017

Page 9
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

The pronouncement of the stay ban is left to the discretion of the judge, if it is not
is otherwise prescribed by law. However, it cannot be pronounced incidentally.
with sentences of less than one year's imprisonment.
The list of prohibited places is fixed by the judgment.
The stay ban starts from the date of final or conditional release. At
case of revocation of parole, the ban is suspended during the
time of the new incarceration.
If a prison sentence has not been pronounced or if the convicted person has benefited from the
suspended sentence or if the prison sentence has expired on the day of the conviction,
the ban starts on the day the decision becomes final.
Violations of the decision to ban stay are punished from fifteen days to one year
imprisonment and a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 F.
Art.30 - The prohibition of the territory is that made to the convicted foreigner to enter and
stay in the territory of the Republic after the execution of his sentence and his
expulsion.
The ban from national territory is pronounced in cases where it appears necessary,
due to the nature of the offense and the personality of the convicted person, to prevent it
to appear on the national territory, when it appears that his presence involves
risks of commission of new facts.
When it has a limited duration, the inadmissibility cannot exceed five years in
tort matters and ten years in criminal matters.
Art.31 .- In cases of conviction for crimes specially provided for by law, the
confiscation for the benefit of the State of all the property of the convicted person, of some
whether they are movable or immovable, or only a portion of these goods,
may be pronounced, subject to rights acquired by third parties, in particular victims
of the offense.
The alienation of confiscated property will be continued by the administration of the estates
in the forms prescribed for your sale of state property.
Subject to the rights of bona fide third parties, the courts may pronounce in
in all cases the confiscation is of the body of the offense when the property belongs to the
condemned, either things produced by the offense, or things which have served or which
were intended to commit it, or - things that were given or offered for
incite to commit it.
Art.32 .- In the event of a conviction for a felony, the court may pronounce the dissolution
of the legal person when it is established that it is the principal author of
the offense.

9

Penal Code 2017

Page 10
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.33 .- In cases where the competent court may order the closure of a
commercial or industrial establishment or professional premises used for
commit an offense, this measure entails the prohibition for the convicted person or
for the third party to whom the convicted person has sold, transferred or rented the establishment or the premises
professional to practice in the same room the same trade, the same industry or the
same profession.
Art.34 .- In the cases which they will appreciate and in those specially provided for by law, the
courts may order that their decision be published at the expense of the convicted person, for
a maximum period of two months in the event of conviction for a felony or misdemeanor and
fifteen days at most, in the event of a contravention.
The decision fixes the terms of this publication and the maximum amount of costs to be
exhibit.
In the event of total or partial removal, concealment or laceration of posters
ordered by the judgment of conviction, it will proceed again to the execution
all of the provisions of the judgment relating to posting.
When the total or partial removal, concealment or laceration has been
operated voluntarily by the convict, or at his instigation or by his orders, it
will result against him, the application of a prison sentence of one month to six months
and a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 FCFA.
Art.35 .- Persons convicted of the same crime or for the same offense or
for crimes and related offenses that are the subject of the same prosecution are required
jointly and severally for restitution, damages and costs.
If the fine competes with the refunds and damages, if the
the convicted person's assets are insufficient, these last convictions will obtain the
preference.
The execution of fines and costs sentences may then be continued.
by way of constraint by body.
Art.36 .- In the event of a conviction for a felony or misdemeanor, the competent court may
order, depending on the nature of the offense committed by the legal person and without
exclusion of other accessory penalties, i.e. exclusion from public contracts as a
definitively or for a fixed period, or prohibit him also for a period
determined to make a public offering or to issue checks other than those
which allow the withdrawal of funds by the company itself from the drawee or those who
are certified, or even prohibit him from using payment cards for a period of
determined.
In matters of contravention, in addition to the measures indicated in paragraph 1 above, the
court may also order confiscation of property and other measures
determined by law.

10

Penal Code 2017

Page 11
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Chapter 6 - Security measures

Art.37 .- In the event of acquittal or acquittal for insanity of the perpetrator of a crime or
an offense punishable by imprisonment for at least two years, the court
orders in its decision the internment of the person concerned in a house
special health care, when the liberty of the interested party is recognized as dangerous for order
public.
The medical situation of the person whose internment has been ordered is reviewed at
at least once a year.
Only the court which ordered the internment can put an end to it, after notice of
the competent medical authority certifying that the freedom of the internee no longer presents
no danger to public order.
Art.38 .- When an alcoholic, drug addict or person suffering from a pathology
is convicted of a felony or misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment of
at least two years, the court seised may order his internment in a house
special health.
Internment for the reasons indicated in this article may not exceed two years for
the treatment of an alcoholic or drug addict and five years for the treatment of an
mental illness.
The court which ordered the internment may shorten the time limit initially set, after
opinion of the competent medical authority certifying that the freedom of the internee does not present
no longer any danger to public order.
Art.39 .- Objects and substances whose manufacture, possession, sale or use
are illegal are confiscated and destroyed even if they do not belong to the convicted person or
that the prosecution was not followed by a conviction.
The confiscation and destruction of these objects and substances will be ordered by the
conviction decision.

Chapter 7 - Non-accumulation and the order of execution of sentences

Art.40 .- In the event that an individual is the subject of the same prosecution for several crimes
or related offenses or contraventions, only the most severe penalty incurred is
pronounced.
In the event that an individual is the subject of several convictions for felonies or misdemeanors
resulting from various prosecutions, the main penalties may be confused
by the court seised of the last proceedings. In the event of cumulative penalties, the whole
of the sentences handed down may not exceed the legal maximum of the sentence incurred for
the most severely punished offense.

11

Penal Code 2017

Page 12
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

When a principal sentence has been the subject of a commutation or a graceful remission,
account is taken, for the accumulation of penalties, of the penalty resulting from the commutation or
of the discount.
The rule of non-cumulative sentences does not apply to two convictions for which the
first had become final before the commission of the facts which motivated the
second.

In matters of contraventions, the penalties are always cumulative, unless the court
decides otherwise.
In the event of the commission of several offenses, your penalties other than the penalties
main as well as security measures are cumulative, unless otherwise decided by the
jurisdiction.
Art.41 .- The custodial sentences are executed in the chronological order of the
notification of detention certificates to the convicted person.
The accessory penalties are immediately applicable.
The internment of the acquitted mental patient is immediately applicable.
The internment of the convicted person is applicable from the expiration of the main sentence or its
suspension, in the event of alcoholism, drug addiction or mental illness.
If, during the execution of one of the measures indicated in paragraphs 3 and 4 above, the
interested person incurs, for another felony or misdemeanor, a deprivation of
freedom, the execution of the security measure is suspended and the new sentence is first
suffered.

Chapter 8 - Procedures for the execution of prison sentences

Section 1 - Simple stay

Art.42 .- In case of conviction for felony or misdemeanor to imprisonment
less than or equal to five years or to a fine and if the convicted person has not been
conviction prior to imprisonment, the court seised may order, except
contrary provision of the law and by reasoned decision, that the execution of the
main sentence.
If during the period of five years from the day on which the judgment or judgment became
definitive, the convicted person has not committed any crime or offense followed by a
imprisonment or a more serious sentence, the conviction will be deemed null and void.
Otherwise, the first sentence will first be carried out without it being possible
confused with the second and the penalties for recidivism will be incurred.

12

Penal Code 2017

Page 13
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

The stay does not extend to payment of the costs of the trial and damages.
After pronouncing the conviction, the President of the court warns
the convicted person of the provisions of paragraphs 2 and 3 of this article and mention is made of
this warning in the plumitif of hearing.

Section 2 - Suspension with probation

Art.43 .- The suspension with probation may be pronounced under the same conditions
than a simple suspension when the sentence is equal to or greater than six months
imprisonment.
The reprieve with probation can also be pronounced against people
previously sentenced to a prison sentence accompanied by a simple suspension
or to a firm prison sentence of less than six months.
The probation period may not be less than three years nor more than five years.
Subject to the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article, article 42 above
is applicable to the suspension with probation.
Art.44.- The probation regime includes general obligations and, where
where appropriate, special obligations, monitoring and assistance.
Observance by the convicted person of the obligations attached to the test is controlled by a
magistrate appointed for this purpose within the jurisdiction and who is assisted by representatives
the volunteer or paid test.
The appointment of the delegate for the test is made by the magistrate in charge of the control, who
can modify it.
The magistrate of the place of residence of the convicted person, in charge of the control, can at any time
and by reasoned decision, suspend all or part of the special obligations or
modify without being able to aggravate them.
Art.45 .- The following general obligations are automatically imposed on the convicted person
placed under probation:
• a) respond to summons from the judge responsible for monitoring the application of
measures taken or delegate to the test;
• b) receive visits from the test delegate and communicate information to him
or documents likely to allow the control of its means of existence;
• c) prevent or justify to the judge responsible for monitoring the application of
measures taken or the delegate to test the reasons for his changes of employment or
of residence;
• d) notify the delegate on probation of any absence exceeding fifteen days and notify him
of his return;

13

Penal Code 2017

Page 14
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

• e) obtain the prior authorization of the judge responsible for supervising the application of
measures taken before any trip exceeding fifteen days or those planned for
abroad.
Art.46 .- In addition to the general obligations imposed by the preceding article, the judgment or
the judgment may require the convicted person with probation to observe all or part of the
the following special obligations:
• a) establish his residence in one or more specified places;
• b) not to appear in certain specific places, except with special authorization and
temporary;
• c) exercise a professional activity, follow an education or receive a
professional training ;
• d) submit to measures of control, treatment or care, even under the
hospitalization regime, in particular for detoxification purposes;
• e) contribute to family expenses or regularly pay pensions
food;
• f) repair the damage caused by the infringement;
• g) not to drive certain vehicles determined by the license categories in
vigor;
• h) refrain from frequenting certain places such as drinking establishments, racetracks,
gambling houses;
• i) not to place bets;
• j) refrain from any excess of alcoholic beverages;
• k) refrain from associating with certain convicted persons, in particular co-perpetrators or accomplices of
the offense;
• l) refrain from receiving or lodging certain people in their homes.
Art.47 .- The delegate for the event is responsible for the following missions:
• a) ensure that the convicted person complies with general and special obligations
to which it is subject;
• b) encourage and support the efforts of the convicted person with a view to his social reclassification,
in particular with regard to his family and professional rehabilitation;
• c) provide the convict with all his moral assistance and, in the event that the latter needs
material aid, refer it to the appointed magistrate so that help can be
be provided by any assistance or social assistance organization;
• d) keep the appointed magistrate regularly informed of the exercise of his mission and him
refer in case of difficulties.
Art.48 .- In the event that during the probationary period the convicted person does not respect one of the
general or special obligations to which it is subject, the court which pronounced
the conviction may order the execution of the suspended sentence.
This execution does not entail the revocation of a simple suspension granted previously.
If the suspension with probation has not been revoked in application of this article or
of article 42 paragraph 3, the penalty is deemed null and void.

14

Penal Code 2017

Page 15
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Section 3 - Deferment accompanied by the obligation to perform community service

Art.49 .- The court may, under the conditions and according to the modalities provided for in
Articles 42 and 43 above, provide that the convicted person to a term of imprisonment with
deferment, during working days, for a period of 120 hours,
either fifteen days, at 240 hours, or thirty days, a work of general interest for the benefit
a legal person governed by public law or an association authorized to implement
community service.
The reprieve, together with the obligation to perform community service, cannot be
ordered when the accused suffers from an obvious physical or mental incapacity to
perform such a measure, refuses it or is not present at the hearing.
The right to refuse is reminded to the interested party, after conviction.
The answer to the question asked under the above paragraph is recorded in the
plumitif of hearing.
The terms of application of the obligation to perform community service are
regulated by the provisions of article 26 of this Code.
Art.50 .- During the time limit set by the court to perform work of interest
general, the convicted person must, in addition to the obligation to perform the prescribed work, meet the
following control measures:
• a) respond to summons from the judge responsible for monitoring the application of
measures taken or the social worker appointed for this purpose;
• b) submit to the medical examination prior to the execution of the sentence, the purpose of which is
is to find out if he is not suffering from a dangerous condition for others
workers and ensure that he is medically fit for the job for which he is
considered affecting him;
• c) justify the reasons for his changes of employment or residence which are an obstacle
the performance of community service in accordance with the terms set out;
• d) obtain the prior authorization of the judge responsible for monitoring obligations for any
displacement that would hinder the performance of community service according to the
modalities fixed;
• e) receive visits from the social worker designated to monitor the execution of the
penalty;
• f) fulfill the particular obligations which the court has specially imposed on it.
imposed.
Art.51 .- The suspension accompanied by the obligation to perform community service obeys
to the same rules as those provided for the suspension with probation.

15

Penal Code 2017

Page 16
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Section 4 - Day parole

Art.52 .- When the trial court pronounces a penalty equal to or less than one
year of imprisonment, it can decide with regard to the convicted person who justifies, either
the exercise of a professional activity, either of his attendance at a teaching or a
vocational training or an internship or temporary employment with a view to
social integration, either through their essential participation in the life of their family, or through
need to undergo medical treatment, that the prison sentence will be carried out
under day parole.
Art.53 .- The convicted person admitted to the benefit of day parole is obliged to join
the penitentiary establishment according to the modalities determined by the president of the
Court of First Instance of the place of the execution of the sentence, according to the time
necessary for the activity, teaching, vocational training, internship,
participation in family life or in the treatment for which he was admitted to the scheme
day parole.
Art.54 .- The convicted person admitted to the benefit of day parole is required to remain in
the penitentiary establishment where he is serving his sentence during the days when, for some
no matter what, its external obligations are interrupted.
In the event of non-compliance with the terms according to which he is required to join
prison establishment, the convicted person is imprisoned until the end of his sentence on
decision of the Public Prosecutor.

Section 5 - The division of the correctional sentence of imprisonment

Art.55 .- In the event of a conviction for a misdemeanor, a firm prison sentence equal
or less than one year, the court may, for serious reasons of a medical or family nature,
professional or social, decide that the imprisonment is, for a period
not exceeding three years, executed in fractions, none of which can be
less than three months.
It is ruled on the duration of the Fractions by order of the President of the Court of
Large body of the place of the execution of the sentence, the Public Prosecutor heard.

Section 6 - Grace and the effect of death

Art.56 Grace is the commutation or the partial or total, conditional or
no, penalties, security measures and probation obligations.
Art.57 .- The death of the convicted person does not prevent the execution on his property, of
pecuniary convictions nor the closing of the establishment, nor confiscation.

16

Penal Code 2017

Page 17
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Title 3 - Criminal liability of natural persons
Chapter 1 - General provisions

Art.58 .- A penalty can only be pronounced against a person criminally
responsible.
Anyone who commits the facts characterizing the elements is criminally responsible
constituting an offense with the intention that these facts result in the
commission of the offense.
Except where the law provides otherwise, an abstention from acting does not constitute
criminal liability.
Unless the law provides otherwise, there can be no criminal liability except
if the conditions of paragraph 2 above are met.
However, in contravention matters, criminal liability exists even though
the act or omission is not intentional or the consequence was not
wanted.
Art.59 .- Ignorance of the law and the motive invoked by the accused or the accused do not
not on criminal liability.
Art.60 .- Does not constitute an offense the fact ordered or authorized by the law and accomplished
in accordance with the law.

Chapter 2 - Causes which eliminate or reduce the criminal liability of
physical persons

Art.61 .- The person who has acted under the influence of a
Force or constraint that she could not resist.
Art.62 Criminal liability cannot result from the act of a person who was
suffering, at the time of the facts, of a psychic or neuropsychic disorder having
completely abolished his discernment or the control of his actions.
If the psychic or neuropsychic disorder has not completely abolished the
discernment or control of the acts of the person, it constitutes a mitigating excuse
of responsibility.
Art.63 Unintentional intoxication is assimilated to mental illness.
Art.6.4 .- A minor under the age of thirteen is not criminally responsible.

17

Penal Code 2017

Page 18
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

A minor between thirteen and fifteen years of age, if he is declared criminally responsible, cannot
subject only to one of the special measures provided for by law, and in particular:
• a) the attribution of his custody to his parents, guardian, guardian or to any other person
worth of trust ;
• b) supervised liberty as organized by the rules of criminal procedure;
• c) placement in a vocational training or care establishment;
• d) placement in a specialized institution.
A minor over the age of fifteen and under the age of eighteen declared criminally
responsible benefits from the mitigating excuse of responsibility.
The age to be taken into consideration is that which the perpetrator was at the date of their
commission.
Article 65 Criminal liability cannot result from the act of an individual subject to
imminent threat, and not otherwise avoidable, of death or serious injury such as
provided for in this Code.
However, if the act is an offense punishable by imprisonment for life or if it has been
effect of causing death or the aforementioned injuries, the perpetrator only benefits from
the mitigating excuse.
This article does not apply to anyone who has voluntarily exposed himself to the risk
such threats.
Art.66 .- The mitigating excuse is applicable:
• a) to minors under the age of eighteen who have acted under the coercion of their parents,
persons with customary custody or responsibility;
• b) to employees, employees, civil servants having acted under the constraint of their
hierarchical superiors.
Art.67 Criminal liability cannot result from an act ordered by the authority
legitimate, unless the order is clearly illegal.
Art.68 Criminal liability cannot result from an act required by necessity
immediate protection of his life or physical integrity or that of others
against unlawful interference, provided that the defense is proportionate to the seriousness
of the breach.
There is always a fair proportion between the homicide and the unlawful interference which gives rise to
fear death, rape or serious injury as provided for in this Code.
Art.69 .- Benefit from the mitigating excuse, if there is no disproportion between the
provocation and reaction, any perpetrator of an offense immediately provoked by
the illegitimate act of another against himself or, in his presence, against his spouse,
descendant or ascendant, his brother or sister, his employer or employee, the
minor or incapacitated person in their care.

18

Penal Code 2017

Page 19
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Homicide and injuries are also excusable if they were:
• a) caused by beating or serious violence against people;
• b) committed by one of the spouses on his spouse or on his accomplice caught in
flagrant adultery.
Art.70 .- Independently of the self-defense provided for in article 68 of this Code, the
criminal liability may not result from the infringement made to property for the purpose of
divert from oneself or others or from property belonging to oneself or to others, a
danger that is serious, imminent and not otherwise avoidable, provided that there is no
disproportion between the harm to be avoided and the measure taken to prevent it.
Art.71 .- When the law provides for a mitigating excuse, the penalties are reduced as
follows:
• a) if life imprisonment is incurred, the sentence is reduced to deprivation
freedom from two to ten years;
• b) in the event of a crime not punishable by life imprisonment, the penalty is reduced to
a custodial sentence of one to five years;
• c) in the event of a misdemeanor, the maximum number of custodial sentences and fines is reduced.
by half, and the minimum is that of article 76 paragraph 1 of this Code.
In the event of a combination of mitigating excuses and mitigating circumstances, the minimum
the penalty is that provided for in article 76 paragraph 1 of this Code.

Chapter 3 - Causes which aggravate the criminal liability of individuals
physical

The recidivist
Art.72 .- Is a repeat offender:
• a) anyone who, after having been convicted of a similar felony or misdemeanor,
commits a new offense qualified as a felony or misdemeanor within a period which begins
to run from the date of the conviction that has become final and expires
five years after the execution of the sentence or its prescription;
• b) whoever, after having been convicted of a contravention, commits a new
contravention within a period which begins to run from the date of the
sentence which has become final and which expires twelve months after the execution of the
sentence or its prescription.
In the event of a repeat offense, the maximum penalty in time and that of the fine penalty provided for
is doubled.

The quality of civil servant
Art.73 .- The status of civil servant, public officer or agent in charge of a service
public is an aggravating circumstance of criminal liability against those among

19

Penal Code 2017

Page 20
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

those who, except in cases where the law specifically regulates the penalties incurred for crimes and
offenses committed by them, are guilty of other crimes or offenses that they
were responsible for preventing or repressing.
In the event of the commission of an offense in the circumstances indicated in paragraph 1 below
above, the maximum penalty is doubled.

Chapter 4 - Mitigating circumstances and choice of sentence

Art 74 .- Mitigating circumstances may be admitted, by reasoned decision, in
in favor of a convicted person, except in matters where the law formally excludes them.
Art.75 .- The penalties provided for by law against the accused person (s) recognized
guilty of a crime, and for whose benefit extenuating circumstances have been retained,
can be reduced to ten years or five years imprisonment if the crime is punishable by
life imprisonment, three years deprivation of liberty if the crime is punishable by
sentence of at least fifteen years' imprisonment and one year of deprivation of liberty in
the other cases.
If, in application of the provisions of paragraph 1 above, a penalty equal to or less than
ten years of deprivation of liberty is pronounced, the court may impose on the convicted person
a fine which cannot exceed 2,000,000 FCFA.
Art 76 .- When mitigating circumstances are retained in the event of an offense or
violation, the court may reduce the custodial sentence incurred
legal minimum. The same applies to the fine.
When the law only enacts a custodial sentence, the court may substitute it
a fine of which the maximum is 1,000,000 FCFA in the event of an offense and 25,000 FCFA
in the event of a contravention.
Art.77 .- The penalty or measure pronounced within the limits fixed or authorized by law
depends on the circumstances of the offense, the danger it presents to the order
public, the personality of the convicted person and his possibilities of reclassification as well as
practical possibilities of execution.

Chapter 5 - The attempt

Art.78 Constitutes an attempt and is considered as the crime or the misdemeanor itself,
any act tending to the execution of a felony or an offense and demonstrating unequivocally
the irrevocable intention of the perpetrator to commit the offense, if it has not been
voluntarily suspended or if it only failed by circumstances
independent of the will of its author.

20

Penal Code 2017

Page 21
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

The attempt is punishable even though the desired goal could not be achieved within
due to a factual circumstance ignored by the author.
The preparatory act alone does not constitute an attempt in the criminal sense of the term.

Chapter 6 - Coaction and complicity

Art.79 - Anyone who participates with others and in agreement with them in the
commission of an offense.
Art.80 .- The following will be punished as accomplices of an action qualified as a crime or misdemeanor:
• a) those who by donations, promises, threats, abuse of authority or power,
guilty plot or artifice, will have provoked this action or given
instructions for committing it;
• b) those who will have procured weapons, instruments or any other means which will have
served in action, knowing that they had to be used there;
• c) those who have knowingly helped or assisted the author (s) of the
the offense in the facts which will have prepared or facilitated it or in those which will have it
consumed;
• d) those who, knowing the criminal conduct of criminals carrying out
robbery or violence against State security, public peace,
people or properties, usually provide them with accommodation,
retreat or meeting or information useful for their activity;
• e) those who, having knowledge of a crime or offense attempted or consummated, will not have
not notified the administrative or judicial authorities, while it was still possible
to prevent or limit its effects, or even to prevent the guilty
commit new crimes or offenses;
• f) those who can prevent by their immediate action, without risk to them or
for third parties, a fact qualified as a crime or offense against the bodily integrity of the
person, willfully refrain from doing so.
The accomplices of a crime or a misdemeanor will be punished as the very authors of this
crime or misdemeanor, except where the law provides otherwise.
Anyone who provokes a crime or an offense will be punished with the penalties provided for
the offense even if it would not have been committed because of the abstention
voluntary of the one or those who were to commit it or of a circumstance or a
a quality that would be personal to them.

21

Penal Code 2017

Page 22
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Title 4 - Criminal liability of legal persons
Chapter 1 - General provisions

Art.81 .- Legal persons, excluding the State and its branches, are
criminally responsible for offenses committed by their bodies or representatives,
when they have acted in the exercise or on the occasion of their duties.
Article 82 The criminal liability of legal persons does not exclude that of
natural persons perpetrators or accomplices of the same facts.
Art.83 .- The conditions for the criminal liability of legal persons are, in
apart from those defined in article 81 above, provided for by the provisions
criminalization of this Code.

Chapter 2 - Causes which aggravate the criminal liability of persons
moral

Art.84 .- The provisions on recidivism provided for in article 72 of this Code are
applicable to legal persons.

Chapter 3 - Choice of penalty for legal persons

Art.85 .- The penalty or measure pronounced within the limits set or authorized by law
depends on the circumstances of the offense, the danger that it presents for
public order, the financial capacity of the legal person and, more broadly,
practical possibilities of execution.

22

Penal Code 2017

Page 23
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Book 2 - Crimes and misdemeanors against the Nation, the State and the peace
public
Title 1 - Attacks on the integrity of the State
Chapter 1 - Betrayal and Espionage

Section 1 - Betrayal

Art.86 .- Is guilty of the crime of treason and punishable by life imprisonment
any Chadian, any soldier in the service of Chad, who:
• a) bear arms against Chad;
• b) maintains intelligence with a foreign power, with a view to engaging it
undertake hostilities against Chad, or provide it with the means to do so, either by
facilitating the penetration of foreign forces into the territory, either by undermining the
loyalty of the armies, or in any other way;
• c) delivers to a foreign power or to its agents, either troops or towns,
places, works, posts, stores, arsenals, materials, ammunition, buildings or
navigation devices, belonging to Chad or used for its defense;
• d) in order to harm national defense, destroy or damage a building,
navigation device, material, structure or installation of any kind,
or who, for the same purpose, brings to it, either before; either after their completion,
poor workmanship likely to damage them or cause an accident;
• e) induce soldiers to pass into the service of a foreign power,
facilitates the means or enlists for a power at war with the
Chad;
• f) maintains intelligence with a foreign power or with its agents in
view to favor the companies of this power against Chad;

• (g) obstruct the movement of military equipment;
• h) takes part in an enterprise of demoralization of the army or the nation whose
object to harm national defense.
Art.87 Is also guilty of the crime of treason and punishable by the penalty of
life imprisonment any Chadian who:
• (a) delivers to a foreign power or to agents, in any form and by
whatever means, information, object, document or process which must
be kept secret in the interest of national defense;
• b) ensure, by any means whatsoever, the possession of such information,
object, document or process with a view to delivering it to a foreign power or to its
agents;
• c) destroys or allows such information, object, document or process to be destroyed with a view to
to favor a foreign power.

23

Penal Code 2017

Page 24
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Section 2 - Espionage

Art.88 .- Is guilty of the crime of espionage and punishable by imprisonment in
life any foreigner who commits one of the acts referred to in article 86 b, c, d, f, g and h and in article
87 above.

Chapter 2 - Attacks on national defense not qualified as treason or
spying

Section 1 - Attacks on national defense

Art.89 .- Is guilty of the crime of attacking national defense and punishable by the penalty of
life imprisonment anyone, with the intention of delivering them to a power
foreign, gathers information, objects, documents or processes whose
assembly and exploitation are likely to harm national defense.
Art.90 .- Is guilty of the crime of attacking national defense and punishable by
imprisonment from twenty to thirty years any guardian, any depositary by function or by
quality of information, object, document or process which must be kept secret in
the interests of national defense or whose knowledge could lead to the
discovery of a national defense secret, which without intention of treason or
espionage:
• a) destroys, subtracts it, allows it to be destroyed or subtracted, reproduces it or allows it to be reproduced;
• b) bring it to or allow it to come to the attention of an unqualified person or
public.
The penalty is imprisonment for five to ten years if the custodian or custodian acted by
clumsiness, recklessness, inattention, negligence or non-observance of regulations.

Section 2 - Other attacks on national defense

Art.91 .- Is guilty of undermining national defense and punishable by imprisonment of
twenty to thirty years old anyone, except in the cases referred to in Article 90 above, without intention of
betrayal or espionage:
• a) ensure, being without quality, the possession of information, object, document or
process which must be kept secret in the interest of national defense or whose
knowledge could lead to the discovery of a national defense secret;
• b) destroy, subtract, allow to destroy or reproduce or allow to reproduce such
information, object, document or process;
• c) bring or allow to be known to an unqualified person or to the public
such information, object, document or process, or extends its disclosure.

24

Penal Code 2017

Page 25
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.92 .- Is guilty of undermining national defense and punishable by imprisonment of
twenty to thirty years old whoever, without prior authorization from the competent authority, delivers
or communicates to a person acting on behalf of a power or a
foreign company, either an invention of national defense, or
information, studies or manufacturing processes relating to an invention of this
kind or industrial application of interest to national defense.
Is also guilty of attacking national defense and punishable by the penalties provided for in
the preceding article, anyone who owns, carries, manufactures, imports firearms and / or
opens an arms depot without prior legal authorization.
Art.93 .- Is guilty of undermining national defense and punishable by imprisonment
from one to five years anyone who, without the intention of treason or espionage, carries
knowledge of an unqualified person or of the public unqualified military information
made public by the competent authority and the disclosure of which is clearly
nature to harm national defense.
Individuals who own military vehicles are punished with the same penalties.
The additional penalties provided for in article 28 of this Code are also
applicable.
The provisions of this Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure relating to suspension and
conditional release are not applicable to the perpetrators of the above mentioned facts.

Section 3 - Irregular presence in certain places

Art.94 Anyone who:
• a) enters under a disguise or a false name or by concealing his quality or his
nationality, in a place, a work, post or arsenal, in the works, camps,
bivouacs or cantonments of an army, in a building or apparatus of
navigation of war or commerce employed for national defense in a
armed military vehicle, in a defense establishment or site
national;
• b) even without disguising himself, or without concealing his name, position or nationality,
organizes in some occult manner any means of correspondence or
remote transmission likely to harm national defense;
• c) flies over Chadian territory by means of a foreign aircraft without being authorized to do so.
by diplomatic agreement or permission from the Chadian authority;
• d) in a zone of interdiction fixed by the military authority, carry out, without
the authorization of the latter, drawings, photographs, surveys or operations
photographs inside or around squares, structures, posts or
military or national defense establishments;
• e) stays, in defiance of a prohibition enacted by decree, within a radius
determined around fortified works or military establishments;

25

Penal Code 2017

Page 26
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

• f) discloses information to an unqualified person or makes public information
relating to the measures taken to discover and arrest the perpetrators and accomplices
crimes or misdemeanors defined in sections 1 and 2 of this chapter, either by walking
prosecution and investigation, or debates before trial courts.
In peacetime, the perpetrators of the offenses provided for in paragraphs c, d, e and f of
paragraph 1 st above are punishable by imprisonment of one to five years.

Section 4 - Intelligence with the enemy

Art.95 .- Anyone who:
• a) by hostile acts not approved by the Government, exposes Chad to a
declaration of war ;
• b) by acts not approved by the Government, expose Chadians to
retaliation;
• c) maintains intelligence with the agents of a foreign power that is likely to
harm Chad's military or diplomatic situation or its economic interests.
Art.96 Anyone who, in time of
war:
• a) maintains, without the authorization of the Government, any correspondence or
relations with subjects or agents of an enemy power;
• b) carries out, directly or through an intermediary, acts of commerce with agents
of an enemy power, in defiance of the enacted prohibitions.
Art.97 Anyone who, in peacetime, in
view to harm national defense, obstruct the circulation of military equipment or, by
by any means whatsoever, provokes, facilitates or organizes violent action or
concerted aim or result of these obstacles.

Section 5 - Other actions harmful to national defense

Art.98 .- Anyone who, in peacetime,
knowingly participates in an army demoralization enterprise having
intended to harm national defense.
Art.99 Anyone who, in peacetime, is punished with imprisonment from one to five years
enlist in Chadian territory soldiers on behalf of a foreign power.
Art.100 .- In all the cases provided for in this section, the guilty parties may, in addition,
be sentenced to a fine of 100,000 to 10,000,000 FCFA.

26

Penal Code 2017

Page 27
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Chapter 3 - Attacks, conspiracies and other attacks on the constitutional order,
the integrity and security of the national territory

Section 1 - Infringements of the constitutional order

Art.101 .- Anyone who commits an act shall be punished with imprisonment from twenty to thirty years.
constituting an attack the aim of which is either to destroy or to change the regime
constitutional, or to encourage citizens or inhabitants to arm themselves against the authority of
the State or against each other, or to undermine the integrity of the national territory.
Art.102 Constitutes a conspiracy, the concerted resolution and stopped between two or
several people to commit one of the acts constituting a crime mentioned in
the previous article.
The conspiracy is punishable by imprisonment for eight to fifteen years.
Art.103 .- Anyone who, apart from the cases
provided for in Articles 101 and 102 above, undertakes, by any means whatsoever, to
undermine the integrity of the national territory.
Article 104 .- In all the cases provided for in Articles 101 to 103 above, confiscation
provided for in article 28 of this Code is pronounced.

Section 2 - Organizations against the constitutional order

Art.105 .- Are punished by the penalty of life imprisonment:
• a) those who have raised or caused to be raised armed troops, engaged or enlisted, made
engage or enlist soldiers or have supplied them with arms or ammunition, without
order or authorization of legitimate power;
• b) those who, without right or legitimate reason, will have taken a military command
any, those who, against the order of the Government, will have retained such
commanders and commanders who will have held their army or their troop
assembled after termination or separation has been ordered.
Art.106 Anyone who,
able to dispose of the public force, will have required or ordered, requested or
order action or employment to prevent enforcement of recruitment laws
military or mobilization.

27

Penal Code 2017

Page 28
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Section 3 - Attacks against State institutions

Art.107 .- An attack the aim of which is to kill is liable to the penalty of life imprisonment.
disturb the public peace by the massacre or devastation of any part of the
territory.
In the case provided for in this article, the confiscation provided for in article 28 of this Code
must be pronounced.
Art.108 Anyone who violates the
life of the Head of State, a member of the Government or a member of the Assembly
national.

Section 4 - Armed bands

Art.109 .- Is punished with the penalty of life imprisonment anyone, with a view to disturbing
the State by one of the crimes provided for in Articles 102 and 108 above or for any other
cause or even by attacking or resisting the public force acting against
perpetrators of these crimes, becomes the head of armed gangs or exercises a function in them or
any command.
Anyone who leads the association, raises or
raises, organizes or causes to organize gangs or knowingly and willfully their
provides or procures subsidies, weapons, ammunition and instruments of crime or
send subsistence or, in any other way, practice intelligences with the
leaders or commanders of the bands.
In the case provided for in this article, the confiscation provided for in article 28 of this Code
is pronounced.
Art.110 .- Are punished with imprisonment of five to ten years the individuals belonging to
of bands, without exercising any command or employment.
Art.111 .- In cases where the crimes referred to in this section do not provide for the
confiscation, a fine of 50,000 to 5,000,000 FCFA may be imposed.

Chapter 4 - Other attacks on the State

Section 1 - Insurrectionary movements

Art.112 .- Anyone who participates in a
insurrectionary movement.

28

Penal Code 2017

Page 29
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Participation in an armed insurrection and the effective use of weapons are punishable by
life imprisonment.
Art.113 .- Those who lead or
organize an insurrectional movement or which, knowingly and voluntarily,
provide or procure weapons, ammunition and instrumentalities of crime or
subsistence or who, in any way, practice intelligences with [es
leaders or commanders of this movement.
Article 114 .- In the cases provided for in Articles 110 and 111 above, a fine of 50,000 to
5,000,000 FCFA may be pronounced in addition to the penalties indicated in the said articles.

Section 2 - Mercenarism

Art.115 .- Any person who:
• a) is specially recruited in the country or abroad to fight in a
armed conflict ;
• (b) in fact takes a direct part in hostilities;
• (c) takes part in hostilities for the purpose of obtaining personal advantage and to which
actually promised by or on behalf of a party to the conflict, remuneration
material;
• d) is neither a national of a party to the conflict nor a resident of the territory controlled by
a party to the conflict;
• e) is not a member of the armed forces of a party to the conflict;
• f) has not been sent by a State other than a party to the conflict on an official mission
as a member of the armed forces of that state.
Commits the crime of mercenarism an individual, a group or an association, a
representative of the State which, with the aim of opposing armed violence to stability or
territorial integrity of Chad, performs one of the following acts:
• a) shelter, organize, finance, assist, equip, train, promote, support or
employ in any way bands of mercenaries;
• b) enlist, enlist or attempt to enlist in said bands;
• c) allow that in the territories subject to its sovereignty or in any other place
under its control, the activities mentioned in point (a) above or
granting facilities for transit, transport or any other operation of the bands
mentioned above.
Any natural person who commits the crime of mercenarism as defined in paragraph 1
above is sentenced to imprisonment from twenty to thirty years.
Anyone is considered to be the author of mercenarism and punished with the same penalty.
who assumes the command of the mercenaries or gives them orders.
Mercenaries do not have combatant status and cannot benefit from combatant status.
war prisoner.

29

Penal Code 2017

Page 30
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.116 .- The mercenary responds as well to the crime of mercenarism as to all
related offenses, without prejudice to all other offenses for which it
could be continued.
Art.117 .- Legal persons can be declared criminally liable for
acts of mercenarism under the conditions defined by articles 81 to 85 of this present
Coded.
The penalty incurred by these legal persons is a fine of 50,000,000 to
500,000,000 FCFA.
In addition to the penalty provided for in paragraph 2 above, legal persons incur the penalties
accessories of Article 28 of this Code as well as the confiscation of all or part of
their property, whatever its nature, movable or immovable, divided or undivided.

Chapter 5 - Miscellaneous provisions

Art.118 .- Subject to the obligations resulting from professional secrecy, is punishable by
time of war with imprisonment from two to ten years any person who, having
knowledge of plans or acts of treason, espionage or other activities of
such as to harm national defense, do not denounce them to the military authorities,
administrative or judicial from the moment it becomes aware of it.
The facts provided for in paragraph 1 of this article are, in the event of a commission in time of
peace, punishable by imprisonment from one to five years and a fine of 50,000 to
500,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only.
Are, for the purposes of the application of this article, assimilated to accomplices and
punished as such, those who:
• a) provide, without constraint and with knowledge of their intentions, subsidies,
means of subsistence, place of retreat or meeting for perpetrators of breaches of integrity
of State ;
• b) knowingly carry the correspondence of the perpetrators of such crimes or offenses,
or knowingly facilitate them, in any way whatsoever, the search, concealment,
transport, or the transmission of the object of the crime or misdemeanor.
Are for the purposes of the application of this article, assimilated to receivers and punished
as such, those who:
• a) knowingly conceal objects or instruments that have been used or are to be used for
commit the crime or misdemeanor or the objects, materials or documents obtained by the
crimes or misdemeanors;
• b) destroy, remove, conceal, conceal or knowingly alter
public or private documents likely to facilitate the search for the crime or misdemeanor, the
discovery of evidence or punishment of its perpetrators.

30

Penal Code 2017

Page 31
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.119 .- Anyone who, before any execution, attempted
of a crime or an offense against the security of the State, gives the first knowledge
to administrative or judicial authorities.
The penalty is reduced by applying the extenuating excuse rule, if the information
occurs after the consummation of the attempted crime or misdemeanor, but before
the opening of proceedings.
The penalty is reduced by applying the extenuating excuse rule in respect of the
guilty who, after the opening of proceedings, brings about the arrest of the perpetrators, or
accomplices of the same offense or other offenses of the same or equal nature
gravity.
Except for specific crimes that they have personally committed, it is not
pronounced no penalty against those who, having been part of an armed band without
exercise any command and without fulfilling any employment or function therein,
withdrawn on first warning from civil or military authorities or have gone to
these authorities.
Those who are exempt from penalty by application of this article may nevertheless
be banned from residing and condemned to the prohibition of certain rights, as provided for in
article 36 of this Code.
Art.120 .- Financial retribution received by the guilty party, or the amount thereof
when the remuneration could not be entered by the investigators, is declared acquired in the treasury
by the judgment pronouncing the conviction of that person.
Art.121 .- Are, for the purposes of the application of this chapter, assimilated to
weapons:
• a) all machines, instruments or utensils that are sharp, piercing or
blunt;
• b) pocket knives, simple walking sticks and any other objects whatsoever if they are
was used to kill, injure or strike.
Art.122 .- The President of the Republic may, by ordinance taken after authorization
legislative, extend either for wartime or for peacetime, all or
part of the provisions relating to attacks on the integrity of the State, acts concerning
this and which would be committed against the allied or friendly powers of Chad.

31

Penal Code 2017

Page 32
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Title 2 - Attacks on the authority of the State and disturbances caused to
the exercise of this authority
Chapter 1 - Crowds

Section 1 - Participation in gatherings

Art.123 .- The following are prohibited on the public highway or in a public place:
• a) any armed assembly;
• b) any unarmed gathering which could disturb public order.
The assembly is said to be armed when the individuals who compose it are carriers.
visible or hidden weapons or any objects, visible or not, having been used
weapons or brought for the purpose of being weapons.
Art.124 .- Any person not
army which, being part of an armed group, will not have abandoned it after the
first summons.
Imprisonment is six months to two years if the unarmed person maintains himself
in an armed crowd and if it is dispersed only under the use of force.
Art.125 .- Shall be punished by imprisonment of three months to two years whoever in a
gathering, during a demonstration or on the occasion of a demonstration,
during a meeting or on the occasion of a meeting, has been found carrying a weapon
apparent or hidden or any visible or hidden objects, having served as weapons
or brought in for use as weapons.
The imprisonment will be from one to five years in the case of an assembly dispersed by the
strength.
The penalties provided for in paragraph 2 will be doubled in the event of resistance.
Art.126 .- Any direct provocation to a group of people will be punished with a
imprisonment from one to five years if it has been followed and, if not, by a
imprisonment from three months to one year.
Any direct provocation to an unarmed assembly will be punished from three months to one year.
imprisonment if it disturbed public order and, if not, a
imprisonment for one to six months.

32

Penal Code 2017

Page 33
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Section 2 - Damage caused by a gathering

Art.127 Anyone who has continued to be part of a gathering after the
third summons made by a representative of the public authority may be
condemned to financial compensation for the damage caused by this gathering.
Art.128 .- Persons convicted of participating in a gathering or
provocation to a gathering will be jointly and severally liable for the repair of
damage caused by this gathering.
The additional penalties of article 28 of this Code may also be
applied.

Chapter 2 - From rebellion and other acts of resistance to the action of
administrative and judicial authorities

Section 1 - Rebellion

Art.129 .- Any attack, any resistance, with violence and assault, against
ministerial officers, the police, those responsible for collecting taxes and
taxes, customs officials, police officers or agents
administrative or judicial, acting for the execution of laws, orders or
orders of public authority, judicial warrants or judgments, is qualified,
depending on the circumstances, crime or offense of rebellion.
Art.130 .- If the rebellion was committed unarmed or by one or two armed persons
at most, the culprits will be punished by imprisonment of three months to two years.
If the rebellion was committed by more than two armed people, the culprits will be
punishable by imprisonment from one to four years.
In either case, a fine of 5,000 to 500,000 FCFA may be imposed.
Art.131 .- In the event of a rebellion with a gang or an assembly, the penalties provided for in paragraph I
of the previous article will be applicable to rebels without functions or jobs in the
band, who will have withdrawn at the first warning of the public authority, or even
since, if they were only seized outside the place of the rebellion and without new resistance and
without weapons.
Art.132 .- The prohibition of rights provided for in article 28 of this Code may also
be pronounced in the case of the two preceding articles.
Art.133 .- Any gathering of individuals for felony or misdemeanor is deemed to be armed in cases
referred to in Article 130, paragraphs 1 and 2 above.

33

Penal Code 2017

Page 34
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.134 .- Rebel meetings shall be punished those formed with
or unarmed and accompanied by violence or threats against the authority
administration, officers and police officers or against the law enforcement agencies
prisoners accused, accused, condemned or coerced by body.
Art.135 .- The penalty applied for rebellion to prisoners accused, accused or
convicted of other crimes or misdemeanors, will be suffered by them in the manner
next :
• a) by those who, by reason of the crimes or misdemeanors which caused their detention, are or
would be sentenced to a non-life sentence, immediately after expiration
of this penalty;
• b) by others, immediately after the judgment or final judgment which
will have acquitted or dismissed absolved of the fact for which they were detained;
• c) by constrained by body, after the expiration of the constraint.

Section 2 - From resistance to action by the authorities

Art.136 - Shall be punished from three months to two years imprisonment anyone who
voluntarily abstaining for two years from paying taxes, contributions or
legally due taxes.
Public action can only be set in motion after formal notice has been given,
either by registered letter with acknowledgment of receipt, or by official report
sworn prosecution, either by exploit of the enforcement agent, or at the request of the
prosecutor's office, by a judicial police officer.
Art.137 .- Those who will have encouraged refusal to pay taxes, contributions and taxes
will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years.
Art.138 .- Those who will have knowingly helped a person whom they knew to be suspected
of a felony or misdemeanor and therefore be sought by the courts to evade or attempt
to evade research will be punished from one month to two years imprisonment
and a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 FCFA.
These provisions will not be applicable to the spouse, ascendants and descendants nor
to relatives and allies up to the degree of uncle and nephew.
Art.139 .- Shall be punished from fifteen days to three months imprisonment and a fine
from 25,000 to 50,000 FCFA those who, without a legitimate excuse, have refrained from answering
regular summons sent by administrative or judicial authorities,
for matters within their competence, in the cases and forms provided for by law or
regulation.
Art.140 .- Those who, apart from the cases of rebellion and the cases provided for in the preceding articles,
will be opposed, by any means whatsoever, to the exercise of the acts of their function
by officials or agents of public authority, agents of the force

34

Penal Code 2017

Page 35
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

public or citizens in charge of a public service ministry and will thus have
infringement or attempted to infringe public order will be punished from fifteen days to three
months of imprisonment and a fine of 25,000 to 50,000 FCFA.
Art.141 .- Those who, without the prior authorization of the public officer, in the event that
is prescribed, will have buried a deceased individual, will be punished from six days to six months
imprisonment, and a fine of 25,000 to 500,000 FCFA, without prejudice to the
prosecution of crimes of which the perpetrators of this offense could be prevented in this
circumstance.
The same penalty will be applied against those who have violated, in any way
whatsoever, to the law and regulations relating to the aforementioned burials.

Chapter 3 - Outrages and violence against the constituted bodies, the high
authorities, magistrates

Section 1 - Outrages upon public bodies

Art.142 .- Without prejudice to the penalties provided for by special legislation for offenses
committed through the press and similar offenses, contempt of a member of the
Government or of the National Assembly or to a magistrate, in the exercise of
the occasion of the exercise of their functions, done by words, writings or drawings, by gestures
or by sending any objects, will be punished from fifteen days to two years
imprisonment and a fine of 25,000 to 100,000 FCFA.
Art.143 .- When the contempt has been made to a head of an administrative district, to
a ministerial officer, a law enforcement officer, or a citizen in charge of
ministry of public service, the sentence will be from fifteen days to three years of imprisonment
and a fine of 5,000 to 250,000 FCFA.
Art.144 Anyone who has publicly, by deeds, words or writings, sought to throw
discrediting an act or a judicial decision, under conditions likely to
undermine the authority of justice or its independence, will be punished from one to six months
imprisonment and a fine of 25,000 to 100,000 FCFA.
The court may also order that its decision be posted and published in the
conditions that it will determine, in accordance with the legal provisions relating to
publication of awards.
The initiative of the prosecution belongs to the Attorney General at the Court of Appeal.
The foregoing provisions cannot, under any circumstances, be applied to
purely technical comments, nor to acts, words or writings tending to the revision
of a conviction.

35

Penal Code 2017

Page 36
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.145 - Anyone who has published will be punished with the penalties provided for in the previous article,
before the intervention of the final judicial decision, comments tending to
to exert pressure on witness statements or on the decision of
investigating or trial courts.
The provisions of the last three paragraphs of the preceding article are also
applicable.

Section 2 - Violence against members of state bodies

Art.146 Any individual who, even without weapons and without injury,
will have struck a member of the Government or of the National Assembly, a magistrate,
in the performance of his duties or on the occasion of this exercise, may have committed any other
violence or assault against him in the same circumstances, will be punished with
imprisonment from six months to five years and a fine of 5,000 to 50,000 FCFA.
Art.147 .- Violence or assault of the species expressed in the previous article
directed against a ministerial officer, a law enforcement officer, or a citizen
in charge of a ministry of public service, if they took place while they were exercising their
ministry or on this occasion, will be punished with imprisonment of one month to three years
and a fine of 5,000 to 50,000 FCFA.
Art.143 .- When violence against officials and agents such as
provided for in Articles 146 and 147 above were the cause of bloodshed, injuries
or illness, the penalty will be doubled. If death ensued, the culprit will be
punished by thirty years of imprisonment.
When the blows have been inflicted or the wounds made with intent to kill
and actually caused it, the culprit will be punished with life imprisonment.

Chapter 4 - Escapes

Art.149 .- Prisoners who have escaped or who have attempted to escape, by breach of
prison or by violence, will be for this fact punished by imprisonment of six months
at least, which may be raised up to a penalty equal to that for which they
were detained, or if they were pre-trial detained, to that attached by law to
the charge which motivated the detention, without it being able, in either case,
exceed five years' imprisonment, all without prejudice to the harshest penalties
that they might have incurred for other crimes or misdemeanors they might have committed in
their violence.
They will suffer this penalty immediately after the expiration of the one they will have.
incurred for the felony or misdemeanor for which they were detained or immediately
after the judgment or judgment which will have acquitted or absolved them of the said crime or misdemeanor.

36

Penal Code 2017

Page 37
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Will be punished with the same penalty, which will be suffered under the same conditions, any detainee
transferred to a health or hospital establishment which, by any means whatsoever,
will have escaped or attempted to escape from it, and any detainee who, employed outside
the prison, or beneficiary of a leave of absence, will have taken the opportunity to escape.
Art.150 .- When a detainee or prisoner of war has escaped, the commanders in
chief or under order of the force in charge of the escort or stationed in the establishment,
those in charge of the establishments, the guards and all other persons in charge of driving,
the transport or custody of detainees or prisoners will be punished:
• a) in the case of negligence, imprisonment from fifteen days to two years and
fine of 25,000 to 50,000 FCFA;
• b) in the event of collusion with the escape, imprisonment of six months to five years and
a fine of 10,000 to 100,000 FCFA.
Art.151 .- The penalties provided for collusion will be incurred when the
persons referred to in the preceding article will have provided or facilitated, attempted to obtain or
facilitate an escape, even if it has not been consumed or attempted and when
even the preparations were reportedly carried out without the knowledge of the detainee or prisoner. The
connivance can result from a simple voluntary abstention.
Article 152 .- Persons other than those referred to in Article 150 above who will have
procured, facilitated, attempted to procure or facilitate an escape or facilitated the escape of
the escapee will be punished from fifteen days to two years imprisonment and a fine of
5,000 to 50,000 FCFA.
Art.153 .- Anyone who has, will be punished by imprisonment from fifteen days to six months,
in irregular conditions, delivered or sent or attempted to deliver or make
reach a detainee, anywhere, with sums of money,
any correspondence or objects.
The irregular exit or attempted exit of sums of money, correspondence or
any objects, will be punished with the same penalties.
The acts referred to in the two preceding paragraphs will be considered as accomplished in
irregular conditions if they have been committed in violation of a regulation emanating from
the direction of the prison administration or approved by it.
If the culprit is one of the persons designated in article 150 above or a
person empowered by his or her functions to approach prisoners in any capacity whatsoever,
the penalty for him will be imprisonment from six months to two years.

37

Penal Code 2017

Page 38
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Chapter 5 - Disturbances at the hands of officials

Section 1 - Coalitions of officials

Art . 154 .- Subject to the regulations relating to the right to strike in force, any
concert of measures contrary to the laws, practiced either by the assembly of individuals or
body depositaries of some part of the public authority, either by deputation or
correspondence between them, will be punished by imprisonment of two months to two years.
The deprivation of rights provided for in article 28 of this Code may also be
pronounced.
Art.155 .- Will be punished with the penalties provided for in the previous article, officials who
will have, by deliberation, decided to give resignations the object or effect of which would be
prevent or suspend either the administration of justice or the accomplishment of
of any service.

Section 2 - Unlawfully prolonged exercise of public authority

Art.156 Any official or any public authority dismissed, dismissed, suspended or
legally prohibited, who, after having had official knowledge, will have continued
the exercise of their functions, or who, being elective or temporary, will have exercised them after
having been replaced, will be punished by imprisonment of six months to two years and
fine of 25,000 to 100,000 FCFA.

Section 3 - Refusal to respond to requisitions

Art.157 - Any weapons commander legally seized of a requisition of the authority
civilians who have refused or refrained from making the forces placed under their command act
will be punished with imprisonment of one to two years.
Art.158 .- Witnesses and assessors who have alleged an excuse recognized as false
will be condemned, in addition to the fines pronounced for non-appearance, to a
imprisonment from fifteen days to three months.

38

Penal Code 2017

Page 39
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Chapter 6 - Encroachments on judicial functions and usurpations of
titles or functions

Section 1 - Encroachments on judicial functions

Art.159 - Any official or public official who, without quality, will have interfered in the
judicial functions knowing of rights and private interests within the jurisdiction of the courts,
and who, after the claim of the parties or of one of them, will nevertheless have decided in
the case before the higher authority has pronounced, will be punished with a
imprisonment from three months to one year and a fine of 25,000 to 50,000 FCFA.

Section 2 - Usurpation of titles or functions

Art.160 .- Anyone who, without title, has interfered in public, civil or
military personnel, or will have carried out the acts of one of these functions, will be punished by imprisonment
from three months to five years, without prejudice to the penalty of forgery, if the act bears this character.
Art.161 Anyone who has publicly worn a costume, uniform or
decoration that it did not belong to him, or a costume presenting with the
regulatory uniforms of the army, gendarmerie or police a
resemblance likely to abuse the public will be punished with imprisonment of fifteen
days to two years and a fine of 25,000 to 100,000 FCFA.
Art.162 .- Anyone, without fulfilling the
conditions required to take advantage of it, will have made use of or will have claimed a title
attached to a legally regulated profession, an official diploma or a quality
whose conditions of attribution have been fixed by the public authority.
Art.163 .- Anyone, without rights and in
to claim an honorary distinction, has publicly assumed an altered title or
changed the name assigned to it by civil status documents.
The court will order that the judgment be mentioned in the margin of authentic instruments or
civil status documents in which the title has been taken unduly or the name altered.
Art.164 .- In the cases provided for in Articles 162 and 163, the court may order the
publication of the judgment.
Art.165 .- Anyone who, in
a public or authentic document or in an administrative document intended for the authority
public and except in cases where the regulations in force authorize it to subscribe to these acts
or documents under a borrowed civil status, will not have taken the name which is legally the
his.

39

Penal Code 2017

Page 40
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Title 3 - Attacks and obstacles to public freedoms, peace and
public tranquility
Chapter 1 - Infringements and obstacles to public freedoms

Section 1 - Violations of civil rights

Art.166 .- Is punished by imprisonment of six months to three years and a fine of
10,000 to 100,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only anyone, on the day of
poll or outside the legal campaign period:
• a) by the granting or by the promise of a particular advantage of whatever nature
either, influence the vote of an elector or cause him to abstain;
• b) by donations, gifts, favors, promises of public or private employment or
other special advantages made with a view to influencing the vote of one or more
voters, obtains their suffrage either directly or through a third party;
• c) directly or through a third party, accepts or solicits candidates,
gifts, gifts, favors or advantages as mentioned in point b above;
• d) in order to favor a candidate or a list of candidates, establish false
minutes or proclaims results which he knows to be inaccurate or fraudulent.
The penalties provided for in paragraph 1 above are doubled when the influenced vote is the one
of an electoral college or a fraction of this college.
Art.167 .- Is punished by imprisonment of six months to three years and a fine of
10,000 to 100,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only anyone, on the day of
poll or outside the legal campaign period:
• a) by assault or threats of any particular damage, determines a
voter to abstain;
• b) on polling day, contempt or violence against a voting committee or
one of its members, or by assault or threatening, delaying or preventing
electoral operations;
• c) influence the vote of a voter, by assault, violence or threats against him,
or by making him fear losing his job, exposing his
person, family or fortune;
• d) by crowd, clamor or threatening demonstrations, disturbs the
electoral operations or undermines the exercise of the right or freedom to vote;
• e) on polling day, with violence, fraudulently remove the ballot box.
Art.168 .- Is punished by imprisonment of three months to two years and a fine of
25,000 to 250,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only anyone who enters
an electoral assembly with an apparent weapon.
The penalties provided for in the above paragraph are doubled if the weapon is concealed.

40

Penal Code 2017

Page 41
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.169 .- Except in the case of flagrante delicto, no criminal prosecution for breach of
provisions of this section may not be brought against a candidate before the
proclamation of results.

Section 2 - Attacks on liberty

Art.170 .- When an official, a public official or an official of the Government
will have ordered or done any arbitrary or prejudicial act, either to individual liberty,
either to the Constitution, he will be sentenced to six months to five years
imprisonment and a fine of 50,000 to 5,000,000 FCFA.
If, however, he can justify that he acted by order of his superiors for matters within the jurisdiction
of these, to which they were owed hierarchical obedience, he will be exempt from
penalty, which will, in this case, be applied only to superiors who have given
order.
Art.171 If the Ministers notified of having ordered or authorized the act contrary to the
Constitution claim that the signature to them imputed was surprised to them, they will be
required, by putting an end to the act, to denounce the one they declare to be the author of the surprise,
otherwise they will be prosecuted personally.
Art.172 .- The officials in charge of the administrative or judicial police who will have
refused or neglected to comply with a legal claim tending to record the detentions
illegal and arbitrary, either in the houses intended for the custody of detainees, or
everywhere else and who will not justify having denounced them to the higher authority,
will be punished by one month to one year in prison and liable for damages.
Art.173 .- The guards of penitentiary establishments who have received a prisoner
without warrant or judgment, or those who have refused to present their registers to
the judicial authority will be, as guilty of arbitrary detention, punished from six months to
two years' imprisonment and a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 FCFA.
Art.174 Any police officer shall be punished with the penalties provided for in article 172 above.
judiciary, any Attorney General or of the Republic, any substitute, any judge who will have
caused, given or signed a judgment, order or warrant for the
personal prosecution or accusation, either of a Minister or of a member of parliament
without the authorizations prescribed by law, or which, except in cases of flagrante delicto, will, without
the same authorizations, given or signed the order or mandate to seize or arrest one or
several ministers or members of parliament.
Art.175 .- Will be punished by the penalties set out in article 173 above the Attorney General or
the Public Prosecutor, the deputy, the judge or the public officer who will have retained or
detain an individual away from places determined by the government or by
public administration.

41

Penal Code 2017

Page 42
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.176 .- When an official or a public officer, an administrator, an agent or
a government or police official, an enforcer of warrants or
judgments, a commander-in-chief or sub-order of the public force will, without
legitimate reason, used or made of violence towards people in the exercise or in
the occasion of the exercise of his functions, he will be punished by imprisonment of six months to
five years.
The additional penalties of Article 28 of this Code may also be theirs.
applied.

Section 3 - Obstacles to freedoms

Article 177 - Shall be punished by imprisonment of six months to three years and a fine of
50,000 to 500,000 FCFA anyone who has used violence, assault, threats or
fraudulent maneuvers to bring or maintain, attempt to bring or maintain
a concerted cessation of work, with the aim of forcing an increase or decrease in
wages or undermine the free exercise of industry or work.
Art.178 .- Those who, in public auctions, have hindered or disturbed, attempted
hinder or disturb the freedom of auctions or tenders, by means of
fact, violence or threats, either before or during the auctions or tenders will be
punished by imprisonment from fifteen days to three months and a fine of 100,000 to
1,000,000 FCFA.
The same penalty will be pronounced against those who, by donations, promises or agreements
fraudulent will have ruled out or attempted to exclude bidders, limited or attempted to
limit bids or submissions, as well as against those who have received these donations or
accepted these promises.
All those who, after a public tender, will be punished with the same penalty
conduct or participate in an auction without the assistance of an officer
competent ministerial.
Art.179 .- Shall be punished by imprisonment of two months to two years and a fine
from 500,000 to 20,000,000 FCFA those who will have, directly or through an intermediary,
operated or attempted to operate an artificial rise or fall in the price of foodstuffs or
goods or public or private effects:
• a) by false or slanderous facts knowingly sown in the public, by offers
thrown on the market with the intention of disturbing the price, by overoffers made to the prices
demanded by the sellers themselves, by fraudulent means or means
any;
• b) by exercising or attempting to exercise, either individually or by meeting or
coalition, an action on the market with the aim of obtaining a gain that would not be
not the result of the natural play of supply and demand.

42

Penal Code 2017

Page 43
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.180 .- In all the cases provided for in article 177 above, the court may make
application of the additional penalties provided for in article 28 of this Code. In addition,
and notwithstanding the application of the extenuating circumstances provisions, it
order that the judgment of conviction be published.

Chapter 2 - Violations of peace and public tranquility

Section 1 - Criminal associations

Art.181 .- The formation of an association, whatever its duration or the number of its
members, or an agreement established for the purpose of preparing or committing
offenses against persons or property constitute a breach of the peace
public and constitutes, in itself, a criminal offense.
Art.182 .- Anyone who is affiliated to
an association formed or will have participated in an agreement for the purpose specified in article
previous.
The guilty will be exempt from punishment if, before any prosecution, they have revealed to the
authorities established the agreement or informed them of the existence of the association.
Art.183. - Anyone who has
knowingly and voluntarily favored the perpetrators of the acts provided for in article 181 above.
above, by providing them with the instruments of commission of the facts, means of
correspondence, accommodation or meeting place.
Will, however, be applicable to those guilty of the acts provided for in this article the
provisions contained in paragraph 2 of article 182.

Section 2 - vagrancy and begging

Art.184 .- Commits the crime of vagrancy and is punished by imprisonment of fifteen
days to six months, anyone who:
• a) not proving either a certain domicile or means of subsistence and who,
usually not exercising a trade or profession, is found in a public place or
open to the public ;
• b) although proving a certain domicile, usually derives its subsistence only
the practice or facilitation of illegal gambling on the public highway.
When the persons found guilty of vagrancy are of national
foreign, they are expelled from the territory of the Republic at the end of their sentence.
Art.185 Commits the crime of begging and is punished by imprisonment of fifteen
days to six months anyone who has or can obtain means of subsistence

43

Penal Code 2017

Page 44
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

through work, solicits charity in a place for which there is a public establishment
organized to obviate begging.
The condemned person is, at the end of his sentence, taken to the begging deposit.
When the acts indicated in paragraph 1 above are committed by beggars
usual, but valid, in places where there is not yet a public establishment
organized in order to prevent begging, the imprisonment will be from one to three months.
The penalty will be imprisonment for six months to two years when beggars, even
invalid:
• a) have used threats;
• b) will be entered without permission of the owner or persons in his house,
either in a dwelling, or in an enclosure depending on it;
• c) feign wounds or infirmities;
• d) beg in a meeting, unless it is husband and wife, father or mother
and Their young children, the blind man and his driver.
Art.186 .- Will be punished by imprisonment of one to five years, any beggar or vagrant
who :
• a) has been found in any way transvestite;
• b) has been found carrying arms, although he has neither used nor threatened them;
• c) has been found carrying instruments suitable either for theft or
other offenses, or to provide him with the means to enter houses.
Art.187 .- Any beggar or vagrant, who will be found carrying one or more
effects of a value greater than 10,000 FCFA and cannot justify the origin of said
effects, will be punished by imprisonment of six months to two years.
Art.188 Any beggar or vagrant who has performed or attempted to perform any act
of violence whatsoever towards people will be punished with imprisonment of one to
five years, without prejudice to heavier penalties, if any, on account of the gender and
circumstances of the violence.
If the beggar or the vagabond who carried out or attempted violence was, in addition,
in one of the circumstances expressed by article 186 above, he will be punished from one to
five years' imprisonment.

Section 3 - The practice of witchcraft and charlatanism

Art.189 .- Commit the crime of practicing witchcraft and are, without prejudice to
any penalties incurred for personal attacks, fraud or any other
crimes or misdemeanors, punishable by a sentence of one month to two years imprisonment and a
fine of 5,000 to 50,000 FCFA, those who engage in divination or
magic not obeying any rule of logic and the results of which are likely to
disturb the public peace, to pit individuals against each other or to arouse

44

Penal Code 2017

Page 45
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

acts of revenge consisting of attacks on life or bodily integrity or
still to goods.
Art.190 - Commit the crime of charlatanism and are punished with a sentence of one month to
two years imprisonment and a fine of 5,000 to 50,000 FCFA those who
ordinarily exploit public credulity by promising advantages which they
know not being able to procure or by offering objects that they know not to possess the
qualities or virtues they claim.
Article 191 .- When the practices mentioned in Articles 189 and 190 above will have
caused either death or injury or illness resulting in the inability to
work, the penalties will be imprisonment of five to ten years and a fine of 50,000
to 500,000 FCFA.

Title 4 - Corruption and similar offenses
Chapter 1 - Active and passive corruption of public officials

Art.192 Any public official who has, without
right, at any time, directly or indirectly, solicited or approved offers or
promises or received gifts or presents or other improper advantages for himself or
for another person or entity, to do or refrain from doing an act of his
duties or employment, for which no remuneration is legally due.
This penalty is accompanied by the additional penalty of confiscation provided for in Article 28.
of this Code.
Art.193 .- Anyone who has offered or granted to
a public official, without the right, at any time, directly or indirectly, to
promises, gifts, gifts or undue advantages, for himself or for another
person or entity, so that he does or refrains from doing an act of his
duties or employment, fair or unfair, but not subject to remuneration.
This penalty is accompanied by the additional penalty of confiscation provided for in Article 28.
of this Code.
Art.194 .- The same penalties are incurred when the perpetrators of the offenses provided for
in Articles 192 and 193 above, committed them as a group or contributed to
conceal the products.

45

Penal Code 2017

Page 46
www.droit-afrique.com

Chapter 2 - The subtraction, misappropriation or any other illicit use of
goods by a public official

Art.195 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 100,000 to
10,000,000 FCFA any public official who, in the exercise of or on the occasion of the exercise of
its functions, has misappropriated or dissipated public funds, effects in lieu thereof, or
documents, titles, deeds, property, materials, foodstuffs or any objects belonging to the State
or to individuals.
When the amount of sums diverted or dissipated is greater than ten million
francs, the penalty incurred is that of imprisonment from five to twenty years.
These penalties are accompanied by the additional penalty of confiscation provided for in Article
28 of this Code.
Art.196 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 100,000 to
10,000,000 FCFA any public official who, if he was accountable under the terms of the texts in
force or if it has been recognized as a de facto accountant, has embezzled or dissipated funds or
active effects in lieu of documents, titles, deeds, goods, materials, food or
any objects belonging to the State or to individuals who were in its hands

Chad

by virtue of his duties.
When the amount of sums diverted or dissipated exceeds ten million
francs, the penalty incurred is that of imprisonment from five to twenty years.
These penalties are accompanied by the additional penalty of confiscation provided for in Article
28 of this Code.
Art.197 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
to 10,000,000 FCFA, the manager of any entity enjoying legal personality,
commercial or not who, by mutual agreement with any public official, overestimated the
value or price of sale or rental of a good, service or supply by
compared to the price currently charged.
This penalty is accompanied by the additional penalty of confiscation provided for in Article 28.
of this Code.
The public official who participated in this overvaluation is punished with the same penalties.
The manager of any entity enjoying legal personality, commercial or not
who, by mutual agreement with the managers of an entity with a service mission
public, participated in this overvaluation will be punished with the same penalties.
Art.198 Anyone who has
subtracts, misappropriates or dissipates weapons, explosives or munitions of war.
This penalty must be accompanied by the additional penalty of confiscation.
provided for in article 31 of this Code.

46

Penal Code 2017

Page 47
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.199 .- Is punished by a fine at least equal to the value of the damage suffered by the State
without it being less than 200,000 FCFA, any person who has used, in a manner
illicit, for his own benefit or for the benefit of another person or any other entity, a good
public.

Chapter 3 - Illicit enrichment and other related offenses

Section 1 - Illicit enrichment

Art.200 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to ten years and a fine of 100,000 to
10,000,000 FCFA, any depositary of State authority who cannot justify
the significant increase in its assets compared to its legitimate income.
The confiscation of the heritage thus acquired is always pronounced.
Art.201 .- The publication of the judgment or the judgment of conviction may be ordered
at the expense of the convicted person.
Art.202 .- The competent public services may become a civil party with a view to
request compensation for damage caused to the public treasury.

Section 2 - Other related offenses

Art.203 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 200,000 to
5,000,000 FCFA, the fact for any depositary of the authority of the State to grant under
whatever form and for whatever reason, exemptions or
total or partial deductibles not authorized by the law on public duties and taxes or
taxes or to issue the products of state establishments free of charge.
Art.204 .- Is punished with imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 200,000
to 5,000,000 FCFA, the fact that any depositary of the State authority establishes or
to approve one or more documents for sale, receipt, delivery or
service made to attest to the reality of an order or a service not carried out or
partially completed in relation to contractual commitments.
Art.205 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 200,000 to
5,000,000 FCFA, the fact for any depositary of the authority of the State to manipulate in a
improper purpose of the date of taking office of public officials, fraudulently altering
the writings, information or figures for the purposes of mandating or mandating sums
undue for its own benefit and for the benefit of a third party.
This penalty is accompanied by the additional penalty of confiscation provided for in Article 28.
of this Code.

47

Penal Code 2017

Page 48
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Chapter 4 - Obstruction of the proper functioning of justice

Art.206 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
to 10,000,000 FCFA, the fact for anyone to use physical force, threats
or intimidation or any other means of promising, offering or granting a
undue advantage in obtaining false testimony or preventing testimony for the
presentation of evidence in proceedings relating to the commission
offenses provided for in this Title.
Art.207 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
to 10,000,000 FCFA, the fact for anyone to use physical force, threats
or intimidation or any other unlawful means to prevent a judicial officer or
an agent of the investigation or repression services empowered to exercise the duties of his
charge in connection with the commission of one of the offenses provided for in this Title.

Chapter 5 - Active and passive influence peddling

Art.208 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
to 10,000,000 FCFA, whoever offers or grants to a public official or to any other
person, without right, at any time, directly or indirectly, an undue advantage
in order for said agent or person to abuse his or her real or perceived influence with a view to
to obtain an undue advantage for him from an administration or a public authority
same or for a third party.
Art.209 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
10,000,000 FCFA, any public official or any other person who solicits, accepts, without
right, at any time, directly or indirectly, an undue advantage for itself
or for another person in order to use his or her real or perceived influence, with a view to
obtain an undue advantage from an administration or a public authority.

Chapter 6 - Abuse of office

Art.210 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
to 10,000,000 FCFA, any public official who has:
• 1) intentionally abused his duties or his post, by performing or
refraining from performing, in the exercise of his functions, an act in order to obtain a
undue advantage for himself or for another person;
• 2) revealed the identity or address of an informer or witness;
• 3) except in cases where the law authorizes him to act as a whistleblower, revealed all or
part of the information known to him in the course of his duties.

48

Penal Code 2017

Page 49
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Chapter 7 - Active and passive corruption by persons not practicing
a public service

Art.211 .- Is punished by imprisonment of six months to five years and a fine of
1,000,000 to 10,000,000 FCFA, for anyone to promise, offer or
to grant undue promises, gifts, gifts or other advantages, without right, to
at any time, directly or indirectly, to a person who, without being a depositary
of public authority, neither charged with a public service mission, nor invested with
public elective office, exercises, within the framework of a professional or social activity, a
management function or work for a natural or legal person
public or private or for any body, for itself or for another
person, so that, in violation of his duties, he may perform or refrain
to perform an act.
This penalty is accompanied by the additional penalty of confiscation provided for in Article 28.
of this Code.
Art.212 .- Is punished by six months to five years imprisonment and a fine of
1,000,000 to 10,000,000 FCFA, does so for anyone who, without being a depositary of
the public authority neither charged with a public service mission, nor invested with a mandate
elective public, exercises, within the framework of a professional or social activity, a function
management or work for a natural or legal person governed by public law or
private or for any organization, to solicit or accept, without right, any
moment, directly or indirectly, offers or promises or to receive
gifts or gifts or other undue advantages for herself or for another
person, in order to do or to refrain from doing an act in violation of his
homework.
This penalty is accompanied by the additional penalty of confiscation provided for in Article 28.
of this Code.

Chapter 8 - Aggravated Fraud

Art.213 .- Is punished by imprisonment of three to ten years and a fine equal to
triple the value in question, whoever commits the crime of fraud when he is
realized :
• 1) by a person holding public authority or entrusted with a mission of
public service in the exercise or on the occasion of the exercise of its functions;
• 2) by a person who unduly assumes the quality of a depositary of
the public authority or responsible for a public service mission;
• 3) by a person having called on the public for the issuance of shares,
bonds, bonds, shares or any securities either of a company or of a company
commercial or industrial;

49

Penal Code 2017

Page 50
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

• 4) to the prejudice of a person whose particular vulnerability, due to his age, to a
illness, infirmity, physical or mental impairment or a state of
pregnancy, is apparent or known to the perpetrator;
• 5) in an organized band, that is to say by a group formed or an established agreement
for this purpose.
Art.214 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine at the rate
maximum is equal to three times the value in question, whoever commits the offense
fraud provided for in article 213 of this Code when the fraud is based on
permanent race between raising new funds and paying to give
trust.
When this scam involves the public offering, it is punished with a
imprisonment from five to ten years and a fine equal to three times the amount extorted.
This penalty is accompanied by the additional penalty of confiscation provided for in Article 28.
of this Code.

Chapter 9 - Corruption in relation to public procurement

Art.215 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to ten years and a fine of 500,000 to
10,000,000 FCFA, any person who, by disregarding the award rules,
execution and control of published contracts, obtains or causes to be obtained by a third party,
directly or indirectly, an undue advantage.
Art.216 .- Also constitute acts of corruption in relation to contracts
public and are punished in accordance with the provisions of article 215 above:
• a) the award of a contract to a service provider without legal existence;
• b) the award of a contract with a failing company, with third parties or
companies in a period of suspicion of bankruptcy or compulsory liquidation;
• c) the award of a contract with a company that does not provide the guarantees
sufficient financial, economic and technical.
Art.217.Constitute systematic negligence in relation to public contracts
and are punished in accordance with the provisions of article 215 above:
• a) the repeated failure to transmit files to members of the
Contract commissions within the regulatory deadlines and forms;
• b) the repeated failure to convene the independent observer for the
markets falling under its jurisdiction;
• c) the convocation in disregard of time limits with the aim or for
consequence of delaying the presence or causing the absence of members of the
Commissions and independent observer;
• d) the repeated failure to transmit documents to the body in charge of
regularization of contracts within the regulatory deadlines;
• e) non - termination of the contract in cases of automatic termination;

50

Penal Code 2017

Page 51
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

• f) the non-transmission of acts of termination to the body in charge of
regularization of public contracts;
• g) non-payment of regulatory fees;
• h) the non-transmission of documents relating to the performance of contracts to the body
in charge of regulating public procurement.
Art.218 .- Constitute a refusal of service due in relation to public contracts and are
punished in accordance with the provisions of article 215 above:
• a) refusal to sell the tender dossier or concealment of the tender dossier
offers;
• b) the refusal to communicate to a tenderer, after his request, the documents
to which he is entitled;
• (c) unjustified delays in payments;
• d) non-fulfillment of the prescriptions granted in the context of the pledge;
• e) unjustified refusal of visa;
• f) failure to respect the deadlines for approval of the accounts;
• g) unjustified refusal to release sureties or to issue releases
corresponding documents within the stipulated deadlines.
Art.219 .- Constitute a forgery in public and authentic writings in relation to the
public contracts and are punished in accordance with the provisions of article 215 above.
above :
• a) the change of contract stipulation without an amendment relating thereto regularly
adopted;
• b) modification of the content of the final text of the draft contract in relation to the
data from the tender dossier.
Art . 220 - Constitutes a forgery in private or commercial writing in relation to
public contracts and is punished in accordance with the provisions of article 215 above.
above, the provision of false documents in the submission file.
Art.221 .- Constitute a concussion in relation to public contracts and are
punished in accordance with the provisions of article 215 above:
• a) non-application of late payment penalties;
• b) the lifting of the penalty without the prior authorization of the body in charge of
regulation of the public procurement sector;
• c) the detention, without any valid reason, of a file.
Art.222 .- Constitute favoritism in relation to public contracts and are
punished in accordance with the provisions of article 215 above:
• a) advance communication to a tenderer of information on
the call for tenders in order to favor it over its competitors;
• b) receipt of tenders after the deadline;
• c) the orientation of an evaluation.

51

Penal Code 2017

Page 52
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.223 .- Constitute an embezzlement of property or public funds in connection with
public contracts and are punished in accordance with the provisions of article 215 above.
above :
• a) the misappropriation of the operating costs of procurement commissions
public markets ;
• b) the non-reimbursement of the acquisition costs of the tender documents;
• c) the commitment of an expenditure relating to the functioning of the
public procurement without supporting documents;
• d) the revision or updating of prices not provided for in the specifications or in
violation of the services of said book;
• e) invoicing of fictitious services;
• f) the attachment of erroneous services;
• (g) irregular affixing of visas on files tainted with irregularities;
• h) the initiation of an expenditure or the certification of parts without execution of the
benefits;
• i) the settlement and settlement of services not performed or not in accordance with the
public market ;
• j) the payment of a public contract in excess of its amount and that of its
any amendments;
• k) acceptance of services not performed or not in conformity with the public contract;
• l) certification of invoices for services not performed or not in conformity with the
public market.

Chapter 10 - Insider trading

Art.224 .- Constitutes insider trading and is punishable by imprisonment of six months to two
years and a fine of 1,000,000 to 10,000,000 FCFA, the fact:
• a) for managers of a commercial or industrial company and for
people who, during the exercise of their profession or their
functions, inside information on the situation or prospects of a
issuer whose securities are traded on the market, to realize or
knowingly allow to carry out, directly or through an intermediary, one or
several operations before the public has knowledge of this information and with
for the purpose of making an undue profit;
• b) for any person who, during the exercise of his profession or of his
functions, inside information on the situation or prospects of a
issuer whose securities are traded on a market,
communicate to a third party outside the normal framework of his profession or
functions and with the aim of making an undue profit.
Also constitutes insider trading and is punishable by the penalties provided for in paragraph I above,
the fact for any person disposing of the occasion of the exercise of his functions,
privileged information subject to professional secrecy, relating to the realization
of a project by the State, a decentralized community or any other legal person
public, to use said information to allow oneself or others to ask

52

Penal Code 2017

Page 53
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

acts in his favor so as to delay the planned project or to burden it with
additional charges.
The penalties are doubled if the perpetrator is a civil servant or a public official in
meaning of this Code.
Art.225 .- Is punished by imprisonment of two to five years and a fine of
200,000 to 2,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person who,
charged, by virtue of its functions, with the supervision of any company, management or
concession, or the expression of an opinion on the activities of these, collaborates or participates
in any way, to their funding or their activity.
Art.226 .- The same penalties shall apply to the actions described in the previous article,
committed within five years of the termination of said functions, unless
is capital received as a hereditary devolution.
Art.227 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 200,000 to
2,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any public official who, in charge of
a mission of administration, even provisional control, surveillance or
charged with a mission of administration, even provisional control, surveillance or
advisor to a private company, exercises after termination of these functions, a mandate
social security or engages, even by virtue of a contract, in an activity remunerated by this
business.

Chapter 11 - Money laundering

Art.228 .- Are punished by five to ten years' imprisonment and a fine, the rate of which
maximum is equal to three times the value of the property in question or the amount of
values ​concerned:
• 1) those who have knowingly converted or transferred property for the purpose of either
conceal or disguise the illicit origin of said goods or resources, or to help
anyone involved in the commission of an escape crime or misdemeanor
the legal consequences of his actions;
• 2) those who have knowingly, concealed or disguised the nature, origin, location,
the disposition, movement or beneficial ownership of resources, goods or rights therein
relative arising from a felony or misdemeanor;
• 3) those who, for the same purpose, have knowingly acquired, held or used property
arising from a felony or misdemeanor.
This penalty is accompanied by the additional penalty of confiscation provided for in Article 28.
of this Code.
Art.229 .- Money laundering is punishable by the penalty attached to the crime or offense having procured
laundered property if it is more severe, when the perpetrator has had
knowledge of these offenses.

53

Penal Code 2017

Page 54
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art . 230 .- The agreement or participation in an association with a view to the commission of a
an act constituting money laundering and the association to commit said act, is
punished by imprisonment of three to seven years and a fine equal to three times the
value of the goods or funds involved in the money laundering operations.

Chapter 12 - Provisions common to corruption and similar offenses
or related

Art.231 .- In addition to a fine which may not be less than 1,000,000 FCFA and whose rate
maximum is equal to twice those provided for natural persons,
legal persons declared criminally responsible for the offenses provided for in
this title incur the following penalties or one of them:
• 1) prohibition, for a period of one to five years at most, to exercise directly or
indirectly one or more professional or social activities;
• 2) the closure, for a period of one to five years at most, of establishments or
one or more of the company's establishments used to commit the
incriminated facts;
• 3) the penalty of confiscation on all movable or immovable property, whatever
nature, having been used to commit the offense or which were intended to commit it
or which are the object or the direct or indirect product of the offense;
• 4) posting for a period of three to six months of all or part of the
decision, or its dissemination, in the places or by the means indicated by the court.
The penalty of confiscation does not exclude the conviction of declared legal persons
criminally responsible for the aforementioned offenses in the payment of damages and
interests to civil parties.
Art.232 .- Subject, where appropriate, to provisions providing for more penalties
severe, the violation of one of the prohibitions pronounced as a penalty
additional pursuant to article 28 of this Code will be punished by one to three
years of imprisonment and a fine of 2,000,000 to 10,000,000 FCFA or one of
these two penalties only.
The additional penalty of confiscation does not exclude the conviction of the person
person convicted of one of the offenses provided for in this Code
payment of damages to the civil parties.
Art.233 .- Any holder of a decoration of the National Order of Chad, definitively
condemned for one of the crimes provided for in this Code, automatically loses the privilege of
this distinction.
No request for rehabilitation is admissible.
Art.234.- Is punished by one to ten years of imprisonment and a fine of 500,000 to
10,000,000 FCFA, anyone who has knowingly kept, withheld or detained in whole or in part,

54

Penal Code 2017

Page 55
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

things removed, diverted or obtained, with the help of one or more offenses repressed by the
this title.
In the event that a stronger penalty is applicable to the fact which procured the things
concealed, the convicted person will be punished by the penalty attached by this title to the offense or
the circumstances of the offense of which he became aware at the time of the concealment.
Art.235 .- The attempt of the offenses provided for by this title is punished as
offenses themselves.
Art.236 .- When a person prosecuted for one of the offenses provided for by the
this Title cooperates substantially in the investigation or prosecution of
providing factual and concrete help, thus helping to identify the perpetrators, coperpetrators, accomplices and receivers of the offense and to deprive them of the proceeds of this
violation or to recover this product, it can, unless it is in a state of recurrence,
benefit from extenuating circumstances.
Art.237 .- When the author of the acts constituting the offenses provided for in articles 192,
193, 195, 196,1997, 198, 200, 208, 211, 212, 213, 214, and 228 of this Code, cooperates
and pay the sums directly or indirectly from their commission
or obtained directly or indirectly by commissioning them, he may depending on the case, except
if he is in a state of recurrence, benefit from mitigating circumstances.
The decision recognizing the mitigating circumstances must be expressly motivated.
Art.238 .- Individuals found guilty of the offenses provided for in
this title who have not discharged pecuniary convictions cannot
obtain the benefit of a remission of sentence.
Art.239 .- Is punished by one to five years imprisonment and a fine of 500,000 to
5,000,000 FCFA, anyone who engages in a slanderous denunciation or a forgery
testimony with a view to instituting proceedings or obtaining a conviction for the
count of an offense provided for by this title.
Article 240 - Anyone who uses force is punished with one to ten years' imprisonment
physical, threats or intimidation, retaliation against whistleblowers,
witnesses, experts, victims and their relatives in the course of proceedings conducted for the
search for the offenses provided for by this title.

55

Penal Code 2017

Page 56
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Title 5 - Alterations of the truth, forgeries and forgeries
Chapter 1 - Forgeries and counterfeits

Section 1 - Counterfeits and counterfeits relating to currency

Art.241 .- Anyone who has forged or altered either currencies having legal tender in the
Chad, either banknotes authorized by law or banknotes of the same type issued
by the treasury, or effects issued by the treasury with its stamp or its mark, whoever
has made use of such counterfeit or altered coins, notes or effects, whoever has
participated in their broadcast or introduction on the territory, will be punished from ten to twenty years
imprisonment.
Art.242 .- Counterfeiting or alteration of foreign currencies, treasury effects
foreigners, foreign banknotes, issuance, introduction into a country
any or the use of such counterfeit or altered currency, effects or banknotes
will be punished as if they were Chadian currencies, treasury bills or
Chadian banknotes, according to the distinctions made in this title.
However, those who, abroad, are guilty as perpetrators or accomplices,
such crimes or offenses can only be prosecuted in Chad under the conditions
provided for in articles 7 to 12 of this Code.
Art.243 .- Anyone who has colored
currencies legal tender in Chad or foreign currencies for the purpose of
deceive about the nature of the metal, or will have issued or introduced into the territory
Chadian.
Anyone who takes part in the broadcast or the introduction of the
coins thus colored.
Article 244 Anyone who has received counterfeit, altered or
colored or counterfeit or altered banknotes or effects, will have used them after having
verified or verified, will be punished from fifteen days to six months imprisonment and one
fine equal to the sum represented by the coins thus put back into circulation.
Art.245 .- Counterfeit or altered coins, bills and notes will be confiscated and
destroyed.
Art.246 .- Persons guilty of the crimes mentioned in articles 242 and 243 above
above will be exempt from punishment, if before the consummation of these crimes and before all
prosecution, they disclosed them and revealed the perpetrators to the authorities
constituted, or if, even after the proceedings have started, they have provided
the arrest of the other culprits.
They may nevertheless be banned from staying.

56

Penal Code 2017

Page 57
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.247 .- It will be pronounced against those guilty of the offenses provided for in this
section a fine, the minimum of which will be CFAF 50,000 and the maximum
500,000 FCFA. The fine may however be increased to a quarter of the profit.
illegitimate that the forgery will have procured or was intended to procure for the perpetrators of the crime or
of the offense, to their accomplices or to those who made use of the counterfeit document.

Section 2 - Forgeries and counterfeits of seals, stamps, marks and
hammer and various other scythes

Art.248 .- Those who have forged or falsified the seal of the State or made use of the seal
counterfeit or falsified, will be punished by imprisonment from ten to twenty years.
Art.249 .- Those who have counterfeited or falsified either one or more national stamps,
either the state hammers used for forest marks, or the punches used for
mark the materials of gold or silver, or which will have made use of papers, effects,
falsified or counterfeit stamps, hammers or punches will be punished with
imprisonment for ten to fifteen years.
Art . 250 - Anyone who, having been
improperly procured the real stamps, hammers or punches, will have made an application
or use prejudicial to the rights or interests of the State.
Art.251 .- Shall be punished by imprisonment of six months to five years and a fine of
300,000 to 3,000,000 FCFA, those who will have:
• a) counterfeit trademarks intended to be affixed in the name of the Government on
various kinds of food or goods, or who have made use of these
false marks;
• b) counterfeit the seals, stamps or marks of any authority or which
have used counterfeit seals, stamps or marks;
• c) counterfeit official letterhead or printed matter in use at meetings
instituted by the Constitution, the public administrations or the various
jurisdictions, which will have sold, peddled or distributed them, or which will have made use of
papers or printed matter thus counterfeited;
• d) forged or forged the postage stamp, postage stamps or coupons
responses issued by the Chadian postal administration and mobile stamps, which
have knowingly sold, peddled, distributed or used said stamps, imprints or
counterfeit or forged reply coupons.
Art.252 Anyone, having improperly procured or printed real seals, hammers,
marks, stamps provided for in article 250 will have made or attempted to make an application or
fraudulent use, will be punished by the penalties provided for in said article.
Art.253 .- Shall be punished with imprisonment of one month to six months and a fine of
50,000 to 150,000 FCFA, those who:

50,000 to 150,000 FCFA, those who:
• a) will have manufactured, sold, peddled or distributed any printed objects or formulas
obtained by any process, which, by virtue of their external form, would present

57

Penal Code 2017

Page 58
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

with coins or banknotes that are legal tender in Chad or in
abroad, with the annuity certificates, stamps and stamps of the postal service and
telecommunications or state control, stocks, bonds, interests,
dividend coupons or interest thereon and generally with the securities
trustees issued by the State, local authorities and institutions
public as well as by companies, companies or private companies, a
resemblance likely to facilitate the acceptance of said articles, printed matter or forms,
instead of imitated values;
• b) will have manufactured, sold, peddled, distributed or used printed matter which, by their
format, color, text, typographical arrangement or any other
character, would present, with the letterhead or official printed matter in use
in the assemblies established by the Constitution, public administrations and
the relevant jurisdictions, a resemblance likely to cause a mistake in
the public mind;
• c) will have knowingly made use of postage stamps or mobile stamps which have already been
used, as well as those who have, by any means, altered stamps for the purpose of
remove them from obliteration and thus allow their reuse;
• d) will have overloaded, by printing, perforation or any other means, the stamp.
post or other postal fiduciary securities, whether or not expired, with the exception of
operations prescribed by the post office on its behalf, as well as those which
will have sold, peddled, offered, distributed, exported, postage stamps thus overprinted;
• e) will have forged, imitated or altered the labels, stamps, imprints
franking, or reply coupon issued by the postal service of a country
foreigners who have sold, peddled or distributed the aforesaid stickers, stamps,
postage stamps or reply coupons or who have used them;
• f) have forged, imitated or altered national postal identity cards or
foreigners, the subscription cards remaining at the post office, which will have sold, peddled
or distributed said cards or will have used them.
Art.254 .- The legal provisions relating to the prohibition of certain rights provided for
Article 28 of this Code may be applied to persons sentenced in
under the articles contained in sections 1 and 2 of this chapter.

Section 3 - Forgeries and use of forgeries in public and authentic documents

Article 255 Any official or
public officer who, in the performance of his duties, commits a forgery:
• a) by false signature;
• b) by alteration of deeds, writings or signatures;
• c) by assumption of persons;
• d) by writings made or inserted in registers or other public documents,
since their making or closing.
Art.256 Any official or
public officer who, by drafting acts of his ministry, will have fraudulently

58

Penal Code 2017

Page 59
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

distorted the substance or the circumstances, either by writing conventions other than
those which would have been traced or dictated by the parties, either by noting as true
false facts, or as admitted facts which were not.
Art.257 Anyone who
commits a forgery in authentic or public writing:
• a) by forgery or alteration of writings or signatures;
• b) by making agreements, provisions, obligations or disclaimers, or by
their insertion after the fact into these acts;
• c) by addition or alteration of clauses, declarations or facts that these acts
were intended to receive and to ascertain, will be punished by the penalty of works
forced in time.
Any administrator or military accountant who bears the same penalty will be punished with the same penalty.
knowingly about your roles, status reports or reviews, people, animals,
equipment or days of presence beyond the actual workforce.
Art.258 Anyone who knowingly makes use of false acts will be punished
planned for the forger.
Art.259 .- The additional penalties provided for in article 28 of this Code may
be applied to persons convicted under this section.

Section 4 - Forgeries committed in certain administrative documents, in
roadmaps and certificates

Art.260 .- Anyone who has counterfeited, falsified or attempted to counterfeit, falsify or
altering a hunting license, certificate, booklet, card, bulletin, receipt, passport,
laissez-passer or other document issued by public administrations with a view to
to establish a right, an identity or a capacity or to grant an authorization, will be punished
imprisonment for three months to three years and a fine of 50,000 to
500,000 FCFA.
The same penalties will be applied to:
• a) anyone who has made use of the said documents when some of their
statements relating to the person concerned have ceased to be exact;
• b) anyone who has made use of one of these documents when some of their
statements relating to the person concerned have ceased to be exact.
Art.261 .- Anyone who has been issued or attempted to be improperly issued a
documents provided for in the previous article, either by making false statements, or
by taking a false name or a false quality, or by providing a false
information, certificates or attestations, will be punished by the penalties provided for in said article.
The same penalties will be applied to anyone who uses a document obtained
under the conditions referred to in the preceding paragraph or established under a name other than his own.

59

Penal Code 2017

Page 60
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

The official who issued or caused to be issued a false document of the specified species
in this article to a person whom he knows to have no right will be punished by the same
penalties. The additional penalties provided for in article 28 of this Code may
in addition to being applied to it.
Art.262 .- Landlords who knowingly enter in their registers under false names
or supposed, the people staying with them, or who, in collusion with them, will have
failing to register them, will be punished by imprisonment from ten days to three months.
Art.263 .- Public officers who will issue or cause to be issued a passport to a
person they will not know personally without having had their names certified and
qualities by two citizens known to them, will be punished with imprisonment of one
months to six months.
If the public officer, informed of the assumption of the name, has nevertheless delivered or caused to be delivered
the passport under the supposed name, he will be punished by one to five years of imprisonment.
Art.264 .- Anyone who creates a false waybill , or falsifies a waybill
originally genuine, or makes use of a fabricated or falsified roadmap, is
punished by imprisonment from six months to two years.
Art.265 .- The penalties provided for in the previous article are applied to any person who
is issued by the public officer a waybill issued under a name other than the
his.
If the public officer was instructed in the name assumption, when he issued the
road, he is punished with imprisonment from one to five years.
Art 266 Anyone who, in order to exempt himself or another from a
any public service, manufactures, under the name of a doctor or surgeon, a
certificate of illness or infirmity is punishable by imprisonment of one to three years.
Art.267 .- Except in the case of active and passive corruption provided for in Articles 192 and 193 of
this Code and without prejudice to the provisions relating to medical confidentiality, any
doctor, dental surgeon, midwife or health worker regularly
skill which, in the performance of his duties and to favor someone, certifies
falsely or conceals the existence of illnesses or infirmities or a state of pregnancy,
or provides false information on the origin of a disease or infirmity or the
cause of death, is punishable by imprisonment of one to three years.
Art.268 Anyone who manufactures, under the name of an official or public officer, a
certificate of good conduct, indigence or other circumstances such as to call for
benevolence of the Government or individuals on the designated person, and to him
to procure space, credits or relief, is punished by imprisonment of six months to two
years.
The same penalty is applied to:

60

Penal Code 2017

Page 61
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

• a) anyone who falsifies a certificate of this kind, originally genuine for
assign it to a person other than the one to whom it was originally issued;
• b) any individual who uses the certificate thus fabricated or falsified.
If this certificate is produced under the name of a private individual, the manufacture and use
are punished from fifteen days to six months imprisonment.
Art.269 - Shall be punished by imprisonment of six months to two years without prejudice to
the application, where applicable, of the harsher penalties provided for by this Code and the laws
special, anyone who:
• a) will have knowingly drawn up an attestation or certificate stating the facts
materially inaccurate;
• b) falsified or altered in any way an attestation or certificate
originally sincere;
• c) knowingly made use of an inaccurate or falsified attestation or certificate.
Art.270 .- False certificates of any kind, and from which could result either injury to
third parties, or prejudice to the public treasury, will be punished according to the provisions
contained in the first section of this chapter.
Art.271 .- Anyone who has taken the name of a third party in the circumstances that
determined or which could have determined the entry of a conviction in the register
court of this one will be punished from six months to five years of imprisonment and from 50,000 to
500,000 FCFA fine, without prejudice to any legal action to be taken from the
head of false.
Anyone will be punished with the same penalty, by false declarations relating to civil status
of an accused, will have knowingly been the cause of the entry of a conviction on the
criminal record of someone other than this accused.
Art.272 .- Anyone who, by taking a false name or a false capacity, has been issued
an extract from the criminal record of a third party, will be punished from one month to one year
imprisonment.
Anyone, by providing identity information on their own
imaginary, will cause erroneous entries in the criminal record will be punished from one to six
months of imprisonment.

Chapter 2 - False testimony and related offenses

Art.273 .- Is guilty of false testimony in criminal or correctional matters and
is punished with imprisonment from one to ten years, whoever, testifying as a witness in
criminal or correctional proceedings, asserts as false a fact that he knows to be
exact or as exact a fact contrary to reality.

61

Penal Code 2017

Page 62
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

False testimony is punishable by imprisonment for one month to one year and one
fine of 5,000 to 100,000 FCFA, when the procedure constitutes a
simple font.
In the event of false testimony in civil or social legal proceedings,
commercial or administrative, the penalty is imprisonment from six months to five years
and a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 FCFA.
Art.274 Anyone, either during a procedure and in any event, or in any case
matter with a view to a demand or a legal defense, uses promises, offers or
present, pressure, threats, assault, maneuvers or artifices to determine
others to make or deliver a deposition, declaration or attestation
deceitful, will be, whether or not this bribery has produced its effect, punished with
imprisonment of six months to five years and a fine of 100,000 to 1,000,000 FCFA.
The interpreter who, in criminal, correctional or civil matters, will act in bad faith,
misrepresented the substance of speech or orally translated document, will be punished with penalties
provided for in paragraph 1 above.
Art.275 .- The person to whom the oath has been taken or referred in civil matters and who will have
made a false oath shall be punishable by imprisonment for six months to five years and
fine of 50,000 to 500,000 FCFA.
Art.276 .- Bribery of an interpreter will be punished like the bribery of witnesses
according to the provisions of article 274 above.
Art.277 .- Anyone who,
knowing proof of the innocence of an accused, accused or convicted person
for felony or misdemeanor, will not have testified to the competent authorities.
Art.278.- Notwithstanding the provisions of the preceding article, no penalty will be
pronounced against anyone who testifies late but
spontaneously.
Art.279 .- The additional penalties provided for in article 28 of this Code will be
applicable to the offenses provided for in this chapter.

Title 6 - Piracy
Chapter 1 - Unlawful acts against civil aviation

Art.280 .- Is guilty of an unlawful act against the security of civil aviation and is punished by
imprisonment for life, anyone who commits an act contrary to the prescriptions of the
regulations relating to civil aviation and likely to compromise or
endangering the safety of an aircraft in flight or on the ground, of persons or of property
edge.

62

Penal Code 2017

Page 63
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Is also guilty of an unlawful act against the safety of civil aviation and punishable by
imprisonment for life, anyone who:
• a) seizes by violence or threat of violence an aircraft in flight, in service or
out of service or exercising control;
• b) destroy or seriously damage the facilities of a national airport or
international for civil aviation;
• c) interferes with or disrupts air navigation services;
• d) destroys or seriously damages aircraft parked at an airport
Chadian or in service;
• e) exercises threats of any kind or acts of intervention
unlawful, directed against passengers, crews, ground personnel or the public;
• f) performs against a person or property, in an airport, an act of
violence which causes or is likely to cause serious injury or death of said
person or the destruction of such property, or if this act compromises or is likely to
compromise security at this airport;
• g) destroy or damage air navigation aids;
• h) communicates false information likely to compromise the security of a
aircraft in flight;
• i) introduces or participates in the introduction on board an aircraft, devices or
substances liable to destroy or damage the aircraft or to endanger the flight
danger ;
• j) uses an aircraft in service for the purpose of causing death, or causing
serious bodily injury or serious damage to property or the environment;
• k) manufactures or transports unmarked explosives, except in the case of devices
military personnel authorized within the meaning of the convention on the marking of plastic explosives
and in sheets for detection.
Is also guilty of an unlawful act against the safety of civil aviation and punishable by
life imprisonment, any person who, using a device, substance or
of a weapon:
• a) does against a person, at an airport used for civil aviation
national or international, an act of violence which causes or is likely to cause
serious injury or death;
• b) destroys or seriously damages the facilities of an airport used for
national or international civil aviation or aircraft not in
service and which are in the airport, or interrupt the airport services, if
this act compromises or is likely to compromise safety at this airport.

Chapter 2 - Unlawful acts directed against maritime navigation and platforms
fixed shapes

Art.281 .- Is guilty of endangering the safety of maritime navigation and is punished by
imprisonment for life, anyone who commits an act contrary to the prescriptions of the
regulations relating to the safety of maritime navigation such as

63

Penal Code 2017

Page 64
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

endanger or endanger the safety of a ship at sea or in a port,
people or goods on board, or good order and discipline on board.
Is also guilty of endangering the safety of maritime navigation and punishable by
life imprisonment anyone who unlawfully:
• a) seizes by violence or threat of violence a vessel in navigation, in service
or out of service or exercising control;
• b) destroy or seriously damage the facilities of a national port or
international for maritime navigation;
• c) destroys or seriously damages ships stationed in a port or in
service;
• d) exercises threats of any kind or acts of intervention
unlawful acts directed against passengers, crews, ground personnel or the public;
• e) performs against a person and property in a port, an act of
violence which causes or is likely to cause serious injury or death of said
person or the destruction of such property, if this act compromises or is likely to
compromise security in this port;
• f) destroy or damage aids to maritime navigation;
• g) communicates false information likely to compromise the security of the
navigation of a ship;
• h) introduces or participates in the introduction on board a ship, gear or
substances liable to destroy or damage the ship or its cargo or
endanger the navigation of the ship;
• i) Manufactures or transports unmarked explosives, except in the case of devices
military personnel authorized within the meaning of the convention on the marking of plastic explosives
and in sheets at the end of detection.
Art.282 .- Is guilty of endangering the safety of fixed platforms and is punished by
life imprisonment anyone who:
• (a) seizes or exercises control of a platform, by violence or threat of
violence ;
• b) destroys a platform or causes damage to it likely to compromise its
security ;
• c) commits an act of violence against a person on board a
platform, if this act is likely to compromise the security of the platform;
• d) places or causes to be placed on a platform, by any means whatsoever, a
device or substance capable of destroying the platform or capable of
compromise its security;
• e) causes injury or death of a person, when these facts are linked
related to the offenses provided for in points a, b, c and d above.
Art.283 .- Is guilty of endangering the safety of fixed platforms and is punished by
life imprisonment, any person who:
• (a) uses against or on board a ship or a fixed platform, or discharges from
from a ship or a fixed platform, radioactive material, explosives or
BCN weapons, in a manner which causes or risks causing death or
serious damage;

64

Penal Code 2017

Page 65
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

• b) discharges, from a ship or a fixed platform, oil, gas
natural liquefied, or other harmful or potentially dangerous substances, which
are not referred to in subparagraph (a), in quantity or concentration, which causes or
may cause serious bodily injury or material damage;
• c) uses a vessel in a manner that causes death or bodily harm
or serious material;
• d) causes an act which, by its nature or context, is intended to intimidate a population
or to compel a Government, an international organization or
intergovernmental to do or to refrain from doing any act.
Anyone who threatens to commit one of the
offenses provided for in paragraph 1.
Art.284 .- Public action relating to the offenses provided for in this title is
imprescriptible.

Book 3 - War crimes
Title 1 - War crimes resulting from serious violations of
Geneva Conventions of August 12, 1949
Article 285 Anyone who is guilty of a war crime and punished with life imprisonment,
in time of international armed conflict, commits the following serious offenses,
when they target persons or property protected by the provisions of
Geneva Conventions of August 12, 1949:
• a) murder;
• b) murder;
• c) torture or inhuman treatment, including biological experiments;
• d) intentionally causing great suffering or causing
serious damage to physical or mental integrity or to health;
• e) destruction and appropriation of property, not justified by necessities
military and carried out on a large scale in an unlawful and arbitrary manner;
• f) coercion of a prisoner of war or any other protected person to
serve in the Armed Forces of an enemy power;
• g) intentionally depriving a prisoner of war or any other
protected person, their right to be judged regularly and impartially;
• h) deportation, detention or illegal transfer of persons;
• i) the taking of hostages.

65

Penal Code 2017

Page 66
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Title 2 - War crimes resulting from violations of laws and
customs applicable in international armed conflicts
Art.286 .- Is guilty of a war crime and is punished by life imprisonment,
anyone who engages in the serious violations, hereinafter indicated, of the laws and customs
applicable to international armed conflicts within the established framework of international law:
• a) deliberate attacks against the civilian population in general or against civilians
who are not taking a direct part in hostilities;
• b) deliberate attacks against civilian objects not constituting
military objectives;
• c) deliberate attacks on personnel, facilities, equipment, units
or vehicles used in the context of a humanitarian aid mission or
peacekeeping in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, provided that they
have the right to the protection which the international law of armed conflict guarantees to
civilians and civilian objects;
• d) deliberate attacks, knowing that they will incidentally cause casualties.
human lives and injuries to civilian populations, damage to property
civil character or extensive, lasting and serious damage to the environment
natural, which would be excessive in relation to the concrete and direct military advantage
expected;
• e) deliberate attacks on works or installations containing forces
dangerous, knowing that this attack will cause loss of human life,
injury to civilians or damage to civilian objects, which
would be excessive in relation to the concrete and direct military advantage expected, with
as a consequence the loss of human life or serious damage to the integrity
physical or health;
• f) attack or bombardment by any means whatsoever on towns, villages,
dwellings or buildings which are not defended and which do not constitute
military objectives, as well as attacking unidentified localities or
demilitarized zones;
• g) murder or injury to combatants who have laid down their arms or
who no longer have the means to defend themselves and who have surrendered at their discretion;
• h) improper use of the parliamentary flag, flag or insignia
military, enemy or United Nations uniform as well as
distinctive protective signs provided for by the Geneva Conventions with the
consequences loss of human life or serious injury;
• i) the direct or indirect transfer by an occupying power of part of its
civilian population, in the territory it occupies, or deportation or transfer to
inside or outside the occupied territory of all or part of the population
of this territory;
• j) any unjustified and deliberate delay in the repatriation of prisoners of war or
civilians, resulting in loss of life or serious harm
physical integrity or health;
• k) deliberate attacks on buildings dedicated to religion,
education, art, science or charity, monuments

66

Penal Code 2017

Page 67
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

historic sites, hospitals and places where the sick or wounded are gathered
provided that these buildings are not military objectives;
• l) apartheid and other inhuman and degrading practices based on
on racial discrimination, which give rise to outrages upon the dignity of the
person, resulting in the loss of human life or serious injury to
physical integrity or health;
• m) the submission of the persons of the opposing party who have fallen into its power, to
mutilations or to medical or scientific experiments whatsoever, to
removal of tissues or organs for transplants which are neither
motivated by medical, dental or hospital treatment, nor carried out in
the interests of these persons, and which result in their death, or put
seriously endangering their life or health;
• n) murder or treasonous injury to individuals belonging to the nation or to
the enemy army;
• o) the declaration that no quarter will be made;
• p) destruction or seizure of the property of the opposing party, except in cases where these
destruction or seizure would be imperatively ordered by the necessities of
the war ;
• q) the declaration of the termination, suspension or inadmissibility in court of
rights and actions of nationals of the opposing party;
• r) the constraint imposed by a belligerent on the nationals of the opposing party to
take part in war operations directed against their country, even if these
nationals were in the service of the said belligerent before the
hostilities;
• s) looting of a town or locality, even when taken by assault;
• t) the use of poison or poisoned weapons;
• u) the use of asphyxiating, toxic or similar gases or any other liquid,
or the like;
• v) the use of balls that expand or flatten easily in the body
human, such bullet tails whose hard shell does not fully cover the
center or pierced with notches;
• w) the use of weapons, projectiles, materials and methods of combat likely to
cause unnecessary pain or unnecessary suffering or to strike without
discrimination, in violation of international law of armed conflict, provided that
these weapons, projectiles, materials and methods of combat, are subject to a
general prohibition under customary law or any other instrument
relevant to international humanitarian law;
• x) outrages upon personal dignity, in particular humiliating treatment and
degrading;
• y) rape, sexual slavery, forced prostitution, forced pregnancy, sterilization
forced or any other form of sexual violence constituting a serious breach of
Geneva Conventions;
• z) the use of the presence of a civilian or a protected person to prevent
certain points, zones or military forces are not the target of military operations;

67

Penal Code 2017

Page 68
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

• aa) deliberate attacks against buildings, equipment, units and assets
medical transport and personnel using, in accordance with the law
international, the distinctive signs provided for by the Geneva Conventions;
• bb) the deliberate provocation of famine among civilian populations such as
method of warfare, in particular by depriving them of goods essential to their survival,
including by intentionally preventing the dispatch of the assistance provided for by the
Geneva Conventions;
• cc) the conscription or enlistment of children under the age of 18 in the military
national armies or their active participation in hostilities.

Title 3 - War crimes resulting from violations of article 3
common to the Geneva Conventions of August 12, 1949
Art.287 .- Is guilty of a war crime and is punishable by life imprisonment
anyone who, in the event of an armed conflict not of an international character,
excluding situations of internal disturbances and tensions such as riots,
isolated and sporadic acts of violence or acts of a similar nature, anyone who
leads to serious violations of international conventions, in particular article 3
common to the Geneva Conventions, consisting of any of the acts below
indicated, committed against persons who are not directly involved in the
hostilities, including members of the armed forces who have laid down their arms and
persons who have been put out of action by illness, injury, detention or by
any other cause:
• a) attacks on life and bodily integrity, in particular murder under any circumstances
its forms, mutilation, cruel treatment and torture;
• b) outrages upon personal dignity, in particular humiliating treatment and
degrading;
• c) the taking of hostages;
• d) sentences passed and executions carried out without a trial
prior issued by a duly constituted court, accompanied by guarantees
generally recognized as essential.

Title 4 - War crimes resulting from violations of laws and
customs applicable in non-international armed conflicts
Art.288 .- Is guilty of a war crime and is punishable by life imprisonment,
anyone who engages in serious violations of the laws and customs applicable to conflicts
armed forces not of an international character, excluding situations of
internal disturbances and tensions such as riots, isolated and sporadic acts
violence or acts of a similar nature, i.e. armed conflicts between
in a prolonged manner, on the national territory, the governmental authorities and
organized armed groups or armed groups organized among themselves, within the framework of
international law, violations consisting of any of the following acts:

68

Penal Code 2017

Page 69
www.droit-afrique.com

• a) deliberate attacks against the civilian population in general or against civilians
who are not taking a direct part in hostilities;
• b) deliberate attacks against buildings, equipment, units and assets
medical transport and the personnel using, in accordance with international law,
distinctive signs of the Geneva Conventions;
• c) deliberate attacks on personnel, facilities, equipment, units
or vehicles used in the context of a humanitarian aid mission or
peacekeeping in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations as long as they

Chad

have the right to the protection that the international law of armed conflict guarantees to
civilians and civilian objects;
• d) deliberate attacks on buildings dedicated to religion,
education, art, science or charity, monuments
historic sites, hospitals and places where the sick and wounded are gathered
provided that these buildings are not military objectives;
• e) looting of a town or locality even when taken by storm;
• f) rape, sexual slavery, forced prostitution, forced pregnancy, sterilization
forced or any other form of sexual violence constituting a serious breach of
Geneva Conventions;
• g) conscription or enlistment of children under the age of 18 in the military
armed forces or in armed groups or their active participation in hostilities;
• h) the order to displace or the displacement of civilian populations for reasons
relating to the conflict, except in cases where the security of such populations or
military imperatives demand it;
• i) murder or treasonous wounds of combatant adversaries;
• j) the declaration that no quarter will be made;
• k) the submission of persons from another party to the conflict who have fallen into its power
to mutilations or to medical or scientific experiments of any kind
be, which are neither motivated by medical, dental or hospital treatment nor
carried out in the interest of such persons, and which results in their death or
seriously endanger their health;
• l) destruction or seizure of the property of an adversary unless such destruction and
seizures are imperatively ordered by the necessities of the conflict;
• m) the use of poison or poisoned weapons;
• n) the use of asphyxiating, toxic or similar gases or any other liquid,
or the like;
• o) the use of balls that expand or flatten easily in the body
human, such as bullets with a hard shell that does not fully cover the
center or is pierced with notches.

69

Penal Code 2017

Page 70
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Title 5 - Crimes resulting from other violations of the law
international humanitarian
Art.289 .- Anyone who commits, in time of conflict, is punished with life imprisonment
armed, the following serious violations of international law treaties
humanitarian:
• a) attack on cultural property protected or under enhanced protection;
• b) the use of cultural property under enhanced protection or its immediate surroundings
in support of military action;
• c) large-scale destruction or appropriation of cultural property
protected by international conventions.

Title 6 - Responsibility of military leaders and other superiors
hierarchical for the acts of their subordinates
Art.290 - The order, even if not followed by effect, to commit one of the offenses provided for in
this book is punished by the same penalties as the offense consummated.
The military commander, a person effectively acting as the military commander, or any
another hierarchical superior is responsible for the offenses provided for in this book,
committed by subordinates placed under his authority and effective control, in the
to the extent that the supervisor knew or should have, due to the circumstances,
know that these subordinates were committing or would commit these offenses and for
which he did not take all the necessary reasonable measures that he was in his
power to take to prevent the commission or he did not take the sanctions
justified by the acts committed or he has not referred them to the competent authorities
for investigative purposes.
The order of the hierarchical superior, military or civilian or of the Government cannot
exonerate from liability the author of an offense referred to in this book, unless
that the following three conditions are met:
• a) the offender had a legal obligation to obey the orders of the
Government or hierarchical superior concerned;
• (b) the offender was unaware of the illegal nature of the order;
• c) the order was not manifestly illegal.
For the purposes of applying the provisions of this book, the order to commit
one of the offenses referred to therein is still deemed to be manifestly illegal.
Art.291 .- Public action relating to the offenses provided for in this book as well as the
sentences handed down are imprescriptible.

70

Penal Code 2017

Page 71
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Book 4 - Crimes and misdemeanors against groups of people
and people
Title 1 - Crimes against humanity
Art.292 .- Is guilty of a crime against humanity and is punished by life imprisonment
anyone, as part of a widespread or systematic attack launched against any
the civilian population knowingly commits one of the following acts:
• a) murder;
• b) murder;
• c) extermination;
• d) fatal blows;
• e) enslavement;
• f) deportation or forcible transfer of the population;
• g) imprisonment or other form of serious deprivation of physical liberty in
violation of fundamental provisions of international law;
• h) torture;
• i) rape, sexual slavery, forced prostitution, forced pregnancy, sterilization
forced or any other form of sexual violence of comparable gravity;
• j) persecution of any identifiable group or collectivity on the grounds of
political, racial, national, ethnic, cultural, religious or sexist, the term
sex means both sex, male and female depending on the context of the
society, or according to other criteria universally recognized as
inadmissible in international law, in correlation with any act referred to in the
this paragraph or any crime of war or genocide;
• k) enforced disappearance of persons;
• l) the crime of apartheid;
• m) any other inhuman act of a similar character intentionally causing
great suffering or serious injury to body or health
physical or mental.
For the purposes of this article, the following terms are understood to mean:
• a) “attack launched against a civilian population” the behavior which consists of
multiple commission of acts referred to in paragraph I above against a population
civil, in application or in pursuit of the policy of a State or
of an organization with the aim of such an attack;
• b) “extermination” the act of intentionally imposing living conditions, such as
that deprivation of access to food and medicine, calculated to result in
the destruction of part of the population;
• c) "enslavement" the act of exercising on any person any or all
all the powers linked to the right to property, including in the context of
trafficking in human beings, in particular women and children;

71

Penal Code 2017

Page 72
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

• d) “deportation or forcible transfer of the population” the fact of forcibly displacing
people, by expelling them or by other coercive means, from the area where they are
find legally, without grounds admitted in international law;
• e) "torture" the intentional infliction of pain or suffering
acute, physical or mental, to a person in his custody or under his control
control; without the meaning of this term extending to pain or suffering
resulting only from legal sanctions inherent in these sanctions or
caused by them;
• f) “forced pregnancy” the illegal detention of a woman forcibly pregnant, in
the intention to change the ethnic composition of a population or to commit
other serious violations of international law, without this definition being able to
in no way be interpreted as having an impact on national laws
relating to pregnancy;
• g) “persecution” the intentional and serious denial of fundamental rights in violation of
of international law, for reasons linked to the identity of the group or community
who is the object;
• h) “crime of apartheid” inhumane acts similar to those referred to in paragraph 1 above.
above, committed within the framework of an institutionalized regime of oppression
systematic and domination of one racial group over any other racial group or
any other racial group and with the intention of maintaining this regime;
• i) “enforced disappearances of persons” cases where persons are arrested,
detained or abducted by a state or political organization or with
the authorization, support or assent of that State or that organization, which refuses
then to admit that these people are deprived of their liberty or to reveal the fate that
is reserved for them or the place where they are, with the intention of
protection of the law for an extended period.
Art.293 .- The military leader, a person effectively acting as a military leader
or any other hierarchical superior is responsible for the offenses provided for in this
title, committed by subordinates placed under his authority and effective control,
insofar as the supervisor knew or should have, due to the
circumstances, knowing that these subordinates were committing or were going to commit these
offenses and for which he has not taken all reasonable necessary measures
that it was in his power to take to prevent the commission or he did not take
the sanctions justified by the acts committed or he did not refer them to the authorities
competent for investigative purposes.
Art.291 - The order, even if not followed by effect, to commit one of the offenses provided for in
this title, is punished by the same penalties as the consummated offense.
The order of the hierarchical superior, military or civilian or of the Government cannot
exonerate the perpetrator of an offense referred to in this Title from his liability, unless
that the following three conditions are met:
• a) the offender had a legal obligation to obey the orders of the
Government or hierarchical superior concerned;
• (b) the offender was unaware of the illegal nature of the order;
• c) the order was not manifestly illegal.

72

Penal Code 2017

Page 73
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

For the purposes of applying the provisions of this title, the order to commit
one of the offenses referred to therein is always deemed to be manifestly illegal.
Art.295 .- Public action relating to the offenses provided for in this title as well as
sentences handed down are imprescriptible.

Title 2 - Genocide
Art.296 .- Is guilty of genocide and is punished with life imprisonment whoever,
with the intention of destroying in whole or in part a national, ethnic, racial group, or
religious, or of a group determined on the basis of any other arbitrary criterion, commits to
against members of this group, one of the following acts:
• a) murder;
• b) murder;
• e) serious bodily or mental harm;
• d) intentional submission of the group to conditions of existence which are
bring about its physical destruction, in whole or in part;
• e) imposing measures intended to prevent births within the group;
• f) forcible transfer of children from the group to another group.
Art.297 .- The military leader, a person effectively acting as a military leader
or any other hierarchical superior is responsible for the offenses provided for in this
title, committed by subordinates placed under his authority and effective control,
insofar as the supervisor knew or should have, due to the
circumstances, knowing that these subordinates were committing or were going to commit these
offenses and for which he has not taken all reasonable necessary measures
that it was in his power to take to prevent the commission or he did not take
the sanctions justified by the acts committed or he did not refer them to the authorities
competent for investigative purposes.
Art.298 - The order, even if not followed by effect, to commit one of the offenses provided for in
this title is punished by the same penalties as the consummated offense.
The order of the hierarchical superior, military or civilian or of the Government cannot
exonerate the perpetrator of an offense referred to in this Title from his liability, unless
that the following three conditions are met:
• a) the offender had a legal obligation to obey the orders of the
Government or hierarchical superior concerned;
• (b) the offender was unaware of the illegal nature of the order;
• c) the order was not manifestly illegal.
For the purposes of applying the provisions of this title, the order to commit
one of the offenses referred to therein is always deemed to be manifestly illegal.
Art.299 .- Public action relating to the offenses provided for in this title as well as
sentences handed down are imprescriptible.

73

Penal Code 2017

Page 74
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Title 3 - Violations of International Arms Treaties
Art.300 .- 1 °) Shall be punished by imprisonment of five to ten years and a fine of
5,000,000 to 15,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only anyone who:
• a) develops, manufactures, acquires, stocks or maintains chemical weapons or
transfers, directly or indirectly, chemical weapons to anyone;
• b) use chemical weapons;
• c) undertake any military preparations for employment
chemical weapons;
• d) use riot control agents as a means of warfare;
• e) owns a chemical weapons production facility, builds a new
chemical weapons installation or modifies an existing installation for the
transform into a chemical weapons production facility;
• f) in the territory of a State which is not a party to the Convention, manufactures, acquires,
preserves, uses or transfers (within the territory of that State) a chemical of the
Table 1;
• g) manufactures, acquires, preserves, uses or transfers (on Chadian territory) a
chemical from Table 1;
• h) exports a Schedule 1 chemical, previously imported into Chad, to
a third state;
• i) illegally exports to, or imports from, a State not party to the
Convention a chemical of Schedule 1 or 2;
• j) illegally exports a Schedule 3 chemical to a State not party to the
Convention.
The sentence will be imprisonment for twenty to thirty years if the facts referred to above
above resulted in death.
2 °) The offenses mentioned in 1 ° above committed outside the territory
Chadians are deemed to have been committed on Chadian territory and the courts
Chadian women are competent to judge whether they are committed by a citizen of
Chad, by a legal person constituted under the laws of Chad or in
any place under the control of the Chadian state.
3 °) For the purposes of this article, the following terms are understood to mean:
"Chemical weapons": the following elements, taken together or separately:
• a) toxic chemicals and their precursors, except those which
are intended for purposes not prohibited by the Convention, as long as the
types and quantities involved are compatible with such purposes;
• b) ammunition and devices specifically designed to cause death or
other damage by the toxic action of toxic chemicals, defined in
sub-paragraph a, which would be released as a result of the use of such ammunition and devices;
• c) any equipment specifically designed for use in direct connection with
the use of ammunition and devices defined in paragraph b.

74

Penal Code 2017

Page 75
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

"Convention": the Convention on the prohibition of the development, manufacture,
storage and use of chemical weapons and their destruction of February 13, 1993;
"Toxic chemicals": any chemical which, through its chemical action on
biological processes, can cause in humans or animals the
death, temporary disability or permanent damage. This includes all
chemicals of this type, whatever their origin, method of manufacture, whether
are obtained in facilities, ammunition or elsewhere;
“Table 1”: Table 1 appearing in the Annex to the Convention;
“Table 2”: Table 2 appearing in the Annex to the Convention;
“Table 3”: Table 3 in the Annex to the Convention.
Art.301 .- 1 °) Shall be punished by imprisonment of five to ten years and a fine of
5,000,000 to 15,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only anyone who
delivered :
• a) illicit trafficking in small arms and light weapons, their ammunition and all
parts and components that can be used in their manufacture, repair and assembly;
• b) the illicit manufacture of small arms and light weapons, their ammunition and
all parts and components that can be used for their manufacture, repair and
assembly;
• c) possession and illicit use of small arms and light weapons, their
ammunition and all parts and components that can be used in their manufacture,
repair and assembly;
• d) falsification or unlawful erasure, removal or unlawful alteration of
brands of small arms and light weapons, their ammunition and all
parts and components that can be used in their manufacture, repair and assembly;
• e) any activity carried out in violation of an embargo on small arms and light weapons
caliber, imposed by the United Nations, the African Union, the
Economic Community of Central African States or any other organization
relevant.
2 °) For the purposes of this article:
"Small arms" means individual weapons, including but not limited to:
revolvers and pistols with automatic or semi-automatic loading; guns and
rifles, machine guns, assault rifles and light machine guns.
"Small arms" means collective weapons designed for use by others
people although some may be carried and used by one
person, especially but not exclusively: heavy machine guns, launchers
portable removable or mounted grenades, portable air guns, cannons
portable anti-tankers, portable anti-aircraft missile launchers and mortars of a caliber
less than 100 mm.

75

Penal Code 2017

Page 76
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Title 4 - Attacks on life and bodily integrity
Chapter 1 - Intentional attacks on life

Art.302 - Homicide committed willfully is qualified as murder.
The guilty of murder will be punished with imprisonment from fifteen to thirty years. The
murder will carry life imprisonment, when:
• a) will have preceded, accompanied or followed another crime;
• b) will have had for object either to prepare, facilitate or execute an offense, or to promote
flight or ensure the impunity of the perpetrators or accomplices of this crime.
Art.303 Any murder committed with premeditation or ambush is murder.
Anyone found guilty of murder will be punished with life imprisonment.
Art.304 .- All criminals, regardless of
their denomination, which, for the execution of their crimes, employs torture or
commit acts of barbarism.
Art.305 The murder of legitimate, natural or natural fathers or mothers is described as parricide.
adoptive parents or any other legitimate ascendant.
The guilty of parricide will be punished with the penalty of life imprisonment.
Art.306 .- Poisoning is any attack on the life of a person by the effect of
of substances which can kill more or less quickly, of some
the manner in which these substances have been used or administered and whatever
were the suites.
The culprit of poisoning will be punished with the penalty of life imprisonment.

Chapter 2 - Intentional attacks on bodily integrity

Art.307 Any individual who willfully inflicted blows or inflicted injuries or
committed any other violence or assault on the person of another and caused his
death, without intention of giving it, will be punished with imprisonment of five to ten years and
a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 FCFA.
When there has been premeditation or ambush, the sentence will be ten to twenty years
imprisonment.
When the acts were committed against the legitimate father and mother, natural or adoptive or
on any other legitimate ascendant of the culprit, the penalty will be twenty to thirty years
imprisonment.

76

Penal Code 2017

Page 77
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.308 Any individual who willfully inflicted blows or inflicted injuries or
committed any other violence or assault on the person of another and caused the
dismemberment, amputation or deprivation of the use of a limb, blindness, loss of
eye or other infirmity, will be punished with a sentence of four to eight years of imprisonment and
a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 FCFA.
When there has been premeditation or ambush, the sentence will be ten to fifteen years
imprisonment.
Art.309 Any individual who willfully inflicted blows or inflicted injuries or
committed any other violence or assault on the person of another, if it resulted
sickness or incapacity for personal work for more than twenty days, will be
punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 10,000 to 100,000 FCFA.
When there has been premeditation or ambush, the sentence will be five to ten years.
imprisonment.
When the acts were committed against the legitimate father and mother, natural or adoptive or
on any other legitimate ascendant of the culprit, the prison sentence will be twenty
at thirty.
Art.310 Any individual who willfully inflicted blows or inflicted injuries or
committed any other violence or assault on the person of another, if it resulted
sickness or personal incapacity for work equal to or less than twenty days, will be
punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 25,000 to 100,000 FCFA.
When there has been premeditation or ambush, the sentence will be from six months to five years.
imprisonment and a fine of 50,000 to 200,000 FCFA.
When the acts were committed against the legitimate father and mother, natural or adoptive or
on any other legitimate ascendant of the culprit, the penalties will be doubled.
Art.311 .- Anyone who has caused illness or incapacity for work to others
personnel by voluntarily administering, in any way whatsoever,
substances which, without being of a nature to cause death, are harmful to health, will be punished
five to ten years' imprisonment and a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 FCFA.
When the acts were committed against the legitimate father and mother, natural or adoptive or
on any other legitimate ascendant of the culprit, the penalties will be doubled.
Art.312 .- For the purposes of this chapter, premeditation consists of the purpose formed,
before the action, to attack the person of a specific individual, even
design would depend on some circumstance or condition.
Art.313 .- For the purposes of this chapter, ambush consists in waiting more or less
time in one or more places an individual, either to kill him or to
exert acts of violence on him.

77

Penal Code 2017

Page 78
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.314 .- For the application of Articles 302 to 311 above, homicide, violence and
the assault is considered intentional even if the intention of the
guilty is reaching another person.
Art.315 .- Articles 307 to 310 inclusive do not apply to acts performed in
during a sporting activity, provided that the author has respected the rules of this sport.

Chapter 3 - Unintentional injuries to bodily integrity

Art.316 Anyone who, through clumsiness, recklessness, inattention, negligence or
failure to comply with regulations, will have involuntarily committed or committed homicide
been unintentionally the cause will be punished with imprisonment from three months to two years
and a fine of 100,000 to 1,000,000 FCFA.
Art.317 Anyone who, through clumsiness, recklessness, inattention, negligence or
non-observance of the regulations, will have caused to others an incapacity for work
personnel for more than six days will be punished by imprisonment for fifteen days
one year and a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 FCFA.

Chapter 4 - Intentional attacks on the bodily integrity of minors

Art.318 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 10,000 to
100,000 FCFA anyone who attacks the integrity of a person's genital organ
female by:
• a) total or partial removal of the clitoris and / or the labia minora;
• b) total removal of the labia majora and labia minora followed by total or partial suture
or total or partial narrowing of the vaginal opening;
• c) perforation, incision or stretching of the clitoris and / or lips, cauterization,
introduction of corrosive substances or plants into the vagina to cause
its narrowing or bleeding;
• d) any other process.
The penalty is imprisonment for five to ten years and a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 FCFA:
• a) whether the victim's death is the result;
• b) whether the perpetrator habitually engages in this practice.
The court also orders the closure of the professional premises and the ban
to exercise the profession in the event of commission of the facts, either in an establishment
medical, either in a care center, or as medical staff or
paramedical.
Art.319 .- Is punished by imprisonment of two months to one year and a fine of
25,000 to 50,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, anyone who uses everything
process capable of slowing down the biological development of any human organ.

78

Penal Code 2017

Page 79
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.320 .- Those who have exhibited or caused to be exhibited, abandoned or caused to be abandoned a child or
a person of full age unable to protect himself due to his physical condition
or mental, will be for this fact alone, condemned to imprisonment of six months to five
years and a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 FCFA.
The penalty is imprisonment from one to ten years and a fine of 10,000 to
500,000 FCFA if it resulted from the exposure or neglect of a disease or
incapacity for more than twenty days or dismemberment, deprivation of the use of a limb,
blindness, loss of an eye, or other disabilities.
When the exposure or neglect will have caused the death of the victim, the penalty
will be imprisonment for ten to fifteen years.

Chapter 5 - Failure to provide assistance and state of necessity

Art.321 .- Shall be punished from three months to two years imprisonment, anyone who refrains from
provide assistance to a person in danger that, without risk to him or to third parties,
could lend him, either by his personal action, or by provoking help.
Any person who, in the event of
calamity or public emergency, will have, without valid reason, refused or neglected to respond to the
request for assistance or the requisition of assistance formulated by the qualified public authority.
Art.322.- There is no offense when the injuries or violence are justified by
the immediate need to prevent the victim from more serious harm.

Title 4 - Torture
Art.323 Anyone who, by torture, is punished with imprisonment from twenty to thirty years
causes the death of others without intention of giving it.
The penalty is imprisonment for ten to twenty years when the torture causes the victim
permanent deprivation of the use of all or part of a limb, organ or
meaning.
The penalty is imprisonment for five to ten years and a fine of 300,000 to
1,000,000 FCFA when torture causes the victim an illness or incapacity to
work longer than thirty days.
The penalty is imprisonment for two to five years and a fine of 100,000 to
500,000 FCFA when the torture causes the victim either an illness or an incapacity to
work equal to or less than thirty days, either mental pain or suffering
or legal.

79

Penal Code 2017

Page 80
www.droit-afrique.com

Public officials, traditional authorities or any other
person acting in an official capacity who tacitly or expressly consents, orders or
commits other acts constituting cruel, inhuman or
degrading acts which are not acts of torture as defined in the present tense
article.
For the purposes of this article, the term "torture":
• a) means any act by which severe pain or suffering, physical,
mental or moral, are intentionally inflicted on a person, by a
official or traditional authority acting in an official capacity or at his
instigated or with his express or tacit consent, in particular to obtain
of her or a third person for information or confession, to punish her with
act that he or a third person has committed, or is suspected of having committed, of
intimidate or put pressure on her or intimidate or put pressure on a
third party, or for any other reason based on a form of discrimination,
whoever she is ;
• b) does not apply to pain or suffering resulting from lawful sanctions,
inherent in these sanctions or caused by them.
No exceptional circumstances whatsoever, whether it is a state of war
or threat of war, domestic political instability or any other state
exception, cannot be invoked to justify torture.
The order of a superior or of a public authority cannot be invoked to justify the
torture.
The conditions restricting the application of paragraph 1 of article 10 of this Code shall not
are not applicable to torture.
Art.324 .- Confiscation of property and publication of the judgment may be
pronounced against officials guilty of the offenses provided for in Article 323
above.

Chad

Title 5 - Attacks on the liberty and dignity of persons
Art.325 .- Will be punished with imprisonment of five to ten years those who, without order of
constituted authorities and except in cases where the law orders the seizure of defendants, will have
arrested, detained or sequestered any person.
Whoever has lent a place to carry out the detention or sequestration, will suffer the
same trouble.
The penalty will be reduced to imprisonment for two to five years if the guilty parties
mentioned in paragraph 1 above, not yet prosecuted in fact, have given freedom to
person arrested, kidnapped or detained before the tenth day since that of
arrest, detention or forcible confinement.

80

Penal Code 2017

Page 81
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.326 .- The penalty will be imprisonment of twenty to thirty years:
• a) when an illegal arrest has been carried out with a false costume, under a false
name, or on a false order of the public authority;
• b) whether the person arrested, detained or kidnapped has been threatened with death;
• c) whether the persons arrested, detained or kidnapped have been subjected to torture
bodily;
• d) whether the forcible confinement was preceded by an abduction;
• e) if the sequestration was carried out by its author in order to obtain payment
a ransom;
• (f) or where any person seizes or detains another and threatens to kill him,
injure her or continue to detain her in order to coerce a State, a
international or intergovernmental organization, a natural person or
body or a group of people, to perform any act or not
abstain as an explicit or implicit condition of the hostage's release.
Art.327 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 50,000 to
500,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only anyone, to satisfy their
self-interest, imposes on others a job or a service for which it is not
offered voluntarily.
Art.328 .- Is punished by imprisonment of five to ten years and a fine of 100,000 to
5,000,000 FCFA, anyone who deprives a person of their liberty and exercises over them one or more
attributes inherent in the right to property.
Art.329 .- Is punished by imprisonment of five to ten years and a fine of 100,000 to
5,000,000 FCFA, anyone who promotes or ensures the displacement of a person in order to
derive, directly or indirectly, a financial advantage or any other advantage
material, whatever its nature.
Art.330 .- Is punished by imprisonment of five to ten years and a fine of 100,000 to
5,000,000 FCFA, whoever in view of the trafficking of a person, proceeds to his recruitment,
its transfer, accommodation or reception.
Article 331 The penalties provided for in Articles 327, 328, 329 and 330 above are doubled:
• a) in the event of threats, use of force or other forms of coercion,
kidnapping, fraud, deception, abuse of authority or taking advantage of a situation of
vulnerability or exploitation;
• b) when the perpetrator is a person called, by virtue of his or her functions, to
participate in the fight against slavery, trafficking, pawning and trafficking in persons or
peacekeeping;
• c) when the offense is committed by an organized gang or by an association of
criminals;
• d) when the offense is committed with the use of a weapon;
• e) when the victim has suffered injuries as defined in article 307 of this present
Code or when she died as a result of acts related to these facts.

81

Penal Code 2017

Page 82
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.332 .- The authors, co-authors and accomplices of the offenses of slavery, trafficking, pledge
and trafficking in persons are also condemned to the additional penalties provided for
by article 28 of this Code.
Article 333 Regardless of the criminal liability of their leaders,
legal persons can be declared criminally responsible and sentenced to
fines provided for in Articles 328 to 330 above, when the offenses have been
committed by said managers, acting in the exercise or on the occasion of their
functions.
Art.334 .- The sale or purchase of human bones, regardless of
the bone shape of a person who has been dead for more than a year.
Anyone who smuggles human bones is punished by imprisonment for
two to five years and a fine of 5,000,000 to 10,000,000 FCFA.
Art.335 .- Will be considered as a pimp and punished by six months imprisonment
to two years and a fine of 100,000 to 1,000,000 FCFA for the person who:
• a) in any way knowingly aids, assists or protects prostitution
others or soliciting for the purpose of prostitution;
• b) in any form, share the avails of the prostitution of others or
receives subsidies from a person habitually engaged in prostitution;
• c) knowingly living with a person habitually engaged in prostitution, not
can prove that they have sufficient resources to enable them to provide for their own
own existence;
• d) employs, trains or maintains, even with their consent, a person
even adult, with a view to prostitution, or delivers her to prostitution or
debauchery;
• e) act as an intermediary, in any capacity whatsoever, between the persons engaged in
prostitution or debauchery and individuals who exploit or remunerate
prostitution or the debauchery of others.
Art.336 .- The penalty will be imprisonment of two to five years and a fine of
100,000 to 2,000,000 FCFA in cases where:
• a) the offense was committed against a minor;
• b) the offense was accompanied by coercion, abuse of authority or rape;
• c) the perpetrator was carrying an apparent or hidden weapon;
• d) the perpetrator of the crime is the victim's spouse, father, mother or guardian, teacher or
a hired servant of the victim or in any capacity whatsoever has authority over him;
• e) the offender is called upon to participate, by virtue of his or her functions, in the fight against
prostitution, the protection of health or the maintenance of public order.

82

Penal Code 2017

Page 83
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Title 6 - Attacks on the peace and honor of people
Chapter 1 - Home invasions

Art.337 .- Any official of the administrative or judicial order, any officer or agent
police, any commander or police officer, who, acting in his capacity, is
will be brought into the home of a citizen against the will of the latter, except in the cases provided for
by law, and without the formalities it has prescribed, will be punished by imprisonment of
six days to one year and a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 FCFA.
Anyone who has entered the home using threats or violence
of a citizen will be punished with imprisonment from six days to six months and a fine of
25,000 to 100,000 FCFA.

Chapter 2 - Interference with correspondence

Art.338 .- Is punished by imprisonment from fifteen days to one year and a fine of
10,000 to 100,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only anyone, without
the recipient's authorization, deletes or opens the correspondence of others.
This article does not apply to spouses or to the father, mother, guardian or
customary responsible for unemancipated minor children of whom they have
responsibility.

Chapter 3 - Threats

Art.339 - Anyone who has threatened others, in an anonymous or signed writing, image, symbol or
emblem, assassination, poisoning or any other attack against
persons provided for by articles 302, 308, 309 and 310 of this Code will, that the
whether or not a threat was made with an order to deposit a sum of money in a place
indicated, or to fulfill any other condition, punishable by imprisonment of one to five years
and a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 FCFA.
Article 340 Anyone who, by one of the means provided for in the preceding articles, has threatened
others of assault or violence not provided for in the previous article, whether the threat
been made or not with order or condition, will be punished by imprisonment of six
days to six months and a fine of 25,000 to 100,000 FCFA.
If the threat was verbal, the culprit will be punished with imprisonment of six months to
two years and a fine of 10,000 to 100,000 FCFA.

83

Penal Code 2017

Page 84
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Chapter 4 - Sexual harassment and degrading treatment

Art.341 Commits the crime of sexual harassment and is punished by imprisonment of six
months to two years and a fine of 100,000 to 1,000,000 FCFA, whoever imposes a
person, repeatedly, comments or behaviors with a sexual connotation
which either violate his dignity because of their degrading or humiliating nature,
or create an intimidating, hostile or offensive situation against him.
Sexual harassment is the act, even if not repeated, of using any form of
severe pressure for the real or apparent purpose of obtaining an act of a sexual nature, whether
it is sought for the benefit of the perpetrator or for the benefit of a third party.
The penalties are imprisonment of one to three years and a fine of 200,000 to
2,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, if the acts are committed:
• a) by a person who abuses the authority conferred on him by his duties;
• b) on a person under the age of eighteen;
• c) on a particularly vulnerable person, due to illness,
infirmity, physical or mental impairment or state of pregnancy, when
this situation is known to the perpetrator or is apparent;
• d) on a person who is particularly vulnerable or dependent on account of the
precariousness of his economic or social situation, known to the perpetrator or
apparent;
• e) by several persons acting jointly or when one is the author and
the other accomplice.
Art.342.- Is punished by imprisonment of six months to three years and a fine of
20,000 to 200,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only anyone who:
• a) in any way whatsoever, without affecting the physical integrity of his
spouse or person, subject said spouse or person to
degrading, humiliating or inhuman treatment likely to cause him disturbance
psychological, trauma or mental illness;
• b) exercises similar violence against his or her spouse, partner, parent or other
an ally.
The same penalties apply when the acts of violence are committed against
persons other than those referred to in paragraph 1 above, in order to reach
psychologically those which are referred to there.
The penalties referred to in paragraph 1 are doubled when the facts are:
• a) committed on a pregnant woman;
• b) committed within the framework of widowhood rites, on a widower or a widow;
• c) accompanied by deprivation of food, destruction or confiscation of the effects
the victim's personal;
• d) accompanied by deprivation of any other right or any prerogative linked to the status
of the victim.

84

Penal Code 2017

Page 85
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Chapter 5 - Slanderous denunciation

Art.343 Anyone who, by any means whatsoever, makes a denunciation
slanderous against one or more individuals to judicial or police officers
administrative or judicial, or to any authority having the power to follow up or
refer the matter to the competent authority, or to hierarchical superiors or employers
of the denounced, will be punished by imprisonment from six months to five years and a fine of
50,000 to 500,000 FCFA.
If the fact denounced is liable to penal or disciplinary sanction, the prosecution
may be brought under this article either after judgment or judgment
acquittal or acquittal either after an order or dismissal, or after
classification of the denunciation by the magistrate, civil servant, higher authority or
competent employer to give it the follow-up that it was likely to entail.
The court seised by virtue of this article shall be required to stay proceedings if any
proceedings concerning the fact denounced are pending.

Chapter 6 - Defamation and injury committed other than by way of
hurry

Art.344 .- Anyone who, outside of the
channels provided for by the texts relating to the press, either by gestures, words or cries
uttered in public or in places open to the public, undermines the honor or
consideration of a person by attributing directly or indirectly to him facts which he does not
can provide proof.
The truth of the imputation can be proven except:
• a) when it concerns the private life of the victim;
• b) when it refers to an event dating back more than ten years;
• c) when it refers to a fact constituting an amnesty offense or to an act
having been the subject of a conviction otherwise erased.
The prosecution can only be initiated on the complaint of the victim or his representative.
legal. Until final conviction, the withdrawal of the complaint stops the exercise of the action
public.
This article is applicable to defamation directed against the memory of a dead person.
when the defamator intended to damage the honor or the
consideration of living heirs, spouses or legatees.
The penalties are halved if the defamation is not public.
Art.345 .- Do not constitute the offense of defamation, without prejudice to
the application of legal provisions relating to the press:

85

Penal Code 2017

Page 86
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

• a) speeches made within the National Assembly as well as reports or any
other document printed by order of the National Assembly;
• b) the report of the public sittings of the National Assembly made in good faith;
• c) court proceedings, speeches made or writings produced before the
jurisdictions;
• d) the faithful and good faith account of these debates and speeches, with the exception of
libel suit;
• e) the publication of judicial decisions, including those rendered in matters of
defamation;
• f) the official report made in good faith by a person duly appointed to
conduct an investigation and as part of that investigation;
• g) charging made in good faith by a hierarchical superior to his subordinate;
• h) information given in good faith about a person to a third party who has an interest
personal or official to know him or who has the power to remedy an injustice
alleged;
• i) criticism of a work, of a show, of any expressed opinion
publicly, on condition that said criticism does not reflect animosity
personal;
• j) historical work done in good faith.
Art.346 .- Is punished by imprisonment from fifteen days to six months and a fine of
25,000 to 50,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only anyone,
channels provided for by the texts relating to the press, either by gestures, words or cries
uttered in places open to the public and without having been provoked, uses against
a person, an outrageous expression, a gesture, a term of contempt or
of an invective which does not contain the imputation of any fact.
The prosecution can only be initiated on the complaint of the victim or his representative.
legal. Until final conviction, the withdrawal of the complaint stops the exercise of the action
public.
This article is applicable to the injury made to the memory of a dead person.

Chapter 7 - Extortion

Art.347 Anyone who has extorted or attempted to extort by force, violence or
constraint, the signing or delivery of a writing, an act, a title, a document
any, containing or operating obligation, disposal or discharge, will be punished by a
imprisonment for two to ten years.
Art.348 Anyone who, using threats, whether written or verbal, of revelations or
defamatory charges, will have extorted or attempted to extort, or the remittance of funds
or values, either the signing or delivery of the writings listed above, will be punished, for the
blackmail, imprisonment for one to five years and a fine of 100,000 to
1,000,000 FCFA.

86

Penal Code 2017

Page 87
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Title 7 - Sexual offenses
Chapter 1 - Rape

Article 349 Constitutes rape, and punishable by eight to fifteen years, any act of penetration
sexual, of whatever nature, committed on the person of another by violence,
constraint, threat or surprise.
Attempted rape is punished with the same penalty provided for in paragraph 1 above.
Art.350 .- The penalty is imprisonment of ten to twenty years when the rape:
• a) has resulted in dismemberment or permanent disability;
• b) has been committed on a minor under the age of eighteen;
• c) has been committed on a particularly vulnerable person due to a
illness, infirmity, physical or mental impairment or in the state of
pregnancy and that this condition is apparent or known to the perpetrator;
• d) was committed by an ascendant or by any other person having on the victim
a de jure or de facto authority;
• e) has been committed by a person who abuses the authority conferred on him by his
functions;
• f) has been committed by several persons acting in coaction or one as the perpetrator
and the other as an accomplice;
• g) has been committed with the use or threat of a weapon;
• h) was committed by bringing the victim into contact with the perpetrator and
by use, for the dissemination of messages intended for an audience not
determined, of an electronic communication network;
• i) was committed because of the victim's sexual orientation;
• j) was committed in conjunction with one or more other rapes committed against other
victims ;
• k) has been committed by a person acting under the influence or under the influence of
narcotics;
• l) the penalty is imprisonment from fifteen to twenty years if the rape was preceded,
accompanied or followed by acts of torture.
The penalty is imprisonment for twenty to thirty years when the rape resulted in the death of
the victim.
In the cases provided for in points d) and e) above, the court may deprive the convicted person of
parental authority and any possibility of being a tutor or curator during a
ten-year term.

87

Penal Code 2017

Page 88
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Chapter 2 - Other indecent assault

Art.351 .- Any exhibition likely to offend modesty, made publicly or in
presence of involuntary witnesses, is a public contempt of indecency and is punishable by
imprisonment of three months to two years and a fine of 10,000 to 100,000 FCFA.
Art.352 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years, anyone who engages in
sexual intercourse with an animal or on a corpse.
Is punished with imprisonment of five to ten years, whoever, using violence
physical or psychological, forcing a person to engage in the practices referred to in
the previous paragraph.
Art.353 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 50,000 to
500,000 FCFA, anyone who has sex with their legitimate brother or sister,
natural, germain, consanguineous or uterine.
Anyone who has sex with their brother-in-law or
sister-in-law, her son or daughter, the son or daughter of her brother or sister, her mother or
dad.
The penalties are doubled when the culprit is helped by one or more others
people.
Anyone who uses violence
physical or psychological, forcing a person to have sex with
its collateral referred to in paragraph I of this article.
Art.354 .- Is punished by imprisonment of three months to two years and a fine of
50,000 to 500,000 FCFA, anyone who has sex with people of their
sex.

Title 8 - Attacks on the person or the status of the child
Chapter 1 - Infanticide

Art.355 Infanticide is the murder or assassination of a newborn child.
The mother, principal author or accomplice in the assassination or murder of her child
newborn will be punished by imprisonment for five to ten years, without this
provision may apply to its co-authors or accomplices.

88

Penal Code 2017

Page 89
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Chapter 2 - Abortion

Art.356 Anyone, by food, drink, medicine, maneuver, violence or
by any other means will have procured or attempted to procure the abortion of a woman
pregnant or suspected to be pregnant, whether she has consented to it or not, will be punished with
imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 FCFA.
The imprisonment will be from five to ten years and the fine of 100,000 to 1,000,000 FCFA, if he
it is established that the culprit habitually engaged in the acts referred to in the previous paragraph.
Will be punished by imprisonment of two months to two years and a fine of 25,000 to
50,000 FCFA, the woman who will have obtained the abortion for herself or will have tried to
obtain it, or who will have consented to use the means indicated or administered to it
for this purpose.
Doctors, midwives, dental surgeons, pharmacists, as well as students
in medicine, students or employees in pharmacy, herbalists, bandagists,
dealers in surgical instruments, nurses, masseurs, who will have indicated, favored
or practiced the means of procuring the abortion, will be condemned to the penalties provided for
in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article.
Suspension for at least five years and absolute inability to exercise their
profession will, moreover, be pronounced against the guilty.
Anyone who contravenes the ban on exercising their profession imposed by virtue of
the previous paragraph, will be punished by imprisonment of six months to two years or one
fine of 100,000 to 1,000,000 FCFA.
Art.357 .- Is punished by imprisonment of five to ten years and a fine of 100,000 to
2,000,000 FCFA, anyone, through violence against a pregnant woman or the child in
being born, causes, even unintentionally, death or incapacity
permanent child.
Art.358 .- The provisions of the two preceding articles are not applicable if the
facts are carried out by an authorized person and are justified by the need to
save the mother from serious danger to her health.
Safe abortion is allowed in cases of sexual assault, rape, incest or
when the pregnancy endangers the mental or physical health or the life of the mother or
that of the fetus.
The authorization to abort is issued by the Public Prosecutor's Office after certification by a
doctor of the materiality of the facts.

89

Penal Code 2017

Page 90
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Chapter 3 - Sexual offenses committed against minors

Art.353 .- Commits a sexual assault and will be punished from two to ten years
imprisonment, anyone without violence, having a sexual relationship or
practice of touching of a sexual nature on a person of a child of one or
the other sex under the age of thirteen.
When the attack has been consummated or attempted with violence, he will be punished with the penalties of
rape.
Art.360 .- Shall be punished by imprisonment of one to three years and a fine of 100,000
to 500,000 FCFA, anyone who, without violence, has a sexual or practical relationship
touching of a sexual nature on a person of his or her sex under the age of
eighteen years.
Art.361 .- Is punished by imprisonment of two to five years and a fine of 25,000
at 200,000 FCFA, anyone who commits an indecency in the presence of a person
minor under the age of sixteen.
The penalties provided for in paragraph 1 above are doubled if the contempt is committed with
violence or if the perpetrator is:
• a) a person having authority over the victim or having legal custody;
• b) an official or a minister of religion;
• c) one person helped by several others.
In all cases, the court can deprive the convicted person of parental authority and
any possibility of being a tutor or curator for a period of ten years.
Art.362.Constitutes pornography involving children, the production,
distribution, dissemination, import, export, offer, make available,
sale, obtaining or giving to others, possession of any material representing by
whatever means, a child engaging in explicit sexual activities,
real or simulated, or representing the sexual organs of a child.
Child pornography is punished with imprisonment from one to four
years and a fine of 100,000 to 500,000 FCFA.
Art.363 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 25,000 to
1,000,000 FCFA, anyone who excites, promotes or facilitates the debauchery of a person
not having reached the civil majority.
The penalties provided for in paragraph 1 above are doubled if the victim is under the age of
sixteen years.
The court may also pronounce additional penalties provided for in article
28 of this Code.

90

Penal Code 2017

Page 91
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.364 .- Is punished by imprisonment from fifteen days to six months and a fine of
25,000 to 100,000 FCFA, anyone having legal or customary custody of a child of
under the age of eighteen, allows them to reside in a house or establishment where they are
practicing prostitution or working there or working as an employee for a
prostitute.

Chapter 4 - Offenses relating to the status and civil status of the child

Art.365 .- Those guilty of acts tending to compromise the civil status of a child, will be
punished by imprisonment for five to ten years.
Art.366 .- Those guilty of substituting one child for another will be punished by one
imprisonment from two to ten years, without prejudice to the penalties provided for forgery if there is
takes place.
If it is established that the child is neither alive nor viable, the sentence will be six months to five years.
imprisonment.
Art.367 .- Those guilty of supposing a child to a woman who will not have
childbirth, will be punished with imprisonment of two to ten years without prejudice to
penalties provided for forgery if applicable.
Art.368 .- Is punished by imprisonment of five to ten years and a fine of 500,000 to
5,000,000 FCFA, anyone:
• a) coerced by any means whatsoever, celebrates or gives permission to
the celebration of the marriage of a person of either sex who has not yet
reaches the legal age of marriage or compels such a person to marry;
• b) marries a person who has not yet reached the legal age of marriage.
The court may, moreover, deprive the convicted person of parental authority and of any
possibility of being tutor or curator for a period of ten years.
Art.369 .- Is punished with a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 FCFA, the parent who refuses to
enroll your child in school.
The penalties provided for in paragraph 1 above are punished:
• a) the person in charge of a school or a training school who refuses
to recruit a student because of pregnancy or to reintegrate her into the cycle
school after childbirth;
• b) the head of a school or training school who works on a
pregnant pupil or on the author of a pregnancy, psychological violence,
excludes them from the establishment due to pregnancy or compels them to do so
only reason, to take a class.
In the event of a repeat offense, the offender is liable to a prison sentence of
one to two years.

91

Penal Code 2017

Page 92
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.370 .- Anyone who facilitates the enlistment or use of children in the forces
or armed groups and their use in wars and armed conflicts, will be
punished by imprisonment of five to ten years and a fine of 1,000,000 to
10,000,000 FCFA.

Chapter 5 - Abductions of minors

Art.371 Commits the offense of kidnapping a minor and is punished by imprisonment of
five to ten years and a fine of 40,000 to 400,000 FCFA, anyone, without fraud or
violence, kidnapping, dragging or diverting a minor under the age of fifteen
against the will of those to whom its legal or customary custody belongs.
Imprisonment is ten to fifteen years when the kidnapping has been committed with
violence.
Art.372 .- Is punished by imprisonment of five to ten years and a fine of 25,000 to
200,000 FCFA anyone who, by fraud or violence, kidnaps, entices or misappropriates a
person over the age of fifteen who has not yet reached the age of majority, even if he
believes she is older, against the will of those to whom her legal or customary custody belongs.
Art.373 .- The facts provided for in the two preceding articles are punishable by imprisonment
from twenty to thirty years old:
• a) if the victim is a minor under the age of thirteen;
• b) whether the culprit aims to be paid a ransom or has been paid for it;
• c) when the death of the minor victim results.
Art.374 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one month to two years and a fine of
50,000 to 500,000 FCFA, when a decision has been taken on the custody of a minor by decision of
justice, provisional or final, the father, the mother or any person who will not represent
not this minor to those who have the right to claim it or who, even without fraud or
violence, remove it, divert it or cause it to be removed or diverted from the hands of those
to which his custody will have been entrusted or the places where they will have placed him.
Art.375 .- Is punished by imprisonment of six months to one year and a fine of 50,000
500,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, anyone who hinders the exercise
by a parent of the right of access granted to him by a court decision on the
common children.

Chapter 6 - Access of minors to drinking establishments

Art.376 .- Is punished by a fine of 50,000 to 500,000 FCFA, the retailer of drinks
alcoholics who admits in their debit a minor under the age of sixteen not
accompanied by a supervised person who has already reached the age of majority
civil.

92

Penal Code 2017

Page 93
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.377 .- Is punished by the penalty provided for in the previous article, the retailer of drinks who
sells or offers alcoholic beverages at its store or in any other public place
a minor under the age of eighteen and unaccompanied by a person in
having supervision and having already reached the civil majority.
Art.378 .- Anyone who gives drink to the point of drunkenness is punished with the same penalty.
person who has not yet reached the age of majority.
Art.379 .- In the event of a repeat offense, the perpetrators of the offenses provided for in articles 376 to 378
above are punished by imprisonment from fifteen days to one month and a fine
from 10,000 to 100,000 FCFA.
The court may also:
• a) pronounce against the condemned debtor, the closure of his establishment in
the conditions provided for in article 33 of this Code;
• b) order the publication of its decision;
• c) pronounce the additional penalties of article 28 of this Code.
Art.380 .- Articles 376 to 378 above are not applicable to anyone who proves
that he was misled about the age of the minor or about the age or quality of the person
who accompanied him.

Chapter 7 - Crimes and offenses against the family

Paragraph 1 - Attacks on the State of persons, kidnappings, concealments,
deletions, substitution, non-return of children

Art.381 .- Those guilty of kidnapping, receiving, suppressing a child, tending to
compromise his marital status, will be punished with forced labor in time.
Art.382 .- Those who, having been responsible for a child, will not return it to persons
responsible for claiming it, will be punished by the penalties provided for in the previous article.

Paragraph 2 - Attacks on family authority

Section 1 - Abductions and misappropriation of minors
Art.383 .- Anyone who, without fraud or violence, has kidnapped or diverted, or attempted to kidnap
or to divert a minor of fifteen years, will be punished with imprisonment of two to
five years and a fine of 25,000 to 100,000 FCFA.
When a minor thus abducted or diverted has married her abductor, the latter shall not
can be prosecuted only on the complaint of the people who have quality to ask

93

Penal Code 2017

Page 94
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

annulment of the marriage and can only be condemned after this annulment has
been pronounced.
Art.384 Anyone who has, by fraud or violence, kidnapped, or caused to be kidnapped minors, or
caused them to be dragged away, diverted or moved from the places where they were placed by those at
the authority or to the direction of which they were subjected or entrusted, will suffer the penalty
imprisonment for five to ten years.
The attempt of the offense provided for in this article will be punished like the offense.

Paragraph 3 - Attacks on the integrity and unity of the family

Section 1 - Adultery
Art.385 Adultery is punishable by imprisonment of two to six months and a fine
from 50,000 to 500,000 FCFA.
The accomplice of adultery will be punished with the same penalties.
Art.386 Proceedings can only be exercised on the complaint of the offended spouse
and will be stopped by its withdrawal.
Spouses guilty of adultery will not be able to file a complaint against each other.
Art.387 .- Only the
flagrante delicto and the letters, photos and other written evidence from the person to whom they are
will oppose.

Section 2 - Abandonment of the family
Art.388 .- Any person who, in
breach of an order or judgment that ordered it to pay
subsidies or alimony to their spouse, ascendants or
descendants, will have remained voluntarily for more than two months without providing the entire
subsidies or pay the full amount of the pension.
Failure to pay is presumed to be voluntary. Evidence to the contrary cannot be drawn from
insolvency resulting from laziness, drunkenness, habitual misconduct,
idleness or voluntary impoverishment of the debtor.
The competent court is that of the place of domicile or residence of the creditor.

94

Penal Code 2017

Page 95
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Title 8 - Breaches of the confidence of third parties
Art.389 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 50,000 to
500,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, anyone who abuses a white person
signature entrusted to him to write there fraudulently either an obligation, provision or
discharge, or a statement likely to compromise the person or the fortune of the
signatory.
Art.390 .- Is punished by imprisonment of three months to three years and a fine of
25,000 to 100,000 FCFA, whoever reveals, without the authorization of the one to whom it belongs,
a confidential fact that he did not know or that was only confided to him because of his profession
or its function.
Paragraph I above does not apply to statements made to judicial authorities or
judicial police dealing with facts likely to constitute a crime or an offense,
nor to legal responses to any request whatsoever.
Paragraph 2 does not apply:
• to the doctor and the surgeon who are always bound by professional secrecy, except
within the limit of a legal requisition or an expert commission;
• to the civil servant on the written order of the Government;
• the Minister of religion and the lawyer;
• to the notary within the limit of a legal requisition or an expert commission.
The court may, moreover, pronounce the additional penalties of article 36 of the
this Code.
Art.391 .- Is punished by imprisonment of three months to three years and a fine of
100,000 to 5,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, anyone who discloses
without the authorization of the party to whom it belongs an industrial fact or process or
sales representatives of which he became aware by virtue of his employment.
The court may pronounce the additional penalties of article 36 of this present
Coded.
Art.392 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 100,000 to
10,000,000 FCFA any director, manager, administrator or auditor of a
company which, in order to mislead one or more partners, shareholders or
creditors, makes a false statement or provides a false account.
The court may also pronounce the additional penalties of article 36 of the
this Code.
Art.393 .- Is punished by imprisonment of three to eight years and a fine of 100,000
to 1,000,000 FCFA, anyone who forges or falsifies an obligatory private writing,
disposal or discharge either in the substance or in the signatures, dates or
attestations.

95

Penal Code 2017

Page 96
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

The penalty is imprisonment for five to ten years and a fine of 200,000 to
2,000,000 FCFA, if it is either:
• a) a trade or bank entry;
• b) a document attesting to a land right;
• c) a mandate to sign one of the documents referred to in points a and b above;
• d) a will.
Art.394 .- Is punished by imprisonment of three to eight years and a fine of 100,000
to 1,000,000 FCFA, anyone who uses a forged or falsified private writing
laying down obligation, provision or discharge either in substance or in
signatures, dates or certificates.
The penalty is imprisonment for five to ten years and a fine of 200,000 to
2,000,000 FCFA if it is either:
• a) a trade or bank entry;
• b) a document attesting to a land right;
• c) the mandate to sign one of the documents referred to in points a and b;
• d) a will.
Art.395 .- Is punished with imprisonment of one month to one year, anyone who infringes or
falsify a private certificate or that issues a false certificate not otherwise punished or that makes
use of a forged, falsified or false private certificate.
The penalty provided for in paragraph 1 above is doubled in the event of counterfeiting, manufacturing or
use of a medical certificate or private writing not provided for in article 394
previous.

Book 5 - Damage to property
Title 1 - Destruction
Art.396 .- Is punished by imprisonment of six months to six years and a fine of
100,000 to 300,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, anyone who destroys,
even partially, any property belonging in whole or in part to others or encumbered with
charge in favor of others.
The penalty is imprisonment for two to ten years and a fine of 200,000 to
1,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, if the destruction involves
buildings, works, ships or installations.
Are punished by the penalties provided for in the previous paragraph, those who have made or let pass
cattle on the land of others, sown or loaded with crops in some season
whether it be.

96

Penal Code 2017

Page 97
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.397 .- Is punished by imprisonment of six months to three years and a fine of
100,000 to 500,000 FCFA, anyone:
• a) remove or move a boundary stone or any other sign established to mark the boundary
between different properties;
• b) destroy a fence of any kind.
Art.398. - Arson of places inhabited or used for habitation is punishable by
imprisonment for five to ten years.
If the fire caused the death of one or more people, the penalty will be a
imprisonment for twenty to thirty years.
The arson of buildings, means of transport, all places that are neither
inhabited or used for habitation, the burning of forests, timber or standing crops or
cut, when they do not belong to the perpetrator, will be punished with a
imprisonment for two to five years.
If, however, the fire has caused the death of one or more people, the penalty will be
imprisonment for ten to fifteen years.
Art.399 - The deliberate destruction using explosive substances of inhabited places or
used for housing, buildings, vehicles, public or private roads and
generally all movable or immovable objects, will be punished with the same penalties
and following the distinctions made in article 398 above.
The deposit, with criminal intent, on a public or private road, of a device
explosive will be assimilated to attempted murder with premeditation.
Persons guilty of the offenses provided for in this article shall be exempt from
penalty, if before the consummation of said offenses and before any prosecution, they
have disclosed and disclosed the perpetrators to the constituted authorities, or if, even
after the prosecution began, they brought about the arrest of the other culprits.
They may nevertheless be banned from staying.
Art.400 The threat to commit one of the crimes listed in articles 398, 404 and
399, 405 above will be punished as death threat.

Title 2 - Fraudulent appropriations
Chapter 1 - Theft

Art.401 Commits the crime of theft and is punished by six months to five years imprisonment,
anyone who fraudulently removes something that does not belong to him.
Art.402 .- There is no theft by:

97

Penal Code 2017

Page 98
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

• a) husbands to the detriment of their wives;
• b) women to the detriment of their husbands;
• c) a widower or widower as to things that had belonged to the deceased spouse;
• d) children or other descendants to the detriment of their father or others
ascendants;
• e) fathers or mothers or other ascendants to the detriment of their children or others
descendants;
• f) allies to the same degree, provided that the subtractions are committed
during the marriage and outside a period during which the spouses
are allowed to live separately.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, any other individual who may have concealed
or applied for his benefit all or stolen objects will be punished as guilty of receiving stolen goods.
Art.403 .- The penalty is five to ten years' imprisonment if:
• a) the theft was committed at night;
• b) the theft was committed in a group of two or more persons;
• c) the theft was committed with climbing, interior or exterior break-in, in a place
inhabited or used for habitation;
• d) the theft was committed using a motor vehicle;
• e) the culprits or one of them have taken the title of a civil or military official or
have dressed in the official's uniform or costume or have alleged
false order of the civil or military authority or were carrying a cross-dressing
any such as to give rise to a presumption of a state or a quality which is not theirs;
• f) the theft was committed by a servant or employee, either in the house of
the employer, either in the one where he was accompanying him or by a worker or apprentice in
the home, workshop, or store of his employer, or by a working individual
usually, for whatever reason, in the place where the theft was committed;
• g) a hotelier, a transporter or one of their attendants has stolen things that they
were entrusted in this capacity.
The penalty is ten to fifteen years' imprisonment if:
• a) the theft was committed in two or more of the circumstances set out in paragraph 1
above;
• b) the culprits or one of them carried an apparent or hidden weapon;
• c) the theft was committed with violence or threats;
• d) the theft was committed using false keys.
When the violence committed by the perpetrator of the theft has caused an inability to
work of more than twenty days or more serious injuries or infirmities, the penalty will be
imprisonment for fifteen to twenty years.
When the violence has caused death even without the intention of giving it,
penalty will be imprisonment from twenty to thirty years.

98

Penal Code 2017

Page 99
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.404 .- Is qualified as burglary, any forcible, rupture, degradation, demolition,
removal of walls, roofs, floors, doors, windows, locks, padlocks, or to prevent
the passage and any kind of fence, whatever it may be.
Art.405 .- Any building, accommodation, lodge, hut, even
mobile, which, without being currently inhabited, is intended for housing and all that
depends, as courtyards, poultry yards, barns, stables, buildings enclosed therein, which
whatever the use, and even so they would have a particular fence in the fence or
general enclosure.
Art.406 .- Are qualified false keys, all keys imitated, counterfeit or altered, thus
that any keys or instruments of any kind which were not intended for opening the
locks, padlocks or other closures to which the culprit will have used them.
Anyone who has forged or altered keys will be sentenced to imprisonment for
three months to two years and a fine of 25,000 to 100,000 FCFA.
If the culprit is a locksmith by profession, he will be punished with imprisonment of two to
five years and a fine of 25,000 FCFA to 100,000 FCFA.
The penalties provided for in paragraphs 2 and 3 above are set without prejudice to stronger
penalties, if applicable, in the event of complicity in a crime.
Art.407 Commits the crime of theft and is punished by six months to five years imprisonment
anyone:
• a) improperly appropriates energy from any motive force;
• b) appropriate a lost thing.
Article 408 .- In all the cases provided for in Articles 401 and 403 to 407 above, the penalties
additional provisions provided for in Article 28 of this Code may
be applied.
The attempted offenses provided for in articles 401 and 403 are punished like the theft itself.

Chapter 2 - Fraud

Art.409 .- Is punished by one to five years' imprisonment and a fine, the rate of which
maximum is equal to three times the discounted value, whoever, either by making use of false
names or false qualifications, or by employing fraudulent maneuvers to
persuade the existence of bogus businesses, imaginary power or credit, or
to give rise to hope or fear of success or any other unreal event,
has been delivered or delivered, or attempted to be delivered or delivered funds,
furniture or obligations, provisions, notes, promises, receipts or
landfills, and has, by any of these means, defrauded or attempted to defraud in whole or in
part, the property of others.

99

Penal Code 2017

Page 100
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.410 .- Penalties for the offense of fraud are punishable by anyone who abuses
needs, weaknesses or passions of a person who has not yet reached the
majority to make him subscribe to any obligation, provision or discharge, or any
document likely to compromise the person or the fortune of the signatory.
For the purposes of this article, a person who is incapable of
major or in a state of notorious alienation.

Chapter 3 - Breach of Confidence

Art.411 Anyone who has misappropriated or dissipated things that had been entrusted to him
only on condition of returning or representing them, or of making use or use of them
determined, will be punished by six months to five years imprisonment and 50,000 to
2000,000 FCFA fine.
Failure to repay a loan of things or money intended for consumption
does not constitute the offense of breach of trust provided for in the preceding paragraph.
Art.412.If the breach of trust was committed by a public or ministerial officer, the
penalty will be imprisonment for five to ten years.
If the breach of trust was committed by a person appealing to the public for
get either his own account, or as a manager, administrator or agent
of a company or a commercial or industrial enterprise, the remittance of funds or
securities, as a deposit, warrant or collateral, the term of imprisonment
may be extended to ten years and the fine to 10,000,000 FCFA.
The additional penalties of article 28 of this Code may, moreover, be
applied.
Art.413 .- Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 2 of the previous article, will be punished
penalties for breach of trust any beneficiary of a loan granted by a community or
a public establishment or by an organization covered by the guarantee of powers
public who will have used the sums loaned for purposes or under conditions other than
those that will have been stipulated.
The penalties provided for in paragraph 1 above will be applied to anyone who has disposed of,
contrary to the stipulations of the contract, the proceeds of operations for which
the loan will have been granted.

Chapter 4 - Other attacks on property

Art.414 .- Is punished by imprisonment from fifteen days to six months and a fine of
25,000 to 50,000 FCFA anyone, being unable to pay the price:
• a) has food or beverages served on the premises;

100

Penal Code 2017

Page 101
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

• b) occupies a room in a hotel;
• c) leases a motor vehicle;
• d) is used for a motor vehicle, fuel or lubricants.
In the cases provided for in points a and b above, the duration of the supply of drinks or
food or occupancy of the accommodation must not have exceeded one week.
Art.415 .- Is punished by imprisonment of five to ten years and a fine of 100,000 to
1,000,000 FCFA, the pledge debtor who knowingly subtracts, misappropriates or destroys the asset
pledged.
Art.416 .- Articles 414 and 415 above shall not apply between spouses, between
legitimate or adoptive ascendants and descendants or between ascendants and descendants
natural up to the second degree if they live together or are recognized, contrary to
of the widower or the widower on the goods of first necessity having belonged to the spouse
deceased.
Art.417 Those who knowingly have concealed things removed, misappropriated or
obtained through a felony or misdemeanor will be punished from six months to five years
imprisonment and, in addition, a fine which may be increased up to half of
the value of the objects concealed.
In the event that the fact which procured the things concealed constitutes a crime, the concealer
shall be punished by the penalty attached by law to the crime and to the circumstances of the crime for which he
will have known at the time of the concealment.
The fine provided for in paragraph 1 above may still be imposed.
Art.418 .- Is punished with a fine of 25,000 to 1,000,000 FCFA, the lender who demands or
receives interest or other compensation above the rate set by law for loans
of the same nature.
In the event of a repeat offense, the penalty is imprisonment from fifteen days to one year and the fine
is doubled.
The court may order the publication of its decision under the conditions provided for in
article 34 of this Code.
For the purposes of this article, the borrower is not considered to be an accomplice.

Title 3 - Infringements of intellectual property
Art.419 .- Is punished by imprisonment of five to ten years and a fine of 500,000 to
10,000,000 FCFA, anyone who improperly exploits a patent.
Anyone who conceals, sells, exports,
imports or makes use of an object resulting from the improper exploitation of a patent for invention.

101

Penal Code 2017

Page 102
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

In the cases provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 above, the court orders the confiscation of
the object resulting from the undue exploitation for the benefit of the owner of the patent.
The court orders the publication of its decision under the conditions set out in
article 34 of this Code.
Art.420 .- Is punished by imprisonment of five to ten years and a fine of 500,000 to
10,000,000 FCFA, anyone who improperly exploits a design, brand or model
industrial filed.
Anyone who conceals, sells, exports,
imports or uses an object resulting from the improper use of a design, a trademark
or a registered industrial model.
In the cases provided for in paragraphs 1 and 2 above, the court orders the confiscation
objects resulting from the undue exploitation of registered designs, trademarks and models,
benefit of the injured parties.
The court orders the publication of its decision under the conditions set out in
article 34 of this Code.
The convicted person is deprived of the right to be an elector, of the right to be elected and of any mandate
elective or nominative to the consular chambers of commerce or industry for a
ten-year term.
Art.421 .- Is punished by imprisonment of five to ten years and a fine of 500,000 to
10,000,000 FCFA, anyone who infringes a trademark
filed.
Anyone who conceals, sells, exports,
imports or uses an object resulting from the counterfeiting of a trademark or
trade filed.
Anyone who:
• a) without infringing a registered trademark, will have made a fraudulent imitation of
nature to deceive the buyer;
• b) has made use of a fraudulently imitated mark;
• c) will have made any use of a registered trademark bearing particulars
likely to deceive the buyer as to the nature, the substantial qualities, the composition
or the content of useful principles, the species or the origin of the designated object;
• d) will have held without legitimate reason, products which he knew to bear a mark
fraudulently imitated;
• e) will knowingly sell, offer for sale, supply or offer to supply any products or
services under such a brand.
In the cases provided for in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 above, the court orders the confiscation
for the benefit of the injured parties, objects resulting from the infringement of the trademark
or trade.

102

Penal Code 2017

Page 103
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

The court orders the publication of its decision under the conditions set out in
article 34 of this Code.
The convicted person is deprived of the right to be an elector, of the right to be elected and of any mandate
elective or nominative to the consular chambers of commerce or industry for a
ten-year term.
Art.422 .- Are punished by imprisonment of five to ten years, any edition of writing, of
musical composition, drawing, painting or any other printed or
engraved in whole or in part in defiance of the laws relating to the property of authors,
any reproduction, representation or distribution, any exploitation by any means
whether it is a work of the mind in violation of the rights of the author.
Is punished by the penalty provided for in paragraph I, the author of an importation or exportation of
counterfeit works.
The court seised will pronounce the confiscation provided for in article 31 of this Code.

Book 6 - Other crimes and misdemeanors

Chapter 1 - Attacks on public health

Art.423 .- Is punished by imprisonment of three months to three years and a fine of
50,000 to 500,000 FCFA, anyone who adulterates foodstuffs used to feed
humans or animals, drinks or medicinal substances intended for
be sold, or owns products only suitable for carrying out this
falsification.
Is punished with the same penalty, whoever holds for sale, these foodstuffs, drinks or
medicines, either falsified or altered or harmful to human health.
The provisions of this article are not applicable to fresh fruit and vegetables,
fermented or corrupted.
Food, drink and medicine, if they still belong to the culprit, are
confiscated. If they are not used by the administration, their destruction is done in a cool place.
of the condemned.
The court may order the publication of the decision under the conditions provided for in
article 34 of this Code.
Art.424.- Is punished by imprisonment of three months to three years and a fine of
50,000 to 500,000 FCFA, whoever, by his conduct, facilitates the communication of a
contagious and dangerous disease.

103

Penal Code 2017

Page 104
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

If the facilitated contagion is dangerous for the life of animals normally intended for
human consumption, imprisonment is one to five years.
Art.425 .- Is punished by imprisonment from fifteen days to six months and a fine of
100,000 to 1,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, whoever, by his
activity:
• a) pollutes drinking water likely to be used by others;
• b) pollutes the atmosphere to such an extent that it is harmful to public health.
Art.426 .- Is punished by imprisonment of two to five years and a fine of
1,000,000 to 10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person
which offers drinking water to the public without complying with the quality standards in
force.
In the event of a repeat offense, the culprit incurs double the maximum penalties provided for in
the above paragraph.
Art.427 .- Constitute trafficking in human organs, the sale or purchase of organs of the body
human.
Anyone who traffics in human organs is punished with imprisonment for two
to five years and a fine of 5,000,000 to 10,000,000 FCFA.
Art.428 .- Is punished by imprisonment of five to ten years and a fine of 5,000,000
to 10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, anyone who removes an organ,
tissues or cells on a living person for therapeutic purposes without
the consent of it or of those who have custody of it.
The penalties of paragraph I above are doubled if the sample was taken against
payment in whatever form.

Chapter 2 - Cybercrime

Section 1 - Attacks on computer systems

Sub-section 1 - Breaches of the confidentiality and integrity of the systems
computer science
Art.429 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person who accesses
or attempts to fraudulently access all or part of a computer system.
Anyone who obtains or attempts to obtain
fraudulently, for himself or for others, any advantage in
breaking into a computer system.

104

Penal Code 2017

Page 105
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.430 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person who
maintains or attempts to maintain itself fraudulently in all or part of a system
computer science.
Anyone who hinders, falsifies or tries to hinder or
to distort the functioning of a computer system.

Sub-section 2 - Fraudulent entry of data into a system
Art.431 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person who
fraudulently introduce or attempt to introduce data into a system
computer science.

Section 2 - Computer data breaches

Sub-section 1 - Falsification and use of falsified data
Art.432 .- Is punished by imprisonment of five to ten years and a fine of
5,000,000 to 50,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person
who introduces or attempts to introduce, alters or attempts to alter, erases or attempts to erase,
deletes or attempts to fraudulently delete computer data,
generating inauthentic data, with the intention that they be taken into
account or used for legal purposes as if they were genuine, whether
or not directly readable and intelligible.
Art.433 .- Is punished by imprisonment of five to ten years and a fine of
3,000,000 to 30,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person
who knowingly uses the data obtained under the conditions
set out in article 429 of this Code.
Art.434 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person who
intercepts or attempts to fraudulently intercept by technical means,
computerized data during their non-public transmission to destination,
origin or within a computer system.
Art.435 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
10,000,000 FCFA, or one of these two penalties only, any person who
damages or attempts to damage, erases or attempts to erase, deteriorates or attempts to
deteriorate, alter or attempt to alter, modify or attempt to fraudulently modify
computer data.
Art.436 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
to 10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person who produces

105

Penal Code 2017

Page 106
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

or produces a set of the digitized data by the introduction, the erasure or the
fraudulent deletion of computerized data stored, processed or transmitted by
a computer system, generating counterfeit data, with the intention that
are taken into account or used for legal purposes as if they were original.
Art.437 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person who obtains
fraudulently, for herself or for others, any advantage by
the introduction, alteration, erasure or deletion of computerized data or
by any form of interference with the functioning of a computer system.
Art.438 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person who, even
by negligence, proceeds or has carried out the processing of personal data
personnel without having complied with the formalities prior to their implementation.
by the law on personal data.

Sub-section 2 - Abuse of devices
Art.439 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to three years and a fine of
1,000,000 to 10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person
who produces, sells, imports, holds, distributes, offers, transfers or makes available:
• a) a device, including a computer program, primarily designed or
adapted to allow the commission of one of the offenses referred to in articles
432 to 436 above;
• b) a password, an Access Code or similar computer data
allowing access to all or part of a computer system, with the intention
whether they are used to commit any of the offenses referred to in the
Articles 432 to 436 above.
The perpetrators of one of the offenses provided for in this article also incur the
the following additional penalties:
• a) confiscation, in accordance with the terms provided for by the texts in force, of any object
intended or having been used to commit the offense in question, with the exception of
susceptible of restitution;
• b) prohibition, under the conditions provided for by the texts in force, for a
duration of at least five years, to exercise a public function or an activity
socio-professional, when the acts were committed during the exercise or on the occasion
the exercise of the functions of the accused person;
• c) closure, under the conditions provided for by the texts in force, for a period of
of at least five years, establishments or one or more of the establishments
of the company having been used to commit the incriminated acts;
• d) exclusion for a period of at least five years from public contracts.

106

Penal Code 2017

Page 107
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Sub-section 3 - Digital identity theft, association of
computer criminals and complicity
Art.440 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, anyone who usurps
the digital identity of a third party or one or more data allowing it to be identified,
in order to disturb his peace or that of others or to undermine his honor,
his consideration or his interests.
Art.441 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person who
participates in an association formed or in an agreement established with a view to preparing or
commit one or more of the offenses provided for in this chapter.
Art.442 A person who intentionally commits an act of complicity in view of
the commission of one of the offenses provided for in this chapter, with the intention
such an offense is committed, commits an offense punishable by the same
penalties than those provided for the predicate offense.

Section 3 - Content offenses

Sub-section 1 - Child pornography
Art.443 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
to 10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person who produces
for distribution, attempts to produce for sale, offers, makes available,
distributes or attempts to distribute child pornography through a system
computer science.
Art.444 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person who
procures or procures for others, imports or causes to be imported, exports or has
child pornography through a computer system.
Art.445 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person who
intentionally possesses child pornography in a computer system
or in any means of storing computer data.
Anyone who facilitates the access of minors to
images, documents, sound or a representation presenting a character
pornographic.
Art.446 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person who
intentionally offers, through communication technologies and

107

Penal Code 2017

Page 108
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

information, a meeting with a minor child, with the aim of committing
against one of the offenses provided for in Articles 443 to 445 above.
When the sexual proposition has been followed by material acts leading to the said
encounter, the perpetrator commits an aggravated offense punishable by imprisonment of
five to ten years and a fine of 2,000,000 to 20,000,000 FCFA or one of these heavens
penalties only.
Article 447 .- For the offenses described in Articles 443 and 444 above, the penalties
additional provisions provided for in article 28 of this Code may be applied.

Sub-section 2 - Racist and xenophobic acts through a system
computer science
Art.448 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
to 10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person who creates,
downloads, distributes or makes available in any form whatsoever writings,
messages, photos, drawings or any other representation of ideas or theories of nature
racist or xenophobic, through a computer system.
Art.449 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person who commits
threats committed through a computer system to a person in
reason for belonging to a group characterized by race, color,
descent, descent or national or ethnic origin, religion, insofar as
this membership serves as a pretext for one or other of these elements, or a group of
people who are distinguished by any of these characteristics.
Art.450 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person, perpetrator
of an insult committed through a computer system against a person in
reason for belonging to a group characterized by race, color,
descent, descent or national or ethnic origin, religion, insofar as
this membership serves as a pretext for one or other of these elements, or a group of
people who are distinguished by any of these characteristics.
Art.451 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person who,
intentionally denies, approves or justifies acts constituting genocide or
crimes against humanity through a computer system.

Section 4 - Non-execution of injunctions and disclosure of
survey information

Art.452 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
to 10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person, other than

108

Penal Code 2017

Page 109
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

the respondent, who intentionally omits without legitimate excuse or justification to
comply with an injunction from judicial police officers or authorized agents.
Art.453 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any service provider
who, having received an injunction, as part of a criminal investigation, which stipulated
explicitly that confidentiality must be maintained or that it results from the law,
intentionally without lawful excuse or justification, discloses information
relating to the investigation.
Art.454 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
to 10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, the person responsible
legal site used to commit the offense or any qualified person responsible for
to implement the technical means necessary to guarantee the prohibition
access, hosting or cutting off access to the offending site that does not respect
the injunctions issued by the judge to this effect.

Section 5 - Cryptology offenses

Art.455 .- Is punished by imprisonment of three months to one year and a fine of
500,000 to 5,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person who
will not have fulfilled the obligation to communicate to the public authority in charge of
cryptology a description of the technical characteristics of the means of cryptology
in accordance with the relevant texts.
Art.456 .- Is punished by imprisonment of three months to one year and a fine of
500,000 to 5,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person who
will have imported a means of cryptology not ensuring exclusively functions
authentication or integrity check without meeting the reporting obligation
prior to the Authority in charge of cryptology.
Art.457 .- Is punished by imprisonment of three months to one year and a fine of
500,000 to 5,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person who
will have provided cryptology services without having previously obtained them
the approval of the public authority in charge of cryptology.
Art.458 .- Is punished by imprisonment of three months to one year and a fine of
500,000 to 5,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person who
will have exported a means of cryptology not ensuring exclusively functions
authentication or integrity check without having previously obtained
authorization from the public authority in charge of cryptology.
Art.459 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of
1,000,000 to 10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person
who will have made available to others a means of cryptology that has been the subject of a
ban on use and circulation.

109

Penal Code 2017

Page 110
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.460 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of
1,000,000 to 10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person
who uses a means of cryptology to prepare or commit a crime or an offense or
to facilitate preparation or commission.

Section 6 - Spamming

Art.461 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, any person who, from
intentionally and without legitimate excuse or justification:
• a) intentionally triggers the transmission of multiple e-mails
from or via a computer system;
• b) use a secure computer system to relay or retransmit
multiple emails with the intent to deceive or mislead,
as to the origin of these messages, the recipients or any provider of
electronic mail or internet services;
• c) materially falsifies information in message headers
electronic mail and intentionally triggers the transmission of messages.

Chapter 3 - Adaptation of classic offenses to the technologies of
information and communication

Section 1 - Offenses against property

Art.462 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 1,000,000
10,000,000 FCFA or one of these two penalties only, anyone who copies
or attempts to fraudulently copy computer data to the detriment of a third party.
Art.463 .- Is punished by the same penalties as those prescribed for fraud relating to
tangible property, any person who, either by using false names or false
qualities, either by employing any fraudulent maneuvers, will have obtained the
delivery or will have attempted to obtain the delivery of computer data and will, through one of these
means, defrauded or attempted to defraud all or part of the fortune of others.
Art.464 .- Is punished by the same penalties as those provided for breach of trust
relating to tangible property, any person who, having received from owners,
owners or holders of computer data by way of rental, deposit,
mandate, pledge, loan for use or for salaried or self-employed work,
will not have, after a simple formal notice, executed his commitment to return them or
represent or make a specific use or employment.
Art.465 .- Is punished by the same penalties as those provided for concealment relating to
tangible property, any person who knowingly has concealed all or part of the data
computers removed, misappropriated or obtained through a crime or misdemeanor.

110

Penal Code 2017

Page 111
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.466 .- Is considered an aggravated offense and punishable by imprisonment of
five to ten years and a fine of 2,000,000 to 20,000,000 FCFA or one of these two
penalties only, done for any person who, either by using false names or
false qualities, either by employing any fraudulent maneuvers, will be
cause to be delivered or delivered, or will have attempted to be delivered or delivered, of funds,
furniture or obligations, provisions, notes, promises, receipts or discharges by
through a computer system of an electronic communications network and
will, by one of these means, defraud all or part of the fortune of others.

Section 2 - Attacks on national defense

Art.467 Any Chadian citizen who:
• (a) delivers to a foreign Power or its agents, in whatever form or by
whatever means, information, object, document, process, data
digitized or computerized file which must be kept secret in the interests of the defense
national;
• b) ensure, by any means whatsoever, the possession of such information,
object, document, process, computerized data or computerized file with a view to
surrender to a foreign power or its agents;
• c) destroys or allows to destroy such information, object, document, process, data
computerized or computerized file with a view to delivering it to a foreign power.

Section 3 - Press offenses

Art.468 A person who commits a press offense, in particular a
defamation, a public insult, an apology for a crime, by means of a means of
public electronic communication, commits an offense punishable by the same
penalties than those provided for press offenses committed by other means.

Section 4 - Liability of legal persons

Art.469 .- Legal persons are criminally liable for the offenses provided for
by this chapter, under the conditions set out in Articles 81 and 82 of this
Coded.
They are also held responsible when the lack of supervision or
control made possible the commission of the offenses provided for in this chapter
on behalf of the said legal person by a natural person acting under his
authority.
Art.470 .- The penalties incurred by legal persons are:
• a) the fine, the maximum rate of which is five times that provided for
natural persons by this chapter;

111

Penal Code 2017

Page 112
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

• b) dissolution, when the legal person has been created or when it is a matter of an offense
punished, with regard to natural persons, by imprisonment
more than five years, diverted from its purpose to commit the incriminated acts;
• c) prohibition on a permanent basis or for a period of five years at most to exercise
directly or indirectly one or more professional activities or
social;
• d) permanent closure or for a period of five years at most of one or more
establishments of the company which were used to commit the incriminated acts;
• e) exclusion from public contracts definitively or for a period of five years at the
more ;
• f) prohibition on a permanent basis or for a period of five years at most to appeal
public savings;
• g) the prohibition, for a period of five years at most, to issue checks other than
than those which allow the withdrawal of funds by the drawer from the drawee or those which
are certified or use payment cards;
• h) confiscation of the thing which was used or was intended to commit the offense or
of the thing which is its product;
• i) the display of the pronounced decision or the dissemination thereof either through the press
written, or by any means of communication to the public, by electronic means.

Chapter 4 - Serious abuse or cruelty to animals

Art.471 .- Is punished by three months to two years imprisonment and a fine of
25,000 to 50,000 FCFA, anyone who exercises serious abuse or commits an act of
cruelty to a domestic animal, tamed or held in captivity.
The court may prohibit the detention of said animal definitively or not at
additional penalty title.
The provisions of this article are not applicable to animal fights.
when an unbroken tradition can be established.
Anyone who abandons a
domestic animal, tamed or held in captivity.
Article 472 The penalties provided for in Article 471 paragraph I shall be penalized by the authors of
scientific or experimental experiments or research on animals, when they
are carried out in violation of applicable laws and regulations.

112

Penal Code 2017

Page 113
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Book 7 - Penalties applicable to the offenses provided for by
OHADA Uniform Acts
Chapter 1 - Breaches of the provisions of the Uniform Act relating to law
general commercial

Art.473 .- Any person required to complete one of the registration formalities
Register of Commerce and Movable Credits, and who has refrained from doing so, or who has
carried out by fraud, is punished by a fine of 50,000 to 200,000 FCFA.
If necessary, the court which pronounces the sentence orders the accomplishment of the
omitted formalities, rectification of inaccurate entries and transcriptions.
Art.474 .- Any tenant-manager, who has refrained from indicating on the header of his
order, invoices and other documents of a financial or commercial nature, with its
registration number in the Trade and Personal Property Credit Register, its status as
tenant-manager of the fund is punished with imprisonment of one to five years and
fine of 1,000,000 to 10,000,000 FCFA.

Chapter 2 - Breaches of the provisions of the Uniform Act relating to the law of
commercial companies and economic interest groups

Art.475 .- All done, for the founders, the CEO, the director
deputy head, deputy head or deputy head of a corporation
to issue shares before registration or at any time
when the registration is obtained by fraud or the company is irregularly
constituted, is punishable by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of
1,000,000 to 10,000,000 FCFA.
Art.476 .- Any person who knowingly, by establishing the notarized declaration
of subscription and payment or of the certificate of the depositary, will have affirmed sincere and
genuine subscriptions which they knew to be fictitious or will have declared that the funds which
have not been made definitively available to the company have actually been
paid, is punishable by imprisonment of one to ten years and a fine of 5,000,000 to
50,000,000 FCFA.
Art.477 Anyone who has given the notary or the depositary a list of
shareholders or subscription and payment forms mentioning
fictitious subscriptions or payments of funds which have not been definitively
the disposal of the company, is punished with imprisonment of one to five years and a
fine of 2,000,000 to 20,000,000 FCFA.
Art.478 .- Any person who knowingly, by simulating subscription or
payment or publication of subscription or payment that does not exist or of

113

Penal Code 2017

Page 114
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

any other false fact, will have obtained or attempted to obtain subscriptions or payments,
is punishable by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 2,000,000 to
20,000,000 FCFA.
Art.479 .- Any person who knowingly to initiate subscriptions or
installments will have published the names of designated persons contrary to the truth
as being or to be attached to the company in any capacity whatsoever or that which,
fraudulently, will have attributed to a contribution in kind a valuation greater than
its real value, is punishable by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of
2,000,000 to 20,000,000 FCFA.
Art.480 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 2,000,000
to 20,000,000 FCFA, any person who will have knowingly negotiated:
• registered shares which have not remained in registered form until
their full release;
• contribution shares before the expiry of the period during which they are not
negotiable;
• shares in cash for which payment of a quarter of the par value has not
been carried out.
Art.481 .- Are punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of
2,000,000 to 20,000,000 FCFA, all the corporate officers who, in the absence of an inventory
or by means of fraudulent inventory, will have knowingly operated between the shareholders or
the partners, the distribution of fictitious dividends.
Art.482 .- Are punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of
2,000,000 to 20,000,000 FCFA, the social leaders who will knowingly, even in
the absence of any distribution of dividends, published or presented to shareholders or
partners, in order to conceal the true situation of the company, the financial statements of
summary that does not give, for each financial year, a faithful image of the operations of
the fiscal year, the financial situation and that of the assets of the company, at the expiration
of this period.
Art.483 .- Is punished by imprisonment of six months to five years and a fine of
3,000,000 to 30,000,000 FCFA, the manager of the limited liability company, the
directors, the president and chief executive officer, the chief executive officer, the director
deputy or deputy deputy head who, in bad faith, make property or
credit of the company, a use which they knew to be contrary to the interests of the latter, for purposes
personal, material or legal, or to favor another legal person clans
which they were interested in, directly or indirectly.
In addition, the judge can pronounce the prohibition to exercise the functions of manager of SARL,
director, chief executive officer, chief executive officer, director
general or deputy managing director for a period that may not exceed five
years.

114

Penal Code 2017

Page 115
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.484 .- Are punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of
2,000,000 to 20,000,000 FCFA, all those who knowingly have prevented a shareholder
or an associate to participate in a general meeting.
Art.485.- Are punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of
2,000,000 to 20,000,000 FCFA, the chairman of the board of directors, the chairman
chief executive officer, chief executive officer, deputy head or administrator
deputy general of a public limited company which, during a capital increase, will have
issued shares or denominations of shares:
• before the depositary's certificate has been issued;
• without the formalities prior to the capital increase having been
regularly performed;
• without the previously subscribed capital of the company having been fully
released;
• without the new contribution shares having been fully paid up before
the amending entry in the trade and movable property credit register;
• without the new shares having been paid up by at least a quarter of their value
nominal at the amount of the subscription;
• where applicable, without the entire issue premium having been released at the
time of subscription.
Criminal sanctions are also applicable to the persons referred to in this
article which will not have kept the shares in cash in registered form
until their full release.
Art.486 .- Are punished by imprisonment from one to five years and a fine of
2,000,000 to 20,000,000 FCFA, the social leaders who, during an increase of
capital:
• will not have benefited the shareholders, in proportion to the amount of
their shares, a preferential subscription right for shares in cash
when this right has not been waived by the general meeting and the shareholders
have not given it up;
• will not have reserved for the shareholders a period of at least twenty days, from
the opening of the subscription, except when this period has been closed early;
• will not have allocated the shares made available for lack of a sufficient number of
subscription on an irreducible basis, to shareholders who have subscribed on a reducible basis
a number of shares greater than that which they could subscribe on an irreducible basis
in proportion to the rights they have;
• will not have reserved the rights of holders of warrants.
Art.487 .- Are punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of
2,000,000 to 20,000,000 FCFA, social leaders who knowingly gave or
confirmed inaccurate information in the reports presented to the general meeting
called upon to decide on the cancellation of the preferential subscription right.
Art.488 .- Are punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of
2,000,000 to 20,000,000 FCFA, the directors, the CEO, the

115

Penal Code 2017

Page 116
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

chief executive officer, deputy head or assistant deputy head who,
knowingly, will have carried out a capital reduction:
• 1 ° without respecting the equality of shareholders;
• 2 ° without having communicated the proposed capital reduction to the statutory auditors
accounts forty-five days before the holding of the general meeting called to
decide on the capital reduction.
Art.489 .- Are punished by imprisonment from three months to five years and a fine of
500,000 to 5,000,000 FCFA, the social leaders who will not have provoked the
appointment of the statutory auditors of the company or will not have convened them
at general meetings.

Title 5 - Offenses relating to the control of companies
Art.490 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to ten years and a fine of 5,000,000
to 50,000,000 FCFA, any person who, either in his personal name or as a partner
of a company of auditors, will have knowingly accepted, exercised or
retained the functions of statutory auditors, notwithstanding any incompatibilities
legal.
In addition, the judge may order a ban on exercising the function of commissioner for
accounts for a period which may not exceed five years.
Art.491.- Is punished by imprisonment of one to ten years and a fine of 5,000,000 to
50,000,000 FCFA, any auditor who, either in his personal name or in
as a partner of a company of statutory auditors, will knowingly give or
confirmed false information about the situation of the company or who will not have
revealed to the public prosecutor, the criminal facts of which he will have knowledge.
In addition, the judge may order a ban on exercising the function of commissioner for
accounts for a period which may not exceed five years.
Art.492 .- Are punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of
2,000,000 to 20,000,000 FCFA, social leaders or any person in the service of
company which knowingly has obstructed the verifications or the control of
auditors or who will have refused the communication, on the spot, of all
the documents useful for the exercise of their mission and in particular of all the contracts, books,
accounting documents and minute books.
Art.493 .- Are punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of
2,000,000 to 20,000,000 FCFA, the social leaders who, knowingly, when the capital
of the company's own assets become less than half of the share capital due to losses
recognized in the summary financial statements:
• 1- will not have convened, within four months of the approval of the
summary financial statements showing these losses, the general meeting
extraordinary for the purpose of deciding, if necessary, the early dissolution of the company;

116

Penal Code 2017

Page 117
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

• 2- will not have filed with the clerk of the court in charge of commercial affairs, registered
in the trade and movable property credit register and published in a journal authorized to
receive legal notices, early dissolution of the company.
Art.494 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 2,000,000
to 20,000,000 FCFA, the liquidator of a company who knowingly:
• will not have, within one month of his appointment, published in a
newspaper authorized to receive legal notices from the place of the registered office, the act on
appointing liquidator and deposited in the trade and movable property credit register
decisions pronouncing the dissolution;
• will not have summoned the partners, at the end of the liquidation, to rule on the account
final liquidation, upon discharge of its management and discharge of its mandate and
to record the closing of the liquidation;
• will not, in the case provided for in this chapter, have submitted its final accounts to the
registry of the court in charge of commercial affairs at the place of the registered office, nor
sought the approval of these.
Art.495 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of 2,000,000
to 20,000,000 FCFA, the liquidator who knowingly:
• will not have, within six months of his appointment, submitted a report on the situation
assets and liabilities of the company in liquidation and on the continuation of
liquidation, nor requested the necessary authorizations to complete them;
• will not have, within three months of the end of each financial year, drawn up the
financial summary in view of the inventory and a written report in which he makes
account of liquidation operations during the past financial year;
• will not have allowed the partners to exercise, during the liquidation period, their right to
communication of social documents under the same conditions
than previously;
• will not have summoned the partners, at least once a year, to report to them
summary financial statements in the event of continued corporate operations;
• will not have deposited to an account opened in a bank in the name of the company in
liquidation, within fifteen days from the distribution decision, the
sums allocated to distributions between partners and creditors;
• will not have deposited, on a deposit account opened in the writings of the
Treasury, within one year from the closing of the liquidation, the sums
attributed to creditors or partners and not claimed by them.
In addition, the judge may order a ban on exercising the functions of trustee during
a period which cannot exceed five years.
Art.496 .- Is punished by imprisonment of one to ten years and a fine of 5,000,000 to
50,000,000 FCFA, any liquidator who, in bad faith:
• will have made property or credit of the company in liquidation, a use that he knew
contrary to the interests of the latter, for personal gain or to promote another
legal person in which he was interested, directly or indirectly;
• will have sold all or part of the assets of the company in liquidation to a person who had
in the company the capacity of partner in name, of sponsorship, of manager, of member of the

117

Penal Code 2017

Page 118
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

board of directors, general administrator or auditor,
without having obtained the unanimous consent of the partners or, failing that, the authorization
of the competent court.
In addition, the judge may order a ban on exercising the function of liquidator.
for a period which may not exceed five years.
Art.497 .- Are punished by imprisonment of one to five years and a fine of
2,000,000 to 20,000,000 FCFA, presidents, administrators or directors
company generals who have issued securities offered to the public:
• without a notice being inserted in a newspaper authorized to receive announcements
legal, prior to any publicity measure;
• without the prospectuses and circulars reproducing the statements of the
notice provided for in the point above and do not contain the mention of the insertion of this
notice in the newspaper authorized to receive legal notices with reference to the number
in which it was published;
• without the posters and newspaper advertisements reproducing the same
utterances or at least an extract of these utterances with reference to said
notice, and details of the number of the newspaper authorized to receive legal notices
in which it was published;
• without the posters, prospectuses and circulars mentioning the signature of
the person or representative of the company whose offer comes from and do not specify whether the
The securities offered are listed or not and, if so, on which exchange.
The same penal sanction will be applicable to the persons who will have served
intermediaries on the occasion of the transfer of securities without having been
complied with the requirements of this article.

Chapter 3 - Breaches of the provisions of the Uniform Act establishing
organization of collateral

Art.498 .- Is punished by imprisonment of three to five years and a fine of
500,000 to 5,000,000 FCFA, to any debtor or to any person who, by maneuvers
fraudulent, deprives the secured creditor of his rights or diminishes them.
Art.499 .- Is punished by a fine of 50,000 to 200,000 francs, the policyholder or any
person who, through fraudulent maneuvers, deprives the lessor of his privilege
totally or partially.

Chapter 4 - Infringements of the provisions of the Uniform Act establishing
organization of collective debt clearance procedures

Art.500 .- The offense of simple bankruptcy and offenses assimilated to
Simple bankruptcy are punished with imprisonment of one month to two years.

118

Penal Code 2017

Page 119
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.501 .- Any natural person in a state of bankruptcy is guilty of simple bankruptcy.
suspension of payments which occurs in one of the following cases:
• if it has contracted without receiving securities in exchange, commitments deemed too
important in view of her situation at the time she contracted them;
• if, with the intention of delaying the recognition of the cessation of its payments, it has
purchases for resale below the price or if, in the same
intention, it employed ruinous means to raise funds;
• if, without a legitimate excuse, he does not submit to the clerk of the competent court the
declaration of his state of suspension of payments within the period of thirty days;
• if its accounts are incomplete or irregularly kept or if it has not kept any
accounting in accordance with accounting rules and accepted practices of
profession in view of the importance of the company;
• if, having been declared twice in a state of suspension of payments within a period of
five years, these proceedings were closed for insufficient assets.
Art.502 .- The provisions of this section are applicable:
• natural persons who are managers of legal persons subject to the
collective proceedings;
• to natural persons who are permanent representatives of legal persons
managers, legal persons referred to in the above point.
The officers referred to in this article are understood to be all officers by law or by
fact and, in general, of any person having directly or by person
interposed, administered, managed or liquidated the legal person under cover or at the place and
place of its legal representatives.
Art.503 .- The penalties of simple bankruptcy are punished by the managers referred to in article
above who have, in this capacity and in bad faith:
• consumed sums belonging to the legal person by carrying out transactions
pure chance or fictitious transactions;
• with the intention of delaying the recognition of the cessation of payments of the
legal person makes purchases for resale below the price or, in the
same intention, employed ruinous means to procure funds;
• after cessation of payments by the legal person, paid or made pay a creditor
to the detriment of the masses;
• causes the legal person to contract, on behalf of others, without
receives values ​in exchange, commitments deemed too important in view of his
situation at the time they were contracted;
• kept or caused to be kept or allowed to be kept irregularly or incompletely
of the legal person under the conditions provided for in this chapter;
• failed to submit to the clerk of the competent court, within thirty days, the
declaration of the state of cessation of payments of the legal person;
• cry for the purpose of withdrawing all or part of their patrimony from the prosecution of the person
morality in a state of cessation of payments or those of partners or creditors
of the legal person, hijacked or concealed, attempted to hijack or conceal
part of their property or who have fraudulently recognized themselves as debtors of
sums they did not owe.

119

Penal Code 2017

Page 120
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

In legal persons comprising partners indefinitely and jointly and severally
responsible for their debts, the legal or de facto representatives are guilty
simple bankruptcy if, without a legitimate excuse, they do not submit to the court registry
competent, within thirty days, the declaration of their state of cessation of
payments or if this declaration does not include the list of joint and several partners with
the indication of their names and addresses.
In addition, the judge can pronounce the prohibition to exercise the functions of manager of SARL,
director, chief executive officer, chief executive officer, director
general or deputy managing director for a period that may not exceed five
years.
Art.504 .- The offense of fraudulent bankruptcy and offenses assimilated to
Fraudulent bankruptcy are punished with imprisonment of five to ten years.
Art.505 .- Is guilty of fraudulent bankruptcy and punishable by the penalty provided for in
Article 504 above, any natural person referred to in this chapter who, in the event of
cessation of payments:
• subtracted its accounts;
• misappropriated or dissipated all or part of its assets;
• either in its writings, or by public documents or commitments under signature
private, or in its balance sheet, has fraudulently recognized itself as debtor of sums
that she did not owe;
• exercised the commercial profession contrary to a prohibition provided for by the
Uniform acts or by the law of each State Party;
• after the cessation of payments, has paid a creditor to the prejudice of the estate
stipulated with a creditor special advantages by reason of his vote in the
deliberations of the mass or who has made a special treaty with a creditor of which
for the latter, there would be a benefit payable by the debtor's assets from the
day of the opening decision.
Art.506 .- Is also guilty of fraudulent bankruptcy and punishable by penalties
provided for in Article 504 any natural person referred to in this chapter who, at
the occasion of a judicial settlement procedure:
• has, in bad faith, presented or caused to be presented an income statement or a balance sheet or
a statement of claims and debts or an active and passive statement of privileges and sureties,
inaccurate or incomplete;
• has, without the authorization of the President of the competent court, performed one of the acts
prohibited by this chapter.
In addition, the judge can pronounce the prohibition to exercise the functions of manager of SARL,
director, chief executive officer, chief executive officer, director
general or deputy managing director, as well as the ban on the exercise of
civil rights and the ban on public employment, for a period that cannot be
exceed five years.

120

Penal Code 2017

Page 121
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Art.507 .- Are punished by imprisonment of six months to five years and a fine of
3,000,000 to 30,000,000 FCFA, the spouse, descendants, ascendants or
collateral of the debtor or his allies who unwittingly have diverted, entertained, or concealed
effects dependent on the debtor's assets in a state of insolvency.
Art.508 .- Is punished by imprisonment from one to ten years and a fine of 5,000,000
to 50,000,000 FCFA, any person appealing to the public to the detriment of a lessor,
custodian, agent, pledge, use lender or master
work, any liquidator of collective proceedings who carries out a personal activity
under the guise of the debtor's business masking his actions:
• disposes of the debtor's credit or property as its own;
• dissipates the assets of the debtor;
• pursues abusively and in bad faith, in his personal interest, either
directly or indirectly, a loss-making operation of the
debtor;
• in violation of the provisions of this chapter, becomes the purchaser for his
account, directly or indirectly, of the debtor's property.
In addition, the judge may order a ban on exercising the functions of trustee for a
duration which cannot exceed five years.
Art.509 .- Is punished by imprisonment of six months to five years and a fine of
3,000,000 to 30,000,000 FCFA, the creditor who has:
• stipulated with the debtor or with any other person, special advantages due
of his vote in the deliberations of the masses;
• makes a special treaty from which there would result in its favor an advantage payable by
the debtor's assets from the day of the decision to initiate proceedings
collective.

Chapter 5 - Infringements of the provisions of the Uniform Act establishing
organization of simplified recovery procedures and enforcement procedures

Art.510 .- Is punished in the event of failure to fulfill its obligations by imprisonment for six
months to five years and a fine of 3,000,000 to 30,000,000 FCFA, the debtor seized or the
third party holder deemed to be custodian in whose hands the seizure was made, if the seizure
relates to tangible property.
Art.511 .- Is punished by imprisonment of six months to five years and a fine of
3,000,000 to 30,000,000 FCFA, the misappropriation of objects seized in the context of a
foreclosure procedure.
After reminding the debtor that he is required to indicate to him the assets that would have made
the subject of a previous seizure and to communicate the minutes, the bailiff or
the enforcement agent draws up a report of seizure which contains, on pain of nullity:

121

Penal Code 2017

Page 122
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

• mention of the authorization of the competent court or of the title under which
the seizure is made, These documents are annexed to the deed in original or in copy
Certified True Copy ;
• the mention, in very visible characters, that the seized goods are unavailable,
that they are placed in the custody of the debtor or of a third party appointed by the parties or,
failing this by the court ruling in urgent matters, that they cannot be
alienated or moved, except in the case provided for in this chapter, on pain of
penal sanctions, and that the debtor is required to make this seizure known to
any creditor who would carry out a new seizure of the same assets;
• reproduction of the penal provisions penalizing the misappropriation of objects
seized.
Art.512 .- Is punished by imprisonment of six months to five years and a fine of
3,000,000 to 30,000,000 FCFA, the misappropriation of objects seized in the context of a
foreclosure procedure.
The bailiff or the enforcement agent draws up an inventory of the goods. The deed of seizure contains,
hardly uselessness :
• the surnames, first names and addresses of the garnishee and the seizor or, if they are
legal entities, their form, name and registered office, the possible choice of domicile
of the seizing;
• the mention, in very visible characters, that the seized goods are unavailable,
that they are placed in the custody of the debtor, that they cannot be alienated or
displaced, except in the case provided for in this chapter, under penalty of sanctions
criminal proceedings, and that the debtor is required to make this seizure known to all
creditor who would carry out a new seizure of the same assets;
• reproduction of the penal provisions penalizing the misappropriation of objects
seized.
Art.513 .- Is punished by imprisonment of six months to five years and a fine of
3,000,000 to 30,000,000 FCFA, the misappropriation of objects seized in the context of a seizure
in the hands of a third party.
If the third party declares to hold property on behalf of the debtor, a
inventory which contains, on pain of nullity:
• the reference of the title under which the seizure is made;
• the mention, in very visible characters, that the seized objects are unavailable,
that they are placed in the custody of a third party, that they cannot be alienated or moved,
except in the case provided for in this chapter under penalty of criminal penalties and
that the third party is required to make this seizure known to any creditor who
seize the same property;
• reproduction of the penal provisions penalizing the misappropriation of objects
seized.
Art.514 .- Is punished by imprisonment of three months to three years and a fine of
3,000,000 to 30,000,000 FCFA, the auctioneer or any other legal assistant,

122

Penal Code 2017

Page 123
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

responsible for the sale and personally responsible for the price of the auctions, who would have
received a sum above the auction.
Art.515 .- Is punished by imprisonment of six months to five years and a fine of
3,000,000 to 30,000,000 FCFA, the misappropriation of objects seized in the context of a seizure
conservatory.
After having reminded the holder of the property that he is required to inform him whether this property has
the subject of a previous seizure and, where applicable, to communicate the report to it,
the bailiff or the enforcement agent draws up a seizure document which contains, on pain of nullity:
• the names, first names and addresses of the creditors and debtors or, in the case of
legal persons, their form, name and registered office;
• the mention, in very visible characters, that the seized property is placed in the custody of the
holder who cannot alienate or move it except in the case provided for in article 511
above, under penalty of criminal penalties and that he is required to make known the seizure
claim to any creditor who would seize the same property;
• reproduction of the penal provisions relating to the misappropriation of seized objects.
The bailiff or the enforcement agent may photograph the seized property under the conditions
prescribed by this chapter.

Chapter 6 - Infringements of the provisions of the Uniform Act establishing
organization and harmonization of company accounts

Art.516 .- Are punished by imprisonment of one month to two years and a fine of
200,000 to 2,000,000 FCFA, individual entrepreneurs and social leaders who
will not have, for each financial year, drawn up the inventory and drawn up the financial statements
as well as, where applicable, the management report and the social balance sheet.
In addition, the judge can pronounce the prohibition to exercise the functions of manager of SARL,
director, chief executive officer, chief executive officer, director
general or deputy managing director, as well as the ban on the exercise of
civil rights and the ban on public employment, for a period that cannot be
exceed five years.
Art.517 .- Is punished by imprisonment of five to ten years and a fine of 500,000 to
5,000,000 FCFA, any accountant who has knowingly established and communicated
financial institutions that do not provide a true picture of the assets, financial situation and
of the result of the exercise.
In addition, the judge can pronounce the prohibition to exercise the functions of manager of SARL,
director, chief executive officer, chief executive officer, director
general or deputy managing director, as well as the ban on the exercise of
civil rights and the ban on public employment, for a period that cannot be
exceed five years.

123

Penal Code 2017

Page 124
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

Book 8 - Police tickets
Art.518 .- Shall be punished with a fine of 2,000 to 20,000 FCFA and may be in addition,
imprisonment up to fifteen days at most:
Harms and willful damages:
1. The perpetrators or accomplices in brawls, assault or light violence, provided that the
beatings caused no incapacity for work;
2. Those who, without having been provoked, will have uttered insults against someone else
than those provided for by the press law;
3. Those who have unnecessarily committed an act of cruelty to an animal,
domestic or not;
4. Those who, except in the cases provided for in articles 396, 397, 398 and 471 of this Code, will have
willfully caused damage to movable property and domestic animals
of others;
5. Those who willfully diverted or improperly used water intended for
irrigation by law or by regulatory provisions emanating from the administration
or distribution organizations or by custom;
6. Those who, except in the cases provided for in article 396 of this Code, have killed, mutilated or
flaying trees that they do not own;
7. Those who have thrown stones or other hard bodies or filth at the
houses, buildings or fences of others or in gardens or enclosures;
8. Those who, without being authorized, have made registrations or put up posters
on movable or immovable property belonging to others;
9. Those who, without being duly authorized, have removed from public roads, lawns,
land, stones or which, in places belonging to the municipalities, have removed the land
or materials, unless there is a general usage that allows it.
Unintentional damage:
10. Those who, through clumsiness, recklessness, inattention, negligence or failure to observe
regulations, will have unintentionally been the cause of the injuries, beatings, illnesses or
damage not resulting in incapacity for work for more than six days.
11. Those who, through clumsiness, recklessness, inattention, negligence or failure to observe
regulations, will have caused the fire of movable or immovable property
belonging to others.
Disorders of public order or peace:

124

Penal Code 2017

Page 125
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

12. The perpetrators or accomplices of insulting noises, uproar or crowds or
nocturnal disturbing the tranquility of the inhabitants;
13. People who make a profession of guessing, forecasting, explaining dreams; those
who adorn themselves with the quality of sorcerers to influence populations;
14. Those who, without authorization, have established or held in public places games of
lottery or other games of chance;
15. Those who have exhibited or exhibited in public places posters or images
contrary to decency;
16. Those who have refused to receive national cash and currencies that are not counterfeit or
altered, for the value for which they are valid;
17. Those who will have drafted, prepared or encouraged to write or prepare
petitions, letters or documents on behalf of a community without being mandated by it
to do so, and those who make use of these letters, petitions or documents, knowing
their abusive nature;
18. Those who, except in the cases provided for by other provisions of the law, will have
publicly donned a costume bearing a resemblance likely to cause a
misunderstanding in the mind of the public with the uniforms defined by the regulatory texts;
19. Those who have refused to obey a regulatory order given by an agent
administrative or law enforcement agencies in the exercise of their functions;
20. Those who have refused, without legitimate reason, to give information to a
authority duly empowered to obtain them or who will have knowingly communicated
false information.
Town planning or road tickets:
21 Those who have thrown or exposed in front of their buildings things likely to be harmful by
their fall or by unhealthy exhalations;
22. Those who have neglected to clean the streets or passages in the localities where this care
is left to the residents;
23. Those who will have obstructed the public highway by depositing or leaving it without
necessity of any materials or things that prevent or decrease the
freedom or security of passage;
24. Those who, in contravention of laws and regulations, have neglected to report
materials stored by them or excavations made by them on public roads;
25. Those who have neglected or refused to carry out the regulations or orders concerning the
small road, or to obey the summons emanating from the administrative authority, to repair
or demolish buildings threatening ruin;

125

Penal Code 2017

Page 126
www.droit-afrique.com

26. Cart drivers who have contravened the regulations by which they
are forced to stay within reach of their work animals and cars at all times,
and able to guide and lead them.
Monitoring faults:
27. Those who have let wander, in an inhabited place, animals likely to
interfere with traffic safety;

Chad

28. Those who have let mad people wander under their care or animals
evil or ferocious;
29. Those who will have excited or will not have restrained their dogs, when they attack or
passers-by continue, even though it would not have resulted in any harm or damage.
Assistance faults:
30. Those who, in their capacity, have refused or neglected to do the work or to lend the
service or assistance for which they have been required, in the circumstances of the accident,
public calamities as well as in cases of robbery in flagrante delicto or clamor
public.
Non-compliance with certain obligations:
31. Those who have neglected to destroy insects or harmful animals when this care
is prescribed by law or regulations;
32. Hoteliers, landlords or renters of furnished houses, who have neglected to register
following on a register kept regularly, the names, positions, usual address, dates
entry and exit of any person who has slept or spent a night in their
houses ; those of them who have failed to present this register at the times
determined by the by-law, or, when required, to the mayors, deputies,
officers or commissioners of police, or to citizens appointed for this purpose.
Art.519 .- Decrees relating to penal provisions may provide that
contraventions of the provisions they enact will be punished with the penalties
the previous article.
In the event of silence of the decree and in the event of contraventions of all other regulations
legally made by the administrative authority, the penalties set out in the previous article
will be applied.

Book 9 - Miscellaneous and final provisions
Art.520 .- All references to the penalty of forced labor for life, either in the
texts cited in this law, or in other texts in force, are deemed to constitute
reference to the prison sentence of twenty to thirty years.

126

Penal Code 2017

Page 127
www.droit-afrique.com

Chad

All references to the penalty of forced labor in time, either in the texts cited in
this law, or in other texts in force, are deemed to refer to the
imprisonment.
Any new provision of the penalties provided for the repression of offenses
relating to the Uniform Acts of OHADA applies in this Code.
Article 521 .- This law will be in force on the first day of the third month following the
date of its promulgation.
Article 522 .- All previous provisions contrary to those of the
this law with the exception of law n ° 034 / PR / 2015 of 5 August 2015 on repression
acts of terrorism in Chad.
Art.523 .- This law will be registered and published in the Official Journal of the Republic
and enforced as state law.

Penal Code 2017

127

