Page 1

Decision of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress on Maintaining Internet Security
China National People's Congress website www.npc.gov.cn browse font size : small , medium and large print this page close window
(Adopted at the Nineteenth Meeting of the Standing Committee of the Ninth National People's Congress on December 28, 2000)

my country’s Internet, under the vigorous advocacy and active promotion of the country, has been increasingly widely used in economic construction and various undertakings, making people’s production and work
Work, study, and lifestyle have begun and will continue to undergo profound changes, which are essential for accelerating the development of my country’s national economy, science and technology, and the advancement of social service informatization.
The process plays an important role. At the same time, how to ensure the operational safety and information security of the Internet has aroused widespread concern in the whole society. In order to benefit and eliminate disadvantages, promote me
For the healthy development of the Internet, safeguard national security and social public interests, and protect the legitimate rights and interests of individuals, legal persons and other organizations, the following decisions are hereby made:
1. In order to ensure the safety of the operation of the Internet, any one of the following acts that constitutes a crime shall be investigated for criminal responsibility in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Criminal Law:
(1) Intrusion into computer information systems in the fields of national affairs, national defense construction, and cutting-edge science and technology;
(2) Deliberately making and spreading computer viruses and other destructive programs, attacking computer systems and communication networks, causing damage to the computer systems and communication networks;
(3) In violation of national regulations, the computer network or communication service is interrupted without authorization, causing the computer network or communication system to fail to operate normally.
2. In order to maintain national security and social stability, anyone who commits one of the following acts that constitutes a crime shall be investigated for criminal responsibility in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Criminal Law:
(1) Using the Internet to spread rumors, slander, or publish or spread other harmful information, inciting subversion of state power, overthrowing the socialist system, or inciting division
State, undermine national unity;
(2) Stealing or divulging state secrets, intelligence or military secrets through the Internet;
(3) Using the Internet to incite ethnic hatred, ethnic discrimination, and undermine ethnic unity;
(4) Use the Internet to organize cult organizations and contact members of cult organizations to undermine the implementation of national laws and administrative regulations.
3. In order to maintain the order of the socialist market economy and social management, any one of the following acts that constitutes a crime shall be prosecuted in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Criminal Law
responsibility:
(1) Using the Internet to sell fake and inferior products or make false publicity about goods and services;
(2) Using the Internet to damage others' business reputation and commodity reputation;
(3) Using the Internet to infringe the intellectual property rights of others;
(4) Using the Internet to fabricate and disseminate false information that affects securities, futures trading or other disruptive financial order;
(5) Establishing obscene websites and web pages on the Internet, providing obscene site link services, or disseminating obscene
Like, picture.
books, films, and audio
4. In order to protect the legal rights of individuals, legal persons and other organizations, such as the person, property, etc., ,one
In accordance
of the following
with the
actsrelevant
constitutes
provisions
a crimeof the Criminal Law
Be held criminally responsible:
(1) Using the Internet to insult others or fabricate facts to slander others;
(2) Illegal interception, alteration, or deletion of emails or other data of others, infringing on citizens' freedom of communication and confidentiality of communication;
(3) Using the Internet to carry out theft, fraud, and extortion.

Page 2

5. If the Internet is used to carry out acts other than those listed in Article 1, Article 2, Article 3, and Article 4 of this decision, which constitute a crime, the relevant provisions of the Criminal Law shall apply.
Provide for criminal responsibility.
6. If the Internet is used to commit illegal acts, violate social security management, and does not constitute a crime, the public
Punishment
security organ
undershall
the Regulations
be subject toonthe
Punishment
"Public Security Management
; Violation of other laws and administrative regulations, and does not constitute a crime, shall be given administrative punishment by the relevant administrative
Other direct department in accordance with the law; the directly responsible person in charge and
Responsible personnel shall be given administrative or disciplinary sanctions in accordance with the law.
Anyone who uses the Internet to infringe on the lawful rights and interests of others and constitutes a civil tort shall bear civil liability according to law.
7. People’s governments at all levels and relevant departments should take active measures to pay attention to and support the Internet in the process of promoting the application of the Internet and the popularization of network technology.
The research and development of security technologies enhance the security protection capabilities of the network. Relevant competent authorities shall strengthen the publicity and education of Internet operation safety and information security, and comply with
The law implements effective supervision and management, prevents and stops various illegal activities using the Internet, and creates a good social environment for the healthy development of the Internet. Engage in mutual
Network business units must carry out activities in accordance with the law, and when they discover illegal and criminal acts and harmful information on the Internet, they must take measures to stop the transmission of harmful information, and
Report to the relevant authorities at the time. When using the Internet, all units and individuals must abide by laws and regulations, and resist all kindsHospital,
of illegalpeople
and criminal activities and harmful information. People's Law
All members
The people's procuratorate, public security organs, and national security organs should perform their duties, cooperate closely, and crack down on various
criminal activities carried out using the Internet in accordance with the law. To move
The power of the society depends on the joint efforts of the whole society to ensure the operational safety and information security of the Internet, and promote the construction of socialist spiritual civilization and material civilization.

NPC Standing Committee

