Page 1

LAW OF THE NATIONAL PUBLIC DATA RECORD SYSTEM
(Law s / n)
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY
THE FULL
Considering:
That, Article 1 of the current Constitution states that the Republic of Ecuador is
a Constitutional State of Rights and Justice, which accounts for the enormous
importance given to the rights of individuals, peoples and the
nature;
That, article 11, numeral 9 of the Constitution, determines that the highest duty
of the State consists of respecting and ensuring respect for the rights guaranteed therein,
which implies the state obligation to formally and materially adapt the laws and
norms of a lower hierarchy than the Constitution and international instruments, and
implement the norms that are necessary to guarantee the dignity of being
human;
That, article 18 in its second paragraph establishes that it is the right of all
people access to information generated in public or private institutions
that handle public funds or carry out public functions. In addition to the right to
universal access to information and communication technologies;
That, article 66 numerals 19 and 28 guarantee the rights to identity
personal and collective and to the protection of personal data, which includes
access and decision on information and data of this nature, as well as its
corresponding protection;
That, the same constitutional provision in numeral 26 guarantees the right to
property in all its forms, whose formation, transfer and consolidation
legal,
requires
from
a
record
That, the same constitutional norm, in its twenty-fifth number, establishes the
people's right to access quality public services for which the
requires a proper institutional structuring, which guarantees the rights of the
people and contribute to providing quality services, with efficiency, effectiveness and good
treatment;

reliable;

That, article 85, numeral one, of the Constitution establishes that the policies
public services and the provision of public goods and services will be aimed at making effective
The good life;
That, Article 92 of the Magna Carta, provides that everyone shall have the right to
know of the existence and access to documents, genetic data, banks or
files of personal data and reports about herself or about her assets,
are recorded in public or private entities, in material or electronic support;

Page 2

That, the First Transitory Provision, numeral eight, of the same body
normative, establishes that within a period of three hundred and sixty days, the law will be approved
that organizes the data records, in particular the records: civil, of the
property and commercial and that in all cases control systems will be established
crossover and national databases;
That, the Constitution of Ecuador, in its article 265 establishes that the system
public property registry will be administered concurrently between
the Executive Branch and the municipalities;
That, in the National Decentralization Plan promulgated by Decree
Executive No. 1616, it is established in its point 4, second section, that the Government
National will maintain the establishment of national policies and standards for improvement
of cadastres, as part of the national cadastre system and the provision of
technical assistance to municipalities, seeking to implement the unification of the
Property Registry with the cadastres of the municipalities; Y,
In exercise of the powers conferred by the sixth numeral of article 120 of
the Constitution of the Republic, resolves to issue the following:
LAW OF THE NATIONAL PUBLIC DATA RECORD SYSTEM
Chapter I
PURPOSE, PURPOSE AND SCOPE OF APPLICATION
Art. 1.- Purpose and Object.- This law creates and regulates the registration system of
public data and its access, in public or private entities that administer
said
bases
or
records.
The purpose of the law is: to guarantee legal security, organize, regulate,
systematize and interconnect information, as well as: the effectiveness and efficiency of its
management, its publicity, transparency, access and implementation of new
technologies.
Art. 2.- Scope of application.- This Law applies to the institutions of the sector.
public and private that currently or in the future manage databases or records of
public data, about natural or legal persons, their assets or assets and
for users or users of public records.
Chapter II GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF DATA RECORDING
PUBLIC
Art. 3.- Mandatory nature.- In the law relating to each of the records or in the
legal provisions of each matter, it will be determined: the facts, acts, contracts
or instruments that must be registered and / or registered; as well as the obligation to
the registers or registrars to the certification and publicity of the data, with the
limitations
pointed out
on
the
Constitution
Y
The public registry data must be: complete, accessible, in free formats,
without a license around them, non-discriminatory, truthful, verifiable and

the

law.

Page 3

relevant, in relation to the scope and purposes of your registration.
The information that the State provides can be specific or general, and can be about
part or all of the record and will be provided in writing or by
electronic media.
Art. 4.- Responsibility for the information.- Public sector institutions and
private and natural persons who currently or in the future administer bases
or public data records, are responsible for the integrity, protection and
control of records and databases under his charge. Said institutions
They will respond for the veracity, authenticity, custody and due conservation of the
records. Responsibility for the veracity and authenticity of the data
registered, it is exclusive to the declarant when he or she provides all the
information.
People affected by false or inaccurate, disseminated or certified information
by registers or registrars, will be entitled to compensation
corresponding, prior to the exercise of the respective legal action.
The National Directorate of Public Data Registry will establish the cases in which
that security must be paid.
Art. 5.- Advertising.- The State, in accordance with the Law, will put in
knowledge of citizens, the existence of records or databases of
data of people and goods and where applicable, the celebration of acts on the
themselves, in order that the interested parties and third parties
are aware of said existence and challenge them in case of affecting their rights.
Art. 6.- Accessibility and confidentiality.- Character data are confidential.
personal, such as: ideology, political or union affiliation, ethnicity, health status,
sexual orientation, religion, immigration status and others pertaining to
personal privacy and especially that information whose public use threatens
the human rights enshrined in the Constitution and instruments
international
Access to these data will only be possible with the express authorization of the owner of the
information, by mandate of law or by court order.
The data whose reservation has been declared by the
competent authority, those that are protected under bank or stock market secrecy, and
those that could affect the internal or external security of the State.
The authority or official who, due to the nature of their functions, guards data
of a personal nature, you must adopt the necessary security measures to
protect and guarantee the confidentiality of the information that rests in its files.
To access information on people's assets, the applicant
You must justify and justify your request, declare the use you will make of it
and enter your basic identity data, such as: names and surnames

Page 4

complete information, identity or citizenship document number, home address
and the other data determined by the respective regulation. One use
other than that declared will lead to the determination of responsibilities, without
detriment to the legal actions that the owner of the information may exercise.
The Director or National Director of Public Data Registry, will define the other
data that will make up the national system and the type of reservation and accessibility.
Art. 7.- Presumption of Legality.- The registration certification gives public faith, vested
of the presumption of legality. The sequential order of the records will be kept without
any modification, except by court order.
Art. 8.- Rectifiability.- The registration data of the system are subject to
updating, rectification or deletion in the cases and with the requirements that the law
point out.
Chapter III
GENERAL RULES APPLICABLE TO PUBLIC RECORDS
Art. 9.- On the certifications.- The registration certification constitutes a document
public and will be issued at the request of the interested party, by provision
administrative or court order.
Art. 10.- Precedence.- The last record of a public data prevails over the
above or on other unregistered data, with the exceptions that the law
arrange.
Art. 11.- Probative Value.- The information of the public registry data
legally certified, constitutes proof. All kinds of
seats with the exception of the limitations that the law expressly indicates.
Art. 12.- Technological Means.- The State, through the sectoral ministry with
competition in telecommunications and in the information society, will define
the policies and principles for the organization and coordination of the actions of
exchange of information and databases between agencies and instances
public data registry, whose execution and monitoring will be in charge of the
National Directorate of Public Data Registry. Registration activity is
will develop using regulated and standardized technological means, of
in accordance with the policies issued by the sectoral ministry of
telecommunications and the information society.
Art. 13.- Of the public data records.- The following are public data records: the
Civil, Property, Commercial, Corporate, Vehicle, Ship and
aircraft, patents, intellectual property and those currently or in the
future determined by the National Directorate of Public Data Registry, within the framework
of the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic and current laws.

Page 5

The Registries are public, decentralized agencies, with registration autonomy
and administrative under the terms of this law, and subject to control, audit and
surveillance of the National Directorate of Public Data Registry in relation to the
compliance with policies, resolutions and provisions for interconnection and
interoperability of databases and public information, as
determined in the Regulations issued by the National Directorate.
Art. 14.- Functioning of public registers.- Public registers and others
offices that handle information related to the object of this Law
will manage their databases in coordination with the National Directorate of
Public Data Registry. Its attributions, responsibilities and functions will be
determined by the law relevant to each registry and by the Regulation to the
present law.
Art. 15.- Administration of records.- The records will carry the information of
digitized mode, with physical support, in the form determined by this law and
in the relevant regulations for each registry, with regard to:
1.- Civil Registry: It will keep its registry under the personal information system;
2.- Property Registry: It will keep its registry under the information system
chronological, personal and real; Y,
3.- Commercial Registry: It will keep its registry under the information system
chronological, real and personal.
In the other registries, as appropriate, the provisions of the
previously described numerals.
Art. 16.- Personal Folio.- It is the system of annotation of facts and legal acts that
it is carried according to the person who causes them or on whom it falls. In this
system the person responsible for the registry will proceed to register: names, surnames and
data of the owner of the information and in the case of property registration, the
description of the property, the concatenated ownership of the domain or condominium,
and the causal title, encumbrances, interdictions and their cancellations,
certificates of certificate requests; and in the case of commercial and civil registration,
the birth or creation of the person, all modifications of the marital status or
corporate and its death or extinction.
Art. 17.- Folio Real.- It is the system of annotation of legal acts that are kept from
according to the object of the record. The information will consist of the
description of the property or furniture, the concatenated ownership of the domain or
condominium, names, surnames and data of the owner and the causal title, the
liens, interdictions and their cancellations, and the records of requests for
certificates.
Art. 18.- Chronological Folio.- It is the registry of the titles, acts and documents whose
registration is requested, which is carried out according to the order in which this request
it happens. This system includes at least one index book and a repertoire, in which the
all the data referring to the person, property or furniture, the

Page 6

concatenated ownership of domain or condominium, names, surnames and data of
the owner and the causal title, the encumbrances, interdictions and their cancellations,
and certificates of certificate requests; as well as in the case of people
legal modifications and any corporate act that is presented.
Art. 19.-Property Registry.- In accordance with the Constitution of the
Republic, the Property Registry will be administered jointly between the
municipalities and the Executive Branch through the National Directorate of
Public Data Registry. Therefore, the Municipality of each canton or District
Metropolitano will be in charge of the administrative structuring of the registry and its
coordination with the cadastre. The National Directorate will dictate the rules that
they will regulate its operation at the national level.
The Property Registries will assume the functions and powers of the Registry.
Mercantile, in the cantons in which the latter do not exist and until both the
National Directorate of Public Data Registry provides for its creation and
functioning.
The Registrars or Registrars of the property must be of nationality
Ecuadorian, lawyers or lawyers and certify professional practice for a period
minimum of 3 years and the other requirements that the law provides for the exercise of
public service and Registry Law. The contest of merits and opposition will be
organized and executed by the respective municipality with the intervention of a
citizen oversight. Once the process is completed, the Mayor will proceed
to the appointment of the applicant with the highest score, by a
fixed period of 4 years, who may be reelected or reelected only once.
The Registrars or Registrars may be removed or removed from their
charges for breach of the registry functions duly verified,
in accordance with the present law, its regulations and the other norms that
regulate public service.
They may also be dismissed in cases where they prevent or hinder the
conformation and operation of the National Data Registration System
Public, in accordance with the regulations of this law.
Art. 20.-Mercantile Registry.- The mercantile registries will be organized and
administered by the Executive Function through the National Directorate of
Public Data Registry.
The National Directorate of Public Data Registry, will dictate the technical standards
and will exercise the other attributions that this law determines for the conformation and
system integration.
To be a Registrar or Mercantile Registrar, the same requirements will be met
that to be a Registrar or Registrar of real property and will be
appointed by public competition for opposition and merits, by the Director or
National Director of Public Data Registry. The appointment will be made for

Page 7

a fixed period of 4 years and may be reelected or reelected only once.
Corresponds to the Director or National Director of Public Data Registry
authorize the creation, deletion or unification of registry offices, according to the
provincial and cantonal commercial reality.
Art. 21.- Change of information in registers or databases.- The owner of the
data may require modifications in records or databases when said
modifications do not violate a legal provision, a court or administrative order.
The rectification or deletion will not proceed when it could cause damage to
rights of third parties or third parties, in which case the corresponding
administrative resolution or judicial sentence.
Art. 22.- Cross Control.- The National Directorate of Public Data Registry is
will be in charge of organizing a cross interconnection system between the registries
public and private that currently or in the future manage databases
public, in accordance with the provisions of this Law and its Regulations.
Art. 23.- Computer System.- The computer system has the objective of
technification and modernization of the registers, using
information, databases and standardized computer languages, protocols
secure data exchange, allowing proper information management
to receive, capture, archive, encode, protect, exchange, reproduce, verify,
certify or process in a technological way the information of the registered data.
The computer system used for the operation and interconnection of the
registries and entities, is owned by the state and may be granted
use licenses limited to the corresponding public and private entities,
with the limitations provided in the Law and the Regulations.
Art. 24.- Interconnection.- For the proper application of the cross-control system
national, registries and databases must be interconnected
seeking the simplification of processes and due control of the information of the
competent institutions.
The cross-control system involves a set of technical and
computerized, integrated and interdependent, that interact and feed back.
Art. 25.- Physical and electronic information.- For the purposes of systematization and
interconnection of the data record and without prejudice to the obligation to maintain the
information on physical support as determined by the different registration regulations,
the different registries must transfer the information to digitized format.
The National Directorate of Public Data Registry will define the system
IT for the management and administration of records and databases, which
it will govern in all the country's registries.
Art. 26.- Security.- All computer databases must have their respective

Page 8

backup file, comply with technical standards and contingency plan that
prevent system crash, data theft, modification or any other
circumstance that may affect public information.
Art. 27.- Responsibility for the handling of licenses.- The Registrars or
Registrars and highest authorities, who are authorized to handle the
licenses for access to data records authorized by law, will be the o
those directly responsible administratively, civilly and criminally for the misuse of the
themselves.
Chapter IV
OF THE SYSTEM AND NATIONAL DIRECTORATE OF DATA REGISTRATION
PUBLIC
Art. 28.- Creation, purposes and objectives of the National System of Registration of
Public Data.- Create the National Public Data Registry System with the
purpose of protecting the rights constituted, those that are constituted, modified,
extinguish and publicize for the purposes of the registration of the facts, acts and / or
contracts determined by this Law and the laws and regulations of registries; Y
in order to coordinate the exchange of information from the data records
public. In the event that private entities possess information that, due to their
nature is public, they will be incorporated into this system.
Art. 29.- Conformation.- The National System of Public Data Registry will be
made up of the registries: civil, property, commercial, corporate, data of
electronic, vehicular, ship and aircraft connectivity, patents, proprietary
intellectual property and all data records of public and private institutions
that maintain and administer by legal provision registration information of
public character.
It will be chaired by the Director or National Director of Public Data Registry,
with the powers that are determined in the present Law and its respective
regulation.
Art. 30.- The National Directorate of Public Data Registry.- Create the Directorate
National Registry of Public Data, as a public law body, with
legal status, administrative, technical, operational, financial and
budget, attached to the Ministry of Telecommunications and Society of the
Information. Its highest authority and legal representative will be the Director or
National Director, designated or appointed by the Minister or Minister. Its headquarters will be the
city ​of Quito, will have national jurisdiction, and may establish offices
deconcentrated at the national level.
Art. 31.- Attributions and powers.- The National Directorate of Data Registration
Public will have the following attributions and powers:
1. Preside over the National Public Data Registry System, complying with and

Page 9

enforcing its purposes and objectives;
2. To dictate the resolutions and norms necessary for the organization and
system operation;
3. Prepare the budget for the National Data Registry Office
Public;
4. Promote, dictate and execute through the different registers, the policies
to which this Law refers, as well as general norms for the
monitoring and control of the same;
5. Consolidate, standardize and manage the single database of all
Public Registries, for which all members of the System are obliged to
provide digitized information from your files, updated and in a manner
simultaneous as it occurs;
6. Define the computer programs and other technical aspects that all the
public data registry agencies must implement for the system
interconnected and cross-check data, and keep it correct
functioning;
7. Monitor and control the correct administration of registration activity;
8. Punish in accordance with the law that regulates the server or server
public, the breach of the duties and obligations of the registers or
registrars;
9. Provide that the data generated in each registry office be entered into
the same database, in the language and platform determined by the
authority;
10. Coordinate with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the establishment, in the
respective Consulates, of an interconnected registry information system that
facilitate its use abroad by migrants;
11. Promote, organize and execute training programs for registers or
public registrars and other registry personnel;
12. Promote the conduct of studies and research on registration matters;
13. Celebrate national and international technical cooperation agreements to
improve the quality of the registry service; Y,
14. The others determined by this law and its regulations.
Art. 32.- Requirements to be Director or National Director of Registry.- To be
Director or Director is required:

Page 10

1. Be Ecuadorian or Ecuadorian;
2. Have a professional title of lawyer or lawyer;
3. Demonstrate experience in professional practice for a minimum period of 5
years;
4. Be free from inability to hold public office; Y,
5. The others that the law determines for the public service.
Chapter V
OF THE ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL REGIME
Art. 33.- Fees.- The National Directorate of Public Data Registry
annually establish the value of registration and certification services
through a table of fees according to the amounts of the acts to be held,
documents
from
record
Y
jurisdiction
In the case of real estate property registration, it will be the municipality of each
canton which, based on the respective technical financial study, will establish
annually the table of fees for registration and certification services that
pay.

territorial.

Art. 34.- Of the Financing of the National Directorate of Data Registration
Public.- The National Directorate of Public Data Registry will finance its
budget with the following income:
a) Resources from the General State Budget;
b) Legacies, donations, transfers and other resources from
public and private institutions, as well as international cooperation
accepted according to law;
c) The fees generated and collected by the Mercantile Registries; Y,
d) Own income generated by the publications you make.
Art. 35.- Destination of the fees charged by the Property Registries
Property, Commercial, and the other entities that make up the National System of
Public Data Registry.- The Real Estate and Commercial Property Registries
will be financed with the collection of fees for registration services, and the
The remainder will become part of the budgets of the respective
municipalities, and the National Directorate of Public Data Registry, in its
order. The fees charged by other public and private entities for the
administration of your public databases, will remain as part of your
respective budgets.
The National Directorate of Public Data Registry will constitute a fund of
compensation for the Registries that require it.
GENERAL DISPOSITION
First.- Supplementary rules of this Law are constituted by the provisions of the

Page 11

Registry Law, Civil Code, Commercial Code, Civil Procedure Code,
Civil Registry, Identification and Cedulation Law, Electronic Commerce Law,
Electronic Signatures and Data Messages, and applicable regulations, while not
oppose
to
the
Present
Second.- The names of the owners will be public information,
holders or holders, beneficiaries or beneficiaries and all or all those or
those who are holders of any right over shares, participations, parts
beneficiaries or any other corporate title generated by a commercial company,
commercial, civil or of any other kind. This information will be of character
public and may be requested by means of a motivated request of its requirement.
TRANSITORY DISPOSITIONS
First.- The personnel who currently work in the property registers and
mercantile, will continue to provide its services in the public agencies created
instead, so this change does not entail untimely dismissal. In the cases
of voluntary resignation or dismissal, the Property and Mercantile Registrars
will have the obligation to liquidate their workers, based on their
time of service and in accordance with the rules of the Labor Code.
The civil servants or officials that are required in the registry functions under
competence of the municipalities and the central government, respectively,
They will be subject to the law that regulates the public service.
Second.- The Registrars or Registrars of Property and Mercantile, will continue
fulfilling its registration functions, until in accordance with this
Law, are legally superseded or superseded.
The security provided by the registrars will not be returned until the
subscribed the respective certificate of delivery reception of the registry.
Third.- Within a period of three hundred and sixty-five days counted from
the implementation of this law, the municipalities and the Director or Director
National Registry of Public Data, they must execute the tender process
public of merits and opposition, appointment of new registrars
of property and mercantile. Within the same period, they will organize the
physical and technological infrastructure of the offices where the new
Property Registry and its respective transfer, for which purpose it will prepare a
transition schedule that must have the collaboration of the registrar
outgoing. In this same period, if agreed or required, the municipality will have
the valuation of assets and their respective liquidation.
Fourth.- The Property, Corporate, Civil and Commercial Registries that they maintain
digitized their records, they will have to move their databases to the new system,
for which the National Directorate will allocate the funds for the creation and unification
of the national computer system for the registration of public data.
Fifth.- Within a period of 3 years from the publication of this Law in the

Page 12

Official Registry, after technical, economic-financial and legal evaluation, the
National Directorate will establish the required computer programs the same
that must have perfect interconnection that allows to receive, capture, archive,
safeguard, send, exchange, reproduce, verify or process the information of the
Public Registries, leaving openness in the system for interconnection with the
other institutions indicated, in order to guarantee the cross-control of
information.
Sixth.- Within a maximum period of 3 years from the date of entry into
validity of this law, all property, corporate, commercial or
civil, to date keep your information and records physically,

law.

must be transformed into digital format with the characteristics and conditions
defined by the National Director, for which the relevant funds will be allocated
and the necessary computer programs will be provided. This omission will be
sanctioned with the dismissal of the corresponding official by the Director or
National Director of Public Data Registry.
Seventh.- Public sector institutions that have public information
such as: the Internal Revenue Service, the Ecuadorian Social Security Institute,
National Directorate of Migration, National Directorate of Transit, National Directorate
Civil Registry, Identification and Cedulation, National Police, Traffic Commission
del Guayas, Ministry of Labor Relations, Ecuadorian Institute of Property
Intellectual, Municipalities, Judicial Function, among others, must be integrated
gradually to the National Public Data Registry System within the
term of three years from the entry into force of this law.
In the event that any institution that is under the obligation to
be interconnected by virtue of this Law, the highest authority of
said institution may be dismissed by the National Director of the Registry of
Public Data.
Eighth.- The organizations, institutions and private entities that have information
determined as public by this Law and its regulations, they must transfer said
information to the National Directorate of Public Data Registry, so
progressive within three years from the effective date of this law.
Ninth.- The National Directorate of Public Data Registry, within the maximum term
of sixty days counted from its possession, will dictate the table of tariffs of
the records referred to in this law.
Tenth.- The Ministry of Labor Relations, within a period of one hundred and twenty days
will issue the Remuneration Table of the Property Registrars, Mercantile
and the holders of the other records that make up the system, as well as the
public officials working in registry offices.
Eleventh.- The terms indicated in the transitory provisions may be
extended up to a maximum of 90 days, only once, by the Director or Director
National Registry of Public Data and provided that it is reasonably justified.

Page 13

Twelfth.- The computer programs currently used by the
registers of real and commercial property, will continue to be used until the
National Directorate of Public Data Registry develop the new program
IT without this implying any cost to the municipalities and the
Executive function.
REFORMING AND REPEALING PROVISIONS
First.- Repeal all the general and special provisions that are opposed to
this law. The provisions of this law shall prevail over those that are
oppose.
Second.- Of the Codification of the Companies Law published in the Registry
Official No. 312 of November 5, 1999:
1. Repeal article 444.
2. Replace article 443 by the following:
"Art. 443.- The Superintendent of Companies may provide information on
to a specific company, at the request of any person. The information is
will specify the documents indicated in articles 20.b) and 23. b), or data
contents
on
they.
The reports of the administrators, the external audit and the reports of the
commissioners of those companies that are registered in the
securities or their shares are listed on the stock exchange, may be required by any
person
interested.
The Superintendency may request that the company update the information to which it
refer to Articles 20 and 23 or carry out examinations in the company books
necessary to achieve such update or check the accuracy of the data that you
would have
been
supplied. ".
Third.- To the Codification of the General Law of Institutions of the System
Financial, published in Official Gazette No. 250 of January 23, 2001,
reform:
In Art. 45, fifth paragraph, delete the phrase: "the same that will be maintained with
reserved character ".
In Art. 65 delete the phrase: "the one that will have the character of reserved".
Fourth.- To the Registry Law, published in the Official Registry No. 150 of 28
October 1966:
1. Repeal the articles: 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and Title XI.
2. Replace letter b) of article 11 with the following: "Keep an inventory of
Records, books and other documents belonging to the office, and must
send a copy of said inventory to the National Data Registry Office
Public, within the first fifteen days of January of each year. ".
3. In article 14, replace the phrase. "in Art. 4 of this Law" by the following:
"in the Law that regulates the public service".

Page 14

4. In article 15, replace the phrase: "fifty to five hundred sucres" by the
next: "a basic salary of the worker in general".
5. In article 16, replace the phrase "The Superior Courts in their respective
districts "by the following:" The municipal authority in their respective cantons, or the
National Directorate of Public Data Registry, where appropriate, ".
6. In article 18, delete the sentences: "All its pages will be initialed by the
Judge of the Canton or by the first of them in those in which there are more than one "and
"Corresponding judge and the".
7. In article 29, replace "730" with "706" and in the second paragraph, replace
"733" for "709".
8. In article 42, replace "734" with "710".
9. In article 44, replace "2449" with "2334".
10. In article 54, replace the phrase: "a fine of ten to one hundred sucres" for "the
sanctions determined by the Organic Code of the Judicial Function ".
11. In article 56A replace the phrase: "Superior District Court" with
"municipal authority of the corresponding canton or district".
Fifth.- Repeal Supreme Decree No. 748, published in Official Gazette No.
179 of September 24, 1976.
FINAL DISPOSITION
This law will enter into force as of its publication in the Official Registry.
Done and signed at the headquarters of the National Assembly, located in the District
Metropolitan of Quito, province of Pichincha, on the eighteenth day of the month of
March two thousand and ten.

SOURCES OF THE PRESENT EDITION OF THE LAW OF THE NATIONAL SYSTEM OF
PUBLIC DATA REGISTRY

1.- Law s / n (Supplement to Official Registry 162, March 31, 2010).

