Page 1

New Directory Login Free Directory for 2 weeks

Coronavirus info

Legal library

Existing legislation New legislation Amended legislation Local government decree Laws of a thousand years

Legislation in force Search /

/ 2005 CXXXIII. law

The current state of the legislation (28.06.2021).
THE symbols indicate past and future changes in paragraphs.
I'll open it in the Rights Library
✖

Obtaining credit

2005 CXXXIII. law
Free
* Rights Library
rules on the protection of persons and property and on the conduct of private investigations
The purpose of this law is to - improve public order, public safety, and as part of these the protection of persons and property, crime prevention

✖

✖

In order to increase the effectiveness of the company - strengthen the protection of personal and property within the company, as well as private investigators

Free Directory

legitimacy of the service and provide an additional guarantee to the public of the recipients of these services and the
the inviolability of the personal rights and property interests of those involved in the provision of services
to validate. In order to achieve this goal, the Parliament enacts the following law:

Chapter I.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
*

§1

*
(1) The
scope of this Act is as a sole proprietor or as a sole proprietorship or business company (hereinafter together:

company) and in person
a) personal and property protection activities,
b) the activity of designing and installing a security system (hereinafter: design and installation activity),
(c) private investigation activities; and
(d) VI / C only. With regard to the provisions of this chapter, the activities of organizing mass events specified therein
spread out.
(2) For the purposes of this Act, the following shall be deemed to be personal and property protection activities:
(a) the protection of the life and physical integrity of natural persons,
b) custody of real estate or movable property,
c) accompanying the consignment, transporting money and value,
(d) securing the event; and
(e) the organization and management of the activities referred to in points ( a) to (d) .
3. Personal and property protection activities may be performed in person by a person who has one of the following professional qualifications:
a) security guard,
b) bodyguard,
(c) you are a trustee
d) security organizer.
(4) For the purposes of this Act, electronic or mechanical property protection systems are considered to be design and installation activities
design, installation, assembly, operation, supervision, maintenance, repair, including unmounted, for monitoring purposes
electronic surveillance system operated or authorized by law to record sound or images
hereinafter referred to as the ‘surveillance system’), as well as the installation, maintenance and operation of the access control system and the burglar alarm system.
activities related to the operation of the response service related to the space surveillance system and the remote monitoring system.
(5) Design and installation activities may be performed in person by a person who is involved in safety technology, telecommunications technology, telecommunications, mechanics or
holds a university or college degree in electrical engineering. Security, electronics and
the activity of installing a mechanical security system may be carried out in person by one of the following professional qualifications
has:
a) safety fitter, operator,
b) security manager,
c) electronic security system installer,
(d) mechanical security system installer.
(6) Activities falling within the scope of this Act may be continued at the same time.
§ 2 A *22-33. § shall apply to the protection of persons and property or to the design and installation activities under labor law or other
for the activities of a person engaged in employment in a non - business relationship, excluding the Hungarian Armed Forces and the
persons belonging to law enforcement agencies and those holding the position of treasurer of the National Tax and Customs Board
the provisions of a separate law carried out by its employees in connection with this legal relationship or in the framework of other official proceedings
and the Law on Armed Security, Nature Conservation and Field Guard
carried out in accordance with the provisions of
*
§ 3. (1)
Police and civil national security services concerning the protection of persons and property or planning and installation activities

non-professional staff involved in the performance of those official duties and non-professional staff
coworker
(a) may not be a member, senior official of an undertaking carrying on an activity covered by this Act, or
a company which is a member of an undertaking carrying on an activity covered by this Act,
(b) may not carry on an activity covered by this Act within the framework of an undertaking.
(2) A professional member of the police and civil national security services, with the permission of the competent commander,
only in the context of business § 1 (1) b) of, and paragraph in § 1 (2), b) and c) activities referred to in point
you can do.
*

§4

*
Commencement and continuation of personal and property protection, design and installation and private investigation activities
*

§5

(1) The protection of persons and property within the framework of an enterprise shall, unless an exception is provided by this Act, be carried out by the police.

may be carried out in possession of an operating license issued at the request of an undertaking if:
(a) a member, employee or individual of the applicant who is personally involved in the protection of persons and property;
in the case of an undertaking or sole proprietorship, if the activity is not carried out by itself, by at least one employee or by the undertaking
a natural person acting for the benefit of an undertaking under a civil law contract concluded, including a professional activity
organizer or manager - has an official authority issued by the police authorizing him to carry out the activity in person
with a passport (hereinafter: passport),
*
(b) the
applicant, unless otherwise provided by this Act, has a breach of contract relating to the activity which he intends to carry out;

and specified in a separate law for the compensation of damages caused outside the contract and the payment of damages
with a binding liability insurance contract (hereinafter: liability insurance contract).
2. A liability insurance contract shall be equivalent to a contract concluded in another EEA State as defined in paragraph 1 ( b) .
liability insurance contract that meets the conditions.
*
3. The
particulars provided for in paragraph 1 ( b) shall be verified by the applicant.
*
(4) An
operating license may not be granted for the performance of personal and property protection activities

(a) a sole proprietor who, or a sole proprietorship or company whose senior official has been penalized
is subject to a provision which precedes or is prohibited by this Act and which precludes the exercise of the activity,
(b) a sole proprietor with whom, or a sole proprietorship or company of which a natural person is a member,
former member or owner of an undertaking against which the police have imposed a supervision fine within two years
and it was not paid, and
c)

*

a company with legal personality which has a final decision against the legal person

from the exercise of the activity of protection of persons and property in accordance with the provisions of the Act on Applicable Criminal Law Measures
banned.
*
5 / A. § (1)
Within the framework of an enterprise, the activity of a designer-installer or private investigator may be performed by an enterprise which complies with the

conditions laid down by law and
(a) in the case of a member, employee or sole proprietorship or sole proprietorship who is personally involved in the performance of the activity, if
the activity is not carried out by himself, by at least one of his employees or on the basis of a civil law contract concluded with the enterprise a
a person acting for the benefit of an undertaking, including a person who professionally organizes or directs the activity
with ID card,
(b) unless otherwise provided by this Act, has a liability insurance contract for the activity which it intends to carry out.
2. A liability insurance contract shall be equivalent to a contract concluded in another EEA State as defined in paragraph 1 ( b) .
liability insurance contract that meets the conditions.
3. The undertaking shall indicate its intention to carry out the activity of designer or installer - private service
in accordance with the Act on the General Rules for Starting and Continuing
*
4. The
particulars specified in paragraph 1 ( b) shall be verified by the notifier.

(5) A* designer, installer or private investigator may not engage in the activity of
(a) a sole proprietor who is either a sole proprietorship or a company whose senior management has a criminal record, or
is subject to a statutory provision prohibiting the pursuit of the activity,
(b) a sole proprietor with whom or the sole proprietorship or business of which a natural person is a member
former member or owner of an undertaking against which the police have imposed a supervision fine within two years and
paid as well
(c) *a company with legal personality which is the subject of a final judgment against a legal person
from engaging in the activity of designer or private investigator in accordance with the Act on Criminal Measures
banned.
*
§ 6. (1)* Activities
falling within the scope of this Act (including the organization and management of private investigative activities)

for his personal order, unless this law makes an exception, a card issued by the police is required.
*
1a. The
activities of certain law enforcement officers and certain laws to combat school drop-outs

the guardian of the person and property under the Act on the Amendment of the Insurer may start his / her activity in the event that the individual
the activities of persons performing law enforcement duties and certain laws providing for action against school drop-outs
meets the conditions of employment laid down in the Act amending Paragraphs 3 and 4 shall apply to such persons
not applicable.
*
(2) Upon
request, a Hungarian citizen or a person with the right of free movement and residence who:

adult legal capacity as defined by equivalent legislation or equivalent, as well as
have at least a high school diploma to pursue the activity. The issue of the card shall be refused if the applicant:
subject to a provision prohibiting the pursuit of that activity.
*

(3) The following activities may not be performed by:
a) who has a criminal record,
*
b) akit

*
(ba) was
in force until 30 June 2013, pursuant to Section IV of the Penal Code of 1978. (hereinafter: Act IV of 1978)

a crime against the state (Chapter X of Act IV of 1978), a crime against humanity (Chapter XI of Act IV of 1978),
crime against a person [1978. évi IV. Act 166-168. §, § 170 (2) - (6), § 171, § 174, 174 / A. §, 174 / B. §, 174 / C. §, 175. §, 175 / A.
§, 175 / B. §, 176 (2) ( b) and (3) - (4)], a violent crime against sexual morality [1978. évi IV. 197 and 198 of the Act.
§, 207 (3) ( b) ], official offense (Chapter IV, Title IV of Act IV of 1978), offenses against an official
(Act IV of Chapter XV of Act IV of 1978), human trafficking (Section 218 of Act IV of 1978), public danger [Act 1978 évi IV. Section 259 (1) - (3) of the Act
disruption of the operation of a public interest establishment (Section 260 of Act IV of 1978), an act of terrorism (Section 261 of Act IV of 1978),
violation of an international economic ban (Section 261 / A of Act IV of 1978), aircraft, rail, water, road, public transport or mass
placing on the market of a vehicle suitable for the transport of goods (Section 262 of Act IV of 1978), misuse of explosives or explosives (Act 1978
ARC. Section 263 of Act IV of 1978), misuse of firearms or ammunition (Section 263 / A of Act IV of 1978), misuse of military equipment and
service or dual-use item (Section 263 / B of Act IV of 1978), participation in a criminal organization (Act IV of 1978
263 / C. §), misuse of radioactive material (§ 264 of Act IV of 1978), misuse of the operation of a nuclear facility (§ IV of 1978).
Act 264 / A. §), misuse of nuclear energy (§ 264 / B of Act IV of 1978), misuse prohibited by an international treaty
weapons (Section 264 / C of Act IV of 1978), organization of prohibited animal fighting (Section 266 / A of Act IV of 1978), animal torture (Section IV of Act IV of 1978)
266 / B. §), harassment (Section 271 of Act IV of 1978), self-determination (Section 273 of Act IV of 1978), drug abuse (Act IV of 1978
282-282 / C. §), abuse of a drug precursor (Section 283 / A of Act IV of 1978), abuse of a new psychoactive substance (Act IV of 1978
283 / B. §), money laundering (Section 303 of Act IV of 1978), intentional crime against property (Sections 316-324, Section 326, Section 327 of Act IV of 1978)
or armed cases of escape and violence against a superior or a service medium [1978. évi IV. § 343 para (2) a) point
and paragraphs 4 to 5 and Annex IV of 1978. pursuant to Section 355 (2) ( a) of the Act ],
bb) a *crime against humanity pursuant to Act C of 2012 on the Criminal Code (hereinafter: the Criminal Code) (Article XIII of the Criminal Code);
Chapter), war crime (Chapter XIV of the Criminal Code), homicide (Section 160 of the Criminal Code), homicide committed in strong agitation (Section 161 of the Criminal Code),
participation in suicide (Section 162 of the Criminal Code), bodily harm [Criminal Code. Section 164 (3) - (8)], endangerment committed in the course of an occupation (Btk.
165), drug trafficking (Sections 176-177 of the Criminal Code), possession of drugs (Sections 178-179 of the Criminal Code), pathological addiction (Section 181 of the Criminal Code), drugs
(Section 182 of the Criminal Code), drug precursor abuse (Section 183 of the Criminal Code), abuse of a new psychoactive substance (Section 184 of the Criminal Code),
kidnapping (Section 190 of the Criminal Code), failure to report kidnapping (Section 191 of the Criminal Code), trafficking in human beings and forced labor (Section 192 of the Criminal Code),
violation of personal liberty (Section 194 of the Criminal Code), coercion (Section 195 of the Criminal Code), sexual violence (Section 197 of the Criminal Code), fencing [Criminal Code. Section 200 (4) c)
violation of freedom of conscience and religion (Section 215 of the Criminal Code), violence against a member of the community (Section 216 of the Criminal Code), violation of association, assembly
violation of the right to liberty and the right to participate in election elections (Section 217 of the Criminal Code), violation of private law [Criminal Code. § 221 paragraph (2) b) point
and (3) - (4)], animal torture (Section 244 of the Criminal Code), poaching (Section 245 of the Criminal Code), poaching (Section 246 of the Criminal Code), organization of prohibited animal fighting (Section 247 of the Criminal Code),
misuse of radioactive material (Section 250 of the Criminal Code), misuse of the operation of a nuclear facility (Section 251 of the Criminal Code), use of nuclear energy
abuse (Section 252 of the Criminal Code), crime against the state (Chapter XXIV of the Criminal Code), official crime (Chapter XXVIII of the Criminal Code), official person
crime against criminal offenses (Chapter XXIX of the Criminal Code), terrorist offenses (§ 314-316 / A of the Criminal Code), failure to report a terrorist offense (Article 317 of the Criminal Code).
§), financing of terrorism (§ 318-318 / A of the Criminal Code) or incitement to war (§ 331 of the Criminal Code), seizure of a vehicle (§ 320 of the Criminal Code),
participation in a criminal organization (Section 321 of the Criminal Code), causing public danger [Criminal Code. Section 322, Paragraphs (1) - (3)], disruption of the operation of a public interest plant (Btk.
323), misuse of explosives or explosives (Section 324 of the Criminal Code), misuse of firearms or ammunition (Section 325 of the Criminal Code), international
misuse of weapons prohibited by the Treaty (Section 326 of the Criminal Code), violation of an international economic ban (Section 327 of the Criminal Code),
failure to report a violation of the prohibition (Section 328 of the Criminal Code), misuse of a military technical product or service (Section 329 of the Criminal Code), double
misuse of a product (Section 330 of the Criminal Code), harassment (Section 339 of the Criminal Code), human trafficking (Section 353 of the Criminal Code), violent use of property

criminal offenses (Chapter XXXV of the Criminal Code), theft (Section 370 of the Criminal Code), vandalism (Section 371 of the Criminal Code), embezzlement (Section 372 of the Criminal Code), fraud (Section 373 of the Criminal Code), dishonest treatment
(Section 376 of the Criminal Code), negligent treatment (Section 377 of the Criminal Code), arbitrary seizure of a vehicle (Section 380 of the Criminal Code), money laundering (Section 399 of the Criminal Code), escape and foremost or service
cases of armed violence against the environment [Btk. Section 434 (2) ( a) and (3) - (4), and Btk. Section 445 (2)
(a) ],
*
(bc) for
an offense committed in the framework of a criminal organization, or
*
(bd) on
the basis of an organic holding in force on 31 December 2020,

have been convicted and the period laid down in paragraph 4 has not yet expired;
*
(c) who
is the subject of criminal proceedings for an intentional offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of two years or more

is under.
*
(4) He
may not carry out an activity falling within the scope of this Act against whom it is specified in subsection (3) ( b)

(a) has been sentenced to imprisonment for an intentional criminal offense,
(aa) in the case of imprisonment of less than five years, for a period of five years from the commencement of the release,
(ab) in the case of imprisonment for a term of five years or more, for eight years from the commencement of the release,
(b) has been sentenced to imprisonment for an intentional criminal offense, from the time the release
for three years.
(5) A* certificate is not required in connection with the network construction for the installation and assembly of the electronic property protection system
for ancillary work, if a certified person is present at the networking site.
*
§ 7 The
operating license and the card are valid for five years, their validity may be extended from time to time for another five years if

the conditions for issue are met, based on their re-examination.
Police records, activity control
*
§ 8. (1)
The police shall inform about the issued operating licenses and certificates, which are the basis for their issuance, § 5 of this Act and 5 / A. §-in

data required to verify certain conditions, data changes, design, installation or private investigation
the revocation of the operating license, the prohibition of the activity of the undertaking and the
for the purpose of verifying the authenticity of the operating license and card and
keep a record.
(2) The register shall be registered with the registered office of the sole proprietor, sole proprietorship or company.
person who carries out the activity in person and for the benefit of the company under a civil law contract with the company
natural person, including a person professionally organizing or directing an activity, is a natural person
contains your identity and nationality.
*
2a. The
register referred to in paragraph 1, with the exception of natural personally identifiable data, shall be a public official register.

it counts as.
*

(2b)

*
(3) The
police shall keep records of the data until the revocation of the operating license or card. The § 5, paragraph (4) b) of

and 5 / A. § (5) b) , the police shall provide the data of the undertakings subject to supervision fines to the
for a period of two years following the imposition of a supervisory fine, if the fine imposed is finalized by the fined undertaking.
within two years of his divorce.
(4) A* request for the transfer of data from the register may not be complied with, unless otherwise provided by law.
(5) The official control of the activity covered by this Act shall be performed by the police, which shall exercise the activity
the existence of a liability insurance contract, the veracity of data recorded by the police, the
data recorded in a certified log (hereinafter: log) and in the conditions of authorization or
examines changes.
*
(6) During
the official inspection, the police - upon the existence of the public security conditions specified in Section 6 (3) and (4)

from criminal records, persons with a criminal record who are
from the register of persons subject to criminal proceedings as defined in Section 6 (3) and (4).
receive data on the conditions with direct access and manage them until the audit is completed. If the official control
the police reveal a reason for refusing to carry out the activity and to revoke the card or
initiate the procedure to prohibit it, it may process the data received until the procedure becomes final.
(7) The police shall carry out official inspections every year. If during the inspection the police find that the activity
the operating license or certificate shall be revoked, the
prohibits the pursuit of the activity in the case of the activity of mechanic or private investigator.
§ 9. (1) If *the owner or senior official of an enterprise engaged in private investigative activity has investigative authority powers
within two years of the termination of his service.
may be inspected by the body of the police entitled to inspect in whose area of ​competence the
until the end of his term of office.
2. The body of the police empowered to supervise the activities of a private investigator shall be the person
*

hereinafter "private investigator") may not be inspected if

*
(a) the
person concerned, on termination of service, with the powers of an investigative authority in the area of ​competence of the police body;

or - at the time of termination of his employment, is a non-professional staff member
as a member - was involved in the performance of police duties; and
(b) two years have not yet elapsed since the termination of his service.
3. The body of the police which is otherwise authorized to supervise the protection of persons and property or the
and may not control its activities in the field of property protection or design and installation activities if

*

*
(a) the
person concerned, in the event of termination of his service, is engaged in the activity of protection of persons and property or of design and installation;

served as a member of an organization carrying out police tasks relating to the operation of an undertaking, or - his employment
as a non-professional member of this organization, to assist in the performance of police duties
owed; and
(b) two years have not yet elapsed since the termination of his service.
(4)

*
*

§ 10

*

Revocation and suspension of the operating license and revocation, withdrawal and withdrawal of the license
*
§ 11. (1)
The police shall immediately, but no later than within eight days of becoming aware of the operating license.

(a) withdraw it if any of the conditions for its issue have ceased to exist;
b) suspend it for six months if the undertaking has seriously violated the rules of this Act, as provided for in Section 65.
(2) The police shall issue the card without delay, but no later than eight days after becoming aware of it.
a) withdraw it if the condition for its issue pursuant to Section 6 (2) or Section 6 (3) ( a) or (b) no longer exists,
b) for six months, if the holder of the card has seriously violated the rules of this Act, as provided for in Section 65,
(c) *until the criminal proceedings have been concluded by a final decision of the court or by a non-final decision which has become final,
or to the public prosecutor's office or the investigating authority for the purpose of conditional suspension or mediation.
pending a decision on the suspension or termination of the non-appealable procedure, if
the condition for issuing it pursuant to Section 6 (3) ( c) no longer exists.
3. At the end of the period specified in paragraph 2 ( b) , the police shall return the card to the holder, unless the
there is another reason for revoking or withdrawing the card.
4. In*the case referred to in paragraph 2 ( c) , the criminal proceedings shall be instituted by a final decision of the court or has become final.
non-judicial order, or the prosecution or the investigating authority may be suspended or
decision to stay for the purpose of mediation or to terminate proceedings which cannot be challenged
the police shall return the card to the holder after the issuance of the card, if the issue of the card in accordance with Section 6 (2) or Section 6
The condition set out in paragraph 3 ( a) or (b) is met.
(5) The police shall revoke the operating license or card within eight days if the holder is the basis for the operating license.
terminates the pursuit of the activity and shall report it to the police.
*

§ 12

1. Where a person pursuing the activity of protection of persons and property is personally employed for a period of two years or more,

intentional criminal offense, the police officer shall present the card at the
against a receipt.
2. The police officer shall immediately send the card taken pursuant to subsection (1), stating the reason for the seizure.
issuing authority.
*
§ 13. (1)
If a person entitled to perform design-installation or private investigation activities is appointed for a period of two years or more

an intentional criminal offense punishable by imprisonment, the police officer shall
prohibits him from carrying out an activity on the spot.
(2) The police officer shall immediately notify of the prohibition of the activity - indicating the reason for the prohibition - in accordance with Section 5 / A. § (3)
notifying authority.
Obligations of personal and property protection, design and installation, and private investigation

*

§ 14. (1) A* contract for the provision of activities falling within the scope of this Act shall be in writing.
(2)

*

A company engaged in the protection of persons and property with another company in order to perform the contract

it may conclude a contract only with the prior consent of the person originally entrusted with the activity of protection of persons and property. The
subcontractor may not enter into a contract with another subcontractor in order to perform the contract.
(3) In the case specified in paragraph 2, the contract
(a) record the principal's consent to the participation of other undertakings;
(b) designate, for the performance of the contract, the name of the undertaking engaged in the protection of persons and property;
the name, registered office, company registration number and subject of the order of the undertaking to be entrusted.
(4) If* the undertaking uses the assistance of another undertaking to perform the order, it shall inform the client of the
the name, registered office (site), company registration number and
the name and address of the member of the company assisting in the execution of the assignment shall be entered in the logbook and the police officer conducting the inspection shall
made available to it.
*
14 / A. § (1)
If the undertaking is a company engaged in the protection of persons and property or a person performing such activities

using a remote monitoring system for a fee, in case of an alarm
(a) satisfy itself that the alarm is not due to a malfunction of the system; and
(b) verify the authenticity and cause of the alarm.
(2) An undertaking engaged in the protection of persons and property or a person carrying out such an activity in paragraph 1
may, if necessary, initiate police action after fulfilling its specific obligation. The personal
an undertaking engaged in security activities or a person carrying out such activities shall enter in the logbook the
the name of the person fulfilling the obligation, the time and manner of performance.
(3) If an undertaking engaged in the protection of persons and property or a person carrying out such an activity in paragraph (1)
initiates a police action without fulfilling a specific obligation, the police are entitled to do so
to be incurred against the performer of the activity, calculated on the basis of the rules of cost calculation.
§ 15. (1) The enterprise shall keep a record of the contracts in the logbook and keep this logbook for five years from the date of the last entry.
preserves.
2. The name of the person or persons actually performing the contract shall be recorded in the logbook or by any other appropriate means,
the name, address or registered office of the principal, the date of commencement and termination of paid medical leave pursuant to Section 20, the
the name and stamp number of the GP issuing the certificate.
(3) Additions or corrections in the diary and other related records may be made only in such a way that the originally recorded text
remain legible.
(4) The undertaking shall ensure that, without prejudice to the interests of the contracting parties, the police and the law
other authorized authority or, as regards the data held about it, the person concerned shall keep the logbook referred to in paragraph 3.
view registration documents.
§ 16. (1) A*person performing an activity falling within the scope of this Act does not have official authority, the procedure of the authority is not
may impede.
(2)

*

The Hungarian Armed Forces, law enforcement agencies, the National Tax and

Names, uniforms or other indications of deception indicative of the customs office or other authority
or address, you cannot use a rank mark. This provision shall not apply to the guarding of objects of the Hungarian Defense Forces
personal and property protection activities provided by a voluntary reserve.
(3)

*

A person performing custody tasks pursuant to Section 1 (2) ( b) in a public area or public place

hereinafter referred to as "the treasurer") shall wear a uniform which must bear the name or authorized abbreviation of the undertaking,
with whom he is employed, as well as the name of the trustee and the designation of the trustee. If the trustee is a sole proprietor or sole proprietorship, and
subcontract, you may wear your own uniform or the uniform of the undertaking with which the task is performed.
entered into an assignment contract for the supply of
(4) In* the case of activities performed in a public place or public place, the designer or installer of the electronic property protection system
in the absence of a uniform, the name or authorized abbreviated name of the undertaking and the electronic security
the name designing the system or installing the electronic security system shall be displayed on a badge.
§ 17

*

1. An undertaking shall, for the purposes of entry in the register,

report to the police by the fifth day of the month following the month in question.
*
1a. A notification
pursuant to paragraph 1 shall also be made in respect of data which are publicly available in other registers

it can be fulfilled that the body keeping the public credit register informs about the change of data - if it does this from the activity falling within the scope of this Act
shall notify the police within the time limit referred to in paragraph 1.
2. In addition to the information provided pursuant to paragraph 1, the information provided shall include the identity of the person carrying out the activity.
your ID number.
(3) The person holding the card has changed the data in the data of the card and the conditions of its issue from the change.
must report it to the police within eight days of
4. In*the event of a change in the details of the card, the notification referred to in paragraph 3 shall
may be fulfilled by the body keeping the public register of the data change, if
upon request, notify the police within the time limit set out in paragraph 3.

II. Chapter
PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO INDIVIDUAL ENTERPRISES EMPLOYED BY THE UNDERTAKING
*
§ 18. (1) If an
undertaking entrusted with the pursuit of an activity falling within the scope of this Act (hereinafter: main contractor)

sole contractor (hereinafter referred to as ‘subcontractor’),

as described in this chapter.
*
(2) In
a contract concluded between the main contractor and the subcontractor actually carrying out the activity

(a) the name and registered office of the subcontractor to be employed by the main contractor and the subcontractor
details of their operating license and certificate (their number, date, name and address of the issuing authority and, if any,
contact list or registration number);
(b) the main contractor's right to give instructions, the content, scope and limits of that right.
§ 19. (1) A *natural person who personally performs personal and property protection activities shall provide such services - in conjunction for a maximum of 24 hours.
2. If the main contractor entrusted with the activity of protection of persons and property is the actual performance of that activity by him
subcontract work to be carried out on a continuous basis for more than thirty days
shall be required to provide the subcontractor with at least twenty-four hours per calendar week after 24 consecutive hours of service.
and to provide forty-eight hours of continuous rest.
§ 20. (1) If *the main contractor is a subcontractor for a period exceeding thirty days, to be performed continuously, under the scope of this Act
subcontractor, provided that the incapacity for work and the
certified by a GP - corresponding to twelve eight-hour working days per year, paid for a total of ninety-six working hours.
leave.
2. For the duration of the sick leave provided for in paragraph 1, the basic hourly rate laid down in the contract shall be paid by the main contractor.
3. The subcontractor shall ensure that the main contractor checks in his logbook that the
details of the contract of work to be performed and to record the beginning of the paid sick leave granted to him
and the date of completion, the number of hours paid, and the name and stamp number of the GP issuing the certificate.
§ 21. (1) The main contractor is obliged to take out accident insurance for the benefit of the subcontractor continuously employed by him. The mandatory
however, both the main contractor and the subcontractor are required to take out liability insurance for their own benefit. This is the subcontractor
the latter may be released from its obligation if it is covered by a liability insurance contract concluded by the main contractor.
2. The rules set out in this Chapter shall apply between the main contractor and the subcontractor until the provisions of this Chapter enter into force.
even before the entry into force of the provisions of this Chapter.

III. Chapter
RULES FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF THE ACTIVITY
§ 22. (1) A*person performing an activity falling within the scope of this Act shall be bound by professional (professional) confidentiality obligations.
during and after the termination of the activity in respect of all facts and
acquired in the course of its performance.
*
(2) The
principal and the principal and the principal may waive the obligation of confidentiality with regard to their own data.
*
(3) Carrying
out activities falling within the scope of this Act from a third party during the performance of the contract pursuant to this Act

may only inform the trustee of any personal data lawfully communicated to him under the contract, unless subject to the obligation of professional secrecy laid down in paragraph 1, shall be heard as a witness in judicial or other administrative proceedings.
*

§ 23

§ 24. (1) An enterprise may act in the interests of several principals only if their interests are not in conflict. An order that a
may harm the interests of a previous principal only after three years have elapsed from the termination of the previous contract.
*
(2) Upon
personal performance of an activity falling within the scope of this Act, the person performing the activity shall be obliged to obtain his or her identity card

keep it with you and present it at official controls.
(3) A* person performing an activity falling within the scope of this Act shall be obliged to perform the activity at the request of the person affected by the measure
credible credentials.
*

Rules applicable to a person engaged in the protection of persons and property

*
§ 25. (1) The
rights of a person performing personal and property protection activities (hereinafter: personal and property guard) shall be

as defined by law or with the voluntary consent of the person concerned.
(2) In exercising the rights provided for in this Chapter, personal leave shall be one of the means of achieving that objective,
or the means with the least restriction of privacy.
§ 26. (1) In the course of guarding the principal's facility that does not qualify as public space, the trustee is entitled to:

*

a) to prove the identity of the person entering or staying in the territory, to communicate the purpose of entry or stay,
refusal or manifest inaccuracy of the information provided, the
in the absence of a provision to that effect, to refuse entry, stay and leave the person concerned;
b) to invite a person entering or leaving the territory to present a package or a travel or transport document;
c) a person staying in or leaving the territory - in accordance with the provisions of § 28 - the contents of his luggage, his vehicle and
to present a consignment;
(d) call on the infringer to cease his conduct;
*
e) apply
an electronic security system;

(f) to use weapons or explosives research equipment to control those entering the area and to pose a particular danger to public safety;
prohibit the entry of devices.
(2) The custodian may, within the framework of the contract, protect the movable property specified in the contract outside the guarded area (facility),
the rights set out in paragraph 1, except that an electronic monitoring system in a public
nor can it be applied.
(3) A person performing event insurance tasks pursuant to Section 1 (2) ( d) in addition to those specified in Paragraph (1)
entitled to:

*

a) a person entering an event held in a closed area or place - action by the police or the person responsible for the organization
if he is unable to enforce his obligations under the contract in any other way - in particular to cause bodily injury
to prevent the introduction of the contents of your package, on it and on your package only, in order to prevent the entry of items
to use a device suitable for the detection of metal objects, if this is refused, to prohibit your participation in the event;
b) a person who obstructs or disturbs the holding of the event, endangers its safety or illegally resides there
to prove his identity, to be banned from attending the event, to leave if the person
fails to do so and is necessary for the safety of life and property to be removed from the event;
*
(c) at
sporting events covered by a government decree on the safety of sporting events,

as defined in the Sports Act, to detain a person to be removed from a sporting event
does not justify the call.
*
(4) Pursuant
to Section 1 (2) ( b) and (c) , money and value preservation, value transport, consignment escort and transport tasks

the person providing the right is entitled to unlawfully obstruct the transport or endanger the security of the stored or transported value
to put an end to his or her behavior and to put an end to his or her behavior that obstructs or endangers his or her activities.
§ 27. (1) In the course of exercising the activity of a bodyguard and security guard - in case of the existence of the conditions specified in this Act call on the person concerned by the measure to prove his identity. If the person he requests to do so does not prove it voluntarily and credibly
may, where appropriate, request an official with the right to establish identity.
*

(2)

The bodyguard is entitled to the person who has committed the crime and the violation of the rule

to stop the act, to prevent the perpetrator from continuing, to apprehend the perpetrator and to
to seize something derived from or used to commit an offense or a means of attack. However, it is obligatory
immediately hand over the apprehended person to the investigating authority entitled to act in the case, if this is not possible,
to notify. This is also the case with regard to things taken from the person who has committed the act.
(3) The bodyguard shall use proportionate coercive physical force
(a) prevent an attack which threatens the safety of the protected person;
b) prevent unauthorized access to the protected facility or area, the unauthorized person from there
you can remove;
(c) remove a person who disturbs the event or endangers its safety from the event;
d) remove a person who unlawfully obstructs the movement of money and valuables or an attack that threatens the security of the consignment
you can prevent it.
(4) In* the performance of his or her duties, the security guard shall use a chemical device (gas spray), a rubber stick, a guard dog and, in the relevant
in accordance with the provisions of the law - may carry a firearm and use them only in a legitimate defense situation or in case of emergency
you can apply.
(5) A* personal security guard using a guard dog in a public area shall perform his or her activities only by a decree of the Minister responsible for law enforcement.
with a dog certified (examined) by licensed dog handler training schools that meet certain conditions
can supply.
§ 28. (1) Enforcement of the obligations of the trustee arising from the contract to present the contents of the package, vehicle and consignment
*

and, stating the reason and purpose of the measure envisaged, if:

(a) there are reasonable grounds for believing that the person concerned is in possession of something derived from the offense or offense which:
custody of the custodian's contractual obligation;

(b) does not surrender the matter despite the summons; and
c) the measure is necessary in order to prevent or interrupt the infringing act.
(2) In the case of the protection of a public private area for the public, the security guard shall appear in a clearly visible, legible place in the area.
in a way that facilitates the orientation of third parties wishing to do so - is obliged to place a warning sign or description

*

a) the measures specified in Section 26 (1), their possibilities;
b) the introduction of objects into the territory, their nature;
(c) the fact that an electronic surveillance system is being used in the area (space surveillance);
*
(d) the
monitoring carried out by the electronic security system and the personal data recorded by the system

the purpose of making and storing the image and sound recording containing the recording, the legal basis of the data management, the place of storage of the recording, the storage
the duration of the data, the person applying the system (operator), the persons entitled to access the data, and the
provisions on the rights of data subjects and the procedure for enforcing them;
(e) *the procedures to be followed in the event of an infringement by the trustee.
28 / A. §

*

Section 29* (1)
(2) If the principal moves certain objects into a facility, area or closed area or place that does not qualify as public space
safe and secure storage of these items from third parties.
Section 30* (1)
*
(2) The
security guard may use the electronic monitoring system only in private areas.

3. An electronic monitoring system shall not be used in places where monitoring may violate human dignity, in particular:
in the changing room, rehearsal room, washbasin, toilet, hospital room and social institution living quarters.
*

(4)

*
§ 31. Reason
for getting to know the image, sound and image and sound recording recorded through the operation of the electronic monitoring system

and time and the person of the acquaintance shall be recorded in the minutes. Electronic containing this data in a verifiable manner
records are also considered minutes.
*
31 / A. § (1)
For the purpose of protecting the facilities of those providing financial services and ancillary financial services at the facility

in accordance with Section 26 (2), the custodian, if the
technical and technical conditions are given - it is recorded on the storage provided by the central hosting provider designated by the Government.
(2) The treasurer recording the image, sound and image and sound recording pursuant to subsection (1) as specified in legislation
cooperates with the central hosting provider appointed by the Government.
3. The image, sound and image and sound recording referred to in paragraph 1, if not used, shall be thirty days from the recording.
shall be destroyed or deleted.
(4) The image, sound and image and sound recording specified in subsection (1)
(a) for the prevention, detection and cessation of terrorist offenses or of other criminal offenses,
(b) national security and response, information gathering, national security, industrial security, internal security and
to carry out crime prevention control tasks,
c) for the purpose of performing disaster protection and fire protection authority tasks,
(d) to identify a person or object circled
can also be used.
(5) It shall be deemed to be a use if the image, sound and video and sound recording specified in subsection (1) have been taken by the treasurer by the police,
the national security service shall, upon request, forward to the professional disaster management body the information referred to in paragraph 4.
for a specific purpose.
*
§ 32. An
electronic access system may be used on the basis of the relevant contract of assignment and if it is required by law or a

According to the provision of the person entitled to use the area, only those entitled to use it may enter the protected area.
*

§ 33

Rules applicable to private investigators
*
§ 34. (1)
The private investigator in order to perform the contract

(a) collect data or request information;
b) after the presentation of the card, in accordance with the provisions of special legislation - in the real estate register, the individual entrepreneurs
may make an extract or a copy of the data registered in the register and the company register, if the client has expressly
authorized. On the basis of the principal’s authorization, the registration of citizens ’personal data and addresses and the
may request information from the register if the principal is also entitled to do so in the course of his personal proceedings, provided that the
has not been prohibited or objected to by the data subject or otherwise provided by the Classified Data Protection Act;
*
(c) video
and audio recordings in the framework of a contract defining his obligations, for the protection of personal data and for the protection of personal data;

prepare and use it in compliance with the rules on rights;
(d) verify the contents of a sealed consignment addressed to another person only with the prior consent of the consignee or the consignor.
(2) Video and audio recordings may not be made in places where observation may violate human dignity, in particular in changing rooms,
in a test booth, washroom, toilet, hospital room and social institution living quarters.
§ 35. Private investigation may not be directed
(a) the activities of diplomatic missions, consular posts, international organizations of which they are the representatives, and their members;
*
b) for
the official activities of an official and a foreign official under the Criminal Code Act;

c)

*

ARC. Chapter
PROFESSIONAL CHAMBER OF PERSONAL, PROPERTY PROTECTION AND PRIVATE INVESTIGATORS
*
§ 36. (1) The
chamber is entitled to carry out the activities falling within the scope of this Act, the natural person who voluntarily undertakes the membership of the chamber
Page 2

self-governing body of persons with public tasks and general professional advocacy
the conditions laid down in the Act on the Right of Association, the Public Benefit Status and the Operation and Support of Non-Governmental Organizations
can be classified as an outstanding non-profit organization.
(2) The Chamber shall perform its duties
(a) its territorial organizations in the counties and in the capital (hereinafter together referred to as the territorial organization), and
(b) its national organization
by way of.
(3) A territorial organization may be established jointly by several counties. In this case, no separate county organizations may be brought in the counties concerned
created.
(4) The territorial organizations of the Chamber and the national organization thereof are legal persons.
*
(5) The
seat of the national organization is Budapest. The name of the territorial organization shall indicate its area of ​competence.

§ 37. (1) The members of the chamber shall exercise their local government rights in accordance with this Act and the statutes of the chamber.
(2) To be specified in the statutes of the chamber
(a) the name and registered office of the chamber;
(b) the rules governing the organization and operation of the chamber;
(c) the tasks and powers of the bodies and officials, the method of their election and the duration of their term of office;
rules;
(d) the basic rules governing the management of the chamber;
e) everything in which this law prescribes the provision of the articles of association.
Duties of the chamber
§ 38. (1) The chamber
*
(a) represents
and defends in matters relating to the activities covered by this Act the protection of persons and property,

the authority of the mechanic and the private investigator profession, the general professional interests of the boards and members of the chamber;
*
b) establishes
the statutes of the chamber, participates in the professional activities of the activities covered by this Act

guidelines and professional recommendations on the performance of services;
*
c) express
an opinion on the legislation concerning the activities covered by this Act, initiate the issuance of legislation;

d) in* respect of professional qualifications specified in a separate legal regulation entitling to perform the activity covered by this Act
develop and maintain the professional and examination requirements on the basis of an agreement with the Minister responsible for law enforcement,
qualification system, participates in vocational training and examinations, and proposes a state-recognized vocational qualification,
on the professional examination regulations, when authorizing the organization of the professional examination and during the inspection of the examination organization activities
persons who may be seconded as experts;
*
e) establish
the ethical rules of the chamber;

(f) conduct ethical proceedings against members who violate ethical rules;
*
(g) in
compliance with the data protection rules of the Law on the Right to Information Self-Determination and Freedom of Information,

a register of members of a natural person, a register of enterprises is kept by the membership of the chamber or the obligation to register
and provide statistics on them in a non-personally identifiable manner;
(h) conferences, exhibitions, fairs and other events related to the activities of its members and of the companies registered by it;
organizes events, qualifies and supervises the appearance of its members at fairs and exhibitions in accordance with its municipal regulations,
activities;
(i) collect and provide information to its members on domestic and international professional and legal information, as recorded by it
undertakings or other persons for the benefit of its members and registered undertakings;
j) liaises with the competent chambers of commerce and with similar domestic and foreign professional chambers and associations;
(k) initiate the issuance of standards;
*
l) assess
all persons and property guards in accordance with Articles 26-29 of this Act. By exercising the rights set out in

against the activities of persons performing certain law enforcement duties, as well as certain laws on the avoidance of schooling
a complaint as provided for in the Act amending the
m) establishes and uses an aid fund to support its members in accordance with the rules laid down in the municipal regulations of the Chamber
up;
*
n) the
Government participates in the procedure specified in a government decree on the minimum property protection service overhead fee

in the preparation of its regulation laying down the
She)*
2. A*request for the transfer of data from the register and register referred to in paragraph 1 ( g) may not be complied with.
(3) If* the chamber is unable to perform the task specified in Section 38 (1) ( d) , the Minister responsible for law enforcement shall
arrange for the task to be taken back.
*
4. The
data processed in the register and register referred to in paragraph 1 ( g) shall be transmitted to the Central Statistical Office

CLV 2016 on official statistics. Preliminary verification of the statistical purpose in accordance with Section 28 of the Act (hereinafter: Stt.)
shall be transmitted free of charge to the extent necessary for the purpose of individual identification for statistical purposes and shall be:
They can be used for statistical purposes by the Central Statistical Office. The scope of the received data and the detailed rules of the data transfer are set out in Stt. § 28
shall be laid down in a cooperation agreement as provided for in
Chamber membership
*
§ 39. (1) A person
holding a certificate authorizing the personal performance of an activity falling within the scope of this Act may request the

admission to the Chamber. The applicant shall be domiciled from the date on which the decision of the Chamber on his membership becomes final
member of a competent territorial organization.
(2) Each natural person in the chamber, regardless of the number of his or her ID cards, may have only one membership.
(3) A* natural person holding more than one card shall declare in his or her application for membership of a chamber which card he or she has
intends to exercise the rights and perform the duties of chamber membership. This statement is in the statutes of the chamber
can be changed periodically.
*

(4)

A member of the Chamber may make a declaration under paragraph (3) before the expiry of the period specified in the statutes of the Chamber

may change it if he obtains a certificate entitling him to pursue a new activity during the period of his membership or in his previous declaration
terminates or suspends its designated activity for any reason, but has other activities covered by this Act
with a certificate entitling him to perform.
*
5. Detailed
rules for the avoidance of multiple membership and for making the declaration under paragraphs 3 and 4 shall be laid down in this Regulation.

shall be determined by the statutes of the chamber, taking into account the provisions of the law.
§ 40. (1) A*member of a chamber who suspends all activities falling within the scope of this Act may request in writing
suspension of membership.
*
(2) The
period of suspension of membership in a chamber may not exceed two years.

§ 41. (1) Membership of a chamber shall be suspended in the event of the inclusion of all ID cards of a natural person.
(2) The suspension of the membership of a chamber shall last until the existence of its justification, which may exceed two years.
*
§ 42. (1) During
the suspension, suspension or termination of the membership of the chamber, the member shall not exercise the rights arising from his / her membership.

and shall not be subject to the obligations of membership.
(2) The detailed rules for the suspension or termination of membership in a chamber shall be determined by the statutes of the chamber.
§ 43. Membership of the Chamber shall be terminated if
(a) a member of the Chamber dies;
(b) the police revoke all ID cards of a member of the chamber;
c) a* member of the chamber resigns from the chamber;
(d) the Chamber excludes its member in the course of an ethical procedure;
e) the period of suspension of the membership of the Chamber has reached two years and the member has not taken any action to terminate his / her membership of the Chamber
continuation or termination of
f) the member of the chamber has not fulfilled his / her obligation to pay the membership fee despite a written request, and therefore from the register of members of the chamber
deleted and notified the member.
Rights and obligations of a member of the chamber
§ 44. (1) A member of a chamber has the right to
a) participate with the right to vote in the delegate election meeting or general meeting of the territorial organization;
(b) take part in the election of the delegates of the territorial organization and, unless otherwise provided by this Act,
- be elected as an official or delegate;
c) use the services of the chamber;
d) to request from the officials of the chamber substantive information on the operation of the chamber;
(e) initiate a review of the decision in breach of the Articles of Association with the Supervisory Board.
(2) It is the duty of a member of a chamber to:
(a) comply with the provisions of the statutes of the chamber;
b) pay the chamber membership fee;
c)

*

(d) act in accordance with professional guidelines and ethical rules.
Business registers; the rights and obligations of the undertaking
*
§ 45. (1) An
enterprise engaged in an activity falling within the scope of this Act shall be registered by the Chamber upon its request.

(2)

*

An undertaking registered by the Chamber pursuant to paragraph 1 shall be bound by the statutes of the Chamber

pay a registration fee.
(3) The enterprise is entitled
a) to participate in the decision-making of the Chamber with the right to consult and to make proposals and motions;
(b) to attend conferences, exhibitions, fairs and other events organized by the Chamber;
c) to request information on domestic and international professional and legal information known to the Chamber;
(d) initiate a review of the decision in breach of the Articles of Association with the Supervisory Board.
*
(4) An
enterprise registered pursuant to subsection (1) which carries out all the activities covered by this Act

may, in writing, request the suspension of its registration with the Chamber. In this case, the suspension of chamber membership
its rules apply.
*
(5) During
the period specified in Section 11 (1) ( b) , an undertaking registered on the basis of Paragraph (1) shall

may not exercise the rights arising from his relationship and shall not be subject to the obligation to pay a registration fee.
(6) The chamber shall delete the undertaking from the register and notify the undertaking thereof if
(a) fails to pay the registration fee despite the written notice;
*
b) permission
to engage in the activity of the reasons set out in this Act - § 11 paragraph (1) b) the reasons in point

except - ceased to exist;
*
(c) the
duration of the suspension under paragraph 4 has reached two years and the undertaking has not, despite being called upon to take action,

continuation of registration or termination of registration.
Organization and operation of the chamber
§ 46. (1) The national organization consists of the assembly of delegates, the presidency, the supervisory board and the ethics committee.
(2) The main representative body of the Chamber is the National Assembly of Delegates consisting of the delegates of the regional organizations.
(3) The number of delegates shall be determined by the statutes.
4. In addition to the bodies listed in paragraph 1, other bodies specified in the statutes may be established.
*
§ 47. (1)
A civil servant, a government official, and § 3 (1) may not be elected as a delegate and may not hold office in the chamber.

another person specified in paragraph.
(2) A person who is a member of an activity falling within the scope of this Act may not hold an office not elected in the chamber.
or engages in such an activity as a sole proprietor.
(3) An elected office may be filled only by a person who, prior to the election, discloses to the membership which, within the scope of this Act,
is a member, executive officer or self-employed person of an undertaking carrying on an activity covered by
§ 48. (1) A member of the chamber is entitled to vote.
(2) The elected president of the territorial organization shall participate in the national assembly of delegates as a delegate.
(3) In the national organization, the chairman, vice-chairman, member of the board and chairman of the committee to be elected in accordance with this Act may only:
national delegate optional.
(4) The chairman, vice-chairman, member of the board and chairman of the committee to be elected in accordance with this Act in the territorial organization may only be
regional delegate optional.
§ 49. (1) The members of the Supervisory Board, the ethics committees and the financial control committees may be the members of the chamber who:
who can be elected national or regional envoys. Members of the Supervisory Board, Ethics and Financial Control Committees
they may not hold any other office during their term of office.
(2) An official may hold no more than one national and one regional office at a time.
§ 50. (1) The following are within the exclusive competence of the National Assembly of Delegates:
(a) the establishment and amendment of the statutes, ethics and other municipal regulations of the chamber;
b) determining the annual budget of the chamber and deciding on the approval of the annual report (balance sheet);
(c) by secret ballot of the President (Vice-President or Vice-Presidents) of the Chamber, the members of the Bureau, the Ethics and the Supervisory Committee
hereinafter referred to as "officials") and to the members of other committees established by secret ballot in accordance with the Statutes
election and recall;
(d) establishing the principles for the payment of membership fees, the membership fee of the chamber and the level of the registration fee to be paid by the undertaking
in the manner and within the limits specified in the statutes;
e) determination of the part of the membership fee paid by the members of the territorial organizations and the registration fee due to the national organization.
2. The National Assembly of Delegates shall be convened by the President at least once a year and if the delegates meet at least once a year.
one-fifth or the Supervisory Board, in writing, stating the reason and purpose.
(3) The statutes may provide for other cases of convening the national assembly of delegates, as well as for persons other than the chairman.
may authorize its convening.
(4) The National Assembly of Delegates has a quorum if more than half of the delegates are present. Due to the lack of a quorum
a repeated meeting of delegates on matters on the original agenda has a quorum if more than a quarter of the delegates
present.
(5) Decisions of the National Assembly of Delegates shall be taken by a majority of the delegates present. You accept the articles of association
to determine the annual budget of the Chamber, to approve the annual report (balance sheet) of the delegates present

a two-thirds majority shall be required.
(6) The detailed rules for convening, conducting and taking decisions of the National Assembly of Delegates shall be adopted by the Chamber.
its statutes.
§ 51. (1) The presidency of the chamber is a body body consisting of the number of members specified in the statutes. The presidency is responsible for the chamber
management of the operation between delegations.
(2) The rules concerning the convening, operation and decision-making of the presidency shall be established by the statutes of the chamber.
§ 52. (1) The committees shall operate as a body body in accordance with the rules of procedure established by them.
2. A quorum shall exist at meetings of the Committee if a majority of its members are present.
3. The committees shall report annually to the Assembly of Delegates on their activities.
§ 53. (1) The supervisory board shall examine whether the activities and management of the chamber comply with the law, the chamber
statutes and other municipal regulations of the chamber.
(2) The Supervisory Board may request all data and information from the officials, members and administrative organization of the Chamber.
and you can view all the documents you need to do your job. The activities of the Supervisory Board are members of the Chamber
are obliged to support.
3. The Assembly of Delegates shall report on the report of the Bureau, the budget (financial plan) and the annual report of the Chamber only to the
in the light of the opinion of the Supervisory Committee.
(4) If the Supervisory Board finds that the activity, operation of a body or official of the Chamber, as well as
the report, financial plan, annual report prepared by them does not comply with the law, the statutes of the chamber or the chamber
other municipal regulations, calls on the Bureau to take the necessary action.
5. If the Presidency does not comply with the invitation, the Supervisory Committee shall convene a meeting of the delegates.
(6) The members of the Supervisory Board may not be instructed in the performance of their duties.
7. The following shall not be elected members of the Supervisory Board:
(a) a member of the Bureau;
b) a person working in the administrative organization of the chamber and employed by the chamber;
(c) a close relative and partner of a person referred to in points ( a) or (b) .
*
§ 54. (1) The
officials of the chamber are the president, vice-presidents of the chamber, members of the national presidency, the supervisory board and the ethics committee.

its presidents and members, who shall be elected by secret ballot in the manner and number specified in the statutes.
*
(2) The
officials of the territorial organization shall be the chairman of the territorial organization, members of the presidency, ethics and financial control committees.

its presidents and members, who are elected by secret ballot by the regional assembly of delegates in the manner and in the number specified in the statutes.
*
2a. The
officials of the Chamber and the regional organization shall be elected for a term of 5 years.

(3) The detailed rules for the officials of the Chamber shall be determined by the Statutes.
*
54 / A. § The
chamber and the territorial organization may specify in the statutes or chamber regulations the matters which

the law on the general rules of electronic administration and trust services is also electronic
if the client is a member or employee of the chamber and the procedure is not
constitutes an administrative matter.
The territorial organization
§ 55. (1) The territorial organization shall perform the chamber tasks referred to its competence in the legislation and the statutes in the area of ​competence.
2. The territorial organization shall have representative and administrative bodies, as well as an ethics committee, a financial control committee and an independent
has a budget.
(3) The representative body of the territorial organization shall be a regional assembly of delegates consisting of delegates elected by the members. If the number of members is
does not reach two hundred people, the tasks of the assembly of delegates are performed by the general assembly, the rights and obligations of the delegates apply to the members
apply.
(4) The Regional Assembly of Delegates
a) determine the local government and operational rules of the territorial organization within the framework of this Act and the statutes;
b) decide on the annual budget of the territorial organization and approve the annual report (balance sheet);
c) elect by secret ballot the president, vice-president of the territorial organization, the number of members of the presidency specified in the statutes, the
the Chairperson and members of the Ethics, Financial Control and Selection Committee and decide on the recall proposal against them;
d) elect the delegates of the National Assembly of Delegates.
(5) The rules of the national assembly of delegates shall govern the convening, decision-making and election of the regional assembly of delegates.
§ 56. (1) The statutes may establish departments within the chamber in accordance with the professions represented.
(2) The tasks and operation of the departments are determined by the statutes.
Ethical rules
§ 57. (1) A member who:
(a) engages in conduct contrary to the requirements of the code of ethics;
(b) pursues an activity covered by this Act in a manner which is conducive to the reputation of the profession; and
infringe the personal rights of his employer or of the person who entrusts his activity or of a third party.
(2) The conduct of ethical proceedings shall not be hindered if public bodies are also conducting proceedings in the same matter.
§ 58. (1) The initiation of ethical proceedings may be initiated by anyone. The President of the Chamber decides on the commencement of the proceedings and submits them to the proceedings
notify the person without delay.
(2) Ethical proceedings may be initiated only in case of suspicion of ethical misconduct. An ethical procedure cannot be initiated if it is chaired by the President of the Chamber
within three months of becoming aware of the ethical misconduct or within one year of committing the act
me.
(3) A person subject to the proceedings may use a representative during the proceedings, examine the evidence, make a statement,
request a copy, put questions to witnesses and experts, present a motion for evidence,
may be present in such acts.
4. The person subject to the proceedings shall be summoned to the hearing scheduled by the ethics committee and shall be informed of the
consequences of the apparition.
5. A member of the ethics committee may not be a party to the proceedings and decision-making if a relative of the person subject to the proceedings and who
he participates in the proceedings as a witness, expert or interpreter and from whom an objective assessment of the case cannot be expected.
(6) A member of the ethics committee shall immediately notify the existence of the reason for exclusion. You will not be able to take part in the proceedings after that.
7. Any member of the Chamber may state a reason which casts doubt on the impartiality of a member of the Ethics Committee. The announcement
the issue of exclusion is decided by the ethics committee, until the decision of the committee, the person concerned by the reason for exclusion may participate in the procedure,
except for a decision to exclude it.
8. The ethics committee shall take a reasoned written decision in the course of the procedure, which shall be adopted within three days of its adoption.
to the person subject to the proceedings and to the notifier, and to any other person affected by the decision upon request.
9. The members of the ethics committee shall not be instructed in their proceedings and shall not be held liable for their decisions.
§ 59. (1) Measures applicable in case of ethical misconduct of a member:
(a) a written warning;
(b) initiating recall;
(c) fines;
(d) suspension of membership for a period of 1 to 6 months;
e) expulsion from the chamber.
(2) A member expelled from the chamber may not establish a new membership of the chamber within two years from the expulsion.
(3) A fine of up to five times the amount of the mandatory minimum wage (minimum wage) shall be imposed on a member of the chamber.
can be imposed. The amount of the fine belongs to the chamber.
§ 60. (1) The ethical rules of the chamber, the ethical violations and the detailed rules of the ethical procedure shall be laid down in the ethical rules of the chamber.
2. Within 15 days of notification, the notifier, the ethics committee shall, within 15 days of notification, take a decision against the decision of the ethics committee.
and any other person affected by the decision, in accordance with the code of ethics,
you can appeal.
*

(3)

Legality oversight
Section 61* (1) The Minister responsible for law enforcement shall exercise legal supervision over the Chamber.
*

(2)

The review of legality exercised under this Act shall not extend to a case in which you are otherwise a court or tribunal

administrative authority proceedings.
*
(3) The
Minister responsible for law enforcement, in his capacity to supervise legality, shall verify that:

a) whether the statutes and other municipal regulations of the chamber comply with the law,
b) whether the decisions of the bodies of the chamber do not violate the laws, the statutes and other municipal regulations,
c) whether the operation of the chamber complies with the laws, the statutes and other municipal regulations.
(4) If* the Minister responsible for law enforcement finds an irregularity during the inspection, the deadline for restoring legality calls on the President of the Chamber.
Section 62 (1)*- (2)
(3) A* civil servant, a government official, a police officer and a police officer may not be appointed as a supervisory commissioner during his or her employment.
professional member of the civilian national security services, as well as the protection of personnel and property or the designer-mechanic of the police;
a non-professional staff member involved in the performance of official tasks related to the activity.
(4) - (5) *
*

Adjudication of a complaint against the action of the security guard

*
*
62 / A. § (1)
A complaint
filed against the person and property guard implementing the measure shall be competent according to the place of the measure.

it shall be judged by the territorial organization specified in the statutes within thirty-five days in accordance with the rules of administrative authority procedure.
*
2. An
appeal against a decision at first instance shall be available in proceedings for the purpose of examining a complaint under paragraph 1. The appeal

shall be judged by the body designated in the statutes of the national organization.

Chapter V.
SUPERVISORY FINE
*
§ 63. (1) The
police may impose a supervisory fine on a person who carries out personal and property protection or private investigation activities.

(including the organization and management of private investigative activities) without a personal
violates the rules authorizing the performance of the activity specified in this Act, as well as the undertaking which is subject to this Act
unauthorizedly carries out the activity falling within the scope of this Act, and repeats the regulations for the activity specified in this Act
or seriously infringes.
2. For the purposes of paragraph 1, an undertaking shall carry on its activities without authorization if it:
(a) continues in the absence of an operating license;
(b) continues in the absence of the conditions required for the issue of an operating license;
(c) *by an undertaking or natural person who is not entitled to pursue the activity;
*
d) the
5 / A. § (3) in the absence of a notification.
*
(3) The
supervision fine shall be paid into the account of the police indicated in the decision.

(4) If* both the supervisory fine and the unauthorized protection of persons and property against the sole proprietor
the conditions for imposing a fine for an infringement are met, there is only a procedure for imposing a supervisory fine
place.
*
Section 64 (1)
The minimum amount of a supervisory fine that may be imposed on persons who personally perform the activities specified in this Act

the amount is half of the mandatory minimum wage (minimum wage), the maximum amount is twice the mandatory minimum wage. THE
the minimum amount of the supervisory fine that can be imposed on the company is four times the maximum minimum wage, the maximum amount
forty times the mandatory minimum wage.
(2) There shall be no place for imposing a supervision fine if two years have elapsed since the commission of the act.
3. Where a decision at second instance or a decision of a court or tribunal instructs the determining authority to conduct a new proceeding, the two-year period shall be
from the date on which the decision of the court of second instance or the decision of the court becomes final.
(4) If the infringement takes place by creating or maintaining an illegal state, the limitation period shall not be
begins as long as the illegal status persists.
(5) If the infringement is committed by failure to comply with an obligation, the limitation period shall begin on the day on which the person subject to the proceedings:
person could still have legally fulfilled his obligation.
§ 65 It is considered a serious violation of the rules prescribed in this Act
a) in* Section 3 (1), Section 5 (1), Section 5 / A. § (3), § 6 (1), § 16 (1), 18-32.
§ violation of the provisions contained in
*
b) repeated
application of the rules set out in Sections 14 and 15, Section 16 (2) - (4), without warning the authority

violation.

VI. Chapter
OPERATING COMPANY ESTABLISHED IN ANOTHER EEA STATE WITH THE RIGHT OF FREE MOVEMENT AND RESIDENCE
PERSON FOR HIS PERSONAL AND PROPERTY PROTECTION ACTIVITIES IN THE FRAMEWORK OF ESTABLISHMENT IN HUNGARY
SPECIFIC PROVISIONS

*

*

Special rules for the operation of an undertaking established in another EEA State
*

§ 66

Established and licensed in another EEA State, engaged in the protection of persons and property

(hereinafter referred to as the EEA company) for the protection of persons and property in the framework of establishment in the territory of Hungary
the provisions of this Act in accordance with Articles 67-68. Shall apply with the exceptions set out in §.
*

§ 67

1. The activities of the EEA undertaking in the protection of persons and property in Hungary shall be carried out by the police in accordance with paragraph (2)

you can start and practice with your permission.
(2) At the request of an EEA undertaking, the police shall allow their activities in Hungary if the information provided by the applicant,
by examining documents translated into Hungarian, it is satisfied that the EEA undertaking has a
with a valid, valid document authorizing the company to carry out the activity of protection of persons and property.
3. The police shall keep a register of authorized EEA undertakings for the purpose of monitoring their activities, which shall:
included:
(a) the name, registered office, place of business or branch of the EEA undertaking;
(b) the name of the authorized activity;
(c) the license number;
d) in the case of a ban on the activities of an EEA undertaking in Hungary pursuant to Section 68 (2), the decision thereon;
(e) the date of issue, the period of validity and the period of validity of the document on which the license is based.
(4) The police shall keep records of the data contained in the register pursuant to subsection (3) until the revocation of the permit.
5. The register referred to in paragraph 3 shall cover the official control of the pursuit of personal and property protection activities and the provision of services.
to inform users. The information referred to in points (a) to ( d) of paragraph 3 shall be made public in the public interest.
§ 68. (1)* The police shall issue the permit of the EEA undertaking pursuant to § 67 (1) immediately, but no later than upon becoming aware of it.
shall be withdrawn within eight days of the date on which any of the conditions for its issue no longer apply.
(2) The police shall immediately, but no later than within eight days of becoming aware of the fact that the EEA undertaking has complied with Article 67 (1).
for a period of six months if the EEA undertaking has seriously infringed the rules of this Act, as set out in Article 65.
violated.
(3) The police shall carry out the activities of protection of persons and property without authorization, as well as the provisions of this Act relating to their activities.
may repeatedly or severely infringe certain requirements of the EEA
Except as provided in paragraph V, the provisions of Chapter V shall apply.
4. For the purposes of paragraph 3, an EEA undertaking shall carry on its activities in Hungary without authorization if it:
a) continues in the absence of a permit pursuant to Section 67 (1);
(b) by an undertaking or natural person who is not entitled to pursue the activity.
A person with the right of free movement and residence performed in the framework of establishment in the territory of Hungary
special rules for its security activities
*

§ 69

*

A person enjoying the right of free movement and residence who has been issued in another EEA State has a personal and

has a document authorizing the performance of property protection activities, personal and property protection activities carried out in the territory of Hungary
the provisions of this Act in accordance with Articles 70-72. Shall apply with the exceptions set out in §.
*
§ 70. (1)
A person with the right of free movement and residence who has been issued in another EEA state for the protection of persons and property

has a document authorizing the performance of an activity, the activity falling within the scope of this Act is established in the territory of Hungary
under the permission of the police pursuant to paragraph 2.
(2) The police carried out a person with the right of free movement and residence within the framework of establishment in the territory of Hungary
authorizes its personal and property protection activities upon request if the information provided by the applicant and translated into Hungarian
examine the documents to make sure that the applicant is entitled to carry out the activity covered by this Act in person,
a document issued in another EEA State is valid and valid.
3. The police shall keep a register of holders of a license in accordance with paragraph 2 for the purpose of monitoring the activity, which shall:
included:
(a) the name, residence or stay of the person enjoying the right of free movement and residence;
(b) the name of the authorized activity;
(c) the license number;
d) in the case of a ban on the activities of an EEA undertaking in Hungary pursuant to Section 68 (2), the decision thereon;
(e) the date of issue, the period of validity and the period of validity of the document on which the license is based.
(4) The police shall keep records of the data contained in the register pursuant to subsection (3) until the revocation of the permit.
5. The register referred to in paragraph 3 shall cover the official control of the pursuit of personal and property protection activities and the provision of services.
to inform users. The information referred to in points (a) to ( d) of paragraph 3 shall be made public in the public interest.
*

§ 71

(1) The police shall issue a permit pursuant to Section 70 (2) of a person with the right of free movement and residence

immediately, but no later than eight days after becoming aware of it, if any of the
exists.
2. The police shall, without delay and at the latest within eight days of becoming aware of the right of free movement and residence,
suspend the permit pursuant to Section 70 (2) for a period of six months if the rules of this Act, as set out in Section 65, are complied with.
he was seriously offended.
*
3. The
police shall, without delay and at the latest within eight days of becoming aware of it,

the exercise of the activities of a person with the right to do so in Hungary by a final court decision of criminal proceedings
or become final by a non-judicial order, or the prosecution or the investigating authority
proceedings for suspension for the purpose of public prosecution or mediation or not subject to further appeal
suspended for a period of two years against the person enjoying the right of free movement and residence.
or an intentional criminal offense punishable by a term of imprisonment of a longer term or more.
4. In the case referred to in paragraph 3, if the criminal proceedings have been terminated without the imposition of a penalty or measure, the
the police shall lift the suspension if the criminal proceedings have resulted in the imposition of a penalty or the imposition of a measure, the
withdraw the authorization.
*

§ 72

(1) If a person entitled to perform an activity pursuant to Section 70 (1) is granted a term of two years or more

intentional criminal offense, the protection of persons and property
exercise is prohibited by the police officer on the spot.
(2) The police officer shall immediately notify of the prohibition of personal and property protection activities, indicating the reason for the prohibition, in accordance with Article 70.
§ (2).

VI / A. Chapter*
UNDERTAKINGS ESTABLISHED IN ANOTHER EEA STATE ARE CROSS-BORDER AND
*

SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR ACTIVITIES IN THE FRAMEWORK OF ESTABLISHMENT IN THE TERRITORY OF HUNGARY

*
72 / A. § (1)
The provision of personnel and services by an EEA undertaking in the framework of the cross-border provision of services in the territory of Hungary

must notify the police of his intention to continue his property protection activities.
(2) According to the Act on the General Rules for the Commencement and Continuation of Service Activities, it is free
a service provider with the right to provide services cross - border provision of services in the territory of Hungary, and
It is intended for the continuation of the activity of a designer-installer or private investigator within the framework of establishment in the territory of Hungary
he must notify the police of his intention.
3. Undertakings which make a notification under paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be informed by the police of the
keep records in accordance with the law on the general rules for the continuation of

VI / B. Chapter*
SPECIFIC RULES FOR PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES RELATING TO PROPERTY PROTECTION ACTIVITIES

*

*
72 / B. § (1)
If it is

a) specified in Section 1 (2) ( b) - (d) , and
b) It is related to the organization and management of the activities specified in Section 1 (2) ( b) - (d)
the amount of the commission fee in the public procurement procedure for the activity (hereinafter: property protection service activity)
CXLIII of 2015 on public procurement. (hereinafter: Kbt.) is disproportionately low
is considered a price offer and the contracting authority is obliged to § 72 to request a justification if the bid fee applied by the bidder
lower than the minimum security service fee set in the Government Decree.
(2) In cases other than paragraph (1), the contracting authority shall He is obliged to do so within the framework of requesting a justification pursuant to Section 72 (1)
information on the amount of the overheads in the tender of the tenderer submitting a disproportionately low price.
and the amount and manner in which certain costs were taken into account in calculating the overheads.

VI / C. Chapter*
SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR THE ORGANIZER OF THE MASS EVENT

*

*
72 / C. § (1)
If it can be attended for a ticket to a mass event providing music services as a main service (hereinafter:

number of tickets entitling to enter the market exceeds twenty-five thousand, the number of tickets for the mass event
organizer
a) ensuring the personal safety of natural persons attending a mass event,
(b) to facilitate the effective prevention and detection of criminal offenses, in particular terrorist offenses, in particular:
proof of crimes committed at a mass event,
(c) identification and apprehension of persons in circulation
natural person wishing to enter a mass event (hereinafter:
visitor) as specified in paragraph 2.
(2) In order to fulfill its obligation under subsection (1), the organizer of a mass event shall
ninety days from the date of the visit
a) surname and first name,
b) his nationality,
c) date of birth,
d) gender,
e) the authority issuing its personally identifiable document containing its portrait (for the purposes of this Section, hereinafter: document)
the name of the State in which it is established, and
(f) a portrait of him.
3. The organizer of a mass event shall provide the information referred to in paragraph 2 ( a) to (e) on the basis of the document containing it, in accordance with paragraph 2 ( f).
shall record the data referred to in paragraph 1 only by means of a copy of the part of the document containing that data.
(4) The organizer of a mass event shall fulfill his obligation under paragraph (1) prior to entering the mass event,
at the venue of a mass event or as specified in paragraph 5.
5. The organizer of a mass event may also fulfill his obligation under paragraph 1 by
after the tickets have been put up for sale, but no later than 90 days before the start of the public event
a) in the case of a ticket purchase in person, the details of the visitor in accordance with paragraph 2,
(b) in the case of the purchase of tickets by electronic means, at least the details of the visitor in accordance with paragraph 2 ( a) to (e) ;
pre-recorded (hereinafter: pre-recorded).
(6) The data recorded during the pre-recording at the venue of the mass event, before entering the mass event - shall be
presentation of documents - documents to be compared with the data of the visitors together with that if paragraph (5) b) of point
if the visitor's data referred to in paragraph 2 ( f) have not been recorded during the pre-recording , it shall be recorded at the same time as the comparison.
If the results of the comparison show that the data provided during the pre-recording do not match the visitor’s
the obligation under paragraph 1 in respect of that visitor shall take place only at the venue of the mass event.
can be fulfilled by the fact that if this visitor enters the mass event, the organizer of the mass event during the pre-registration
delete the entered data immediately. The organizer of the mass event provided the data provided by the visitor during the pre-recording a
immediately after the end of the mass event, even if the visitor
did not enter the mass event until the end of the mass event.
(7) The organizer of the mass event shall record the data in order to fulfill the obligation under paragraph (1)
a) a counter-terrorism body under the Police Act,
b) for the purpose of crime prevention specified in the Law on the Police and the Law on the National Tax and Customs Administration
a body for the secret collection of information,
c) the body conducting the preparatory proceedings in the preparatory proceedings specified in the Act on Criminal Procedure,
(d) in criminal proceedings under the Code of Criminal Procedure, the investigating authority, the public prosecutor's office and the court; and
e) the circling procedure pursuant to the Act on the Circulation Register System and the Search for and Identification of Persons and Things
conducting body
at its written request.

VII. Chapter
MISCELLANEOUS AND INTERPRETATIVE PROVISIONS
§ 73

*

§ 74. For the purposes of this Act:
1.

*

*
2. designer
of an electronic security system: a natural person who, due to his or her activity, has knowledge

the operation of the electronic security system and the design of such a system (device, equipment) in person, or
professionally - directly organizes and manages;
*
3. electronic
security system installer: a natural person who, as a result of his activity, has knowledge

the operation of the electronic security system and the installation, assembly and operation of such a system (device, equipment),
supervises, maintains, rectifies the fault in person or organizes and manages it - professionally - directly;
*
4. designer
of a mechanical security system: a natural person who, due to his activity, has knowledge

the operation of the mechanical security system and the design of such a system (device, equipment) in person or
professionally - directly organizes and manages;
*
5. mechanical
security system installer: a natural person who, as a result of his activity, has knowledge

the operation of the mechanical property protection system and the installation, assembly and operation of such a system (device, equipment),
supervises, maintains, rectifies the fault in person or organizes and manages it - professionally - directly;
*
6. electronic
security system: for security purposes, to be installed on the property specified in the business contract or

electronic signaling and visual surveillance system, including space surveillance system, electronic access control system,
burglar alarm system, remote monitoring system, security system for data and IT protection, and
other electronic technical solutions enabling the transmission of signals and images or the signaling of light or sound;
7. "* remote monitoring system" means an electronic security system located in a defined area or installed in a vehicle, which within the framework of the contract, prevention, interruption of offenses, apprehension of an offense committed in the commission of a criminal offense
by electrical means - relevant to the protection of property in the area or vehicle concerned
transmit information to the security guard who constantly monitors the protected area or vehicle;
8. burglar alarm system: installed on a property for security purposes, to prevent unauthorized intrusion electronically or by other means (sign,
light or sound) signaling technical solution;
9. mechanical security system: means to be installed or installed on a property or motor vehicle for security purposes,
a security system or other technical solution that does not require electronic monitoring or energy replenishment;
10. public area: a state or municipally owned area for public use that is intended for public use
properly accessible to all without restriction, including that part of public space which serves as a road;
11. "* public part of a private space" means private space that is accessible to all without restriction;
including that part of the public land which is occupied by a civilian entrusted with the
legal transaction, in particular under a lease or rental agreement, provided that:
a) the use of the part of the territory, the private area guarded by the person engaged in the protection of persons and property is public
is organically connected to the activity taking place in Part I, serves its continuity and assists, or
b) it is used for the placement of the movables of the client (customer) or the public using the public part of the private territory;
12. offense: direct detection of the commission of an infringement, including an electronic monitoring system for the infringement

(space surveillance) at the same time as the event;
Package 13 : any object in the possession of the person concerned, caught by him or attached to his body, worn on the
intended to transport or facilitate the transport of placed objects and which is capable of
remain covered, in whole or in part;
14. Presentation of the contents of the package, of the item in the vehicle, of the consignment: to enable the passenger and
Page 3

the security guard shall ensure that the information contained in the package, vehicle, consignment, otherwise concealed from the outside observer
does not result from an offense to be prevented or
intake prohibited;
*
15. close
relative: 8: 1 of the Civil Code. § (1), point 1);

16.

*

17. "* person enjoying the right of free movement and residence" means the person enjoying the right of free movement and residence
the right of free movement and residence in the territory of Hungary as defined in the Act on Entry and Residence
exercise;
*
18. EEA
State: a Member State of the European Union and another State party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, as well as

a State of which the European Community and its Member States are nationals and which is not a national of the Agreement on the European Economic Area
a State party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area under an international agreement concluded between States Parties
enjoys the same legal status as its national.
Entry into force, enabling provisions
§ 75. (1) This Act shall enter into force on the thirtieth day after its promulgation, with the exceptions provided for in subsection (2).
(2) This Act
a) 14-16. §§ and 18-21. § on March 1, 2006;
b) 3-13. §, § 17, § 33, 37-72. § and § 77 (1) on 1 June 2006
enter into force.
(3)

*

*
§ 76. The
Government is authorized to

(a) the minimum security service to be applied to the procurement of security services
elements of the overhead* fee,
b)

*

the rate of the minimum security service fee and the procedure for the preparation of this regulation
*

rules

*
c) protection
of persons and property, deviating from and supplementing the provisions of the Act on General Administrative Procedure,
*

and administrative rules of procedure for private investigators
Regulation.
§ 77

*

Section 78 The Minister responsible for law enforcement shall be authorized *to
the)*
b) - *in agreement with the Minister responsible for tax policy - by authorizing the activity covered by this Act and by issuing the card
*

administrative service charge for the issue of
*

c) the liability insurance contract,
d)

*

*
e) the
minutes specified in Section 31,

*

*
f) the
professional qualifications required for the performance of the activities specified in this Act

a regulation laying down detailed rules for the
Transitional provisions

*

78 / A. § If* the organizer of the mass event is in accordance with 72 / C. § with or without disproportionate difficulty
would be costly, 72 / C. Is exempted from fulfilling the obligations specified in § until 31 December 2019.
Compliance with European Union law

*

Section* 79 (1) This Act serves compliance with the following EU legal acts:
(a) the right of citizens of the Union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States, and
amending Regulation (EEC) No 1612/68 and Directives 64/221 / EEC, 68/360 / EEC, 72/194 / EEC, 73/148 / EEC, 75/34 / EEC, 75/35 / EEC and EEC, a
Directive 2004/38 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 repealing Directives 90/364 / EEC, 90/365 / EEC and 93/96 / EEC
Article 24 of the Council Directive
(b) Directive 2005/36 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 September 2005 on the recognition of professional qualifications,
(c) Article 5 (3) of Directive 2006/123 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market,
Articles 11 and 16.
(2) Article 72 / A of this Act. § 2006/123 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market
prior notification pursuant to Article 39 (5) of Council Directive
*
(3) This
Act on European Statistics and the European Statistics covered by the obligation of professional secrecy

Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1101/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the transmission of data to the Statistical Office of the European Communities
Council Regulation (EC) No 322/97 on Community Statistics and establishing a Statistical Program Committee of the European Communities
Decision No 223/2009 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2009 repealing Council Decision 89/382 / EEC, Euratom
lays down the provisions necessary for the implementation of this Council Regulation.

Back to top

About Wolters Kluwer

Informations

Our pages

Company history

F.A.Q

Wolters Kluwer

Our core values

Privacy Policy

Legal library

Sales representatives

Media offer

Trainings

Customer service

Cookie settings

Tax Online

Follow us

Legal world

Because it's important to make the right decision!

Contact Cookie Management Information

Imprint

© Wolters Kluwer

