Page 1

REGULATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
NUMBER 54 YEAR 2015
ABOUT
MINISTRY OF COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATICS

BY THE GRACE OF GOD ALMIGHTY

PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,

Considering: that with the establishment of the
Ministry of Work Cabinet for the period 2014-2019 and
to implement the provisions of Article 11 of the Law
Number 39 of 2008 concerning State Ministries, it is necessary
to stipulate a Presidential Regulation concerning Ministries
Communication and Information Technology;

Remember

: 1. Article 4 paragraph (1) and Article 17 of the Constitution
Republic of Indonesia in 1945;
2. Law Number 39 of 2008 concerning
Ministry of State (State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia
Indonesia Year 2008 Number 166, Supplement to the Gazette
Republic of Indonesia Number 4916);
3. Presidential Regulation Number 165 of 2014 concerning
Structuring the Duties and Functions of the Work Cabinet (Sheet
Republic of Indonesia Year 2014 Number 339);
4. Presidential Regulation Number 7 of 2015 concerning
Organization of State Ministries (State Gazette
Republic of Indonesia Year 2015 Number 8);

DECIDING: ...

Page 2

-2-

DECIDING:

Establish: REGULATION

PRESIDENT

ABOUT

MINISTRY

COMMUNICATION AND INFORMATION.

PIG
POSITION, DUTIES, AND FUNCTIONS

article 1
(1) The Ministry of Communication and Information Technology is in
under and responsible to the President.
(2) The Ministry of Communications and Information Technology is led by
Minister.

Section 2
The Ministry of Communication and Information Technology has the task of
carry out government affairs in the field of
communication and informatics to assist the President
in administering the state government.

Article 3
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 2, Ministry of Communication and Information
perform functions:
a. formulation and determination of policies in the field of
management of postal resources and equipment and
informatics, postal and informatics management,
informatics application management, management
public information and communications;
b. implementation...

Page 3

-3-

b. implementation of policies in the field of resource management
power

and

device

post

and

informatics,

post and information technology administration, management
informatics applications, information management and
public communications;
c. implementation of technical guidance and supervision of
implementation of the management of postal resources and equipment
and informatics, postal and informatics administration,
informatics application management, management
public information and communications;
d. implementation of research and development of resources
human in the field of communication and informatics;
e. implementation of substantive support to
all organizational elements within the Ministry
Communication and Information Technology;
f. coaching and providing administrative support in
environment of the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology;
g. management of state property/wealth that becomes
responsibility of the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology;
and
h. supervision of the implementation of tasks in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.

CHAPTER II
ORGANIZATION
Part One
Organization structure
Article 4
The Ministry of Communication and Information Technology consists of:
a. Secretariat...

Page 4

-4-

a. General Secretariat;
b. Directorate General of Postal Resources and Equipment and
Informatics;
c. Directorate General of Post and Information Technology Administration;
d. Directorate General of Informatics Applications;
e. Directorate General of Information and Public Communication;
f. Inspectorate General;
g. Research and Development Agency for Resources
Human;
h. Legal Expert Staff;
i. Expert Staff for Social, Economic, and Cultural Affairs;
j. Expert Staff for Communication and Mass Media; and
k. Technology Expert Staff.

The second part
General Secretariat

Article 5
(1) The Secretariat General is under and responsible for
answer to the Minister.
(2) The Secretariat General is headed by the Secretary General.

Article 6
The Secretariat General has the task of organizing
coordination of the implementation of tasks as well as coaching and
providing administrative support to all units
organizations within the Ministry of Communications and
informatics.

Article ...

Page 5

-5-

Article 7
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 6, the Secretariat General carries out the following functions:
a. coordination of activities of the Ministry of Communications and
Informatics;
b. coordination and preparation of plans, programs, and
budget of the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology;
c. coaching and providing administrative support
including administration, staffing, finance,
housekeeping, cooperation, community relations,
archives, and documentation of the Ministry of Communications and
Informatics;
d. fostering and structuring the organization and management;
e. coordination and preparation of laws and regulations
invitation and implementation of legal advocacy;
f. management of state property/wealth and services
procurement of government goods/services; and
g. implementation of other functions assigned by the Minister.

Part Three
Directorate General of Resources and Equipment of Post and Information Technology

Article 8
(1) Directorate General of Postal Resources and Equipment and
Informatics is under and responsible
to the Minister.
(2) Directorate General of Postal Resources and Equipment and
Informatics is led by the Director General.

Article ...

Page 6

-6-

Article 9
Directorate General of Postal Resources and Equipment and
Informatics has the task of organizing the formulation of
and implementation of policies in spectrum management
radio frequency and satellite orbit and standardization
postal and informatics equipment.

Article 10
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 9, Directorate General of Postal Resources and Equipment
and Informatics carries out the following functions:
a. formulation of policies in the field of structuring, licensing,
monitoring and evaluation as well as law enforcement
use of radio frequency spectrum and satellite orbit orbit
and standardization of postal and information technology equipment;
b. implementation of policies in the field of structuring, licensing,
monitoring and evaluation as well as law enforcement
use of radio frequency spectrum and satellite orbit orbit
and standardization of postal and information technology equipment;
c. preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria in
the field of supervision of the standardization of telecommunications equipment;
d. implementation of providing technical guidance and supervision in
the field of supervision of the standardization of telecommunications equipment;
e. implementation of evaluation and reporting in the field of structuring,
licensing, monitoring and evaluation and enforcement
laws on the use of the radio frequency spectrum and orbit
satellite and standardization of postal and information technology equipment;
f. implementation of the administration of the Directorate General of Resources
Postal and Informatics Power and Equipment; and
g. implementation of other functions assigned by the Minister.
Parts...

Page 7

-7-

Part Four
Directorate General of Post and Information Technology

Article 11
(1) Directorate General of Post and Information Technology Administration
under and responsible to the Minister.
(2) Directorate General of Post and Information Technology
led by the Director General.

Article 12
Directorate General of Post and Information Technology
has the task of organizing the formulation and
implementation of policies in the field of postal administration and
informatics.

Article 13
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 12, Directorate General of Postal Administration and
Informatics performs the following functions:
a. formulation of policies in the field of service standardization,
licensing services and increasing accessibility,
connectivity and security of telecommunications infrastructure,
infrastructure development and implementation ecosystem
post, telecommunications, and broadcasting;
b. implementation of policies in the field of service standardization,
licensing services and increasing accessibility,
connectivity and security of telecommunications infrastructure,
infrastructure development and implementation ecosystem
post, telecommunications, and broadcasting;

c. drafting...

Page 8

-8-

c. preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria in
in the field of licensing services and improvement
accessibility, connectivity and infrastructure security
telecommunications, infrastructure development and
ecosystem of postal, telecommunications, and
broadcasting;
d. providing technical guidance and supervision in the field of
licensing services and increasing accessibility,
connectivity and security of telecommunications infrastructure,
infrastructure development and implementation ecosystem
post, telecommunications, and broadcasting;
e. implementation of evaluation and reporting in the field of
postal and information technology administration;
f. implementation

administration

Directorate

General

Implementation of Post and Information Technology; and
g. implementation of other functions assigned by the Minister.

Part Five
Directorate General of Informatics Applications

Article 14
(1) The Directorate General of Informatics Applications is under the
and is responsible to the Minister.
(2) The Directorate General of Informatics Applications is led by
Director General.

Article 15
The Directorate General of Informatics Applications has the task of:
carry out the formulation and implementation of policies in
informatics application management.
Article ...

Page 9

-9-

Article 16
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 15, Directorate General of Informatics Applications
perform functions:
a. policy formulation in the field of governance
e-Government , e- Business , and information security,
improvement of application technology and infrastructure
informatics and informatics empowerment;
b. implementation of policies in the field of governance
e-Government , e- Business , and information security,
improvement of application technology and infrastructure
informatics and informatics empowerment;
c. preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria in
e-Government management field ;
d. implementation of providing technical guidance and supervision
in the field of e-Government management ;
e. implementation of evaluation and reporting in the field of
governance of e-Government , e- Business , and security
information, technology and infrastructure improvements
informatics application and informatics empowerment;
f. implementation of the administration of the Directorate General of Applications
Informatics; and
g. implementation of other functions assigned by the Minister.
Part Six
Directorate General of Information and Public Communication
Article 17
(1) Directorate General of Public Information and Communication
under and responsible to the Minister.
(2) Directorate General of Public Information and Communication
led by the Director General.
Article ...

Page 10

- 10 -

Article 18
Directorate General of Information and Public Communication
has the task of organizing the formulation and
implementation of policies in the field of information management and
public communication.

Article 19
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 18, Directorate General of Information and Communication

The public performs the following functions:
a. formulation of policies in the field of management and
dissemination of public information, increasing the role of the media
public, as well as the development of information and
government public relations;
b. implementation of policies in the field of management and
dissemination of public information, increasing the role of the media
public, as well as the development of information and
government public relations;
c. preparation of norms, standards, procedures, and criteria in
management and dissemination of public information,
increasing the role of public media, as well as developing
government information and public relations institutions;
d. implementation of providing technical guidance and supervision
in the field of management and dissemination of public information,
increasing the role of public media, as well as developing
government information and public relations institutions;
e. implementation of evaluation and reporting in the field of
management and dissemination of public information,
increasing the role of public media, as well as developing
government information and public relations institutions;

f. implementation...

Page 11

- 11 -

f. implementation of the administration of the Directorate General of Information
and Public Communications; and
g. implementation of other functions assigned by the Minister.

Seventh Part
Inspectorate General

Article 20
(1) The Inspectorate General is under and responsible for
answer to the Minister.
(2) The Inspectorate General is led by the Inspector General.

Article 21
The Inspectorate General has the task of administering
internal supervision within the Ministry of Communications
and Informatics.

Article 22
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 21, the Inspectorate General carries out the functions of:
a. preparation of technical policies for internal control in
environment of the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology;
b. implementation of internal control in the environment
Ministry of Communications and Information Technology towards
performance and finance through audits, reviews, evaluations,
monitoring, and other supervisory activities;
c. implementation of supervision for certain purposes over
assignment of the Minister;
d. preparation of reports on the results of supervision in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics;
e. implementation...

Page 12

- 12 -

e. implementation of the administration of the Inspectorate General; and
f. implementation of other functions assigned by the Minister.

Part Eight
Human Resources Research and Development Agency
Article 23
(1) Resource Research and Development Agency
Humans are under and responsible to
Minister.
(2) Research and Development Agency for Resources
Humans are led by the Head of the Agency.

Article 24
Human Resources Research and Development Agency
has the task of conducting research and
development in the field of communication and informatics as well as
human resource development communication and
informatics.

Article 25
In carrying out the tasks as referred to in
Article 24, Agency for Research and Development of Resources
Humans perform functions:
a. formulation of technical policies in the field of research and
development of communication and informatics as well as
human resource development communication and
informatics;
b. implementation of research and development in the field of
communication and informatics and resource development pengembangan
human resources for communication and informatics;
c. implementation...

Page 13

- 13 -

c. implementation of evaluation and reporting in the field of research
and development of communication and informatics as well as
human resource development communication and
informatics;
d. implementation of the administration of the Research and Development Agency
Human Resource Development; and
e. implementation of other functions assigned by the Minister.

Part Ten
Expert staff
Article 26
Expert Staff are under and responsible to
Minister and administratively coordinated by
Secretary General.
Article 27
(1) Expert Staff for Legal Affairs has the task of providing
recommendations on strategic issues to the Minister
related to law.
(2) Expert Staff for Social, Economic, and Cultural Affairs
has the task of providing recommendations to
strategic issues to the Minister related to the
social, economic, and cultural.
(3) Expert Staff for Communication and Mass Media
has the task of providing recommendations to
strategic issues to the Minister related to the
communication and mass media.
(4) Expert Staff in the Technology Sector has the task of providing
recommendations on strategic issues to the Minister
related to technology.
Parts...

Page 14

- 14 -

Eleventh Part
Functional

Article 28
Within the Ministry of Communication and Information
functional positions can be assigned in accordance with
needs whose implementation is carried out in accordance with
the provisions of the legislation.

CHAPTER III
TECHNICAL IMPLEMENTATION UNIT

Article 29
(1) To carry out operational and/or technical tasks
supporting technical tasks within the Ministry
Communication and Informatics Units can be formed
Technical Executor.
(2) The Technical Implementation Unit is led by the Head.

Article 30
The Ministry's Technical Implementation Unit as intended
in Article 29 paragraph (1) is stipulated by the Minister after
obtain written approval from the minister who
carry out government affairs in the field of apparatus
country.

CHAPTER ...

Page 15

- 15 -

CHAPTER IV
WORKING PROCEDURE

Article 31
In carrying out its duties and functions, the Ministry of
Communication and Informatics must develop a business map
process that describes the working relationship
effective and efficient between organizational units in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.

Article 32
The Minister submits a report to the President regarding
the results of the implementation of government affairs in the field of
communication and informatics periodically or at any time
time as needed.

Article 33
The Ministry of Communication and Information Technology must prepare
job analysis, job map, job description, and analysis
workload for all positions in the environment
Ministry of Communication and Informatics.

Article 34
Every element within the Ministry of Communications and
Informatics in carrying out its duties must
apply the principles of coordination, integration and synchronization
both within the Ministry of Communications and
Informatics and in inter-agency relations
government, both central and local.

Article ...

Page 16

- 16 -

Article 35
Each organizational unit leader must implement a system
government internal control in their respective
each to realize the implementation of the mechanism
public accountability through planning,

implementation, and integrated performance reporting.

Article 36
Each organizational unit leader is responsible for
lead and coordinate subordinates and provide
directions and instructions for the implementation of tasks
subordinate.

Article 37
Each organizational unit leader is required to supervise
implementation of the duties of their respective subordinates and if
deviations occur must take steps
required in accordance with the provisions of the regulations
legislation.

Article 38
Each organizational unit leader must follow and
comply with instructions and be responsible to superiors
each and submit performance reports individually
periodically on time.

Article 39
In carrying out their duties, each organizational unit leader
must carry out coaching and supervision of the unit
organization under it.
CHAPTER ...

Page 17

- 17 -

CHAPTER V
FUNDING
Article 40
All funding needed to carry out tasks
and functions of the Ministry of Communication and Information
charged to the Revenue and Expenditure Budget
Country.

CHAPTER VI
OTHER PROVISIONS
Article 41
Further provisions regarding duties, functions, composition
organization, and work procedures of the Ministry of Communications and
Informatics is determined by the Minister after receiving
written approval from the minister who organized
government affairs in the field of state apparatus.

CHAPTER VII
TRANSITIONAL TERMS
Article 42
At the time this Presidential Regulation comes into force, all
implementing provisions of Presidential Regulation Number 24
Year 2010 concerning Position, Duties, and Functions
State Ministries and Organizational Structure, Duties, and
Echelon I Functions of State Ministries as already
amended several times, most recently by Presidential Decree
Number 135 of 2014 relating to the Ministry of Finance
Communication and Informatics, still applies as long as
does not conflict and has not been changed and/or replaced
with new regulations based on this Presidential Regulation.
Article ...

Page 18

- 18 -

Article 43
At the time this Presidential Regulation comes into force, all
existing positions and officials holding positions in
environment of the Ministry of Communication and Information Technology, still
carry out their duties and functions up to
the establishment of a new position and the appointment of a new official
based on this Presidential Regulation.

CHAPTER VIII
CLOSING

Article 44
At the time this Presidential Regulation comes into force, all
provisions regarding the Ministry of Communications and
Informatics in:
a. Presidential Regulation Number 24 of 2010 concerning
Position, Duties, and Functions of State Ministries
As well as the Organizational Structure, Duties, and Functions of Echelon I
Ministry of State as has been several times
amended, lastly by Presidential Regulation Number 135
Year 2014; and
b. Presidential Regulation Number 165 of 2014 concerning
Structuring the Duties and Functions of the Work Cabinet;
revoked and declared invalid.

Article 45
This Presidential Regulation comes into force on
invited.

So that ...

Page 19

- 19 -

For everyone to know, command
invitation

Rules

President

this

with

its placement in the State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia.

Set in Jakarta
on May 4, 2015
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,
signed.
JOKO WIDODO

Promulgated in Jakarta
on May 4, 2015
MINISTER OF LAW AND HUMAN RIGHTS
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,
signed.
YASONNA H. LAOLY

STATE GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA YEAR 2015 NUMBER 96

Copies match the original
SECRETARIAT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Deputy for Politics, Law,
and Security,
signed.
Bistok Simbolon

