Page 1

LAWS OF THE REPUBLIC INDONESIA
NUMBER 23 YEAR 2002
ABOUT
CHILD PROTECTION
BY THE GRACE OF GOD ALMIGHTY
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,
Considering:
a. that the Unitary State of the Republic of Indonesia guarantees the welfare of every citizen
country, including the protection of children's rights which are human rights;
b. that children are a trust and gift from God Almighty, which is inherent in him
dignity and worth as a whole human being;
c. that children are buds, potentials, and the younger generation to succeed the ideals of the nation's struggle,
has a strategic role and has special characteristics and characteristics that ensure the continuity of
the existence of the nation and state in the future;
d. that in order for every child to be able to take on these responsibilities, he needs to
get the widest opportunity to grow and develop optimally, both
physically, mentally and socially, and have noble character, it is necessary to protect and
to realize the welfare of children by providing guarantees for the fulfillment of children's rights
their rights and treatment without discrimination;
e. that to realize the protection and welfare of children, support is needed
institutions and laws and regulations that can guarantee their implementation;
f. that various laws only regulate certain things regarding children and generally
has not specifically regulated all aspects related to child protection;
g. that based on the considerations in letters a, b, c, d, e, and f it is necessary to determine
Law on Child Protection;
Remember:
1. Article 20, Article 20A paragraph (1), Article 21, Article 28B paragraph (2), and Article 34 of the Constitution
Republic of Indonesia in 1945;
2. Law Number 4 of 1979 concerning Child Welfare (State Gazette of the
1979 Number 32, Supplement to the State Gazette Number 3143);
3. Law Number 7 of 1984 concerning the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination
against Women (Convention on The Elimination of all Forms of Discrimination Against
Women) (State Gazette of 1984 Number 29, Supplement to State Gazette Number
3277);
4. Law Number 3 of 1997 concerning Juvenile Court (State Gazette of the
1997 Number 3, Supplement to the State Gazette Number 3668);
5. Law Number 4 of 1997 concerning Persons with Disabilities (State Gazette of the
1997 Number 9, Supplement to the State Gazette Number 3670);
6. Law Number 20 of 1999 concerning Ratification of the ILO Convention No. 138
Concerning Minimum Age for Admission to Employment (ILO Convention on Age
Minimum to be allowed to work) (State Gazette of 1999 Number 56,
Supplement to the State Gazette Number 3835);
7. Law Number 39 of 1999 concerning Human Rights (State Gazette of the
1999 Number 165, Supplement to the State Gazette Number 3886);
8. Law Number 1 Year 2000 concerning Ratification of ILO Convention No. 182
Concerning The Prohibition and Immediate Action for The Elimination of The Worst Forms of
Child Labor (ILO Convention No. 182 concerning the Prohibition and Immediate Action for the Elimination
Worst Forms of Child Labor) (State Gazette Year 2000 Number 30,
Supplement to the State Gazette Number 3941);
With approval:
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVE OF INDONESIA REPUBLIC

Page 2

DECIDING :
To enact : LAW CONCERNING CHILD PROTECTION.
PIG
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
article 1
In this law what is meant by:
1. Child is a person who is not yet 18 (eighteen) years old, including a child who
still in the womb.
2. Child protection is all activities to guarantee and protect children and their rights.
their right to live, grow, develop, and participate optimally in accordance with
with human dignity and respect, and receive protection from violence and
discrimination.
3. The family is the smallest unit in society consisting of husband and wife, or husband and wife
and child, or father and child, or mother and child, or blood relatives in the line
straight up or down to the third degree.
4. Parents are biological father and/or mother, or father and/or stepmother, or father and/or mother
lift.
5. A guardian is a person or entity that in fact exercises custody as a guardian
parents to children.
6. Abandoned children are children whose needs are not met properly, physically, mentally,
spiritual, and social.
7. Children with disabilities are children who experience physical and/or mental barriers
thereby interfering with normal growth and development.
8. Children who have advantages are children who have extraordinary intelligence, or
have special potential and/or talent.
9. An adopted child is a child whose rights have been transferred from the environment of another person's family
parent, legal guardian, or other person responsible for the care, education, and
raise the child, into the family environment of his adoptive parents based on
judgment or court order.
10. Foster children are children who are cared for by a person or institution, to be given guidance,
maintenance, care, education, and health, because of their parents or one of the
parents are not able to guarantee the child's growth and development properly.
11. Foster power is the power of parents to care for, educate, maintain, foster,
protect, and develop children according to their religion and
abilities, talents and interests.
12. Children's rights are part of human rights that must be guaranteed, protected and fulfilled
by parents, family, community, government, and state.
13. Community is individuals, families, groups, and social organizations and/or
community organizations.
14. Companion is a social worker who has professional competence in his/her field.
15. Special protection is protection given to children in emergency situations,
children in conflict with the law, children from minority and isolated groups, children who
economically and/or sexually exploited, trafficked children, children who become
victims of abuse of narcotics, alcohol, psychotropics, and other addictive substances (drugs), children
victims of kidnapping, selling, trafficking, child victims of physical and/or mental violence,
children with disabilities, and children who are victims of abuse and neglect.
16. Everyone is an individual or a corporation.
17. Government is the Government which includes the Central Government and Regional Government.
CHAPTER II
PRINCIPLES AND OBJECTIVES
Section 2
The implementation of child protection is based on Pancasila and based on the Constitution
The Republic of Indonesia of 1945 and the basic principles of the Convention on the Rights of the Child include:
a. non-discrimination;
b. the best interests of the child;
c. the right to life, survival and development; and
d. respect for the opinion of the child.

Page 3

Article 3
Child protection aims to ensure the fulfillment of children's rights so that they can live, grow,
develop, and participate optimally in accordance with human dignity and
receive protection from violence and discrimination, for the sake of realizing Indonesian children who are
quality, noble, and prosperous.
CHAPTER III
CHILDREN'S RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS
Article 4
Every child has the right to be able to live, grow, develop, and participate fairly in accordance with
with human dignity and respect, and receive protection from violence and
discrimination.
Article 5
Every child has the right to a name as self-identity and citizenship status.
Article 6
Every child has the right to worship according to their religion, think and express themselves according to their religion
level of intelligence and age, under parental guidance.
Article 7
(1) Every child has the right to know his parents, to be raised, and to be cared for by his parents
alone.
(2) In the event that for some reason the parents cannot guarantee the child's growth and development, or
If the child is neglected, the child has the right to be cared for or appointed as a foster child
or adopted child by another person in accordance with the provisions of the applicable laws and regulations
apply.
Article 8
Every child has the right to obtain health services and social security in accordance with their needs
physical, mental, spiritual, and social.
Article 9
(1) Every child has the right to receive education and teaching in the context of development
personality and level of intelligence according to his interests and talents.
(2) In addition to children's rights as referred to in paragraph (1), specifically for children with disabilities
also have the right to get an extraordinary education, while for children who have
also have the right to special education.
Article 10
Every child has the right to express and have his opinion heard, receive, seek, and give
information according to the level of intelligence and age for self-development in accordance with
values ​of decency and propriety.
Article 11
Every child has the right to rest and take advantage of free time, hang out with children who
peers, play, have fun, and be creative according to their interests, talents, and intelligence levels
for self-development.
Article 12
Every child with a disability has the right to receive rehabilitation, social assistance, and maintenance
level of social welfare.
Article 13
(1) Every child while in the care of a parent, guardian, or any other party who is responsible
responsible for care, are entitled to protection from treatment:
a. discrimination;
b. exploitation, whether economic or sexual;
c. neglect;
d. cruelty, violence, and persecution;
e. injustice; and
f. other mistreatment.
(2) In the event that a parent, guardian or child caretaker performs all forms of treatment as described above,
referred to in paragraph (1), the perpetrator is subject to a heavier sentence.
Article 14
Every child has the right to be cared for by his own parents, unless there are reasons and/or rules
valid law indicates that the separation is in the best interests of the child and
is the final consideration.

Page 4

Article 15
Every child has the right to receive protection from:
a. abuse in political activities;
b. involvement in armed conflicts;
c. involvement in social unrest;
d. involvement in events that contain elements of violence; and
e. involvement in war.
Article 16
(1) Every child has the right to obtain protection from targets of abuse, torture, or
inhuman punishment.
(2) Every child has the right to obtain freedom in accordance with the law.
(3) Arrest, detention or imprisonment of a child is only carried out if it is in accordance with
applicable law and can only be done as a last resort.
Article 17
(1) Every child who is deprived of his liberty has the right to:
a. receive humane treatment and their placement is separated from adults;
b. obtain legal aid or other assistance effectively at every stage of the effort
applicable law; and
c. defend themselves and obtain justice before an objective and impartial juvenile court
take sides in a trial closed to the public.
(2) Every child who is a victim or perpetrator of sexual violence or who is
the law has the right to be kept secret.
Article 18
Every child who is a victim or perpetrator of a crime has the right to get legal assistance and
other help.
Article 19
Every child is obliged to:
a. respect parents, guardians, and teachers;
b. love family, community, and love friends;
c. love the homeland, nation, and state;
d. perform worship in accordance with the teachings of his religion; and
e. carry out noble ethics and morals.

CHAPTER IV
OBLIGATIONS AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Part One
General
Article 20
The state, government, community, family, and parents are obliged and responsible
to the implementation of child protection.
The second part
Obligations and Responsibilities
State and Government
Article 21
The state and government are obliged and responsible to respect and guarantee human rights
every child regardless of ethnicity, religion, race, class, gender, ethnicity, culture and language,
the legal status of the child, the order of the child's birth, and the physical and/or mental condition.
Article 22
The state and government are obliged and responsible for providing support facilities and
infrastructure in the implementation of child protection.
Article 23
(1) The state and the government guarantee the protection, maintenance and welfare of children by
pay attention to the rights and obligations of parents, guardians, or other legally
responsible for children.
(2) The state and the government supervise the implementation of child protection.

Page 5

Article 24
The state and government guarantee children to exercise their right to express opinions
according to the age and level of intelligence of the child.
Part Three
Community Obligations and Responsibilities
Article 25
The obligations and responsibilities of the community towards child protection are carried out through activities
the role of the community in the implementation of child protection.
Part Four
Obligations and Responsibilities
Family and Parents
Article 26
(1) Parents are obliged and responsible for:
a. nurturing, nurturing, educating, and protecting children;
b. develop children according to their abilities, talents and interests; and
c. prevent child marriage.
(2) In the event that the parents are absent, or their whereabouts are unknown, or for some reason, no
can carry out their obligations and responsibilities, then the obligations and responsibilities
referred to in paragraph (1) may be transferred to the family, which is carried out in accordance with
with the provisions of the applicable laws and regulations.

CHAPTER V
CHILDREN'S POSITION
Part One
Child Identity
Article 27
(1) The identity of each child must be given from birth.
(2) The identity as referred to in paragraph (1) shall be stated in the birth certificate.
(3) The making of a birth certificate is based on a certificate from the person who witnesses and/or
help with the birth process.
(4) In the case of a child whose birth process is unknown, and whose parents are unknown
existence, the making of a birth certificate for the child is based on the person's information
who found it.
Article 28
(1) The making of birth certificates is the responsibility of the government which in its implementation
held at the lowest level at the kelurahan/village level.
(2) The making of a birth certificate as referred to in paragraph (1) must be given no later than 30
(thirty) days from the date the application is submitted.
(3) The making of a birth certificate as referred to in paragraph (1) is free of charge.
(4) Provisions regarding the procedures and conditions for making a birth certificate as intended
in paragraph (1), shall be regulated by laws and regulations.

The second part
Children Born from
Mixed Marriage
Article 29
(1) If there is a mixed marriage between a citizen of the Republic of Indonesia and a citizen of the Republic of Indonesia,
foreigner, the child born from the marriage has the right to obtain the citizenship of the
father or mother in accordance with the provisions of the applicable laws and regulations.
(2) In the event of a divorce from a marriage as referred to in paragraph (1), the child has the right to
to choose or based on a court decision, is in the care of one of the
both parents.

Page 6

(3) In the event of a divorce as referred to in paragraph (2), while the child has not
able to make choices and the mother is a citizen of the Republic of Indonesia, for the sake of
in the best interests of the child or at the request of the mother, the government is obliged to take care of the status
the citizenship of the Republic of Indonesia for the child.
CHAPTER VI
Parenting POWER
Article 30
(1) In the event that the parents as referred to in Article 26, neglect their obligations,
Supervision actions can be taken against him or the parent's guardianship can be revoked.
(2) The act of supervising parents or revocation of foster care as referred to
in paragraph (1) is carried out through a court order.
Article 31
(1) One of the parents, siblings, or relatives up to the third degree, can apply
application to the court to obtain a court order regarding the revocation of power of attorney
foster parents or take supervisory action if there is a strong reason for it.
(2) If one of the parents, siblings, or family is up to the third degree, no
can carry out its functions, then the revocation of the parental guardianship as referred to
in paragraph (1) may also be submitted by an authorized official or other institution which
have the authority to do so.
(3) The court stipulation as referred to in paragraph (1) may appoint persons

individuals or government/community institutions to become guardians for those who
concerned.
(4) Individuals who carry out child care as referred to in paragraph (3) must:
the same religion as the religion of the child to be cared for.
Article 32
The court stipulation as referred to in Article 31 paragraph (3) shall at least contain:
conditions:
a. does not break the blood relationship between the child and his biological parents;
b. does not eliminate the obligation of parents to support their children's lives; and
c. withdrawal deadline.
CHAPTER VII
GUARANTEE
Article 33
(1) In the event that the child's parents are incapable of carrying out legal actions, or the location is unknown
residence or existence, then a person or legal entity that meets the requirements may
appointed as guardian of the child concerned.
(2) To become the guardian of the child as referred to in paragraph (1) is carried out through the determination of
court.
(3) The guardian appointed as referred to in paragraph (2) must have the same religion as the religion
adopted by the child.
(4) For the benefit of the child, the guardian as referred to in paragraph (2) is obliged to manage the property
the child in question.
(5) Provisions regarding the terms and procedures for appointing a guardian as referred to in paragraph (1)
further regulated by Government Regulation.
Article 34
A guardian who is appointed based on a court decision as referred to in Article 33, may
represent children to carry out legal actions, both inside and outside the court to
the best interests of the child.
Article 35
(1) In the event that the child has not received a court ruling regarding the guardian, then the child's assets shall be
The said property can be managed by the Heritage Office or other institutions that have
authority for it.
(2) The Balai Harta Peninggalan or other institutions as referred to in paragraph (1) act
as a supervisory guardian to represent the interests of the child.
(3) The management of assets as referred to in paragraph (1) and paragraph (2) must obtain a stipulation
Article 36

Page 7

(1) In the event that the appointed guardian turns out to be incapable of carrying out legal actions in the future
or abuses his power as a guardian, then his guardianship status is revoked and appointed
another person as a guardian through a court order.
(2) In the event that the guardian dies, another person is appointed as the guardian through a court order.

CHAPTER VIII
PARENTING AND APPOINTMENT OF CHILDREN
Part One
Parenting
Article 37
(1) Child care is aimed at children whose parents cannot guarantee their growth
development of their children naturally, physically, mentally, spiritually, and socially.
(2) Child care as referred to in paragraph (1) is carried out by institutions that
have the authority to do so.
(3) In the event that the institution as referred to in paragraph (2) is based on religion, the child being cared for
must be of the same religion as the religion that is the foundation of the institution concerned.
(4) In the event that child care is carried out by an institution that is not based on religion, then
the implementation of child care must take into account the religion of the child concerned.
(5) Child care by the institution can be done inside or outside the Social Institution.
(6) Individuals who wish to participate can go through the institutions as intended
in paragraph (3), paragraph (4), and paragraph (5).
Article 38
(1) Child care as referred to in Article 37, is carried out regardless of ethnicity,
religion, race, class, gender, ethnicity, culture and language, legal status of children, order
birth of a child, and physical and/or mental condition.
(2) Child care as referred to in paragraph (1) is carried out through activities
guidance, maintenance, care, and education on an ongoing basis, as well as with
provide financial assistance and/or other facilities, to ensure the child's growth and development
optimally, physically, mentally, spiritually and socially, without affecting the religion of the child.

The second part
Child Adoption
Article 39
(1) Adoption of a child can only be carried out in the best interest of the child and
carried out based on local customs and provisions of applicable laws and regulations
apply.
(2) The adoption of a child as referred to in paragraph (1) does not break the blood relationship
between the adopted child and his biological parents.
(3) Prospective adoptive parents must be of the same religion as the religion adopted by the prospective adopted child.
(4) Adoption of children by foreign nationals can only be done as a last resort.
(5) In the event that the origin of the child is unknown, then the religion of the child is adjusted to the religion of the majority
local people.
Article 40
(1) Adoptive parents are obliged to notify their adopted children of their origins and their parents
biological old.
(2) Notification of origin and biological parents as referred to in paragraph (1)
This is done by taking into account the readiness of the child concerned.
Article 41
(1) The government and the public shall provide guidance and supervision on the implementation of
adoption of a child.
(2) Provisions regarding guidance and supervision as referred to in paragraph (1) shall be regulated
with Government Regulation.
CHAPTER IX
PROTECTION IMPLEMENTATION
Part One
Religion

Page 8

Article 42
(1) Every child has protection to worship according to his religion.
(2) Before the child can make his choice, the religion adopted by the child follows the religion of others
old.
Article 43
(1) The state, government, community, family, parents, guardians, and social institutions guarantee that
protection of children in embracing their religion.
(2) Protection of children in embracing their religion as referred to in paragraph (1) includes
coaching, mentoring, and practicing religious teachings for children.
The second part
Health
Article 44
(1) The government is obliged to provide facilities and carry out health efforts that
comprehensive program for children, so that every child obtains optimal health status from within
content.
(2) Provision of facilities and implementation of comprehensive health efforts as referred to in paragraph (1)
referred to in paragraph (1) is supported by community participation.
(3) Comprehensive health efforts as referred to in paragraph (1) include efforts to:

promotive, preventive, curative, and rehabilitative, both for basic health services
as well as references.
(4) Comprehensive health efforts as referred to in paragraph (1)
held free of charge for poor families.
(5) Implementation of the provisions as referred to in paragraph (1), paragraph (2), paragraph (3), and paragraph (4)
adjusted to the provisions of the applicable laws and regulations.
Article 45
(1) Parents and families are responsible for maintaining children's health and caring for children since
in the womb.
(2) In the case of parents and families who are unable to carry out their responsibilities
as referred to in paragraph (1), the government is obliged to fulfill it .
(3) The obligations as referred to in paragraph (2) shall be implemented in accordance with

with the provisions of the applicable laws and regulations.
Article 46
The state, government, family, and parents are obliged to ensure that children born are protected from
disease that threatens survival and/or causes disability.
Article 47
(1) The state, government, family, and parents are obliged to protect children from organ transplantation efforts
body for the other.
(2) The state, government, family, and parents are obliged to protect children from acts:
a. harvesting of child's organs and/or child's body tissue without regard to health
child;
b. sale and purchase of organs and/or body tissues of children; and
c. health research that uses children as research objects without parental consent
and not prioritizing the best interests of the child.
Part Three
Education
Article 48
The government is obliged to provide a minimum of 9 (nine) years of basic education for all children.
Article 49
The state, government, family, and parents are obliged to provide the widest possible opportunities
for children to get an education.
Article 50
Education as referred to in Article 48 is directed at:
a. development of attitudes and abilities of children's personality, talents, mental and physical abilities kemampuan
until they reach their optimal potential;
b. development of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms;

Page 9

c. development of respect for parents, cultural identity, language and values
themselves, the national values ​of where the child lives, where the child comes from, and
civilizations different from one's own;
d. preparation of the child for a responsible life; and
e. development of respect and love for the environment.
Article 51
Children with physical and/or mental disabilities are given equal opportunities and accessibility
to obtain ordinary and extraordinary education.
Article 52
Children who have advantages are given the opportunity and accessibility to obtain
special education.
Article 53
(1) The government is responsible for providing free education costs and/or assistance
or special services for children from underprivileged families, neglected children, and children who
reside in remote areas.
(2) The government's accountability as referred to in paragraph (1) includes also encouraging
community to take an active role.
Article 54
Children in and within the school environment must be protected from acts of violence committed
by teachers, school administrators or their friends in the school concerned, or institutions
other education.
Part Four
Social
Article 55
(1) The government is obliged to carry out the maintenance and care of neglected children, both in terms of
institution or outside the institution.
(2) The maintenance as referred to in paragraph (1) can be carried out by
community institutions.
(3) To organize the maintenance and care of abandoned children, government agencies and
community institutions, as referred to in paragraph (2), may enter into cooperation with
various parties involved.
(4) In terms of the implementation of maintenance and care as referred to in paragraph (3),
Supervision is carried out by the Minister of Social Affairs.
Article 56
(1) The government in carrying out maintenance and maintenance is obligated to seek and
help children, so that children can:
a. participate;
b. free to express opinions and think according to their conscience and religion;
c. free to receive oral or written information according to the stage of age and development
child;
d. free association and assembly;
e. free to rest, play, recreation, be creative, and create arts and culture; and
f. obtain play facilities that meet health and safety requirements.
(2) The efforts as referred to in paragraph (1) are developed and adapted to the age, level of
the ability of children, and their environment so as not to hinder and interfere with development
child.
Article 57
In the event that the child is neglected for some reason, his parents neglect their obligations, then the institution
as referred to in Article 55, the family, or the authorized official may apply
an application to the court to determine the child as an abandoned child.
Article 58
(1) The court stipulation as referred to in Article 57 shall at the same time determine the place
shelter, maintenance, and care of the neglected child concerned.
(2) The government or authorized institution is obligated to provide a place as referred to in paragraph (1)

referred to in paragraph (1).
Part Five
Special Protection
Article 59

Page 10

The government and other state institutions are obliged and responsible to provide
special protection for children in emergency situations, children in conflict with the law, children
from minority and isolated groups, economically and/or sexually exploited children, children
trafficked persons, children who are victims of narcotics, alcohol, psychotropic,
and other addictive substances (drugs), child victims of kidnapping, sales and trafficking, child victims
violence, both physical and/or mental, children with disabilities, and children who are victims of abuse
and neglect.
Article 60
Children in emergency situations as referred to in Article 59 consist of:
a. children who become refugees;
b. child victims of riots;
c. child victims of natural disasters; and
d. children in situations of armed conflict.
Article 61
Special protection for children who become refugees as referred to in Article 60 letter
a is carried out in accordance with the provisions of humanitarian law.
Article 62
Special protection for children who are victims of riots, disaster victims, and children in conflict situations
armed forces as referred to in Article 60 letter b, letter c, and letter d, are implemented through:
a. fulfillment of basic needs consisting of food, clothing, housing, education,
health, learning and recreation, security guarantees, and equal treatment; and
b. fulfillment of special needs for children with disabilities and children who have
psychosocial disorders.
Article 63
Everyone is prohibited from recruiting or using children for military and/or other purposes and
leave the child without mental protection.
Article 64
(1) Special protection for children in conflict with the law as referred to in
Article 59 covers children who are in conflict with the law and children who are victims of criminal acts
obligations and responsibilities of government and society.
(2) Special protection for children who are in conflict with the law as referred to in
paragraph (1) is implemented through:
a. humane treatment of children in accordance with the dignity and rights of the child;
b. provision of special assistant officers for children from an early age;
c. provision of special facilities and infrastructure;
d. imposing appropriate sanctions in the best interests of the child;
e. continuous monitoring and recording of the child's development
by law;
f. providing guarantees to maintain relationships with parents or family; and
g. protection from identity reporting through mass media and to avoid
labeling.
(3) Special protection for children who are victims of criminal acts as referred to in paragraph (1)
paragraph (1) is implemented through:
a. rehabilitation efforts, both within the institution and outside the institution;
b. efforts to protect from identity reporting through mass media and to avoid
labeling;
c. providing safety guarantees for victim witnesses and expert witnesses, both physically, mentally and physically
social; and
d. providing accessibility to obtain information regarding the progress of the case.
Article 65
(1) Special protection for children from minority and isolated groups as intended
Article 59 is carried out through the provision of infrastructure and facilities to be able to enjoy
own culture, recognize and implement their own religious teachings, and use
his own language.
(2) Everyone is prohibited from obstructing the child as referred to in paragraph (1) to
enjoy their own culture, acknowledge and practice their religious teachings, and use
own language without neglecting access to community and cultural development.
Article 66
(1) Special protection for economically and/or sexually exploited children as referred to in paragraph (1)
referred to in Article 59 are the obligations and responsibilities of the government and the community.

Page 11

(2) Special protection for exploited children as referred to in paragraph (1)
done through:
a. dissemination and/or socialization of the provisions of the relevant laws and regulations
with the protection of economically and/or sexually exploited children;
b. monitoring, reporting, and imposing sanctions; and

c. involving various government agencies, companies, trade unions, non-governmental organizations
society, and society in the economic elimination of exploitation of children
and/or sexual.
(3) Everyone is prohibited from placing, allowing, doing, ordering to do, or participating in
as well as exploiting children as referred to in paragraph (1).
Article 67
Special protection for children who are victims of narcotics, alcohol, psychotropic abuse,
and other addictive substances (drugs) as referred to in Article 59, and are involved in
production and distribution, is carried out through surveillance, prevention, maintenance, and
rehabilitation by the government and the community.
Everyone is prohibited from knowingly placing, allowing, involving, ordering to involve
children in drug abuse, production and distribution as referred to in paragraph (1).
Article 68
Special protection for child victims of abduction, sale and trafficking of children as
referred to in Article 59 is carried out through efforts to control, protect, prevent,
care, and rehabilitation by the government and the community.
Everyone is prohibited from placing, allowing, carrying out, ordering to do, or participating
carry out kidnapping, selling, or trading as referred to in paragraph (1).
Article 69
Special protection for child victims of violence as referred to in Article 59 includes:
physical, psychological, and sexual violence is carried out through the following efforts:
dissemination and socialization of the provisions of laws and regulations that protect children
victims of violence; and
monitoring, reporting, and imposing sanctions.

Everyone is prohibited from placing, allowing, doing, ordering to do, or
participate in committing violence as referred to in paragraph (1) .
Article 70
Special protection for children with disabilities as referred to in Article 59
carried out by means of:
humane treatment of children in accordance with the dignity and rights of the child;
fulfillment of special needs; and
receive the same treatment as other children in order to achieve full social integration
possible and individual development.

Everyone is prohibited from treating children by ignoring their views
discriminatory, including labeling and equality in education for children who are
have a disability.
Article 71
Special protection for child victims of abuse and neglect as intended
in Article 59 is carried out through supervision, prevention, treatment, and rehabilitation by
government and society.
Everyone is prohibited from placing, allowing, involving, ordering to involve children in
situations of mistreatment and neglect as referred to in paragraph (1).
CHAPTER X
THE ROLE OF THE COMMUNITY
Article 72
(1) The public has the right to obtain the widest possible opportunity to play a role in the protection of
child.
(2) The role of the community as referred to in paragraph (1) is carried out by individuals,
child protection institutions, social institutions, non-governmental organizations,
educational institutions, religious institutions, business entities, and mass media.
Article 73
The role of the community is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the applicable laws and regulations.

Page 12

CHAPTER XI
INDONESIAN CHILD PROTECTION COMMISSION
Article 74
In order to increase the effectiveness of the implementation of child protection, by law
The Indonesian Child Protection Commission, which is independent in nature, was formed.
Article 75
(1) The membership of the Indonesian Child Protection Commission consists of 1 (one) chairperson, 2 (two) persons
vice chairman, 1 (one) secretary, and 5 (five) members.
(2) The membership of the Commission as referred to in paragraph (1) consists of elements of the government, public figures
religion, community leaders, social organizations, community organizations, professional organizations,
non-governmental organizations, the business world, and community groups who care about
child protection.
(3) The membership of the Commission as referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be appointed and
dismissed by the President after receiving consideration from the House of Representatives of the Republic of Indonesia
Indonesia, for a term of office of 3 (three) years, and may be reappointed for 1 (one) term
position.
(4) Further provisions regarding organizational completeness, working mechanism, and financing
determined by Presidential Decree.
Article 76
The Indonesian Child Protection Commission is tasked with:
conduct socialization of all provisions of laws and regulations relating to
child protection, collecting data and information, receiving public complaints,
conduct review, monitoring, evaluation, and supervision of the implementation of
child protection;
provide reports, suggestions, input, and considerations to the President in the context of
child protection.
CHAPTER XII
CRIMINAL PROVISIONS
Article 77
Any person who knowingly commits an act:
a. discrimination against children which causes the child to suffer losses, both material and
as well as morally so that it hinders its social function; or
b. neglect of a child that causes the child to experience pain or suffering, whether
physical, mental and social
c. shall be sentenced to a maximum imprisonment of 5 (five) years and/or a maximum fine of Rp
100,000,000.00 (one hundred million rupiah).
Article 78
Everyone who knows and intentionally leaves a child in an emergency situation as
referred to in Article 60, children in conflict with the law, children from minority groups and
isolated, economically and/or sexually exploited children, trafficked children, children
who are victims of abuse of narcotics, alcohol, psychotropics, and other addictive substances (drugs),
child victims of kidnapping, child victims of trafficking, or child victims of violence as
referred to in Article 59, even though the child needs help and must be assisted, the child will be punished
with a maximum imprisonment of 5 (five) years and/or a maximum fine of Rp. 100,000,000.00
(one hundred million rupiah).
Article 79
Everyone who adopts a child that is contrary to the provisions as
referred to in Article 39 paragraph (1), paragraph (2), and paragraph (4), shall be sentenced to a maximum imprisonment of
5 (five) years and/or a maximum fine of Rp. 100,000,000.00 (one hundred million rupiah).
Article 80
(1) Any person who commits atrocities, violence or threats of violence, or persecution
against a child, shall be sentenced to a maximum imprisonment of 3 (three) years and 6 (six) months and/or
a maximum fine of Rp. 72,000,000.00 (seventy-two million rupiah).
(2) In the event that the child as referred to in paragraph (1) is seriously injured, the perpetrator shall be punished with
imprisonment for a maximum of 5 (five) years and/or a maximum fine of Rp. 100,000,000.00
(one hundred million rupiah).

Page 13

(3) In the event that the child as referred to in paragraph (2) dies, the perpetrator shall be punished with a criminal sanction
imprisonment for a maximum of 10 (ten) years and/or a maximum fine of Rp. 200,000,000.00 (two (
hundred million rupiah).
(4) The penalty is added by one third of the provisions as referred to in paragraph (1), paragraph (2), and paragraph
(3) if it is the parents who commit the abuse.
Article 81
(1) Any person who intentionally commits violence or threats of violence to force a child
having intercourse with him or with another person, shall be punished with imprisonment
a maximum of 15 (fifteen) years and a minimum of 3 (three) years and a maximum fine of Rp
300,000,000.00 (three hundred million rupiah) and at least Rp. 60,000,000.00 (sixty million rupiah)
rupiah).
(2) The criminal provisions as referred to in paragraph (1) shall also apply to any person who
deliberately perpetrating a ruse, a series of lies, or coaxing a child
have intercourse with him or with another person.
Article 82
Any person who knowingly commits violence or threats of violence, coercion,
committing a ruse, a series of lies, or persuading a child to do or
allow obscene acts to be carried out, shall be punished with imprisonment for a maximum of 15 (fifteen)
years and a minimum of 3 (three) years and a maximum fine of Rp
rupiah) and at least Rp. 60,000,000.00 (sixty million rupiah).
Article 83
Anyone who trafficked, sold, or kidnapped children for themselves or for
sold, shall be punished with imprisonment for a maximum of 15 (fifteen) years and a minimum of 3 (three)
years and a maximum fine of Rp. 300,000,000.00 (three hundred million rupiah) and a minimum of Rp
60,000,000.00 (sixty million rupiah).
Article 84
Anyone who unlawfully performs organ and/or tissue transplantation of a child
for another party with the intent to benefit themselves or others, shall be punished with
imprisonment for a maximum of 10 (ten) years and/or a maximum fine of Rp
hundred million rupiah).
Article 85
(1) Everyone who buys and sells body organs and/or body tissues of a child shall be punished with
imprisonment for a maximum of 15 (fifteen) years and/or a maximum fine of Rp
(three hundred million rupiah).
(2) Any person who unlawfully performs organ and/or tissue harvesting
child's body without regard to the child's health, or health research using
children as objects of research without parental permission or not prioritizing the interests of
best for the child, shall be sentenced to a maximum imprisonment of 10 (ten) years and/or a fine
a maximum of Rp. 200,000,000.00 (two hundred million rupiah).
Article 86
Any person who willfully uses a ruse, a series of lies, or
persuading children to choose another religion not of their own volition, even though it is known or
It is reasonable to suspect that the child has no sense and is not responsible according to religion
adhered to, shall be punished with imprisonment for a maximum of 5 (five) years and/or a fine of not more than 5 (five) years
IDR 100,000,000.00 (one hundred million rupiah).
Article 87
Anyone who illegally recruits or uses children for military purposes
as referred to in Article 63 or misuse in political activities or involvement
in armed conflict or involvement in social unrest or involvement in events that
contains elements of violence or involvement in war as referred to in Article 15
shall be sentenced to a maximum imprisonment of 5 (five) years and/or a maximum fine of Rp
100,000,000.00 (one hundred million rupiah).
Article 88
Any person who economically or sexually exploits children with the intent to benefit
himself or another person, shall be sentenced to a maximum imprisonment of 10 (ten) years and/or
a maximum fine of Rp. 200,000,000.00 (two hundred million rupiah).
Article 89
(1) Everyone who intentionally places, allows, involves, orders to involve
children in the abuse, production or distribution of narcotics and/or psychotropics shall be punished
with the death penalty or life imprisonment or a maximum imprisonment of 20 (two)

Page 14

twenty) years and a minimum imprisonment of 5 (five) years and a maximum fine of Rp
500,000,000.00 (five hundred million rupiah) and at least Rp. 50,000,000.00 (fifty million rupiah)
rupiah).
(2) Anyone who intentionally places, allows, involves, orders to involve
children in the abuse, production, or distribution of alcohol and other addictive substances are punished
with a maximum imprisonment of 10 (ten) years and a minimum of 2 (two) years and a fine
200,000,000.00 (two hundred million rupiah) and a minimum fine of Rp
20,000,000.00 (twenty million rupiah).
Article 90
(1) In the case of criminal acts as referred to in Article 77, Article 78, Article 79, Article 80,
Article 81, Article 82, Article 83, Article 84, Article 85, Article 86, Article 87, Article 88, and Article 89
committed by a corporation, then the punishment may be imposed on the management and/or the corporation.
(2) The punishment imposed on the corporation is only a fine with the provisions of a fine that is
imposed plus 1/3 (one third) of the respective fines as referred to in paragraph (1)
paragraph (1).
CHAPTER XIII
TRANSITIONAL TERMS
Article 91
At the time this law comes into effect, all relevant laws and regulations
with existing child protection is declared to remain valid as long as it does not conflict
with this law.
CHAPTER XIV
CLOSING
Article 92
At the time this law comes into effect, for a maximum of 1 (one) year, the Child Protection Commission
Indonesia has been formed.
Article 93
This law comes into force on the date of its promulgation.
So that everyone knows it, ordering the promulgation of this law by
its placement in the State Gazette of the Republic of Indonesia.

Legalized in Jakarta
on October 22, 2002
PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,
signed.
MEGAWATI SOEKARNOPUTRI
Promulgated in Jakarta
on October 22, 2002
STATE SECRETARY OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA,
signed.
BAMBANG KESOWO
STATE GAZETTE OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA YEAR 2002 NUMBER 109
Copies match the original
SECRETARIAT OF THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
Head of Bureau of Legislation II
Signed.
Edy Sudibyo

