Page 1

DECRETO LEGISLATIVE 10 August 2018, n. 101

Provisions for the adjudication of the national normative alley
Provisions of the Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament e
of the Council, of 27 April 2016, relating to the protection of the
physical persons with treatment of personal data,
also 'to free circulation of dates that and abrogate the
Directive 95/46 / EC (general regulation on data protection).
(18G00129)

(GU n.205 of 4-9-2018)
Vigente al: 19-9-2018

Capo I
Modify the title and premise of the code in matter
personal data protection of those subject to Legislative Decree 30 June
2003, n. 196

THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC
See Articles 76 and 87 of the Constitution;
Vista added July 25, 2017, n. 163, recante delega al Governo
for the reception of the European directive and the attuation of others
atti dell'Union europea - Legge di delegazione europea 2016-2017, e
in particular Article 13, which delegates the Government to the management of
one or more 'legislative decrees on the adequacy of the normative framework
national to the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 del
European Parliament and Council, 27 April 2016;
Vista la lage 24 dicembre 2012, n. 234, recent general standards
on Italy's participation in training and attrition
of the norms and policies of the European Union;
View the Code in the matter of personal data protection of those
to Legislative Decree 30 June 2003, n. 196;
See Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Advice, dated 27 April 2016, relating to the protection of persons
fisiche con riguardo al trattamento dei dati personali, nonche 'alla
free circulation of these dates and repeal Directive 95/46 / EC
(general regulation on data protection);
View Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the
Advice, dated 27 April 2016, relating to the protection of persons
physical with regard to the treatment of personal data from the part
authority 'competent to finish prevention, indagine, accertamento e
pursuit of a judgment or execution of criminal sanctions, not even
free circulation of data data and abrogate the quadratic decision
2008/977 / GAI del Consiglio;
View Directive 95/46 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council,
of October 24, 1995, relative to the tutelage of the physical person with
riguardo al trattamento dei dati personali, nonche 'alla libera
circulation of such data;
View Directive 2002/58 / EC of the European Parliament and of the
Advice, dated 12 July 2002, relating to the treatment of dates
personal and tutela della vita privata nel settore delle
electronic communications;
Visto il decreto legislativo 18 maggio 2018, n. 51, recante
Attribution of the Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the
Advice, dated 27 April 2016, relating to the protection of persons
physical with regard to the treatment of personal data from the part
authority 'competent to finish prevention, indagine, accertamento e
pursuit of a judgment or execution of criminal sanctions, not even
free circulation of data data and abrogate the quadratic decision
2008/977 / GAI del Consiglio;
View the preliminary deliberations of the Council of Ministers,
adopted at the March 21, 2018 meeting;
Acquired the Guarantor's for data protection
staff, signed on 22 May 2018;
Acquired and parried by the competent Parliamentary Committees
Chamber of Deputies and the Senate of the Republic;
View the deliberations of the Council of Ministers, signed by them
meeting of August 8, 2018;
On the proposal of the President of the Council of Ministers and Day
Ministries for European Affairs and Justice, in concert with i
Ministries for the public administration, for business affairs and of it
International cooperation, economics and finance and this
economic development;
EMANA

the next legislative decree:
Art. 1

Modify the title and premise
of Legislative Decree 30 June 2003, n. 196
1. Title of Legislative Decree 30 June 2003, n. 196, dopo
the word "personal data" is followed by the following: ", recent
provisions for the provision of the National Ordinance al
regulation (UE) n. 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council,
of April 27, 2016, relative to the protection of physical persons
with regard to the treatment of personal data, nonche 'alla libera
Circulation of these dates and repealing Directive 95/46 / EC ».
2. Alle premesse del decreto legislativo 30 giugno 2003, n. 196,
after the third Visto are the following:
«Vista la leggja 25 ottobre 2017, n. 163, recante delega al
Governor for the reception of the European Directive and the attuation of
other acts of the European Union - Legge of European delegation
2016-2017 »e, in particular, Article 13, delegated by the Government
the administration of one or more legislative decrees of adequacy of
National Normative Framework for the Disposition of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 27 April 2016;
Vista la lage 24 dicembre 2012, n. 234, recent general standards
on Italy's participation in training and attrition
of the norms and policies of the European Union;
See Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the
Advice, dated 27 April 2016, relating to the protection of persons
fisiche con riguardo al trattamento dei dati personali, nonche 'alla
free circulation of these dates and repeal Directive 95/46 / EC
(general regulation on data protection); ».

Capo II
Modify the part I of the codices in matter of data protection
personali di cui al decreto legislativo 30 giugno 2003, n. 196
Art. 2

Modified by Part I, Title I, Legislative Decree 30 June
2003, n. 196
1. Part I, Title I, of the Legislative Decree of 30 June 2003,
n. 196, are the following modifications:
a) the heading of the title I and 'sostituta dalla seguente:
"Principles and General Provisions";
b) first of Article 1 and insert the following Capo:
«Capo I (Oggetto, final 'e Authorit' di controllo)»
(c) Article 1 and the following paragraph:
«Art. 1 (Oggetto). - 1. The treatment of personal data avviene
Second Standard of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament
and of the Council, of 27 April 2016, following the "Regulation", and of
presente codice, nel rispetto della dignita 'umana, dei diritti e
of freedom 'fundamentals of the person. »;
(d) Article 2 e 'sostituito dal seguente:
«Art. 2 (Finalita '). - 1. It presents codic reca dispositions per
the adequacy of the national ordinance at the disposal of
regulation. »;
(e) after Article 2 and the following is inserted:
«Art. 2-bis (Control authority). - 1. L'Autorita 'di controllo
of which in Article 51 of the Regulation and 'individualized in Guarantee per
the protection of personal data, followed by "Guarantor", of which
to'articolo 153. »;
(f) in accordance with Article 2, the following paragraphs are inserted:
«Capo II (Principi) - Art. 2-ter (Legal basis for treatment
of personal data effected for the execution of a competition of
public interest or connexion in the exercise of public pottery). - 1.
The legal basis referred to in Article 6, paragraph 3, letter b),
of the rules and regulations exclusive of a standard of law,
no cases provided by the law, by regulation.
2. The communication from the titular that effects treatment of dates
personnel, various of those recompressed in particular categories
of that in Article 9 of the Regulation and of those relating to condane
penalties and readings of those in Article 10 of the Regulation, per
the execution of a contest of public interest or consensus
the publicity of the pottery and ammessa is prevalent in the sense of
comma 1. In the absence of standard language, communication and ammessa
when and how much is needed for the competition of competitors
Public interest and the promotion of institutional and public functions'
essere initiate se e 'decorso il termine di quarantacinque giorni
from relative communication to the Guarantor, without the abbot's position
adopted a various determination of the measures of adoption a
guarantee of interest.
3. The dissemination and communication of personal data, treated by
the execution of a contest of public interest or consensus
in the exercise of pottery publications, I suggest that they intend to treat them
for the final result 'are ammesse only is provided in the sense of
comma 1.
4. If you intend to:
a) "communication" means the giving of personal data to a person
piu 'soggetti determinati diversi dall'interessato, dal
representative of the holder in the territory of the European Union, dal
responsible for its representative in the territory of the Union
europea, dalle persone autorizzate, ai sensi dell'articolo
2-quaterdecies, al trattamento dei dati personali sotto l'autorita '
direct title or responsible, in any form, also
mediante loro messa a disposition, consultation or mediante
interconnection;
b) "diffusion", it gives knowledge of personal data and suggestions
indeterminati, in qualunque forma, anche mediante la loro messa a
disposition or consultation.
Art. 2-quater (Regular deontological). - 1. Il Guarantee promuove,
in the observance of the principle of representativeness and holding account
of the recommendations of the Council of Europe on the treatment of dates
staff, the addition of deontological rules for treatments
provisions of the provisions of Articles 6, paragraph 1,
letter c) ed e), 9, paragraph 4, e al capo IX del Regolamento, ne
verify conformity 'to available provisions, even attractive
the same of observations of interested and contributing members a
guarantee diffusion and respect.
2. Scheme di regole deontologiche e 'sottoposto a consultation
public for general sessanta giorni.
3. Conclusion of the consultation phase, the deontological rule
were approved by the Guarantor within the meaning of Article 154-bis, comma 1,
letter b), published in the Official Gazette of the Republic
Italian and, by decree of the Minister of Justice, were reported
nell'allegato A of the present codice.
4. The respect of the dispositions contained in the rules
deontologiche di cui al comma 1 constitutional condition essential for
the licit 'and the correction of the treatment of personal data.
Art. 2-quinquies (Consensus of the minor in relation to the services of the
information society). - 1. In attuazione dell'articolo 8,
paragraph 1, of the Regulation, the minor who has compiled and quattordici
anni puo 'esprimere il consenso al trattamento dei propri dati
personnel in relation to the direct offer of services of the company '
of information. With riguardo and services, the treatment of
personal data of the minor eta 'inferior to quattordici anni,
Founded in Article 6, paragraph 1, letter a), of the Regulation, e '
I have a condition that I performed by those who practiced it
responsabilita 'genitoriale.
2. In relation to the direct offer to the minor services of those
comma 1, the title of the treatise redige con linguaggio
particularly chiaro and simple, concise and supportive, easy
accessible and comprehensible from the minor, al fine di rendere
significant consensus reached since last, the information e
communications related to treatment that are rigorous.
Art. 2-sexies (Treatment of particular category of dates
necessary staff for relevant public interest reasons). 1. Treatments of the particular category of personal data of those
to Article 9, paragraph 1, of the Regulation, necessary for reasons of
public interest relevant to the meaning of paragraph 2, letter g),
of the medical article, are ammessi qualora siano previsti dal
Directive of the European Union, in the Internal Ordinance, da
dispositions of lege o, nei casi previsti dalla leggja, di
regulations that specify the types of dates that can be added
treaties, executable operations and the motive of public interest
relevant, even 'the appropriate and specific measures to tutelare i
fundamental rights and interests of the interested party.
2. Fermo quanto previsto dal comma 1, si considered relevant
the public interest relative to the effects effected by soggetti
that svolgono compiti of public interest or connessi to exercise
of public pottery in the following matter:
a) access to administrative documents and civil access;
b) tenuta degli atti e dei registri dello stato civile, delle
anagrafi della population resident in Italia e dei cittadini
Italians living in stars, and from the electoral list, nonche '
release of documents of reconciliation or travel or exchange
delle generalita ';
c) tenuta di registri publblici relativi a beni immobili o mobili;
d) tenuta dell'anagrafe nazionale degli abilitati alla guida e
from the National Vehicle Archives;
e) citizenship, immigration, asylum, condition of the stranger
e del profugo, stato di refugiato;
f) elective action and liability and exercise of other rights
politicians, diplomatic and consular protests, nonche 'documentation
of the activities' institutions of public bodies, with particular
riguardo alla redazione di verbali e resoconti dell'activita 'di
representative assembly, committees and other collegiate bodies o
assembleari;
(g) exercise of the mandate of the representative bodies, ivi
compresa la loro sospensione o il loro scioglimento, nonche '
'acertamento delle cause di inegeggability', incompatibility 'o di
decadence, resumption of suspension or suspension of public charges;
(h) control of the functions of control, political direction,
the parliament convenes the unrestricted union and access to documents
reconsideration of the laws and regulations of interested bodies
for exclusive final 'immediately connese to the fullness of a
elective mandate;
(i) attracting the attention of the public directly to the application,
even traumatized and their concessionaires, of dispositions in matter
tributary and doganale;
l) attivita 'di controllo e ispettive;
m) concession, liquidation, modification and revocation of benefits
economici, agevolazioni, elargizioni, altri emolumenti e
abilitazioni;
n) conference on onorificenze e ricompense, riconoscimento
of the personalities' jurisprudence of associations, foundations and entities,
also of cult, accertamento dei requisiti di onorabilita 'e di
professional 'for the nominee, for the profile profiles of
soggetto public, ad uffici anche di culto ea cariche direttive di
legal persons, employees and non-governmental school institutions,
nonche 'release and revocation of authorizations or facilitation,
Concession of employers, employers and premiums of representation,
adherence to honor committees and submission to ceremony and meetings
institutional;
o) reports between public and private parties of the third party;
p) choice of conscience;
q) attivita 'sanzionatorie e di tutela in sede amministrativa o
judiciary;
r) Institutional reports with cult entities, denominations
religious and communit 'religious;
s) attivita 'socio-assistenziali a tutela dei minori e soggetti
bisognosi, non autosufficienti e incapaci;
t) administrative and e-certification activities related to which
of diagnosis, assistance or sanitary or social therapy, ivi incl
which correlates to the organs of organism and of tessuti nonche 'alle
transfusions of human blood;
u) compiti del service sanitario nazionale e dei soggetti
operating in sanitary, nonche 'competition and hygiene competition
sui luoghi di lavoro e sicurezza e salute della popolazione,
civil protection, salvaguardia della vita and incolumita 'physics;
v) programming, management, control and evaluation
of sanitary assistance, ivi including the restoration, the management,
the pianification and the control of reports between the administration
ed and soggetti accredited or agreed with the sanitary service
national;
(z) vigilance on experiments, pharmacovigilance,
authorization for commercial emissions and imports of
medicinal and other health care products;
aa) social work of maternity leave and voluntary intervention
of pregnancy, dependency, assistance, social integration and
diritti dei disabili;
bb) education and training in schooling,
professional, superior or university;
cc) treatments effected at the end of archiving in public
interest in historical research, concerning conservation,
the arrangement and communication of documents held by the archives
of Stato negli archivist storici degli enti public, or in archivi
privi dichiarati of interest storico particularly important,
at the end of scientific research, even at the end of statistical research
of members who are part of the national statistical system
(Sistan);
dd) restoration, management and destination, of reports
work of any kind, nor does it pay the fee, nor the other
forms of taxation, trade union material, occupation and collocation
obligation, prevention and assistance, tutela delle minoranze e pari
opportunita 'nell'ambito dei rapporti di laboro, adempimento degli
Obblighi retributivi, fiscali e accountabil, igiene e sicurezza del
labor or security or the salvation of the population, accentuation of the
responsible 'civil, disciplinary and accountable, active'
ispettiva.
3. For data on genetics, biometrics and relative health
treatment was communicated in the respect of which preview
from article 2-septies.
Art. 2-septies (Guarantee Means for the treatment of dates
genetics, biometrics and relative health). - 1. In attuazione di
as provided in Article 9, paragraph 4, of the Regulation, and dated
genetics, biometrics and relative health, can be essential
of treatment in the presence of one of the conditions of that al
paragraph 2 of the second article ed in conformita 'alle misure di
warranty provided by the Guarantor, in the respect of which provided by
present article.
2. The proof that stabilizes the lack of guarantee of those al
comma 1 e 'adopted with biennial general cadence and holding account:
a) of the guide line, of the recommendations and of the best
published by the European Committee for the Protection of Data e
of the best practices in the treatment of personal data;
b) of scientific and technological evolution in settler oggetto
of misery;
c) of interest in the free circulation of personal data in the
territory of the European Union.
3. The schedule of provision and the final post for consultation
public for a non-inferior period in sixteen days.
4. The failure to guarantee is respected in the amount of respect
Article 9, paragraph 2, of the Regulation, and amended
also the caution of adottare relative to:
a) contrassegni sui veicoli e accessi a zone a traffico limitedato;
(b) organizational and managerial profiles in the field of sanitation;
c) modalities' for direct communication to the interested party
diagnosi e dei dati relativi alla propria salute;
d) prescriptions of medicines.
5. The failure of warranty is endorsed in relation to each
category of personal data of those to comma 1, avendo riguardo alle
specifiche finality 'of treatment and individual possibon, in
conformita 'as quantified at comma 2, ulteriori conditions on
based on the quality of treatment and consent. In
particular, the failure of individual guarantee the failure of
security, ivi includes source code and security techniques
pseudonymization, the measure of minimization, the specific
modalita 'for selective access to data and to render it
Interested information, if any, may be missing
need to guarantee and direct to interested parties.
6. The lack of guarantee that is rigorous and genetic data and the
treatment of data relative to salute to finality 'of
prevention, diagnosis and cure of 'those of you as comma 4,
letter b), c) ed), were signed by the Minister of Health
which, at its finest, acquires the parier of the Superior Council of
sanita '. Limitatamente ai dati genetici, le missure di garanzia
individual, in case of individual and elevated level of
risk, the consensus as ultimately misuse of protection of rights
dell'interessato, a norma dell'articolo 9, paragrafo 4, del
regulation, or other specific provisions.
7. In respect of principles in matters of data protection
personnel, with reference to the obligations of those in Article 32 of the Convention
Regulation, and the use of biometric data with rigor
all physical and logical access procedure dates from the day
soggetti autorizzati, nel rispetto delle missure di garanzia di cui al
present article.
8. The personal data of those at comma 1 cannot be diffused.
Art. 2-octies (Principles relative to the treatment of relative dates a
condanne penali e reati). - 1. Fatto salvo quanto previsto dal
Legislative Decree 18 May 2018, n. 51, the treatment of dates
personali relativi a condanne penali ea reati oa connesse misure di
security on the basis of Article 6, paragraph 1, of the Regulation,
who did not know the control of the 'public, and' authority
consent, has the meaning of Article 10 of the Medical Regulation, only
is authorized by a standard of law, not provided here
lege, of regulation, which provides appropriate guarantee for i
diritti e le liberta 'degli interessati.
2. In lack of predetermined dispositions of lege o di
regolamento, i trattamenti dei dati di cui al comma 1 nonche 'le
Guarantees of those in which they are individualized by decree of
Minister of Justice, Adopters, has the meaning of Article 17,
comma 3, della lage 23 August 1988, n. 400, sent the Guarantor.
3. Closing what is provided by commissions 1 and 2, the treatment of dates
personali relativi a condanne penali ea reati oa connesse misure di
security and consent is authorized by a standard of law o, nei
cases provided by the law, by regulation, riguardanti, in
particular:
a) the assessment of obligations and the exercise of rights on the part
of the title or of the interested party in the matter of direct labor o
together in the work of labor reports, no stability limits
laws, regulations and collective agreements, second than ever
Articles 9, paragraph 2, letter b), and 88 of the Regulation;
(b) the waiver of obligations imposed by the provisions of the law
or regulations in the matter of finalized media
conciliation of civil and commercial controversy;
(c) verify the acceptance of the requirements of inadmissibility ',
requisiti soggettivi e presupposti interdittivi nei casi previsti
dalle leggi o dai regolamenti;
(d) the assertion of responsibilities in relation to synistries
events attentive to white people, even 'the prevention,
the assertion and the contrast of frodi the concrete situations
risk for the correct exercise of the insurance 'activity', nei
limits on what is required by law or regulations in substance;
e) the accreditation, the exercise or the difference of a right in sede
judiciary;
f) the exercise of the right of access to data and documents
amministrativi, nei limiti di quanto previsto dalle leggi o dai
regulations in matter;
g) the execution of investigations or searches for the harvest
third party information contained in Article 134 of the test
unico delle leggi di public security;
h) the adjustment of obligations provided by dispositions in lege
matter of communications and antimafia information or matter of
prevention of mafia type delinquency and other serious forms
di pericolosita 'sociale, nei casi previsti da leggi o da
regulations, or for the production of the prescribed documentation
dalla leggja to participate in gare d'appalto;
i) the acceptance of the requisite of idonaita 'moral of color che
intend to participate in the train station, in addition to quantum
forecast of normative vigens in matter of appeal;
l) the discipline of the discipline in matters of attribution of
rating of legality 'of the impres ai of the article 5-ter del
decreto-lage 24 gennaio 2012, n. 1, converted, with modifications,
dalla legg March 24, 2012, n. 27;
m) the increase in obligations imposed by normative vigens
in matters of prevention of the use of the financial system to the extent of
riciclaggio dei proventi di attivita 'criminose e di finansiamento
of terrorism.
4. No cases in which the dispositions of those at comma 3 non
individual the appropriate guarantee for the rights and freedoms
interested, these guarantees are provided with the decree of that al
comma 2.

5. When the date of the date of this article
avviene sotto the control of the 'public' public and applied the
dispositions provided by Article 2-sexies.
6. With the decree of those at comma 2 and authorized the treatment
dei dati di cui in'articolo 10 del Regolamento, effettuato in
attestation of protocols of interest for prevention and contrast
dei fenomeni di criminalita 'organizzata, stipulati con il Ministero
dell'interno o con le prefetture-UTG. In relation to these protocols,
the decree of that to comma 2 individual, the typology of dates
treat, the interested, the operations of treatment executable,
also in relation to assembly and conservation and prevention
the appropriate guarantee for the rights and freedoms
interested. The decree was adopted, limited to those ambitions of this one
to present as, in concert with the Minister of the Interior.
Art. 2-novies (Disciplined Treatments by the Presidency
Republic, from the Chamber of Deputies, from the Senate of the Republic e
from the Constitutional Court). - 1. The dispositions of articles
2-sexies, 2-septies and 2-octies of the present legislative decree
recano applicatio principles, in conformita 'ai respitivi
ordinances, ai trattamenti delle categorie di dati personali di cui
agli articles 9, paragrafo 1, e 10 del Regolamento, disciplinati
of the Presidency of the Republic, of the Senate of the Republic, of
Chamber of Deputies and the Constitutional Court.
Art. 2-decies (Inutilizzabilita 'dei dati). - 1. I dati personali
treat in violation of the relevant discipline in matter of
treatment of personal data can not be used, salvo
what is the article of the article 160-bis.
Capo III (Dispositions in material matters
of interest) - Art. 2-undecies (Limitazioni ai diritti
of interest). - 1. I diritti di cui agli articoli da 15 a 22 del
Regulation can not be exercised with wealth to the titular
of the treatment taken with advertising within the meaning of Article 77 of the Treaty
Quality regulation of the exercise of such rights may derive a
Effective and concrete prejudice:
a) agli interessi tutelati in base alle disposizioni in materia
di riciclaggio;
b) agli interessi tutelati in base alle disposizii in materia
di sostegno alle vittime di richieste estorsive;
c) to the 'activity' of parliamentary committees of inquiry
is located in Article 82 of the Constitution;
d) alle attivita 'svolte da un soggetto public, diverso dagli
enti public publics, based on espressa disposition of lege,
for exclusive exclusions' inerenti alla monetaryaria et valutaria,
to the payment system, to the control of the intermediaries and to the day
credit and finance markets, even to all of them
stability ';
e) allo svolgimento delle investigazioni defensivei o
in the exercise of a right in a judicial office;
f) to the subject of the 'identity' of the dependent that signals ai
sensi della leggja 30 novembre 2017, n. 179, l'illecito di cui sia
came to know in the region of the proprietary office.
2. Nei casi di cui al comma 1, lettera c), si applica quanto
Provisto dai reglamenti parlamentari ovvero dalla leggja o dalle
normative norms of the Commission of Inquiry.
3. Nei casi di cui al comma 1, letter a), b), d) e) ed f) i
diritti di cui al medesimo comme sono esercitati conformemente alle
provisions of law or regulations governing the settler, which
devono almeno recare misure dirette a disciplinare gli ambiti di cui
Article 23, paragraph 2, of the Regulation. L'esercizio dei
medesimi diritti puo ', in ogni case, essere ritardato, limitato o
exclusive with motivated communication and travel without delay
interested, but the communication can compromise the
final 'della limitazione, per il tempo e nei limiti in cui cio'
costs a necessary and proportionate measure, held on account of
fundamental rights and legitimate interests of the interested party, al
fine di salvaguardare gli interessi di cui al comma 1, letter a),
b), d), e) ed f). In these cases, the rights of the interested party
essere esercitati anche tramite il Garante con le modalita 'di cui
to article 160. In such cases, the Guarantor informs the interested party
aver eseguito tutte le verifiche necessarie o di aver svolto un
riesame, nonche 'del diritto dell'interessato di proporre ricorso
giurisdizionale. The holder of the treatment informs the interested party
delle facolta 'di cui al presente comma.
Art. 2-duodecies (Limitations for regions of justice). - 1. In
application of Article 23, paragraph 1, letter f), del
Regulation, in relation to the treatment of effected personal data
for areas of justice in the process of litigation
uffici giudiziari di ogni ordine e grado nonche 'dinanzi al Consiglio
superior of the magistrate and other bodies of self-governing
special magistrate o presso il Ministero della giustizia, i
diritti e gli obblighi di cui agli articoli da 12 a 22 e 34 del
Regulations are disciplinary to limits and with the modality 'preview
dalle dispositions di lage o di Regolamento che regolano tali
procedures, in respect of which provision of Article 23,
paragraph 2, of the Regulations.
2. Fermo quanto previsto dal comma 1, l'esercizio dei diritti e
the increase in the obligations of those articles from 12 to 22 and 34 del
Regulation may, in any case, be delayed, limited o
exclusive, with motivated communication and travel without delay
interested, but the communication can compromise the
final 'of the limitation, in the measure and for the time in which cio'
costs a necessary and proportionate measure, held on account of
fundamental rights and legitimate interests of the interested party, per
salvaguardare l'indipendenza della magistratura dei dei procedimenti
giudiziari.
3. If the application of Article 2-undecies, comma 3, terzo, quarto e
fifth period.
4. At the end of the present article, it will be effected by
Judicial arrangements and treatment of personal data correlate with
Treatment of business and controversy, and treatment
effettuati in matter of legal and economic treatment del
magistratur personnel, nonche 'and treatment svolti nell'ambito
delle attivita 'ispettive su uffici giudiziari. The regions of
giustizia non ricorrono per l'ordinaria attivita '
administrative-management of staff, mezzi or structure, when no
e 'pregiudicata la segretezza di atti direttamente connessi alla
Procedural treatment of proceedings.
Art. 2-terdecies (Diritti riguardanti le persone decedute). - 1. I
diritti di cui agli articoli da 15 a 22 del Regolamento riferiti ai
personal data concerning persons decedute may be exercised
da chi ha un interessri proprio, o agisce a tutela dell'interessato,
in qualita 'di suo mandatario, o per ragioni familiari meritevoli di
protein.
2. The exercise of diritii di cui al comma 1 non e 'ammesso nei
cases provided by the lodge when, limited to the direct offer
of the services of the information society, the interested party ha
espressamente vietato con dichiarazione scritta presentata al
the title of the treat is the ultimate communiqué.
3. The intention of the interested party to ensure the exercise of rights
of which to comma 1 must result in non-equivocal mode and must be
specific, free and informative; the divide can resume the exercise
only some of the rights of those in the predicate comma.
4. The interested party is currently seeking the right to revoke
modify the divide of which commi 2 e 3.
5. In any case, the division cannot produce effect
pregiudizievoli per l'esercizio da parte dei terzi dei diritti
patrimoniali which is derived from the death of the non-interested person of the
right to defend in judicial and proper interests.
Chapter IV (Provisions relating to the title of the treatment and to
responsible for treatment) - Art. 2-quaterdecies (Attribution di
functions and compiti to designate designates). - 1. Il titolare o il
responsible for the treatment can prevent, under the ownership
responsibility 'e in the ambito of the property as an organizational asset, che
Specific compi- tions and functions of knowledge in data processing
personal attributes attributed to physical persons, espressamente
designated, che operano sotto la loro autorita '.
2. The holder is responsible for the individual treatment
modalita 'piu' opportune to authorize the treatment of dates
staff the person who operates under the direct authority 'own.
Art. 2-quinquiesdecies (Treatment that presents risks elevated for
the execution of a public interest contest). - 1. Con riguardo
had treatment for the execution of a contest of interest
public that can present risks elevated to the meaning of the article
35 of the Regulation, the Guarantor may, on the basis of which provision
of Article 36, paragraph 5, of the Medical Regulation and with
Provisions of general character endorsement of office, prescribe
measures and allowances are guaranteed by the interested party, which he holds
del tattamento e 'tenuto ad adottare.
Art. 2-sexiesdecies (Responsible for the production of data for i
treatment effected by the authorities' judiciary in the exercise
of its functions). - 1. The person responsible for the protection of dates and '
designated, the standard of dispositions of those in session 4 of the capo
IV of the Regulation, also in relation to data treatment
staff effected by the authorities' judiciary in the exercise of the
its functions.
Art. 2-septiesdecies (National Organization of Accreditation). - 1.
The national accreditation body for those referred to in Article 43,
paragraph 1, letter b), of the Regulation and the Single National Entry of
accreditation, state ai sensi del Regolamento (CE) n. 765/2008,
of the European Parliament and of the Council, of 9 July 2008, done
salvo il potere del Garant de assumere direttamente, con
public deliberation in the Official Gazette of the Republic
italiana and in case of serious inconvenience to your partner
of the single national accreditation agreement, the talc exercise
functions, even with reference to one or the other 'category of
treatments. ».

Capo III
Modify the Part II of the Code in the matter of data protection
personali di cui decreto legislativo 30 giugno 2003, n. 196
Art. 3

Modify the heading and title I of Part II,
of Legislative Decree 30 June 2003, n. 196
Section 1 of Part II of Legislative Decree 30 June
2003, n. 196, e 'sostituita dalla seguente: «Specific dispositions
for the necessary treatment to obtain a legal obligation or
the execution of a contest of public interest or consensus
in the exercise of public pottery nonche 'dispositions for i
treatment of those in Chapter IX of the Regulation ».
2. Title I of Part II of Legislative Decree 30 June
2003, n. 196, are the following modifications:
a) first of the title I, and the following is inserted:
«Title 0.I (Dispositions on the legal basis) - Art. 45-bis
(Base giuridica). - 1. The dispositions contained in the present part
are stable in relation to Article 6, paragraph 2, nonche '
of Article 23, paragraph 1, of the Regulation. »;
(b) in Article 50, and, subsequently, in the following period:
«The violation of the division of what is presented in this article and is punished
Article 684 of the Penal Code. »;
(c) Article 52:
1) at comma 1, the phrase: «for finality 'of information
giuridica su riviste giuridiche, electronic support or mediante reti
of electronic communications, »are suppressed;
2) at comma 6, the word «of article 32 of leg 11
febbraio 1994, n. 109, »are from the following:
«Of Article 209 of the Code of Public Contracts of Cui al
Legislative Decree 18 April 2016, n. 50, ».

Art. 4

Modified to Part II, Title III,
of Legislative Decree 30 June 2003, n. 196

Page 2

1. Part II, Title III, of the Legislative Decree 30 June
2003, n. 196, Article 58 e sostituito dal seguente:
«Art. 58 (Treatment of personal data for the end of security
national or different). - 1. Ai tattamenti di dati personali effettuati
daily organisms in which articles 4, 6 and 7 of the 3 August
2007, n. 124, sulla base dell'articolo 26 della predetta leggja o di
other dispositions of law or regulation, ovvero relativi a dati
Stato's secret documents have the meaning of Articles 39 and following
della medesima leggja, si applicano le dispositioni di cui
Article 160, comma 4, nonche ', in terms of compatibility, le
dispositions of those articles 2, 3, 8, 15, 16, 18, 25, 37, 41, 42
e 43 of Legislative Decree 18 May 2018, n. 51.
2. Fermo remaining as preview of comma 1, ai trattamenti
effettuati da soggetti publblici per finalita 'di difesa o di
Statue security, based on express dispositions of lege che
specifically the treatment, if the provisions apply
of those to comma 1 of the present article, even those of those agli
Articles 23 and 24 of Legislative Decree 18 May 2018, n. 51.
3. With one of the 'regulations' are individual modalities' of
application of the dispositions of those with commissions 1 and 2, in reference
to the typology of dates, of interests, of operations of treatment
persons and persons authorized to treat personal data
sotto l'autorita 'diretta del titolare o del responsabile ai sensi
of the article 2-quaterdecies, also in relation to the enlargement and
to conservation. I regolamenti, negli ambiti di cui al comma 1,
sono adottati ai sensi dell'articolo 43 della leggja 3 agosto 2007, n.
124, e, negli ambiti di cui al comma 2, sono adottati con decreto del
Presidente del Consiglio dei ministri, ai sensi dell'articolo 17,
comma 3, della lage 23 August 1988, n. 400, proposed by the Ministry
competent.
4. With one or more regulations adopted by the President's decree
of the Republic on the proposal of the Minister of Defense, are
disciplinate the attuative misuse of the present decree in matter of
exercise of the securities and national security functions of the party
delle Forze armate. ».

Art. 5

Modified to Part II, Title IV,
of Legislative Decree 30 June 2003, n. 196
1. Part II, Title IV, of the Legislative Decree 30 June
2003, n. 196, are the following modifications:
(a) Article 59:
1) alla rubrica sono aggiunte, in fine, le seguenti parole: «e
civic access »;
2) at comma 1, the words "sensible and judicial" are
sostituite dalle seguenti: «di cui agli articles 9 e 10 del
regulation »and the slogan« The activity 'finalizes the application
disciplinary action is considered to be of public interest. "
are suppressed;
3) dopo il comma 1 e 'aggiunto il seguente: «1-bis. I
presupposi, le modalita 'ei limiti per l'esercizio del diritto di
civil access remains disciplined by Legislative Decree 14 March
2013, n. 33. »;
(b) Article 60 e following of the following:
«Art. 60 (Dati relativi alla salute o alla vita sessuale o
sexual orientation). - 1. When the treatment is concerned
genetici, relativi alla salute, alla vita sessuale o all'orientamento
sessuale of the person, the treatment and consent of the situation
legally relevant that if intended to tutelare with the richiesta di
I have access to administrative documents, and I have a general rank for them
diritti dell'interessato, ovvero consist in un diritto della
personalita 'o in un altro diritto o liberta' fundamentals. »;
(c) Article 61:
1) alla rubrica sono aggiunte, in fine, le seguenti parole: «e
deontological rules »;
2) i commi 1 e 2 sono sostituiti dai seguenti:
"1. The Promoter Guarantee, has the meaning of Article 2-Quater,
the addition of deontological rules for the treatment of dates
personal information from archives, registers, elenchi, atti o documents
tenuti da soggetti publblici, anche individuando i casi in cui deve
essere indicates the source of acquisition of dates and anticipation
Appropriate guarantee for the association of dates coming from piu '
archives, presenting the relevant Recommendations of the Council
of Europe.
2. The effects of the application of the present code and data
various staff of those with Articles 9 and 10 of
regulations, which must be inserted into a professional album
comply with the law or a regulation, may be communicated
a soggetti publici et privati ​o diffusi, ai sensi dell'articolo 2-ter
of present codice, also mediating communication delay
electronics. Puo 'essere altresi' mentions the existence of
evidence that any such incident occurred during the operation of the
profession. ».

Art. 6

Modified to Part II, Title V,
of Legislative Decree 30 June 2003, n. 196
1. Part II, Title V, of the Legislative Decree of 30 June 2003,
n. 196, are the following modifications:
(a) Article 75 and the following:
«Art. 75 (Specific Conditions in Health Care). - 1. Il
personal data treatment effected for final 'tutela
of the salute and incolumita 'physics of the interested or of the third or of the
collettivita 'deve essere effettuato ai sensi dell'articolo 9,
paragrafi 2, lighter h) ed i), e 3 del regolamento, dell'articolo
2-septies del presente codice, nonche 'nel rispetto delle specifiche
dispositions of settlers. »;
(b) the heading of Chapter II and the following shall apply:
"Modalita" particular to inform the interested and for him
personal data treatment »;
(c) Article 77 e following of the following:
«Art. 77 (Modalita 'particolari). - 1. The dispositions of the present
individual title modalities' particular utilizai dai soggetti di
cui al comma 2:
a) to inform the interested party within the meaning of Articles 13 and 14
del Regolamento;
b) for the treatment of personal data.
2. The modalities of which 1 are applicable:
a) from public and private structures, which erogano performances
sanitarie e socio-sanitarie e dagli esercenti le professions
sanitary;
(b) of the following publications indicated in Article 80. »;
(d) Article 78:
1) under the heading the "Informative" slogan and's it '
following: «Information»;
2) at comma 1, the words «in article 13, comma 1» are
followed by the following: «Articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation»;
3) at comma 2, the slogan «The informative can be 'fornite»
are sustained by the following: “The information can be
fornite »and the slogan« prevention, diagnosis, cure and rehabilitation »
are sustained by the following: «diagnosis, assistance and therapy
sanitaria »;
4) il comma 3, e 'sostituito dal seguente: «3. The information
can riguardare, altresi ', dati personali eventually recall
they are pressed and are preferably prefixed for writing. »;
5) at comma 4, the word "Informative" is given by dalle
following: "Information" and the word "riguarda" and "substitute"
of the following «riguardano»;
6) to comma 5:
6.1. the slogan "Informative travel" is from here
following: «Travel information»;
6.2. the "evidence" slogan and the following:
"Evidence";
6.3. la lettera a) e 'sostituita dalla seguente: «a) per fini
scientific research also in the field of clinical experimentation,
in conformita 'alle leggi e ai regolamenti, ponendo in particolare
evidence that the consensus, richest, and manifesto
liberamente; »;
6.4. sono aggiunte, in fine, le seguenti letter: «c-bis) ai
end of the implementation of the electronic sanitary facility of this
to'articolo 12 del decreto-leggja 18 ottobre 2012, n. 179,
converted, with modifications, from the 17th of December 2012, n. 221;
c-ter) ai fini dei sistemi di sorveglianza e dei registri di cui
to'articolo 12 del decreto-leggja 18 ottobre 2012, n. 179,
converted, with modifications, from the 17th of December 2012, n.
221. »;
(e) Article 79:
1) the section entitled 'by the following: «(Information from
part of public and private strutture that erogano performances
sanitarie e socio-sanitarie) »;
2) il comma 1 e 'sostituito dal seguente: «1. The strutture
public and private, which erogano sanitation services e
socio-sanitary possvalo avvalersi delle modalita 'particolari di cui
Article 78 refers to a plurality of benefits
erogate anche da distinti reparti ed unita 'della stessa struttura o
of its articles ospedaliere o territorial specifics
identify. »;
3) at comma 2, the words "the organism and the structure" are
sostituite dalle seguenti: «la struttura o le sue articolazioni» e le
The word "informative and consensus" is given by the following:
"Information";
4) at comma 3, the wording «simplified by those articles 78
e 81 »are sustained by the following:« particulari di cui
Article 78 »;
5) at comma 4, the word "simplified" and substituted for it
following «particolari»;
(f) Article 80 and the following:
«Art. 80 (Other part information). - 1. Nel
provide information on those Articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation,
in addition to what is provided by Article 79, may have avvalersi della
facolta 'to provide a unique information for a plurality' of
effective treatment, administrative and temporary fines
miscellaneous, respect and data harvest press the interested and press
third, the competent services or structure of other public publics,
various of those to whom the first article 79, operating in ambition
sanitation or social protection and security.
2. The information provided by comma 1 is integrated with applications and
idonei cartelli ed avvisi agevolmente visible to the public, affissi e
also disseminates in the field of institutional and median publications
electronic communications networks, in particular as a matter of course
activities' administrative effected for reasons of public interest
relevant that the consensus of interested parties is not reached. »;
(g) Article 82:
1) at comma 1, the slogan of "The Informative" ends a
"Intervening" are based on the following: "The information of those
Articles 13 and 14 of the Regulation may be amended »;
2) at comma 2: the slogan of "The Informative" ends a
"Intervening" are the following: "Information
may have 'essere rese', and the letter a) e 'sostituita dalla
following: «a) impossibility 'physical, incapacitated' to act o
incapacita 'de intendere o di volere dell'interessato, quando non e'
it is possible to return the information, if not provided, to those who are looking for it
legally the representation, ovvero a un prossimo congiunto, a un
family, to a convivtee the civil unit will transfer to a fiduciary
ai sensi dell'articolo 4 della lage 22 dicembre 2017, n. 219 o, in
loro assenza, al responsabile della struttura presso cui dimora
l'interessato; »;
3) comma 3, le parole da «L'informativa» fino a
"Intervening" are based on the following: "The information of those
as comma 1 can be rese »and the slogan« of the acquisition
preventive del conso »are sustained by seguenti:« dal loro
preventive relaxation »;
4) at comma 4, the words "informative and 'fornita" are
sostituite dalle seguenti: «the information is old» and the slogan
since "even" fino and "necessary" are substituted from the following: "nel
case in which non siano state fornite in precedence »;
(h) after Article 89 and the following is inserted:
«Art. 89-bis (Prescrizioni di medicinali). - 1. Per le prescrizioni
di medicinali, laddove non e 'necessario inserire il nominative
dell'interessato, si adottano cautele particolari in relation a
how much is guaranteed by the guarantor of the failure of this guarantee
on article 2-septies, also at the end of the correction of the correction
of the statute of limitations for final administrative or final purposes
scientific research in the public health sector. »;
(i) Article 92:
1) at comma 1, the word «public sanitation organisms e
privati ​»are sustained by seguenti:« strutture, pubbliche e
private, which erogano sanitary and socio-sanitary services »;
2) al comma 2, lettera a), le parole «di far valere» sono
sostituite dalle seguenti: «di esercitare», le parole «ai sensi
of Article 26, comma 4, letter c), »are substituted from
seguenti: «, ai sensi dell'articolo 9, paragrafo 2, lettera f), del
Regulation, "the word" and "inviolable" are suppressed;
3) alla lettera b), le parole «e inviolabile» sono soppresse.

Art. 7

Modified to Part II, Title VI,
of Legislative Decree 30 June 2003, n. 196
1. Part II, Title VI, Legislative Decree 30 June
2003, n. 196, Article 96 e sostituito dal seguente:
«Art. 96 (Treatment of dates relative to students). - 1. Al fine di
engage in orientation, formation and assertion
professionally, even to this point, the institutions of the national system
of education, and regional vocational training centers, the

private school non paritarie nonche 'le instituzioni di alta
artistic and core education and the university 'states or not
statali legally riconosciute su richiesta degli interessati,
can communicate or broadcast, even in private and via
telematics, dati relativi agli esiti formativi, intermedi e finali,
students and other personal data from those who are active
Articles 9 and 10 of the Regulation, relevant to all
predette finality 'and indicates in the information rese agli
interested in the meaning of Article 13 of the Regulation. I can do that
essere successively treated exclusively for the predette
finalita '.
2. The provision of Article 2, comma 2, del
Decree of the President of the Republic 24 June 1998, n. 249, sulla
tutela del diritto dello student alla riservatezza. Restano altresi '
close the vigilant dispositions in matter of publication of the site
degli esami mediante affissione nell'albo dell'istituto e di rilascio
of diplomas and certificates. ».

Art. 8

Modified to Part II, Title VII,
of Legislative Decree 30 June 2003, n. 196
1. Part II, Title VII, of the Legislative Decree 30 June
2003, n. 196, are the following modifications:
a) the section entitled 'by the following: «(Treatments at the end
from archiving in public interest, from scientific research o
storica oa fini statistici) »;
(b) Article 97 and the following:
«Art. 97 (Applicable Ambitious). - 1. The present title of discipline
the treatment of personal data effected at the end of archiving
in public interest, in scientific research or history oa fini
statistics, in accordance with Article 89 of the Regulation. »;
(c) Article 99 and the following paragraph:
«Art. 99 (Duration of treatment). - 1. The treatment of dates
archived at the end of archiving in the public interest, by searching
scientifica o storica oa fini statistici puo 'essere effettuato
also beyond the period of time necessary to consecrate and diversify
scopi for i quali i dati sono stati in precedenza raccolti o
treat.
2. Finishing archiving in the public interest, by searching
scientifica o storica oa fini statistici possono comunque essere
preserve or sell to other titles and personal data of quality, per
each cause, and the treatment in the respect of the quantity cessated
Article 89, paragraph 1, of the Regulation. »;
(d) in Article 100:
1) at comma 1, the words "sensible or judicial" are
sostituite dalle seguenti: «di cui agli articles 9 e 10 del
Regulation »;
2) at comma 2, the word "opporsi" ends at the end of the comma,
are supported by the following: «correct, cancel,
limitation and opposition to the meaning of Articles 16, 17, 18 and 21 of
Regulation »;
3) dopo il comma 4, e 'aggiunto il seguente: «4-bis. I diritti
of those at comma 2 are exercised with the modality 'previste dalle
deontological rules. »;
(e) the heading of Chapter II and the following shall apply:
«Treatment at the end of archiving in the public interest or
historical research »;
(f) Article 101:
1) at comma 1, the words "for scoping stories" are substituted
dalle seguenti: «the end of archiving in public interest or
historical research »and the slogan« of article 11 »are sustained from
following: «of Article 5 of the Regulation»;
2) at comma 2, the word "for scoping stories" is substituted
dalle seguenti: «the end of archiving in public interest or
historical research »;
(g) Article 102:
1) the section entitled 'by the following: «(Regole
deontologiche for the treatment at the end of archiving in the public
interest in historical research) »;
2) il comma 1 e 'sostituito dal seguente: «1. The Guarantor
promuove, ai sensi dell'articolo 2-quater, la sottoscrizione di
deontologiche regol per i soggetti publici et privati, ivi comprese
the societa 'scientifiche and the professional associations, interested
in the treatment of dates ending in archiving in public
interest in historical research. »;
3) to comma 2 are the following modifications:
3.1 the following paragraph's: '2. The rules
deontologiche di cui al comma 1 individuano guarantie adeguate per i
diritti e le liberta 'dell'interessato in particolare: »;
3.2 alla lettera a), dopo la parola «codice» sono inserite le
following: «e del Regolamento»;
3.3 alla lettera c) the slogan «a scopi storici» sono
sostituite dalle seguenti: «a fini di archiviazione nel public
interest in historical research »;
(h) Article 103 and the following:
«Art. 103 (Consultation of documents preserved in archives). - 1.
The consultation of documents preserved in the archives of Stato, in
which stories are from public and private archives
particularly interesting historical interest and 'disciplined dal'
Legislative Decree 22 January 2004, n. 42 e dalle relative regole
deontologiche. »;
(i) the heading of Chapter III and the following shall apply:
"Treatment of finite statistics or scientific research";
(l) Article 104:
1) in the heading, the phrase "for statistical or scientific purposes"
are sustained by the following: «to find statistics or research
scientifica »;
2) at comma 1, the words "statistical scopes" are substituted
dalle seguenti: «fini statistici» e le parole «scopi scienti»
are sustained by the following: "for the end of scientific research";
(m) Article 105:
1) at comma 1, the phrase "for statistical or scientific purposes"
are sustained by the following: «to find statistics or research
scientifica »;
2) at comma 2, the phrase «The statistical or scientific scopes»
are sustained by the following: «I find statistics and research
scientifica », the words« to article 13 »are taken from it
seguenti: «agli articles 13 e 14 del regolamento» e le parole «, e
successive modifications »are suppressed;
3) at comma 3, the words "dai codici" are substituted dalle
seguenti: «dalle regole deontologiche» e le parole «l'informative
interested 'puo' essere data »are sustained by the following:« the
information to interested parties can be dated »;
4) at comma 4, the phrase "for statistical or scientific purposes"
are sustained by the following: «to find statistics or research
scientifica », the slogan« informative for the interested and not 'doubt'
are sustained by the following: «the information to the interested non
are dovute »and the slogan« dai codici »are supported by the following:
«Dalle regole deontologiche»;
(n) Article 106 e following of the following:
«Art. 106 (Deontological Regulations for the Treatment and Finishing Statistics o
in scientific research). - 1. Il Guarantee promuove, ai sensi
of Article 2-quater, deontologiche regole for i soggetti publblici
e privati, ivi comprese le societa 'scientifiche e le associations
professionals, interested in the treatment of dates at the end
statistics or scientific research, volte a individuare garanzie
adeguate for i diritti e le liberta 'dell'interessato in conformita'
Article 89 of the Regulation.
2. Con de deontologiche di cui al comma 1, tenendo conto,
for i soggetti gia 'compress in the ambit of the Statistical System
national, which is the subject of the legislative decree 6
September 1989, n. 322, e, per altri soggetti, sulla base di analoghe
guarantees, are individualized in particular:
a) i presupposti ei procedures for documenting and verifying
that in treatment, fuori dai cases provided by medesimo decree
legislative n. 322 of 1989, siano effettuati per idonei ed effettivi
fini statistici o di ricerca scientifica;
b) for what is not provided by the present code, the latter
presuppositions of treatment and the guarantee guarantee, also in
reference to the duration of the preservation of dates, alle
information to render interested parties relatively to date
also gather pressure, on communication and dissemination, ai
Selective criteria to observe for data processing
identificativi, alle specifiche misure di sicurezza e alle modalita '
for the modification of dates following the exercise of rights
dell'interessato, tenendo conto dei principin contenuti nelle
pertinent recommendations of the Council of Europe;
c) the innermost part of mezzi that can be very rational
use the title of the treaty or else to identify
directly or indirectly the interested party, even in relation to
acquired knowledge based on technical progress;
(d) the guarantee of service to those in which they can be present
by consensus of the interested party, holding account of the principles contained
nelle raccomandazioni di cui alla lettera b);
e) modalities' simplify the performance of the consensus agreement
interested in the treatment of dates of those in the article
9 of the Regulations;
f) i casi nei quali i diritti di cui agli articoli 15, 16, 18 e
21 of the Regulation may be limited to the meaning of Article 89,
paragraph 2, del medesimo Regolamento;
g) the rules of correcting and observing in the harvest
dati e le istruzioni da impartire alle persone autorizzate al
treatment of personal data is the authoritative right of the holder
or the person responsible has the meaning of Article 2-quarter;
h) the failure to adopt to respect the respect of the principle
minimization and technical and organizational measures
to Article 32 of the Regulation, also in reference to the cover
want to impede access by physical persons who are not
authorize the designated and the identification not authorized degli
interested in interconnecting information systems as well
in the ambit of the National Statistical System and the Interstate of
data for finite statistics or scientific research effettuarsi con
enti ed uffici situati all'estero;
(i) the right to respect the rules of deontology of the part
persons who, within the meaning of Article 2-quarter, result
authorize the processing of personal data under the authority '
direct the holder or the person responsible for the treatment, who is not
tenute in base alla leggja al segreto d'ufficio o professionale, tali
to ensure analogue levels of security and reservation. »;
(o) Article 107 and the following:
«Art. 107 (Treatment of particular categories of personal data).
- 1. Fermo remaining quanto previsto dall'articolo 2-sexies e fuori
from cases of particular indignation to finite statistics or research
scientific previste dalla lege, il consenso dell'interessato al
treatment of dates referred to in Article 9 of the Regulation, when '
richiesto, puo 'essere prestato con modalita' simplified,
individuate dalle regole deontologiche di cui all'articolo 106 o
dalle misure di cui all'articolo 2-septies. »;
p) l'articolo108 e 'sostituito dal seguente:
«Art. 108 (National Statistical System). - 1. The treatment of
personal data from part of the system that was part of the system
national statistics, in addition to what is provided by regulations
deontologiche di cui all'articolo 106, comma 2, resta inoltre
Disciplined by Legislative Decree 6 September 1989, n. 322, in
how much attention is paid to the treatment of those dates
Article 9 of the Regulation indicates in the statistical program
national, the informative to the interested, the exercise of relations
diritti ei dati non tutelati dal segreto statistico ai sensi
of Article 9, comma 4, of the second legislative decree n. 322 del
1989. »;
q) in Article 109, comma 1, the wording of statistics,
sentisto il Ministro »sono sostituite dalle seguenti:« di statistica,
sentiti i Ministri »;
(r) Article 110 and the following:
«Art. 110 (Ricerca medica, biomedica ed epidemiologica). - 1. Il
consensus of the interested party for the treatment of dates relative to
salute, a fini di ricerca scientifica in campo medico, biomedico o
epidemiologico, non e 'necessario quand la ricerca e' effettuata in
based on dispositions of regulations or directives
of the European Union in accordance with Article 9, paragraph 2,
letter j), del Regolamento, ivi including il caso in cui la ricerca
rientra in a program of biomedical research or sanitation provided ai
Article 12 of the Legislative Decree of 30 December 1992,
n. 502, ed e 'condotta e ferð publics una valutazione d'impatto ai
meaning of Articles 35 and 36 of the Regulation. The consensus is not '
if not necessary when, due to particular reasons, inform
those interested result in the impossibility or implication of a force
disproportionate, oppure risk of rendering impossible or di
aggravate the conviction of the final 'of it
research. In this case, the title of the treatment is a mistake
appropriate per tutelare i diritti, le liberta 'ei legittimi
interested in the interested party, the research program and the goal of
motivated to favor the competent ethical committee level
territorial and must be subpoena to preventive consultation of
Guarantee of the meaning of Article 36 of the Regulation.
2. In the case of exercise of the rights of the interested parties
Article 16 of the Regulation does not specify the treatment of those
at comma 1, the justification and integration of dates are annotated
without modifying these last ones, when the result of tali
operations do not produce significant effects on the result
research. »;
(s) Article 110-bis and the following substitute:
«Art. 110-bis (Ultrathi treatment of the third part of dates
personali fini di ricerca scientifica oa fini statistici). - 1. Il
Guarantee to authorize the latest treatment of personal data,
compresses those special treatments of those in Article 9 del
Regolamento, a fini di ricerca scienta oa fini statistici da
part of the third thread that svolgano mainly tali attivita '
when, due to particular circumstances, inform those interested
Impossible result or implication of a proportionate force, oppure
risk of making it impossible to carry out serious misconduct
consequence of the final 'of the search, provided that it is done
adottate misure appropriate per tutelare i diritti, le liberta 'ei
legitimate interests of the interested party, in accordance with Article 89
of the Regulation, includes a form of prevention and minimization
anonymization of dates.
2. The guarantor communicates the decision adopted on the richest of
authorized entry quarantine days, decorsi and quali la
missing equal pronunciation and right. With the proof of
authorization or also successively, on the basis of eventuality
verify, the guarantor stabilizes the conditions and the necessary measures
to ensure adequate guarantee a tutela degli interessati
in the ambit of the later treatment of personal data on the part of
third, also below the profile of his security.
3. The latest treatment of personal data from third parties to
the final 'of which to present article puo' essere authorized by
Guarantee also median provvedimenti generali, endorsement of office e
also in relation to certain categories of holders and
Treatments with which the conditions of the latter are stable
treatment and prescribing the necessary measures to ensure adequate
guarantee a tutela degli interessati. I provvedimenti adottati a norma
of the present as published in the Official Gazette of the
Italian Republic.
4. Does not constitute ulterior motives on the part of the third
personal data treatment for the active clinic, a
fini di ricerca, da parte degli Istituti di ricovero e cura a
scientific, public and private characters in the characters' region
instrumental dell'attivita 'di sanitary assistance svolta dai
predict institutes respected in research, in the observance of quantum
Article 89 of the Regulation. ».

Art. 9

Modified to Part II, Title VIII,
of Legislative Decree 30 June 2003, n. 196
1. Part II, Title VIII, of the Legislative Decree 30 June
2003, n. 196, are the following modifications:
a) the section entitled 'by the following: «Treatments
in the ambit of the labor report »;
(b) Article 111 and the following:
«Art. 111 (Deontological Regulations for Treatments in the Ambit of the
labor report). - 1. The Guarantee Promoter, has the meaning of Article
2-quater, the addition of deontological rules to the public
and private interested in the treatment of personal data effected
in the work of the labor report for the final 'of this
Article 88 of the Regulation, which also contains specifics
modalita 'for the information to render to the interested party. »;
(c) after Article 111 and the following is inserted:
«Art. 111-bis (Information in case of curriculum vitae). 1. The information contained in Article 13 of the Regulation, in this case
Curriculum vitae spontaneously transcends daily interests
at the end of the restoration of a labor report, vengeance fornite
at the moment of the first contact, successively at the beginning of
curriculum medesimo. Nei limiti delle finaleita 'di cui all'articolo
6, paragraph 1, letter b), del Regolamento, il consenso al
treatment of personal data presented in non-curricular curriculum.
(d) the heading of Chapter II and the following shall apply:
"Treatment of rigorous data and labor performers";
(e) the heading of Chapter III and the following shall apply:
«Control for distance, agile work and telework»
(f) to Article 113, in which case, in fine, the following shall apply:
", Not 'from Article 10 of Legislative Decree 10 September
2003, n. 276. »
(g) the heading of Article 114 and the following:
"Warranty in distance control matter");
(h) Article 115:
1) the section entitled 'by the following: «(Telelavoro,
agile labor and domestic labor) »;
2) at comma 1, the words "and telelavoro" are substituted
from the following: «of telelavor and agile labor»;
(i) in Article 116, comma 1, the wording "has meaning of Article"
23 »are from the following:« from the interested medesimo ».

Art. 10

Modified to Part II, Title IX,
of Legislative Decree 30 June 2003, n. 196
1. Part II, Title IX, of the Legislative Decree 30 June
2003, n. 196, are the following modifications:
a) the section entitled 'by the following: «Other treatments in
public ambition or public interest »;
(b) the heading of the heading I and the following shall apply:
"Insurance";
(c) Article 120:
1) at comma 1, the slogan «private and of collective interest
(ISVAP) »are suppressed;
2) al comma 3, sono aggiunte, in fine, le seguenti parole: «di
cui al legislative decree 7 september 2005, n. 209 ».

Art. 11

Modified by Part II, Title X, of the Legislative Decree of 30 June
2003, n. 196
1. Part II, Title X, of the Legislative Decree of 30 June 2003,
n. 196, are the following modifications:
(a) Article 121:
1) the section entitled 'by the following: «(Servizi
interests and definitions) »;
2) after comma 1, and the following is added:
«1-bis. The end of the application of the provisions of the present
title and intent for:
a) "electronic communications", including information exchanged o
trasmessa tra a finite number of soggetti tramite a service of
electronic communication accessible to the public. They are the lock
Transmission information to the public provides a means of communication
electronics, as part of a radio broadcasting service, salvo che
the same information siano collegate ad uncontraente o utente
received, identified or identifiable;
b) "called", the connection established by a service of
accessible electronic and public communication that consents to
bidirectional communication;
(c) "electronic communications networks", and systems of
transmission and, if so, the commutation equipment or
training and other resources, including non-refundable items
attivi, which consent to transmit signals via cavo, via radio, a
fiber otto mix or other electromagnetic, compression
satellite networks, mobile and network networks and commutation
of circuit and commutation of packet, Internet purchase, the reti
utilized for the circular diffusion of sonorous programs e
televisivi, and systems for the transport of the current electricity,
nella misura in cui siano utilizzati per trasmettere i segnali, le
television broadcasts via cavo, independently of the type of information
transported;
d) "public communication network", a communication network
electronics used intermittently or prevalently to supply
electronic communication services accessible to the public, che
supports data transfer between terminal points and
reti;
(e) "electronic communications service", and services
consistent exclusively or prevalently in the transmission of
signals on electronic communications networks, including services
telecommunications and transmission services in the networks used
for the broadcasting of radiotelevisiva, no limits provided
of Article 2, letter c), of Directive 2002/21 / EC of
European Parliament and of the Council, 7 March 2002;
(f) «contraente», any physical person, legal person,
is the association under a contract with a service provider
of electronic communication accessible to the public for the supply
of these services, or the municipality of destination of these services
schede prepagate;
g) "user", any physical person who uses a service
of electronic communication accessible to the public, for reasons
private or commercial, without necessity subscribing;
h) "data relative to traffic", which is the date of subpoena a
treatment at the end of the transmission of a communication on one
electronic communications network or relative insurance;
(i) "relative data" means any date entered into a
electronic communication network or a communication service
electronics that indicate the geographical position of the appliance
Terminal of the use of an electronic communications service
accessible to the public;
l) "service with value added", the service that runs it
treat dei dati relativi al traffico o dei dati relativi
various offers of data related to traffic, beyond what
and necessary for the transmission of a communication or the
relative insurance;
m) "electronic mail", messages containing texts, voices, words
the traversal image attracts a public communication network,
which can be archived in rete o nell'apparecchiatura
terminal terminal, fino a that the receiver does not have preso
knowledge. »;
b) in Article 122, comma 1, after the word "con" and suppressed
the word "the" and the word "of which in Article 13, comma 3" are
mushroom press;
(c) Article 123:
1) at comma 4, the phrase "the information provided by Article 13"
are sustained by the following: «the information of those articles
13 and 14 of the Regulations »;
2) at comma 5, the word «ad incaricati del trattamento che
operano ai sensi dell'articolo 30 »sono sostituite dalle seguenti:« a
persons who, within the meaning of Article 2-quarter, result
authorize the treatment and operation »and the wording
"Of the uncircumcised" are those of the following: "of the person
authorized »;
d) in Article 125, comma 1, and 'aggiunto, in fine, il seguente
period: «Rimane in ogni caso fermo quanto previsto dall'articolo 2,
comma 1, della leggja 11 gennaio 2018, n. 5. »;
e) in Article 126, comma 4, the word "ad incaricati del
treatment that operates within the meaning of Article 30, »are substituted
dalle seguenti: «a person autorizzate al trattamento, ai sensi
of article 2-quaterdecies, che operano »e le parole
"Of the uncircumcised" are those of the following: "of the person
authorized »;
(f) Article 129 e following the following paragraph:
«Art. 129 (Elenchi dei contraenti). - 1. Il Garante individua con
proprio provvedimento, in cooperation with the Authority 'for the
guarantees in communications to the meaning of Article 154, comma 4, and
in conformity with the norms of the European Union, the modalities of
insertion and successive use of personal data ai
not only those cartacei or electronics available at the disposal of
public.
2. Provvedimento du cui al comma 1 individua idonee modalita '
for the manifestation of the consensus on inclusion nails elenchi e,
respectively, using data for finalization of the invitation
Public material or direct sales or for the compliment of
market research or non-commercial communications for the
finalita 'di cui all'articolo 21, paragrafo 2, del Regolamento, in
based on the principle of maximum simplification of modalities
inclusione negli elenchi a fini di mera ricerca del coente per
interpersonal communications, and specific consensus and espresso
this is the only treatment of those who are finished, even in the theme of
verify, correct the cancellation of dates without any delay. »;
(g) Article 130:

Page 3

1) al comma 1, e 'aggiunto, in fine, il seguente periodo:
«Stay in each case closed as preview of Article 1, comma 14,
della leggja 11 gennaio 2018, n. 5. »;
2) at comma 3, the words "23 and 24" are substituted
following: "6 and 7 of the Regulations" and the slogan "of the present article"
are suppressed;
3) al comma 3-bis, le parole «all'articolo 129, comma 1,» sono
sostituite dalle seguenti: «al comma 1 del predetto articolo,» e le
parole "di cui all'articolo 7, comma 4, lettera b)" sono sostituite
dalle seguenti: «di invio di Materials publicitario o di vendita
direct or for the research or marketing research compliment
commercial »;
4) to comma 3-ter:
4.1 in letter b), the wording «codice of public contracts
relative to works, services and furniture, which are subject to legislative decree
April 12, 2006, n. 163 »are made up of following« codice dei
public contracts of the legislative decree of 18 April 2016, n.
50 »;
4.2 alla lettera f), le parole «di cui all'articolo 7, comma
4, lettera b) »are made up of seguenti:« of invio of material
publicity or direct sales or for the research of research
market or commercial communication »;
4.3 in letter g), the words "23 and 24" are substituted
dalle seguenti «6 e 7 del Regolamento»;
6) at comma 5, the words "to article 7" are taken from it
following: "Articles 15 to 22 of the Regulations";
7) at comma 6, the word «of article 143, comma 1, lettera
b) »are substituted by the following:« of Article 58 del
Regulation »;
(h) in Article 131, the heading and title of the following:
«(Information and Contents)»;
(i) Article 132:
1) at comma 3, second period, the word «, close remaining the
conditions of article 8, comma 2, letter f), for il
entrant traffic »are suppressed ed 'aggiunto, in fine, il
next period: "The right of direct access to communications
telephony in entrata puo 'essere effettuata solo quando possa
derive an effective and concrete precedent for the solution
of the defensive investigations of those until the 7th of December 2000, n.
397; diversamente, and diritti di cui agli articles from 12 to 22 del
Regulations may be exercised with the modality of those
to article 2-undecies, comma 3, third, fourth and fifth period. »;
2) at comma 5, the words "ai sensi dell'articolo 17" are
sostituite dalle seguenti: «dal Garante secondo le modalita 'di cui
to'articolo 2-quinquiesdecies »e le parole da« nonche 'a: »a« d) »
are sustained by the following: "nonche 'ad";
3) dopo il comma 5, e 'aggiunto il seguente: «5-bis. E 'fatta
save the discipline of those in article 24 of the leg 20 novembre
2017, n. 167. »;
(l) in accordance with Article 132, the following paragraphs are inserted:
«Art. 132-ter (Treatment Security). - 1. In the respect of
as provided for in Article 32 of the Regulation, which has been issued by
electronic communication services accessible to the public
apply the provisions of this article.
2. The provider of an electronic communications service
accessible to the public adotta, ai sensi dell'articolo 32 del
Regulations, however, also attract others who have been trusted
service organization, technical measures and adequate organization
to risk existing.
3. I suggest that you operate on electronic communication devices
warranty that personal data is accessible only to
staff authorized to finish legally authorized.
4. The failure of those commis 2 and 3 guarantees the protection of them
data relative to traffic and data and other data
personal archivists or traces of even accidental destruction,
from lost or accidental alteration and archiving,
treatment, access to disclosure not authorized or illicit,
nonche 'guarantee the attitude of a security policy.
5. When the security of the service or of the personal data richiede
also the addition of measures that riguardano the rete, the supplier of the
electronic communication service accessible to the public
tali misure jointly with the supplier of the public network of
communications. In case of lack of agreement, su richiesta de uno dei
suppliers, the controversy and 'defined by the Authority' for the guarantee
in communications secondly the modality 'preview of the normative
vigente.
«Art. 132-quater (Informations sui rischi). - 1. Il fornitore di un
electronic communication service accessible to the public
gli abbonati e, ove possibile, gli utenti, mediante linguaggio
chiaro, idoneo and adequate respect for the category and the fascia di
eta 'dell'interessato a cui siano fornite le suddette informai,
with particular attention in the case of minor ones', is a
particular risk of violation of the security of the net,
indicating, when the risk e 'al of fuori dell'ambito di
application of the measure that the supplier stesso e 'tenuto ad
adottare a norma dell'articolo 132-ter, commi 2, 3 e 5, tutti i
possibili rimedi ei relativi costi presumibili. Analoghe
Information is provided to the Guarantor and the Authorization for the guarantee
in communications. ».

Art. 12

Modified to Part II, Title XII,
of Legislative Decree 30 June 2003, n. 196
1. Part II, Title XII, of the Legislative Decree 30 June
2003, n. 196, are the following modifications:
(a) the heading and 's' of the following: «Journalism,
freedom of information and expression »;
b) in Article 136, comma 1:
1) to the paragraph, after the word "if applicable" are inserted
seguenti: «, ai sensi dell'articolo 85 del Regolamento,»;
2) alla lettera c), la parola «temporaneo» e 'soppressa, dopo
the word diffuse and insert the word "anche" and the word
"In artistic expression" are from the following:
"In academic, artistic and literary expression";
(c) Article 137 e 'sostituito dal seguente:
«Art. 137 (Applicable Provisions). - 1. With reference to how much
See Article 136, which contains treaties and dates
Articles 9 and 10 of the Regulation also without consensus
dell'interessato, but in the respect of the deontological rules of
with article 139.
2. These treatments are indicated in Article 136 and are not applicable
relative dispositions:
(a) to the failure of the guarantor of those referred to in Article 2-septies and ai
general provisions of this Article 2-quinquiesdecies;
(b) in the transfer of data to third parties or organizations
international, contained in Capo V del Regolamento.
3. In case of diffusion or communication of data for the
final 'of which in article 136 remains closed and limits of the right
of the crown to the title of the rights of those referred to in Article 1, paragraph 2,
of Regulation and Article 1 of the present Code e, in
particular, what of '' essentials' of information riguardo a
make public interest. Possono essere trattati i dati personali
relativi a circostanze o fatti resi noti direttamente dagli
interested in attracting their public behavior. »;
(d) Article 138, comma 1, paragraph 7 of Article 7, comma
2, lettera a) »are substituted by the following:« of Article 15,
paragraph 1, letter g), del Regolamento »;
e) the heading of Capo II and 'sostituita dalla seguente: «Regole
deontologiche relative to attivita 'giornalistiche e ad altre
pension manifestations »;
(f) Article 139 e 'sostituito dal seguente:
«Art. 139 (Regulation of deontological relative to attivita '
journalistic). - 1. The Guarantee Promoter, has the meaning of Article
2-quater, the addition of the part of the National Council of the Ordinance of
Journalists of deontological rules regarding the treatment of dates
of that in Article 136, which provides for misdemeanors and allowances a
guarantee of interested parties reported in kind of date, in
particulars for how riguarda quelli relativi alla salute e alla
live or sexual orientation. The rules can also be prevalent
Private forms for the information in these articles 13 and 14
del Regolamento.
2. The rules of deontology or the modifications or integrations of alle
stesse that have not been endorsed by the Council since then
The guarantor's proposal is endorsed by the guarantor through the e
they are effective when they become effective in a variety of disciplines
second the cooperation procedure.
3. The rules of deontology and the provisions for modification ed
effective integration integration takes days after the day
publication in the Official Gazette of the Italian Republic ai
sensi dell'articolo 2-quater.
4. In case of violation of the provisions contained in the regulation
deontologiche, il Garante puo 'vietare il trattamento ai sensi
of Article 58 of the Regulation.
5. The Guarantor, in cooperation with the National Council
dell'ordine dei giornalisti, prescrive eventuali misure e
contributions to guarantee of interest, that the Council and 'tenuto
to receive.

Capo IV
Modify the Part III and set out the codices in the matter
personal data protection of those subject to Legislative Decree 30 June
2003, n. 196
Art. 13

Modified to Part III, Title I,
of Legislative Decree 30 June 2003, n. 196
1. Part III, Title I, of the Legislative Decree 30 June
2003, n. 196, are the following modifications:
a) prima del Capo I e 'inserito il seguente:
«Capo 0.I (Alternativita 'delle forme di tutela) - Art.140-bis
(Alternative form of tutela). - 1. Qualora ritenga che i diritti di
which is good on the basis of normatives in matters of data protection
staff siano stati violati, l'interessato puo 'proporre advertising al
Guarantee the dancers 'right to authorize' judiciary.
2. The advertisement on the Guarantor can not be proposed, for him
medesimo oggetto e tra le stesse parti, e 'stata gia' adita
l'autorita 'giudiziaria.
3. The presentation of the advertisement to the Guarantee render improper
un'ulteriore domanda dinanzi all'autorita 'giudiziaria tra le stesse
parti e for il medesimo oggetto, salvo quanto previsto dall'articolo
10, comma 4, del decreto legislativo 1 ° settembre 2011, n. 150. »;
(b) in Chapter I, the words "Section I - General Principles" shall apply
mushroom press;
(c) Article 141 e following the following:
«Art. 141 (Reclamo al Garante). - 1. L'interessato puo 'rivolgersi
to the guarantor by means of advertising within the meaning of Article 77 of
Regulation. »;
(d) under Article 141, paragraph «Section II - Title
amministrativa »sono soppresse;
(e) Article 142 e is replaced by the following:
«Art. 142 (Proposition of advertising). - 1. The advertisement contains
an indication of how likely it is to be taken care of
circostanze su cui si fonda, delle dispositioni che si presumono
violate and of rich misuse, nonche 'the identifying streams
of the titular or the person responsible for the treatment, or known.
2. The advertisement is written by the interested party or, in its mandate
this, since one of the third settler soggetto in the discipline of
Legislative Decree 3 July 2017, n. 117, which is active in the settler
della tutela dei diritti e delle liberta 'degli interessati, con
riguardo to the protection of personal data.
3. The advertisement shall be accompanied by the final documentation
of its valuation and eventual mandate, and indicates a recapito for
The invitation of communications is also sent by e-mail, fax or
telephone.
4. The Guarantor provides a model for the advertisement, to be published
in its own institutional site, which favors availability '
with electronic instruments.
5. The Disciplinary Guarantee with proper regulation of the procedure
relative to the same as advertising, nonche 'modalita' simplifies e
Abbreviated terms for the treatment of advertising that abbiano ad
oggetto la violazione degli articoli da 15 a 22 del Regolamento. »;
(f) Article 143 and the following:
«Art. 143 (Advertising decision). - 1. Esaurita l'istruttoria
preliminaries, if the advertisement is not found and e
sussistono i presupposti per adottare un provvedimento, il Garante,
also first of the definition of the procedure can be adopted i
provisions of Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure
of the provisions of Article 56 of this Article.
2. The testimonials of those at comma 1 were published in the Gazzetta
Ufficiale della Repubblica italiana se i relativi destinatari non
are easily identifiable by number or complexity '
by accertamenti.
3. The Guarantor decides the advertisement within the month of the date
presentation and, in any case, within three months of this data
inform the interested party of the state of the proceedings. In the presence of
motivate esigenze istruttorie, which the Communicator Guarantor
interested, the ad and decision entered two months. In the case of
activation of the cooperation procedure of those in Article 60
del Regolamento, il termine rimane sospeso par la durata del predetto
procedure.
4. Avert the decision and 'ammesso recursor giurisdizionale ai sensi
of Article 152. »;
(g) Article 144 and the following:
«Art. 144 (Segnalazioni). - 1. Chiunque puo 'rivolgere una
signaling that the guarantor can also value in the end
of the handling of samples from Article 58 thereof
Regulation.
2. I provvedimenti del Garante di cui all'articolo 58 del
Regulations may also be signed by the office. »;
h) in Article 152, comma 1 and 's substituted by the following: «1.
All the controversy surrounding the issue of retaliation
jurisdictions of those Articles 78 and 79 of the Regulation and those
communique riguardanti the application of the normative in matter of
protection of personal data, notwithstanding the right to redress
danno ai sensi dell'articolo 82 del medesimo regolamento, sono
attribute to the'authorita 'giudiziaria ordinaria. ».

Art. 14

Modified to Part III, Title II,
of Legislative Decree 30 June 2003, n. 196
1. Part III, Title II, Legislative Decree 30 June
2003, n. 196, are the following modifications:
a) the section entitled 'Authorized': 'Authorized'
independent control »;
(b) Article 153 and the following:
«Art. 153 (Guarantee for the protection of personal data). - 1. Il
Guarantor and 'compost of the College, which does not constitute the vertice, e
dall'Ufficio. The College and's constituency of the four components, eletti
due dalla Camera dei deputati e due dal Senato della Repubblica con
limited vote. The components devono essere eletti tra coloro che
presented the own candidacy in the course of a procedure
selection il which notice to be published on internet sites
of the Camera, of the Senate and of the General Guarantee sitting first days first
of the nominee. The candidacy must become general in the coming days
first of all names and curriculum devono essere published nails
stessi siti internet. The candidacy can be advanced da
person who is an independent insurer and a resultant of probation
experience in setting up personal data protection, con
particular reference to legal discipline o
of Informatics.
2. I eleggono components in his ambition a president, he who votes
prevale in caso di parita '. Eleggono altresi 'un vice president, che
assume the functions of the president in case of his appointment o
impedimento.
3. The president's incarceration and source component lasted
settennale e non sono rinnovabili. Per tutta la durata dell'incarico
the president has no components that can be exercised, to the detriment of
decadenza, alcuna attivita 'professionale o di consulenza, anche non
remunerated, do not be administrators or dependents of any public or
privati, ne 'ricoprire cariche elettive.
4. The members of the College must maintain the secret, which lasts
is successively in the cessation of the incarceration, in merit to
information is reserved which has auto access in the execution of
propri compiti o nell'esercizio dei propri poteri.
5. On the acceptance of the nominee the president ei
components are collocated fuori ruole se independent of publicity
administration or magistrates in service activities; is a professor
university universities, are collocated in aspectatives without assegni ai
meaning of Article 13 of the Decree of the President of the Republic 11
luglio 1980, n. 382. The staff collocated fuori ruolo o in
aspettativa non puo 'essere sostituito.
6. Al presidente compete una indennita 'di function pari alla
return in kind to the President of the Court
cassation, no limits provided by the law for treatment
economic year omnicomprensivo di chiunque riceva a carico delle
Finanze publique emolumenti o retribusi nell'ambito di rapporti
of labor dependent on autonomy with public administrations
statali. These components compete with an indennita 'pari ai due terzi di
quella spettante al Presidente.
7. Alle dipendenze del Garante e 'posto l'Ufficio di cui
Article 155.
8. The president, in components, the general secretary ei
dependent and astengono dal trattare, per i due anni successivi alla
cessation of incarceration over service of the Guarantor,
Proceedings before the Guarantor, ivi compress the presentation per
account of third parties advertising riches to stop or interpellate. »;
(c) Article 154 e 'sostituito dal seguente:
«Art. 154 (Compiti). - 1. More than what is specified
Dispositions and of Section II of Chapter VI of the Regulation, il
Garante, ai sensi dell'articolo 57, paragrafo 1, lettera v), del
Medical regulation, also of own initiative and avvalendosi
dell'Ufficio, in conformita 'alla disciplina vigente e nei confronti
of one or the other 'titular of the treatment, has the following:
a) check if treatments are effected in respect
of the applicable discipline, even in case of cessation and with
reference to the preservation of traffic dates;
b) treat advertisements presented in accordance with the regulations, e
of the provisions of the present code, also individual with
own regulatory modalities 'specific to the treatment, nonche'
fissuring annually the priority 'of the questions that arise dai
advertisements that may be located in the course of the year
referral;
(c) promote the adoption of deontological rules, not those of you
Article 2-quarter;
d) denunciare i fatti configurabili come reati perseguibili
of office, dei quali viene a conoscenza nell'erercizio oa causa
of the functions;
e) transmit the relationship, predisposed annually to the senses
of Article 59 of the Rules of Procedure, the Parliament and the Government
31 maggio dell'anno successive a quello cui si riferisce;
(f) to ensure the fundamental rights and fundamental freedoms of all
the individual giving his or her attention to the Regulations and to the present
codice;
g) provde altresi 'all'espletamento dei compiti ad esso
attributes of the Directive of the European Union or of the State and of Sweden
the later functions provided by the ordinance.
2. The Guarantor svolge altresi ', ai sensi comma 1, la function di
control or assistance in handling personal data
provision of ratification of agreements or international conventions
or from the European Union and, in particular:
a) from the Regulation (CE) n. 1987/2006 of the European Parliament and of
Council, dated 20 December 2006, on the situation, the exercise and
the use of the Schengen Second Generation Information System (SIS)
II) and Decision 2007/533 / GAI of the Council, of 12 June 2007,
on the institution, the exercise and the use of the information system
Second generation Schengen (SIS II);
b) of Regulation (EU) 2016/794 of the European Parliament and of
Council, dated 11 May 2016, which establishes the Union Agency
Europe for Co-operation in Contrast (Europol) e
dostituisce e abroga le decisioni del Consiglio 2009/371 / GAI,
2009/934 / GAI, 2009/935 / GAI, 2009/936 / GAI and 2009/968 / GAI;
c) of Regulation (EU) 2015/1525 of the European Parliament and of
Council, dated 9 September 2015, amending Regulation (EC) n.
515/97 of the Council relating to mutual assistance by the authorities'
amministrative degli Stati members and for the cooperation between this and
the Commission to ensure the correct application of the
normative doganale e agricola e decisione 2009/917 / GAI del Consiglio,
del 30 novembre 2009, sull'uso dell'informatica nel settore doganale;
d) dal Regolamento (CE) n. 603/2013 of the European Parliament and of
Council of 26 July 2013, establishing the Eurodac for it
face of digital printing for the effective application of
Regulation (EU) n. 604/2013 which stabilizes the criteria and mechanisms
of determination of the State member competent for the assessment of a
International Pricing Week presented in one of the States
membri da un cittadino di un paese terzo o da un apolide e per le
richieste di confronto con i dati Eurodac presentate dalle autorita '
of contrast between the Member States and of Europol at the end of contrast, e
which modifies the Regulation (UE) n. 1077/2011 which is established
a European agency for the operational management of IT systems on a large scale
scale in the space of freedom, security and justice;
e) dal Regolamento (CE) n. 767/2008 of the European Parliament and of the
Recommendation of 9 July 2008 concerning the information system
visti (VIS) e lo scambio di dati tra Stati membri sui visti per
soggiorni di breve durata (Regolamento VIS) e decisione n.
2008/633 / GAI del Consiglio, del 23 giugno 2008, relativa all'accesso
for consultation on the Partisan Information System (VIS)
of the authorities' designated by the Member States and Europol at the end
of prevention, individuation and investment of real estate
of terrorism and other serious acts;
f) dal Regolamento (CE) n. 1024/2012 of the European Parliament and of
Advice, dated 25 October 2012, relating to cooperation
administrative access to the market information system
interno and that abrogated the decision 2008/49 / CE of the Commission
(IMI Regulation) Testo relevant to the end of the SEE;
(g) of the provisions of Chapter IV of the Convention n.
108 on the protection of the person who is being treated
automated data of personal trainers, adopted in Strasbourg
the 28th of January 1981 and the executive trip with the 21st of February 1989, n.
98, which authority 'designated at the end of the cooperation between States ai
meaning of Article 13 of the Convention on Medicinal Products.
3. For what is not provided by the Regulations and the present Code,
the Disciplinary Guarantee with proper Regulations, has the meaning of Article
156, comma 3, the modalities' specific of relative procedures
all'esercizio dei compiti e dei poteri ad esso attribuiti dal
Regulation and of the present code.
4. The Guarantor collaborates with another administrative authority
independent nationals in the competition of respective competitors.
5. Fatti salvi i termini piu 'brevi previsti per leggja, il parere
del Garante, anche nei casi di cui agli article 36, paragrafo 4, del
Regulation, e 'reso nel termine di quarantacinque giorni dal
receipt of the richiesta. Decorate the term, the administration
puo 'proceed independently of the acquisition of the parish.
When, for esigenze istruttorie, non puo 'essere rispettato il
termine di cui al presente comma, tale termine puo 'essere interrotto
for a single volta and it will have to be resounding definitely inside
sale days of receipt of the items is broken by part of it
interested administrations.
6. Copy of provvediment emessi dall'autorita 'giudiziaria in
relation to what is provided by the present code or in matter of
criminalita 'informatica e' trasmessa, a cura della cancelleria, al
Guarantor.
7. The Guarantor is not competent for the control of treatments
effettuati dalle autorita 'giudiziarie nell'esercizio delle loro
functions. »;
(d) in accordance with Article 154, the following shall be inserted:
«Art. 154-bis (Poteri). - 1. More than what is specified
dispositions, from Section II of Chapter VI of the Regulations and from
present codice, ai sensi dell'articolo 58, paragrafo 6, del
Regular Regulation, the Guarantor has the power to:
(a) Adopt the guideline for the guidance of the measure
organizational and technical approach to the principles of the Regulation,
even for single settlers and in application of principles of cui
Article 25 of the Regulation;
b) approve the deontological rules of those in Article 2-Quarter
.
2. The guarantor can 'invite representatives of another authority'
independent national administration to participate in property
meetings, or be invited to meetings of other authorities'
administrative independent nation, taking part in
discussion of arguments of common interest; puo 'richiedere,
altresi ', the staff collaboration specialized add ad
other authorities' independent national administration.
3. The Public Guarantee and Provisions on the Quantity Base
provides with general nature that discipline also lasts
of this publication, published in the Official Gazette
Repubblica italiana e sul proprio sito internet istituzionale nonche '
and cases of insurance.
4. In consideration of the need for simplification of the micro,
piccole and media imprese, as definite from the recommendation
2003/361 / CE, the Guarantor for the Protection of Personal Data, nel
respect of the provisions of the Regulations and the present Code,
promuove, nelle linee guida adottate a norma del comma 1, lettera a),
modalita 'simplifies adaptation to the obligations of the holder of
treatment.
Article 154-ter (Power of action and representation in judiciary). -

1. The guarantor is entitled to act in a judgment before confrontation
hold the person responsible for the treatment in case of violation
of dispositions in matters of personal data protection.
2. The Guarantor is represented in a judgment by the Avvocatura dello
Stato, ai sensi dell'articolo 1 del regio decreto 30 ottobre 1933, n.
1611
3. No cases of conflict of interest, the Guarantor, felt
The Advocate General of the State, can stand trial
Owners' offices are written in a special section for lawyers
dependents of any public authorities in the field of the Liberal Forum. »;
(e) in Article 155, the following heading is followed by:
«(Guarantee Office)»;
(f) Article 156 e is replaced by the following:
«Art. 156 (Organic and Personal Ruolo). - 1. All'Ufficio del
Guarantee and provide a general secretary, nominated by the person of
lifted and tested professional qualification respected at the wheel and
agli obiettivi da conseguire, scelto anche tra i magistrati ordinari,
administrators and accountants, the attorneys of the State, and professors
university of ruolo in matter giuridiche ed economiche, nonche 'i
conductors of the first fascia of the State.
2. The organic staff of the dependent and stable staff
limit of centosessantadue unita '. The guarantor's organic oil is
exclusive access through public competition. Nei casi in cui sia
ritenuto used to the end to guarantee the economy and efficiency
of administrative action, not even 'favoring the reclamation of
staff with major experience in the pursuit of the procedure
For those who are second to none, the guarantor can reserve one
quota not superior to five percent of post bandits al
staff of the public administration administration whose state is
assunto for public competition and abbia matured a general experience
triennale nel respitivo ruolo organico. The disposition of these
Article 30 of Legislative Decree 30 March 2001, n. 165, si
Applicable exclusively to the staff of Roulo
authoritative 'administrative independence of those in Article 22, comma
1, del decreto-leggja 24 giugno 2014, n. 90, convertito, con
modifications, since 11 August 2014, n.114.
3. With proper regulations published in the Official Gazette
Italian Republic, the guarantor defines:
(a) the organization and operation of the Office are nearing completion
from the compilation and competition of the pottery of those agli
articles 154, 154-bis, 160, nonche 'all'articolo 57, paragrafo 1, del
Regulation;
b) the career arrangement and the modalities of recruitment
of the second staff in principle and the procedure of those articles
1, 35 and 36 of the Legislative Decree n. 165 of 2001;
c) the redistribution of the organism between the various areas e
qualify;
d) the legal and economic treatment of staff, second i
criteri previsti dalla leggja 31 luglio 1997, n. 249, e, per gli
incarichi dirigenziali, dagli articoli 19, comma 6, e 23-bis del
Legislative Decree 30 March 2001, n. 165, held account of
specific functional and organizational requirements. Nelle more della piu '
general rationalization of the economic treatment of the authorities'
administrative independence, staff and 'attribute 80 per
cent of the financial treatment of the staff of the Authority 'for the
guarantees in communications;
e) administrative management and accounting ', also in deroga
to norms on the 'general accountability of the State.
4. The Office can avvalersi, to motivate demand, of dependents
from the State or from other public administrations or entities
put together in a position to move or equip in the form
previste dai resppettivi ordinamenti, ovvero in aspettativa ai sensi
of Article 13 of the Decree of the President of the Republic 11
luglio 1980, n. 382, in nonero superior number, completely, a
Units are sold for no more than one percent of the sales
dirigenziali, leaving no copy a corresponding number of posts
of the wheel.
5. In addition to the staff of Ruolo, the Office can assume
depend on contract determined rate or avvalersi di
consultants referred to in Article 7, comma 6, of the Decree
legislative n. 165 of 2001, in misery communique non superior a venti
unita 'complessive. Rest in each case closed, for contracted at a time
determined, the respect of Article 36 of Legislative Decree n.
165 of 2001.
6. The staff added to the Guarantee Office and consultants
are tenuti, sia durante that dopo il mandate, al segreto su cio 'di
who came to know, in the exercise of their own functions,
in ordine a notizie che devono rimanere segrete.
7. The staff of the Guarantor's Office added the accents
of that in Article 158 and Articles 57, paragraph 1, letter h),
58, paragraph 1, letter b), e 62, del Regolamento riveste, nei
service limits that are destined and second to the respective
attributions, the official qualification or the police agent
giudiziaria.
8. The type of operation of the Guarantor, in addition
Article 52, paragraph 4, of the Regulation, ivi understands that
need to ensure its participation in the procedure of
cooperation and the mechanism of coherence introduced by the Regulation,
nonche 'quelle connesse alle risorse umane, tecniche e finansiarie,
to local and to infrastructure necessary for efficiency
suempimento dei suoi compiti e l'esercizio dei propri poteri, sono
post to carico of a stanzao fund a tale scopo nel balance sheet dello
State and written mission statement and specific program
Ministry of Economy and Finance. The management account
finance and control of the Court of Accounts. Il
Guarantee to be entitled to the title of the treaty the payment of
secretarial rights in relation to private proceedings. »;
(g) Article 157 and the following:
«Art. 157 (Richiesta of information and exhibition of documents).
- 1. Nell'ambito dei poteri di cui all'articolo 58 del Regolamento, e
for the completion of proper ownership, the Guarantor can 'richiedere al
the holder, the responsible, the representative of the holder or the
responsible, interested or also interested in providing information
and to collect documents even with reference to bank contents
of dates. »;
(h) Article 158 e following the following paragraph:
«Art. 158 (Accertamenti). - 1. Il Garante puo 'disporre accessi a
banche di dati, archivi o altre ispezioni e verifiche nei luoghi ove
if svolge il trattamento o nei quali occorre effettuare rilevazioni
how to use the respect of the discipline in matter
of treatment of personal data.
2. I controlli di cui al comma 1, nonche 'quelli effettuati ai
meaning of Article 62 of the Regulation, are staff exits
dell'Ufficio, con la partecipazione, se del caso, di componenti o
Authorized staff of other States Member States of the Union
europea.
3. The guarantor also chooses, if necessary, the cooperation
of other organs of the State for the benefit of its members
institutional.
4. Gli accertamenti di cui ai commi 1 e 2, se svolti in
a dwelling or in another high-profile private or relative relationship
appartenenze, were effetuati con l'assenso informat de titolare o
of the responsible, oppure previa authorization of the president of
competent court for territory in relation to law
of the agreement, the one tried with decree motivated without
retardo, al piu 'tardi entro tre giorni dal receiptso della
richiesta del Garante quando e 'documentata l'indifferibilita'
dell'accertamento.
5. With the guarantee of those at comma 4, the accentamenti svolti nei
luoghi di cui al medesimo comma possono altresi 'riguardare reti di
public access communication, potentially proceeding
data acquisition and online information. A tal fine, viene
edited verbal statement in contradiction with the party ove
the action taken will have effect on the holder of the treatment. »;
(i) Article 159:
1) at comma 1, the word "ai sensi dell'articolo 156, comma 8"
are sustained by the following: «su cio 'di cui sono venuti a
notice, in the exercise of its own functions, in order a
notizie che devono rimanere segrete »;
2) at comma 3, after the word "the person in charge" is inserted
the following: "the representative of the titular or the responsible" e
the words "agli incaricati" are derived from the following: "alle
persons authorized for the treatment of personal data below
the authoritative 'direct' of the holder or of the responsible has sense
of article 2-quaterdecies »;
3) at comma 5, the words "and fax" are suppressed;
l) Article 160 e 'sostituito dal seguente:
«Art. 160 (Particolari accertamenti). - 1. Per i trattamenti di
personal data of those in Article 58, the accents are
effected for the trammit of a component designated by the Guarantor.
2. If the treatment does not result in compliance with the norm
Regulations shall be subject to the provisions of this Regulation
Guarantee indicates the holder or the person responsible for the necessity
modifications and integrations and does not verify the situation. See
the agreement and 'state richiesto of the interested, the last' and '
fornito in ogni caso un riscontro circa il relativo esito, se cio '
does not prejudice actions or operations in the order and order
public safety or prevention and repression of reaction or
correct motive for misconduct or security of the State.
3. Accertions are not delegable. When needed
within the specification 'of the verified, the component designated
puo 'farsi assistere da personal specialized tenuto al segreto su
cio 'di cui sono venuti a conoscenza in ordine a notizie che devono
rimanere segrete. The documents obtained are custodial
second modalita 'tali da assururne la segretezza e sono
known by the President and by the components of the Guarantor and, se
necessary for the recovery of the functions of the organ, from a
limited number of additions to the Individual Office of the Guarantor
on the basis of criteria defined by the Regulations of this Article
156, comma 3, letter a).
4. For the accertamenti di cui al comma 3 relativi agli organisms
of information and security and data covered by the State Secretariat
the designated component takes vision of the documents and documents
rilevanti e riferisce oralmente nelle riunioni del Garante. ».
m) after Article 160 and the following is inserted:
«Art. 160-bis (Validita ', efficiency and usability' nel
Judicial review of documents, documents and probation bases
on the treatment of personal data not in accordance with the provisions of
lie o di Regolamento). - 1. La validita ', l'efficacia e
the 'usability' in the judicial procedure of atti, documents e
Providence based on non-compliant personal data treatment a
dispositions of the law or the Regulations remaining disciplined from there
relevant procedural dispositions. ».

Art. 15

Modify Part III, Title III, Legislative Decree 30
giugno 2003, n. 196

Page 4

1. Part III, Title III, Legislative Decree 30 June
2003, n. 196, are the following modifications:
(a) Article 166 and the following:
«Art. 166 (Criteria for the application of administrative sanctions
pecuniary and procedure for the addition of corrective samples
and sanctioners). - 1. Sono soggette alla sanzione amministrativa di
see Article 83, paragraph 4, of the Regulation on the Violations of
dispositions of those articles 2-quinquies, comma 2,
2-quinquiesdecies, 92, comma 1, 93, comma 1, 123, comma 4, 128, 129,
comma 2, e 132-ter. Alla medesima sanzione amministrativa e 'soggetto
even if it does not affect the tax assessment of those in the article
110, comma 1, primo periodo, ovvero non sottopone il program di
seek preventive consultation of the Guarantee to the standard of the third
period of predetermined comma.
2. Soggette alla administrative sanction of those in article
83, paragraph 5, of the Regulations of the violations of the provisions of
cui agli articles 2-ter, 2-quinquies, comma 1, 2-sexies, 2-septies,
comma 7, 2-octies, 2-terdecies, commi 1, 2, 3 e 4, 52, commi 4 e 5,
75, 78, 79, 80, 82, 92, comma 2, 93, commi 2 e 3, 96, 99, 100, commi
1, 2 e 4, 101, 105 commi 1, 2 e 4, 110-bis, commi 2 e 3, 111,
111-bis, 116, comma 1, 120, comma 2, 122, 123, commi 1, 2, 3 e 5,
124, 125, 126, 130, commi da 1 a 5, 131, 132, 132-bis, comma 2,
132-quater, 157, nonche 'delle misure di garanzia, delle regole
deontologiche di cui respettivamente agli articoli 2-septies e
2-quater.
3. The Guarantor and the body competent to accept and provide evidence
Corrections to Article 58, Paragraph 2, of the Regulation,
also 'to irrogate the sanctions of those in Article 83 of the Medicine
Regulations and those who have commissions 1 and 2.
4. The procedure for the addition of samples and of it
sanctions indicated to comma 3 puo 'essere avviato, nei confronti sia
di soggetti privati, sia di autorita 'publbliche ed organisms
publicity, following advertising within the meaning of Article 77 of the Convention
Regulamento o di attivita 'istruttoria d'iniiiativa del Garante,
nell'ambito dell'erercizio dei poteri d'indagine di cui all'articolo
58, paragraph 1, of the Regulation, nonche 'in relation to access,
Specifications and verification svolte in base a poteri di accertamento
autonomy, ovvero delegati dal Garante.
5. The Office of the Guarantor, when it retains the elements acquired
nel corso delle attivita 'di cui al comma 4 configurino una o piu'
Violations indicate in the present title and in Article 83, paragraph
4, 5 and 6, of the Regulation, the procedure for the adoption of
provvedimenti e delle sanctioni di cui al comma 3 notifying al
hold the person responsible for the treatment of the alleged violations,
in respect of the warranty provided by the Rules of Procedure
9, salvo that the preview notice of the contestation does not result
incompatible with nature and the finality of the trial of
adottare.
6. Enter the days of receipt of this communication
comma 5, il contravventore puo 'inviare al Garante scritti
Defend the documents and you can choose to be sent from there
medesima autorita '.
7. Nell'adosione dei provvedimenti sancionatori nei casi di cui al
comma 3 si osservano, quanto applicabili, gli articoli da 1 a 9,
da 18 a 22 e da 24 a 28 della leggja 24 novembre 1981, n. 689; no
This means that the administrative sanction has been applied
accessory publication publication, by interim
or for street, on the Guarantee's website. I proventi delle
sanctions, in the missing of the fifty percent of the total year, are
riassegnati al fondo di cui all'articolo 156, comma 8, per essere
destiny to specific activities' of sensitization and di
nonchezione nonche 'de attuazione del Regolamento svolte dal Garante.
8. The date of entry to Article 10, comma 3, of the decree
legislative n. 150 of 2011 forecast for the proposal of the recourse,
he trasgressore e gli obbligati in solido possono definine la
controversy adeguandosi alle prescrizioni del Garante, ove
impartite, mediante il pagamento di un import pari alla meta '
of the irrational sanction.
9. In respect of Article 58, paragraph 4, of the Regulation, con
own regulations published in the Official Gazette of the
Italian Republic, the Guarantor defines the modalities of it
Procedure for the addition of probation and sanctions to those
al comma 3 ed i relativi termini, in conformita 'ai principi della
piena conoscenza degli atti istruttori, del contraddittorio, della
verbalization, even 'of the distinction between functions and
decision-making functions respect the sanctioning of the sanction.
10. Provisions relating to administrative sanctions shall apply
present Code and Article 83 of the Regulation are not applicable
in relation to treatment svolti in ambiti giudiziario. ».
(b) Article 167 e following the following:
«Art. 167 (Treatment of illicit data). - 1. Salvo che il fatto
constituent piu 'grave reato, chiunque, al fine di trarre per se' o
for other profit ovvero of arrest danno to interested, operating
in violation of what is available in Articles 123, 126 and 130 or below
Providence of those in Article 129 issued document
all'interessato, e 'punito con la reclusione da sei mesi a un anno e
sei mesi.
2. Salvo che il fatto constituisca piu 'grave reato, chiunque, al
end of tears to se 'o to other profit ovvero di arrecare danno
interested, following the treatment of personal data of those
Articles 9 and 10 of the Regulation in violation of the provisions
of those articles 2-sexies and 2-octies, or the lack of warranty
of which Article 2-septies will operate in violation of the
misure adottate ai sensi dell'articolo 2-quinquiesdecies arreca
nocumento un'interessato, e 'punito con la reclusione de uno a tre
anni.
3. Salvo che il fatto constituisca piu 'grave reato, la pena di cui
at comma 2 if applied otherwise 'a chiunque, al fine di trarre per se'
o to other profit ovvero to arrest danno to interested,
proceeding to the transfer of personal data towards a third party o
an international organization with the consent of those cases
within the meaning of Articles 45, 46 or 49 of the Regulation, written document
interested.
4. The Public Ministry, when it has taken notice of the proceedings
commi 1, 2 and 3, do not inform without delay the Guarantor.
5. The guarantor transmits to the public ministry, with a relationship
motivated, the documentation is collected in the activity 'activity'
of accertamento nel caso in cui emergano elementi che facciano
presume the existence of a reato. The transmission degli atti al
Public Minister avviene al piu 'tardi al termine dell'attivita' di
Accreditation of the violations of the dispositions of those present
decree.
6. Quando per lo stesso fatto e 'stata applicata a norma del
present codice or of the Regulations to the caricature of the employee or of the entity
a pecuniary administrative sanction from the Guarantor and this state
riscossa, la pena e 'diminuita. »;
(c) under Article 167, the following are inserted:
«Art. 167-bis (Communication and illicit diffusion of data
staff treated in the treatment of their large scale). - 1. Salvo che il
fatto constitutionu piu 'grave reato, chiunque comunica o diffonde al
fine di trarre profit per se 'o altri ovvero al fine di arrecare
then, an automated archive or a substantial part of it
contains personal data oggetto di trattamento su larga scala, in
Violation of Articles 2-ter, 2-sexies e 2-octies, e 'punito con
la reclusione da uno a sei anni.
2. Salvo che il fatto constituisca piu 'grave reato, chiunque, al
make it a profit to be on the other side of it,
communication or diffuse, without consensus, an archive automated or one
substantial part of this content includes personal data
treatment of the large scale, and 'punitive with the conclusion of one a sei
years, when the consensus of the interested and richest for it
Communication and diffusion operations.
3. Per i reati di cui ai commi 1 e 2, si applicano i commi 4, 5 e 6
of Article 167. ».
«Art. 167-ter (Fraudulent acquisition of personal data oggetto
of treatment on the large scale). - 1. Salvo che il fatto constituisca
piu 'grave reato, chiunque, al fine trarne profit for se' o altri
ovvero di arrecare danno, acquisisce con mezzi fraudolenti un
archived automated or a substantial part of this content
personal data oggetto of treatment on the large scale and 'punito with the
reclusion from one to four years.
2. Per il reato di cui al comma 1 si applicano i commi 4, 5 e 6
of Article 167. »;
(d) Article 168 e following the following paragraph:
«Art. 168 (Falsita 'nelle dichiarazioni al Garante e interruzione
from the competition of the competitor or from the exercise of the powers of the Guarantor).
- 1. Salvo che il fatto constituisca piu 'grave reato, chiunque, in un
Procedure or in the course of accreditations issued to the Guarantor, dichiara
o attestation falselye notizie o circostanze o produce atti o documents
falsi, e 'punito con la reclusione da sei mesi a tre anni.
Fuori dei casi di cui al comma 1, e 'punito con la reclusione
sino ad un anno chiunque intentionally cagiona un'intruzione o
turba la regolarita 'di un procedemento dananzi al Garante o degli
accertamenti dallo stesso svolti. »;
(e) Article 170 and the following:
«Art. 170 (Notice of Provision of the Guarantor). - 1.
No one, essendovi tenuto, non observa il provvedimento adottato dal
Guarantee of the meaning of Articles 58, paragraph 2, letter f) del
Regulation, Article 2-Septic, comma 1, nonche 'i
General Provisions of those referred to in Article 21, comma 1, of the Decree
Legislative action of Article 13 of the Act of 25 October
2017, n. 163 e 'punito con la reclusione da tre mesi a due twoi. »;
(f) Article 171 and the following:
«Art. 171 (Violations of dispositions in matters of control a
distance and indagini sulle opinionsi dei lavoratori). - 1. La
Violation of the provisions of these Articles 4, comma 1, and 8
della leggja 20 maggio 1970, n. 300, and punished with the sanctions of those
to'articolo 38 della medesima leggja. »;
g) in Article 172, comma 1, after the word "publication of the
sentenza »soni aggiunte le seguenti:«, ai sensi dell'articolo 36,
second and third comma, of the penal code ».
--------------Editorial note
The test of the present article and 'gia' integrated with the corrections
apportate dall'errata-corrige published in GU 12/9/2018, n. 212
during the period of "vacatio legis".
It is possible to visualize the original test accending to
pdf version of the Release Gazette of publication.

Art. 16

Modified to Alleged A
of Legislative Decree 30 June 2003, n. 196
1. Allegato A e 'ridenominato: «Regole deontologiche».

Capo V
Procedural dispositions
Art. 17

Modify the legislative decree
1 ° September 2011, n. 150
Article 10 of Legislative Decree 1 ° September 2011, n. 150,
e 'sostituito dal seguente:
«Art. 10 (From controversy in the matter of its application
dispositions in matters of personal data protection). - 1. Le
controversy preview of Article 152 of Legislative Decree 30
giugno 2003, n. 196, sono regolate dal rito del lavoro, ove non
diverse disposition of the present article.
2. Sono competenti, in via alternativa, il tribunale del luogo in
where the holder of the treaty has resigned or has taken over the tribunal
of the residence log of the interested party.
3. The success of the Guarantee's trials for protection
dei dati personali, ivi compresi quelli emessi a seguito di un
advertisement of the interested party, and 'proposal, a penalty of ineligibility',
enters yesterday from the data of the communication of the trial
ovvero entro sessanta giorni se il ricorrente risiede all'estero.
4. Decorate the deadline for the advertising decision
of Article 143, comma 3, of Legislative Decree n. 196 of 2003,
who we are interested in, he entered last days from the stage of
due date, return to the competent court for a hearing
present article. The disposition of those in the first period is applied
even if the quarterly term of the person in the article is shaded
143, comma 3, del legislative decree n. 196 of 2003 without
the interested party is informed of the state of the proceedings.
5. The interested party may be required to have one of the third parties
soggetto alla disciplina del decreto legislativo 3 luglio 2017, n.
117, which is active in the setting of the title of the directors and of it
liberta 'degli interessi con riguardo alla protesione dei dati
staff, to search for his account, close the
dispositions in matter of patrocinio previste dal codice di
civil procedure.
6. The judiciary shall establish the comparative court of the party with
decree with which to assign to the recurring term parent
enter to notify other parties and the Guarantor. Tra il giorno
of the notification and the interconnection service is not free
of three days.
7. The executive efficiency of the impugned trial can be 'essere
second hand as preview of article 5.
8. Se alla prima udienza il ricorrente non compare senza addurre
some legitimate impediment, the judiciary has the cancellation
of the cause of the ruul and dichiara the extension of the process, ponendo a
carico del ricorrente le speces di giudizio.
9. Nei casi in cui non sia parte in giudizio, il Garante puo '
present osservazioni, da rendere per iscritto o in udienza, sulla
controversy in short with reference to profiles relative to
personal data protection. The judiciary has its data
communication to the Guarantor about the controversy of the controversy,
transfer copy of the introductory documents, in order to agree
the eventual presentation of the observations.
10. The sentence that defines non-appeal and 'judgment'
prescribe the necessary measures also in deroga al divieto di cui
to'articolo 4 della leggja 20 marzo 1865, n. 2248, allegato E), anche
in relation to the eventual act of the public opinion titled o
responsible dei dati, nonche 'il risarcimento del danno. ».

Capo VI
Transit, final and financial dispositions
Art. 18

Definition of the number of violations in matter
of protection of personal data
1. In deroga all'articolo 16 della leggja 24 novembre 1981, n. 689,
for the sanctioning proceedings of the violations of those acts

Articles 161, 162, 162-bis, 162-ter, 163, 164, 164-bis, comma 2, del
Personal data protection codes, which are subject to decree
legislative 30 giugno 2003, n. 196, and the violations of the misery of
cui in'articolo 33 e 162, comma 2-bis, del medesimo Codice, che,
to data of application of the Regulation, result not yet
define with the adoption of the ordinance-ingiuncione, and 'ammesso il
Pagamento in misura ridotta di un somma pari a due quinti del minimum
edittale. Fatti salvi i restanti atti del procedimento eventuale
gia 'adottati, il pagamento potra' essere effettuato entro novanta
days from the date of entry into force of the present decree.
2. Decorsi i termini previsti dal comma 1, l'atto con il quale sono
states notify the extremes of the violation or the act of
Immediate contest of those in Article 14 of Article 24
November 1981, n. 689, assuming the value of ordinance-ingiuncion
of which in Article 18 of this Act, without obligation
later notification, always that the contraventor does not produce
Defensive memory has the meaning of comma 4.
3. Nei casi di cui al comma 2, il contravventore e 'tenuto a
Corresponds to the imports indicated by those of you in the first period
of the loan as the first six days of the due date
forecast from comma 1.
4. Enter the deadline of those at comma 3, the contraventor who does not
abbia provveduto al pagamento puo 'produrre nuove defensive memory.
The Guarantor, examines these memories, has the archiving of them
atti comunicandola all'organ who edited the report o, in
alternatively, add specific ordinance to the quail
determine the sum due to the violation and do not enter it
payment, insememe con le spese, all'autore della violazione ed alle
people we are necessarily obligated to.
5. The entry into force of the present decree shall be determined
the interruption of the term of prescription of the right to risk
som som dovute a norma del presente article, di cui all'art. 28
della leggja 24 novembre 1981, n. 689.

Art. 19

Treatment of progressive cases
1. The date of the last six days of the publication date
nella Gazzetta Ufficiale della Repubblica italiana dell'avviso di cui
at comma 3, i soggetti che dichiarano il loro attuale Interess
can be presented to the Guarantor for the protection of personal data
motivated richest of the treatment of advertising, signaling and
of the richest verifia preliminary preliminary enter the predet
data.
2. Richiesti di cui al comma 1 non riguarda i reclami e le
cu sigalalations ai si '' gia 'esaurito l'esame o di cui il Garante
for the protection of personal data has been examined in the course of
2018 a motivated candidate or a richiesta of treatment, or for i
which is the only guarantor and knowledge, even the next of kin
denuncia, che sui fatti oggetto di istanza e 'in corso un
criminal proceedings.
3. Entry days from the dates of entry into force of
presents the Guarantor for the protection of personal data
provvede a dare notizia di quanto previsto dai commi 1 e 2 mediante
notice published in its own institutional and transversal site,
altresi ', to'Ufficio publblicazioni leggi e decreti del Ministero
of the court for its publication in the Official Gazette
of the Italian Republic.
4. In case of failure to present a record of treatment
ai sensi del comma 1, e salvo quanto previsto dal comma 2, i relativi
procedures from which to comma 1 are improbable.
5. I will return to the Guarantor for the protection of dates
personal and indefinite, not in the form of the right of action,
all application data of the Regulation (EU) 2016/679 have been treated
as advertised in the articles of Article 77 of the Medical Regulation.

Art. 20

Code of deontology and good condona vigenti
to date of entry into force of the present decree
1. The provisions of the code of ethics and good knowledge of
cui agli allegati A.5 e A.7 del codice in materie di protezione dei
personal data, which are subject to legislative decree n. 196 of 2003,
continued to produce effects, without defining the procedure
of approval with letter b), provided that it is verified
in addition the following conditions:
a) the entry of the date of entry into force of the present
decrees the associations and other bodies representing it
interested categories are covered by the Guarantee per
the protection of personal data, in accordance with Article 40 of the Standard
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, the Code of Conduct elaborated to the standard of
paragraph 2 of the previous article;
(b) the approval procedure shall be concluded within one month
subheading of the Code of Conduct all of the Guarantor for the
personal data protection.
2. It lacks the respect of one of the deadlines of those in comma 1,
letter a) eb) report the cessation of efficiency of the
provisions of the code of ethics of those in the first period a
decorrere dalla scadenza del termio violato.
3. The dispositions contained in the codices reported in the allegations
A.1, A.2, A.3, A.4 and A.6 of codics in data processing matter
personali, di cui al decreto legislativo n. 196 of 2003, continued
to produce final effects on the publication of the provisions ai
sense of comma 4.
4. New days of entry dates in force of
presented decree, the Guarantor for the protection of personal data
verify compliance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679
Dispositions of those to comma 3. The dispositions ritenute compatible,
ridenominate deontologiche regole, sono publblicate nella Gazzetta
Official of the Italian Republic and, by decree of the Minister of
justice, are successively reported in the Alleged A of the Code
in matters of personal data protection, which are subject to decree
legislative n. 196 of 2003.
5. The Guarantor for the protection of personal data promotes the
revision of the dispositions of codic codes from comma 3 with the
modalita 'di cui all'articolo 2-quater del codice in materia di
protection of personal data, which are subject to legislative decree n. 196
of 2003.

Art. 21

General Authorization of the Guarantor
for the protection of personal data
1. The Guarantor for the protection of personal data, con
Providence of general character of porn in consultation
public entry new days of entry dates in force of
present decree, individual the prescriptions contained in nelle
General authorizations are given, relative to situations in
treatment of those under Articles 6, paragraph 1, letter c) ed e), 9,
paragraph 2, letter b) e 4, notch 'capo IX del regolamento (UE)
2016/679, which results in compatibility with the dispositions of the medicine
regulation and of the present decree e, ove occorra, provvede al loro
aggiornamento. The proof of what he presented as and adopted
entry six days from the end of the consultation procedure
public.
2. General authorizations shall be verified to the standard of
comma 1 which are state ritenute incompatible with the dispositions of
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 cessation of current effects
of the publication in the Official Gazette of the Republic
italiana del provvedimento di cui al comma 1.
3. The General Authorizations of the Guarantor for the protection of
personal data first of the entered data in force of the
presents decree and relative to various treatments from those indicated
to comma 1 cessano to produce effects on predated data.
4. Sino to the adoption of the rules of deontology and of the measures of
guarantee of those articles 2-quater and 2-septies del Codice in
matter of personal data of those subject to decree
legislative 30 giugno 2003, n. 196 Effective Productions, for the
Corresponding category of data and treatment, authorizations
generali di cui al comma 2 e le pertinenti prescrizioni individuate
with the providence of those to comma 1.
5. Salvo that the constitutional act is made, the violations of it
content contained in the general authorizations of those al
presents this article and its general providence from which to comma 1 are
soggette alla sanzione amministrativa di cui all'articolo 83,
paragraph 5, of the Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

Art. 22

Other transit and final dispositions
1. The Decree and the provisions of the National Ordinance shall be presented
is interpreted and applied in the light of the discipline of the Union
Europe in matters of personal data protection and insurance
free circulation of personal data between Member States has meaning
of Article 1, Paragraph 3, of Regulation (EU) 2016/679.
2. Decree from May 25, 2018 the expressions "sensitive data" e
"Dati giudiziari" uses the meaning of Article 4, comma 1,
letter d) ed e), del codice in matter of matter of data
personali, di cui al decreto legislativo n. 196 of 2003, ovunque
ricorrano, if intended to refer, respectively, to category
particulars of dates in Article 9 of the Regulation (EU)
2016/679 and the dates of those in Article 10 of the Medical Regulation.
3. Addition of the corresponding general provisions of
cui all'articolo 2-quinquiesdecies del codice in materia di
protection of personal data, which are subject to legislative decree n. 196
del 2003, i trattamenti di cui al medesimo articolo, gia 'in corso
to date of entry into force of the present decree, possono
proseguire qualora avvengano in base a espresse dispositions of lege
o regolamento o atti amministrativi generali, ovvero nel caso in cui
siano stati sottoposti a verify preliminary or authorization of
Guarantee for the processing of personal data, which both individual
measures and arrangements adequately guarantee the interest of the interested party.
4. A decorrere dal 25 maggio 2018, i provvedimenti del Garante per
the processing of continuous personal data for applications, in quantity
compatible with the suddetto regulation and with the provisions of the
present decree.
5. A decorrere dal 25 maggio 2018, le dispositioni di cui ai commi
1022 and 1023 of Article 1 of the law 27 December 2017, n. 205 si
Applicable exclusively to functional staff data treatment
to the authorization of the exchange of the name or of the cognome of
minorenni. With reference to these treatments, the Guarantor for the
personal data protection can be ', no limits and with the modality' of
to Article 36 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679, add
Providence of general character to the sense of the article
2-quinquiesdecies. In order to simplify administrative procedures,
i soggetti that respected the lack of security and the accessories
prescritti con i provvedimenti di cui al secondo periodo sono
esonerati dall'invio al Guarantee dell'informative di cui al citato
comma 1022. In order of prime application, the informative suddette,
if the norm of the third period is doubled, they are invited to enter
days from the publication of the Guarantor's trial
Official Gazette of the Italian Republic.
6. From the date of entry into force of the present decree, i rinvii
all dispositions of codices in matters of data protection
personali, di cui al decreto legislativo n. 196 of 2003, abrogate
of the present decree, contained in the norms of law and regulations,
if you intend to refer to the corresponding provisions of the
Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and which introduced or modified by
present decree, in terms of compatibility.
7. Article 1, comma 233, of the law 27 December 2017, n. 205,
after the slogan "recovery modalities" are inserted
seguenti: «in forma aggregata».
8. The register of treatments referred to in Article 37, comma 4, del
codices in the matter of personal data protection, which are subject to decree
legislative n. 196 of 2003, cessa di essere alimentato a far data
from 25 maggio 2018. Da tale data e fino al 31 dicembre 2019, il
register remains accessible to anyone second to the 'stability' modality
nel suddetto articolo 37, comma 4, del decreto legislativo n. 196 del
2003.
9. The provisions of law or regulations governing the individual
types of dates and operations to be completed at the end of
authorize the treatment of public administrations for reasons
of public interest relevant trovano application also for i
soggetti privati ​che trattano i dati per i medesimi motivi.
10. The disposition of those in Article 160, comma 4, of the codice in
matters of personal data protection, which are subject to decree
legislative n. 196 del 2003, nella parte in cui ha riguardo ai dati
covered by Stato's secret, if applied to the data entered in
vigor of the discipline relative to the modalities of opposition to
Guarantee for the protection of personal data of the State Secretariat.
11. The dispositions of codices in the matter of data protection
personali, di cui al decreto legislativo n. 196 of 2003, relative al
treatment of genetic, biometric or relative health data
continue to find application, as compatible with it
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, on the adoption of the corresponding rules
misuse of guarantee of those in article 2-septies of the quoted code,
introduction from article 2, comma 1, lett. e) of the present decree.
12. Sino alla data di entrata in vigore del decreto del Ministro
delu giustizia di cui a'articolo 2-octies, commi 2 e 6, del codice
in matters of personal data protection, which are subject to decree
legislative n. 196 del 2003, da adottarsi entro diciotto mesi dalla
date of entry in force of the present decree, the treatment of
dates of Article 10 of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and '
consent when effected in attuation of protocols of interest
for the prevention and contrast of criminal phenomena '
organized by the Ministry of the Interior or with the
Prefetture - UTG, previo parere del Garante per la protesione dei
personal data, which specifies the typology of data treated e
of the operations executable.
13. For the first time since the date of entry into force
presented decree, the Guarantor for the protection of personal data
has account, finishes in the application of administrative sanctions
e nei limiti in cui results compatible with the dispositions of
Regulation (EU) 2016/679, on the first phase of its application
sanctioning dispositions.
14. All'articolo 1 della leggja 11 gennaio 2018, n. 5 are supported
the following modifications:
a) at comma 9, the wording "of those in Article 162, comma 2-bis"
are substituted by the following: «of which Article 166, comma 2»;
b) at comma 10, the wording «of which in Article 162, comma
2-quater »are from the following:« of those in Article 166,
comma 2 ».
15. In Article 5, comma 1, letter c), of the Decree
Legislative March 14, 2013, n. 33 le parole «di cui all'articolo 162,
as 2-bis »are substituted by the following:« of those in the article
166, comma 2 ».

Art. 23

Coordination arrangements
1. Declare data entered into in view of the present
decree:
a) in Article 37, comma 2, paragraph, of Legislative Decree 18
maggio 2018, n. 51, the reference to Article 154 of the Code in
matters of personal data protection, which are subject to decree
legislative n. 196 of 2003, if amended pursuant to Articles 154
e 154-bis del medesimo codice;
b) in Article 39, comma 1, of the Legislative Decree 18 maggio
2018, n. 51, the reference to Articles 142 and 143 of the Code in
matters of personal data protection, which are subject to decree
legislative n. 196 of 2003 has been amended in accordance with Articles 141,
142 e 143 del medesimo codice;
c) Article 42 of Legislative Decree 18 May 2018, n. 51,
the reference to Article 165 of the Code in matters of protection
of personal data, which are subject to legislative decree n. 196 of 2003, si
intende effettuato all'articolo 166, comma 7, del medesimo codice;
d) to Article 45 of Legislative Decree 18 May 2018, n. 51,
the reference to Article 143, comma 1, letter c), of the codice in
matters of personal data protection, which are subject to decree
legislative n. 196 of 2003, having been effected in Article 58,
paragraph 2, letter f), of the Regulation (EU) 2016/679.

Art. 24

Applicability 'of administrative sanctions
to violations previously commesse
1. The provisions of the present decree which, by way of abrogation,
criminal penalties for administrative sanctions
of the Regulation (EU) 2016/679 and also applied to violations
previously entered into the date of entry into force of the decree
still, always that the criminal procedure is not defined with
sentence or with decree irrevocable divenuti.
2. Se i penimental proceedings per i reati depenalizzati dal presente
decrees are defined, first of all, entered into force, with
condensate sentence or irrevocable decree, the judiciary
of the execution revokes the sentence or the decree, declaring that
fatto non e 'previsto dalla leggja come reato e adotta i provvedimenti
follow up. The judiciary of the trial provided with the service
of the dispositions of Article 667, comma 4, of the codices of
criminal proceedings.
3. Ai fatti commessi prima della data di entrata in vigore del
present decree can not 'apply a sanction
administrative pecuniary for a superior import to the mass of the
pena originally presented the inflitta for the sale, tenuto account
of the ragguaglio criterion of those in Article 135 of the Penal Code.
In this case, administrative sanctions are not applied
introduced by the present decree, salvo that the stesse substitute
corresponding pen accessories.

Art. 25

Transmission from the administrative authority
1. No case provided by Article 24, comma 1, author '
giudiziaria, entry novanta giorni dalla data di entrata in vigore del
present decree, has the authority to authorize '
competent administrative authorities in relation to relative criminal proceedings
to be transformed into administrative illeciti, salvo that il reato
results prescribe or are for another cause in medesima data.
2. If the criminal case is not still pending, la
transmission from the atti and 'available directly from the public
The Minister, in a written procedure, wrote the note
transmission in the register of the notice of sale. The result is clear
is for any reason, the public ministry richiede
archiving the standard of criminal procedure codes; the richiesta
ed il decreto del giudice che la accoglie posono avere ad oggetto
also cumulative procedures.
3. If the criminal case and the state are exercised, the judicial pronouncement, ai
Article 129 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, sentence
inappellabile perche 'il fatto non e' previsto dalla leggja come
reato, available the transmission of the acts to the standard of comma 1.
When and there is a pronounced sentence of condolence, he is right
by impugnazione, nel dichiarare that it is done and not provided by it
lie as reato, decide sull'impugnazione ai soli effetti delle
dispositions and headings of the sentence concerning our interests
civil.
4. The administrative authority shall notify the extremes of the violation
interested in residents of the territory of the Republic entering the
term of novanta giorni ea quelli residenti all'estero entro il
term of thirty days of the resurrection of atti.
5. Enter the last days of the notification from the extremes of the
violating the interest and affection in the payment in arrears,
pari alla meta 'della sanogione irrogata, oltre alle spese del
procedure. If applicable, in terms of compatibility, the provisions of
cui all'articolo 16 della leggja 24 novembre 1981, n. 689.
6. The payment determines the extension of the procedure.

Art. 26

Financial arrangements
1. The following derivatives of Article 18 of this Decree, pari
up to € 600,000 per year from 2019 to 2021, provved
median corresponding reduction in the authorization of species of cui
to'articolo 1, comma 1025, della leggja 27 dicembre 2017, n. 205.
2. Attention of the present decree, to the exclusion
of Article 18, we must not derive any new or greater maggot from the carico
of public finance. The administrations interested in provvedono
agli adempimenti previsti con le risorse umane, strumentali e
available funding for vigilant legislation.
3. The Minister of Economy and Finance is authorized ad
bring the current account balances.

Art. 27

Abrogations
1. I am abrogating the titles, captions, sections, articles and allegations of the
codices in the matter of personal data protection, which are subject to decree
legislative n. 196 of 2003, following elencati:
(a) to Part I:
1) Articles 3, 4, 5 and 6;
2) the title II, the title III, the title IV, the title V, the
title VI and title VII;
(b) for Part II:
1) the title I of the title I;
2) i capi III, IV e V del titolo IV;
3) Articles 76, 81, 83 and 84;
4) Chapter III of Title V;
5) Articles 87, 88 and 89;
6) capo V of the title V;
7) Articles 91, 94, 95, 98, 112, 117, 118 and 119;
8) in Chapter II and III of Title X, Title XI and Title XIII;
(c) in Part III:
1) Section III of Title I of Title I;
2) the articles 161, 162, 162-bis, 162-ter, 163, 164,
164-bis, 165 e 169;
3) the articles 173, 174, 175, commi 1 e 2, 176, 177, 178 e
179;
4) Chapter II of Title IV;
5) Articles 184 and 185;
d) the allegations B e C.
The present decree, issued by the seal of the State, will be inserted
nella Raccolta ufficiale degli atti normativi della Repubblica
italiana. E 'fatto obbligo a chiunque spetti di osservarlo e di farlo
osservare.
Date of Rome, added August 10, 2018
MATTARELLA
Conte, Presidente del Consiglio dei
ministry
Savona, Ministro per gli affari
European
Bonafede, Minister of Justice
Bongiorno, Minister for the Public
administration
Moavero Milanesi, Minister of Defense
business affairs and cooperation
international
Tria, Minister of Economy e
of finance
Di Maio, Ministro dello sviluppo
economico
Visto, il Guardasigilli: Bonafede

