Page 1

MD-2004, mun. Chigin6u, str. Serghei Lazo, 48, tel (+ 373-22) 820801, 811807, fax: 820807, www.dateDersonale.md

DECISION
on the cessation of processing operations
the data of character personnel
,, 27 "

mun 'Chigindu

februarie2} 75
Center Director NATIONAL for PROTECTION Data with Personal of

Republicii Molclova, Vitalie PANI $. Requiring from the materials accumulated in

the frame

control no. 02-l t 123 I 15, FIND:

On February 27 , 2O! 5, the National Center for the Protection of Character Data
personnel of the Republic of Moldova (the Center), to self-mandated in legdturd with informality
mediatizatd to 2'l February 201'5 the alleged fact production of an incident of
security in the processing of personal data in managed records!
The c6tre "Starnet SOLUTIONS" LLC, a soldier with the placement data of character personnel of
the company's customers on the internet in an unrestricted online regime.

Reiegind from milk cd from informalia mediatizatd plan a bdnuialL reasonable
regarding the violation of the provisions of art.art. 4, 5.29 qi 30 of the Law on data protection
characters, p "rrorrull on 27 February 2015, the Center has iniliat control No- 02-lll23lI5 in
to elucidate CIRCUMSTANCES cazuhti gi has made surprise visits to the glory of the place at

the headquarters of the company "StarNet Solulii" SRL, in order to verify the legality of the processing
Personal data .

Totodatd, was found cdin after the incident security "Starnet

Solufii, 'SRL, informality which consemneazd data with personal of a numdr

impundtor of subiecli, oblinutd in an fraudulently by cdtre THIRD unauthorized qi
mediatizat6 in on-line nerestriclionat, has created the possibility prelucrdrii subsequent to
this information by collecting, recording, storing, storing, adapting and modifying,
extraction, consirlta, e, utillzare, demdluire by transmission qi dissemination, al [turare qi
combining both the media cdtre how gi cdtre a circle large people.
in accordance with the provisions of art. 4 of the Law on the protection of personal data

personal data of character personnel that are subject prelucrdrii must'd be:
processed in mgd correctly and according to the provisions of the law, collected for specific purposes,
fxp1cite qi legit.ime, and subsequently sd not be processed in a manner incompatible with these
purposes, adequate, relevant qi excessive in what priveqte purpose for which they are
collected qi / or further processed .
At the same time, art. 5 para. (1) of the Act PROTECTION data with personal
finds that, [cd processing data of character personnel is efectueazd with consimldmintul
the subject of personal data.

Pag.

I din2

Page 2

Thus, S € t corflstatat cd order colectdrii data personal REFERRED
over has been please provide arca services provided by the company "Starnet Solufii" SRL, and
processing ulterioerd of such data in other purposes than those for which they were
collected can be held only in CONDITIONS prevdzute Get Article 5 of the Law on PROTECTION
personal data.

to the exposed grounds , the factual circumstances that are currently being ascertained, in particular
processing for other purposes of cdtre alli subiecli law (persons fiziceljuridice,
and INSTITUTIONS / portals average qi others who have collected these informafii qi them
disemineazd / it disseminated the purposes compliant) to qualify as being illegal.
based on the provisions of art. 19 para. (1), art. 20 para. (1) lit. a), e) qi para. (2) lit. d)

on the protection of personal data, Chapter II, point 2 and point 3 letter d)
of Regulation Center NATIONAL for PROTECTION Data with personal
approved by Law no. 182-XVI of July 10 , 2008, the director of the National Center for
of the Law

Protection of Personal Data of the Republic of Moldova, -

HAVE:
f . termination prelucrdrii data of character personnel of subieclilor vizali in
informality covered: ATD oblinutd in fraudulently the company "Starnet Solufii" SRL

The cdtre THIRD unauthorized \ i like instituliilportaluri average gi others ftzice gi / or

legal.

2. This decision shall enter into force on the date of issue, and shall be published on the website
official of the National Center for Personal Data Protection of the Republic
Moldova.

3. The decision with the right to appeal in order of administrative contentious within 30
for days.

waist PANI $

Director

Page 2 of 2

