Page 1

ffi ,. "* t * u.- NATT'NAL .ENTRU
-

pRorEcrIA ootu

"o * [@l

HHRU
{
with PERSONAL CHARACTER OF THE REPUBLIC OF MOI; DovA
\
Wpi
\-5_,,
^ 4i \
and
Mb-r004, In.t. chtlt.d, r,

"tt

serehel L

"^ '48, ts1 (+313: 22) 820801, 81 1807, fax: 820807' \ rqw dateDersonale md

DECISION
the termination OPERATIONS for processing
the data of character personnel
mun. Chigindu

,, 29 " AprilZ0l5

NATIONAL director of the Center for PROTECTION Data with Personal of

Republic of Moldova, Vitalie PANI $. Requiring from the materials accumulated in
control no. 02-fllZ1 / 15, -

the frame

FIND:

On 25 February 2015 the Center NATIONAL for DATA PROTECTION with Character
Staff of the Republic of Moldova (the Center), on grounds of art ' 19 para' (1), art '
p) of the Act DATA PROTECTION with character personal ' to
20 para. (l) lii. a), D,
started verifying the applicability of the legislative framework in the field of data protection with
the personal data stored in resources informalionale the state managed
iS 'CzuS'Registru', within the control rtr.02-II | 2I / 15 initiated in this respect '
the species it, control s_a focused on determining the level of implementation of the principles
the PROTECTION of personal data in the provision of

services of access to informality

stocatd in Register State of populaliei c6tre entitalile public qi private '

Thus, during the control , the presentation of IS "CRIS" Register " was requested

INFORMATION relevant, such as:

1. List entitaliloi public qi private beneficiary of sewiciilor informalionale
provided on a conhactual basis by iS 'CRIS

"Registru", which have acc.es to informalia stoca6

in the state negisirut of the population, with the express indication of: the name of the entity, the number qi
-conclusions
contract num6rului of utilizalori a.utofiz ^ ti on each entity in
dATES
part.
2. The statistics on OPERATIONS the processing of data character personal '

-

stored in Regishul the state of populaliei, performed in between 01 January 2014 31
December Z0i +, by the authorized users , on each entity in the file, in the format:
a) the total number of access operations for the purpose of
'review
informaJiilor that vizeazd subieclii of data with personal data;

(consultation) a

b) numdrul total of OPERATIONS for accessing unusual for extraction (printing) to
RESPECTIVE INFORMATION;

c) the number of Operations of
in the lormals

the

access
purpose of viewing (consultation) of
the data with personal on each entity in

that target the subjects

pafie;

^

of information

i) numdrul OPERATIONS for accessing unusual extraction (print)

stored in the State Register of Population, on each entity in pafte '

*"

AlgltUl document contains {our data personal camcler 'processed In the sistcmului of Evid € N16 No' 0000001-0ll ' registered in

."

Regisrrur de evidenra ar ope, uto ,, ro, o " out"
can be electrified only in the @ndiliile Provided by the Law (

'

ain ot
"ti"',zo"+
I I regarding
the protection
of data
with personali:
data
"* u" i "i;r i!:: 9"
1 illY,
q: Y 1i!:
l" filil
"tilldi:
Iy:"

'n'i

L] lg: * ":: i *' '

Page 2

3. The number of entities with which iS ,, CRIS "Registru" has perfectedVreperfect
the contacts for the provision of the mentioned services , according to the new model coordinated with
The center and the number of entities that have access to the data stored in the informal resource
indicated above in contract bases according to the previous model .
Reieqind of informality acumulatd in the control, it was found an Appointment

great for entities of as public qi of as private recipient of services

Information provided by iS "CZ-USA" Register " in the SCI " Acces-web ", which

prelucreazil data of character personnel, stored in resource informalionali menlionat'6,
contrary prevederil or Article 23 qi article 34 par. (4) of the Act prcteclia data with
Personal GI Regulation Registry records! 6 of operators data
personal character, approved by Government Decision no. 296 of May 15 , 2012, not being
recorded in quality of operatori2 in the Register of evidenli the operators of data
with personal.

in accordance with the provisions of art. 4 para. (1) lit. a) of the Law on protection
personal data, data character to him which are subject prelucririi
have and be processed in correctly qi according to the provisions of law '
According to art. 23 para. (1) of the aforementioned law , the operators are obligatory and notified
The center staff or through people imputemicite of cdtre them ahead of the process
data character personally designed sd serveascd a purpose '

Also, cupitol., L4 (entitled "Beneficiary's Obligations") of the contracts
prestdri services informalionale by the SIC "Acces-web", concluded according

model act..alizar, coordinated with Center, between iS "CRIS." Register " qi entity6, tile
beneficiaries of these services, in particular, the provisions of point 4.8 let. n) qi pct '4'9 lit' e) din
But statueazd express oblieatia beneficiary of the is iffeqistra in Registful of
qi, respectively, rea) izarca cerin @) g
ilor de
ident6 a

the data with personal

ucrarea

onal

of character data
of measures

ivind

unlawful

'

Subsequently, point 7 .2 9i Point. 7.3 of the chapter
exhaustive
the contracts mentioned above,
4 of the contract i- The Provider

services delivery

"Into the
ersonal

incdl

7 (entitled "Rdspunderea p64ilot '') from
.5 ,:

"in case of failure ucyqdglll9!

be into

change
in mod

rlieze
1or re

vafiin

mentioned

inform@
presented by iS "Cnts" register ", it was found
-a multituaine
R "t" $ t "d dt" "af.t" ta1iile
of entitdlile ca.re have access to INFORMATION stored in Regisfiul of State

? ptul

that,

populaliei qi prelucreazd data of character personnel that are Conlin in this resource
R

confom .fr three of Leah privi.d prclecga Dalcos with qraclor on ^ malonate, prelucmr € to darolo! with cmcter Pesooal -_ofi @ ope € tion or series of openliuni
* " * -. nariare. cuh d ll mtardca. in, ea" r @ orc "4iaeocs se ct * tueaz. 6upd dqreror ru cecrs peaomr Fm miir **
",1,".",-"
L "u'rr.n
iil * ii "
-i.; difi @; exrr "erea- @nsurrdea uririma ' of Arui @ ^ PNN tdsmirete d'scminde or R It lends arr node'
"dap'a (o
""
rl
['
alfiu @ a ori conbinet blo @ oi Sl € tgeM sau d $ rruge @

troiii "ir

: ar r.eii p.i'ind pro; 4ia datetor cu caracter personar ' operaio. - pe * oana fizic 'sN persoamjundic3

", t.
a " i," pi pii'ut, l

'"r, i, i" uuto.itarea pulticr, any uttr insti ,, itr. d

o'c; i4i "

"a"

In

9: 9f, p, I

Td, l11llr-d, - '3- :

11] il "Y" 6

t * l: ^ "::

with others' stable $ e

A & ltisl document contains personal data camcler, plelucrat in the sisrenului of magazines for the No 0000001-0ll ' INR € gislrat in

ii "til ', r o" *; a * ra

data with aar & rer dsmar
"r " ri.rabriror
, onu
It can be performed only In cotdiliile prevdzute the Leg (

+:
y + q * -djl + i! e + lsPtlT! LT: ^ "jl :::: 11 ^ T:" '"*
r: ain Ot; uti "zot t privitd prolecfia dalelor cu camcler Personal '
t

Page 2 of

l

Page 3

informalionali principall the state, including some having concluded contracts model
actralizal, which obliges the beneficiaries to comply with the activity related to the processing
data of character personal to the law enunlate over ' do not have notified
systems evidenJl data with personal 5i managed not were registered in
As the operators in the Register of evidenld the operators data of character personnel.
the basis of the set, the circumstances of which found the point qi descriese in
this decision, in conjunction with the legal provisions in the field of data protection with
character personally calificb as being ilegald processing data with caxacter staff
stored in the State Register of Population, by cAtle persons of public law qi of law

private - personal data operators, who are not registered in the Register of
evidentd the operators data of character personnel.
in grounds of aft. 19 para (1), ert.20 para. (1) lit. a) ' e)

9i para. (2) letter d)

the Law on PROTECTION data of character personnel, Chapter II, pt. 2 qi pt. 3 lit ' d)

of Regulation Center Na TIONAL for PROTECTION Data with personal
approved by Law no. 182-XVI of July 10 , 2008, the director of the National Center for
Protection of Personal Data of the Republic of Moldova ' -

HAVE:

l. Ministry of Technology INFORMATION qi COMMUNICATIONS of the Republic
Moldova, the common iS "Center Resources Informalionale of State " Register " will

in base contracts

immediately cease the processing of personal data performed

provision of senriciilor informalionale by the SIC "Acces-web" CALRE all
the beneficiary entities , which process personal data contrary to the provisions of art.
23 qi eu: t.34 alin. (4) of the Law on the protection of personal data '
This decision shall enter into force on the date of issue, shall be published on the website
official of the National Center for Personal Data Protection of the Republic

2.

Moldova.

3. Decision the right of attack in order to contentious administration officer h within the 30

for days.

Vitalie PAIrII $
Director

t! "W
s, lJeuca

Careful! Document conln € yes, with personal camcter. processed In the Mulu of shale € € videnlt s 000000l_01l 'lnregistml R n

d .-. "d;" it "i; amtoriio,

o" law
aare( cu i,
can be efoctuai | under the conditions provided by

ir "" "*:" s, "", r

ryl ++ - d4ep + qry.

mcrer e; 6onarDu. 133 of 08 July 201 I on the protection of data
? re,
nicmrea-urterioata ^ a
peBonal

data

^ ac € sh

