Page 1

LAW OF MONGOLIA
May 11, 2017

Ulaanbaatar city

ABOUT VIOLATIONS
/ Revised version /
GENERAL CLASS

CHAPTER ONE
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1.1. Purpose of the law
1. The purpose of this law is to violate the law and administrative regulations issued in accordance with it
by deeming an act or omission a violation and imposing a penalty on the person or legal entity who committed it
to strengthen the justice system.
Article 1.2. Principles of law
1. The nature of the violation shall be determined by this law, other laws and administrative norms.
2. Types of penalties and coercive measures to be imposed on a person or legal entity who has committed a violation,
The amount shall be determined by this law.
3. Failure to know that a certain act or omission is considered a violation is a violation of the law by the person who committed the violation
shall not be a ground for exempting a person from applying sanctions or coercive measures.
4. This law shall not be applied in a similar way.
5. Unless otherwise provided in this law, a legal entity shall have its type, form, property and existence
Punishment and coercive measures shall be imposed regardless of the place and area of ​activity.
Article 1.3. Principles of fairness
1. Types and amount of penalties and coercive measures to be imposed on a person or legal entity that has committed a violation
is appropriate to the circumstances of the violation, the nature of the violation, and the extent of the damage.
2. Penalties shall be imposed for each violation specified in this Law.
Article 1.4. Territory and term of application of the Law on Violations
1. A violation has been committed in the territory of Mongolia, unless otherwise provided by an international treaty to which Mongolia is a party
A person or legal entity shall be punished by this law and coercive measures shall be applied.
2. Possession of a diplomatic mission abroad located in the territory of Mongolia
a person who has committed a violation on a Mongolian ship or aircraft in the territory, water and airspace,
A legal entity shall be punished by this law and coercive measures shall be applied.
3. Penalties and coercive measures to be imposed on a person or legal entity that has committed a violation
The type and amount shall be decided in accordance with the law in force at the time of the violation.
4. Violations that are no longer considered violations, mitigated penalties and coercive measures
The law that improved the legal status of the perpetrator or legal entity shall be applied retroactively.
5. New violations, aggravated penalties and coercive measures, and violations
Laws that have worsened the legal status of individuals and legal entities shall not be retroactively applied.
6. The entry into force of a law that improves the legal status of a person or legal entity that has committed a violation
reverse the law if the decision to impose a penalty or apply coercive measures has already been executed
and the decision to impose sanctions or coercive measures has not been implemented
in case of re-application.
Article 1.5. Limitation period
1. Unless otherwise provided by law, if the following period has elapsed since the violation, the violation shall be investigated
No action will be taken:
1.1. To impose a fine of ten to five hundred units togrogs on a person in accordance with this law
six months have passed since the commission of the specified violation;
1.2. A fine equal to more than five hundred and ten thousand units shall be imposed on a person in accordance with this law
one year has elapsed since the commission of the violation;
1.3. A fine of more than ten thousand to twenty thousand units per person in this law
two years have elapsed since the commission of the offense.
2. Six months after the commission of a violation specified in a special section of this Law
In the past, no investigation or resolution of violations shall be carried out.
3. If the violation was committed by a legal entity, the amount of the fine specified in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be ten
set an additional limitation period.
4. If a special section of this law provides for the imposition of a penalty only on a legal entity, a fine shall be imposed
reduce the amount tenfold and expel it in proportion to the amount of the fine specified in paragraph 1 of this Article
set the time for discussion.
5. If several violations have been committed, the limitation period shall be calculated separately for each violation.
6. The limitation period shall start from the day of the violation and the investigation and resolution of the violation shall begin
count to days.
7. The limitation period shall cease to be counted upon the commencement of the investigation and resolution of the violation.
8. If the statute of limitations for a violation is set by another law, that law shall apply.
9. Unlawful acts or omissions of a person or legal entity shall not be subject to criminal liability
A criminal case shall not be dismissed if there are grounds to impose a penalty in accordance with this Law
shall be counted from the date of the decision to refuse to initiate a criminal case.

CHAPTER TWO
CONFLICT
Article 2.1. Violation
1. An act or omission that violates a law or administrative normative act and is punishable by this law
is called a violation.
2. Although a person or legal entity was able to comply with laws and administrative regulations
Failure to take appropriate measures to comply with it shall be deemed a violation.
3. Committed a violation specified in this law on behalf of a legal entity and in its interests
A legal entity shall be subject to the punishment specified in the special section of this Law.
4. Sanctions and coercive measures imposed on a legal entity constitute a violation
shall not be a ground for releasing a person from criminal liability, punishment or coercive measures.
5. The imposition of a penalty on a person who has committed a violation shall be punishable by a penalty on the legal entity that has committed the violation.
shall not be grounds for exemption from coercive measures.
Article 2.2. Joint violation
1. Punishment shall be imposed on each person and legal entity who jointly committed the violation.
Article 2.3. Grounds for release from punishment
1. The extent of the danger that may occur if it is not possible to eliminate the danger by other means
No penalty shall be imposed for an act of a violation specified in this Law committed without exaggeration.
2. Awareness of the real nature and dangers of one's actions due to mental illness, and one's own actions
A person who is unable to drive shall be considered incompetent.
3. The law does not provide for the imposition of penalties on a person who was incapable of prosecution at the time of the violation
Coercive measures of a medical nature may be used.
4. This is an act or omission of a civil servant to perform his / her official duties
If there is a violation specified in the law, he / she shall be subject to disciplinary punishment specified in the relevant legislation.
In this law, violations related to acts or omissions of public servants in the performance of their official duties shall be prohibited in this law
shall be punished and coercive measures shall be applied in accordance with the general procedures specified.
Article 2.4. Time of violation
1. Irrespective of when the consequences of the violation were revealed, the violation was committed at the time of the violation
calculated over time.
2. If the violation lasted for a certain period of time, it was completed or stopped
calculated for the period of the violation.
Article 2.5. Place of violation
1. A place where a violation has been committed and its consequences have been revealed shall be considered a place of violation.

CHAPTER THREE
PENALTY
Article 3.1. Grounds for imposing a penalty
1. The purpose of punishment is to prevent individuals and legal entities from committing violations
in the case of accountability and justice.
2. Grounds specified in this law for the person or legal entity who committed the violation, taking into account the nature of the violation,
shall be punished in accordance with the regulations.
3. A person or legal entity that has committed a violation has been punished for non-fulfillment of its obligations
shall not be a ground for exemption from fulfilling this obligation.
4. One act or omission constitutes two or more violations specified in a special section of this law
shall be punished for the violation specified in which person shall be punished.
5. The main penalty for violation specified in paragraph 4 of this Article, if specified in a special section of this Law
In addition, additional penalties and coercive measures shall be imposed for other violations.
Article 3.2. Convicted person or legal entity
1. This is a person who has committed a violation, who has reached the age of sixteen at the time of the violation, and who is capable of taking responsibility
shall impose penalties and apply coercive measures specified in the law.
2. A legal entity shall be punished in cases specified in a special section of this Law.
3. Unless otherwise provided in this law, the personal property of a person between the ages of fourteen and eighteen who has committed a violation
Exemption from punishment and coercive measures, taking into account the situation, the nature of the violation and the circumstances of the violation
size can be used.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
4. Punishment and coercion methods for persons enjoying foreign diplomatic privileges and immunities
The amount shall be decided in accordance with international treaties and legislation of Mongolia.
5. The legal entity that committed the violation was reorganized, deliberately bankrupted or liquidated
In case of demolition, sanctions and coercive measures shall be applied in the following order:
5.1. If one legal entity is created together with other legal entities, the newly established legal entity
to the person;
5.2. If merged with other legal entities, to the merged legal entity;
5.3. Items related to the violation, if another legal entity was established by division or separation
in proportion to the transfer of property, property and non-property rights, obligations and activities
to the relevant legal entity;
5.4. Changed by changing the type, form and main purpose of the legal entity's organization
if it is a reorganized legal entity;
5.5. The company is in the interests of the parent company, its founders and shareholders
to the parent company if a violation is found to have been committed;
5.6. A fine shall be imposed if a legal entity is intentionally liquidated during the investigation and resolution of a violation case
penalties, damages and the cost of implementing coercive measures to compensate for the damage to property
allotted shareholders;
5.7. Property, property and non-property rights by any form, method or means
to the affiliated person or property transferred from the legal entity without justification,
to other legal entities that have transferred property and non-property rights free of charge
as a percentage of the transferred assets.
6. Sanctions and coercive measures shall be imposed on a legal entity as specified in paragraph 5 of this article
If the application does not meet the purpose of the sentence, the judge shall be involved in the violation at the time of the violation
property, property and non-property rights, obligations and activities in full
shall impose a penalty on the person and apply coercive measures.
7. Whether the legal entity specified in this article was aware of the violation before its reorganization
regardless of the imposition of penalties and coercive measures.
8. Violations in the territory of Mongolia by branches and representative offices of foreign legal entities
shall be punished in the same way as a legal entity and coercive measures shall be applied.
9. A person between the ages of fourteen and sixteen shall comply with Article 5.1, paragraph 3 of the special section of this law
Article 5.2, paragraph 1, Article 5.8, paragraph 6, Article 8.6, paragraph 1, Article 14.7
Violation specified in paragraph 5 of this Article shall be punishable by a penalty.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 3.3. Types of penalties
1. The following penalties shall be imposed on a person or legal entity who has committed a violation:
1.1. A fine;
1.2. Punishment for arrest;
Penalty of disqualification.
2. Fines and arrests shall be imposed in the form of basic punishments and disqualifications in the form of additional punishments
imposed.
Article 3.4. Fines
1. A monetary payment from a court or an authorized official in the amount specified in a special section of this law
is a fine.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated December 20, 2019 /
2. The amount of the fine shall be ten to twenty thousand togrogs.
a legal entity shall have a fine equal to one hundred to two hundred thousand togrogs.
3. One penalty unit specified in paragraph 2 of this Article (hereinafter referred to as “unit”) shall have one thousand togrogs
is equal to.
4. Taking into account the assets, salaries and other income of the offender by the court or authorized official
A fine may be imposed in installments for up to one year.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 30, 2020 /
5. In the cases specified in the special section of this law, a certain percentage of assets, income, compensation and damages
shall be punishable by a fine in the amount calculated.
6. Paragraph 2 of this Article shall not apply to the amount of individual fine.
7. Violation for which a fine is imposed in accordance with a special section of this Law
in case of non-fulfillment of the imposed fine within the set time, at the proposal of the authorized official
the court will replace it with an arrest warrant.
Article 3.5. Arrest penalty
1. The offender shall be kept in a special purpose building for a period of one to thirty days
Detention is called an arrest warrant.
2. The sentence of arrest shall be imposed by a judge.
3. The procedure for serving an arrest sentence shall be established by law.
4. The court shall impose a sentence of arrest in cases specified in a special section of this Law and pregnant women
a woman, a single parent with a child under the age of fourteen, a person with complete disability,
shall not be imposed on a person who is ill and may prevent him from serving the sentence of arrest.
5. In the absence of a custodial sentence in accordance with paragraph 4 of this article, ten days shall be imposed
A fine equal to five units of togrogs may be imposed.
6. Execution of an arrest warrant may be postponed in cases provided by law.
7. Imprisonment for the period of detention during the investigation and resolution of violations
included in the period.
8. Arrest of a military serviceman in a military unit detention center
enjoy.
/ This part was repealed by the law in January 10, 2020 /
9. The total term of imprisonment imposed for several offenses shall not exceed three months.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 3.6. Disqualification
1. Carrying out certain professional activities of a person or legal entity that has committed a violation, or other
restriction of certain rights for a period of three months to two years or revocation of the permit
disqualification.
2. The right based on the registration of points calculated in accordance with the procedures specified in the law and administrative norms
may be subject to a penalty.
3. In cases specified in a special section of this Law, the disqualification shall be added to the fine
imposed.
4. A person or legal entity that has committed a violation shall operate in accordance with a specially issued permit;
frequent or serious violation of the procedures established by law and administrative norms to exercise their rights,
or violates the rules for operating and exercising their rights under a special permit
Intentional evasion of the penalty imposed for the violation is the main penalty of disqualification
in addition to the penalty.
Article 3.7. Elimination of the consequences of the violation
1. The result of the violation by an authorized official in cases specified in the law or a special section of this law
take measures to eliminate the consequences and prevent possible damage and harm.
2. To carry out licensed activities without a license in accordance with the law
shall be suspended from the date of discovery of the violation.
Article 3.8. Imposition of penalties on vehicle owners and possessors
1. Violation specified in Chapter Fourteen of this law using a vehicle is automatic
The owner of the vehicle, if it is reinforced with functional image and video equipment;
The owners shall be subject to the penalties specified in this law.
2. If it is established that the vehicle was possessed or used by another person, the owner or possessor
shall be released from punishment and a person who has committed a violation shall be punished.

CHAPTER FOUR
COMPULSORY MEASURES
Article 4.1. Confiscation and transfer of assets and income
1. A person or legal entity that has committed a violation shall be punished and the property and income earned from the violation shall be punished
shall be confiscated by the decision of the relevant official.
2. Whether the confiscated assets and income will be used for compensation, or destroyed or transferred
shall be decided in accordance with the procedures set forth in the relevant law.
3. Unless otherwise provided by law, compensation for damages from assets and income specified in paragraph 1 of this Article
The rest will be transferred to the state budget.
Explanation: “Assets and income earned through violation” means money, property and property obtained through violation
property rights, other property created by trading them, property rights, their lease,
understand all types of income earned through the use of.
Article 4.2. Confiscation of items and tools used to commit a violation
1. Materials used by an authorized official to commit a violation in cases specified in a special section of this Law
confiscate items, weapons and tools.
2. Whether to confiscate the vehicle or vehicle used in the violation or to charge its price
decided by the court.
3. Items and tools used to commit a violation have become a source of livelihood for the offender
items and tools shall not be confiscated.
4. Items used in committing a violation shall mean weapons, tools, items used in committing a violation,
means vehicles, vehicles, conflicting goods, products and items.
Article 4.3. Compensation for damages
1. Damage caused by a person or legal entity that has committed a violation in the cases specified in the special section of this Law,
in the event of compensation, damages caused by the violation, and measures to eliminate the damage
The rest will be transferred to the state budget.
Note: The “authorized official” referred to in this chapter has the authority to investigate and resolve violations
understand the official.
Article 4.4. Compulsory treatment
1. If the offender has been diagnosed with an addictive mental disorder, a court
he may be ordered to undergo involuntary treatment.
2. Relations related to involuntary treatment shall be regulated by law.
Article 4.5. Compulsory training
1. Violation for which a court shall impose an arrest penalty, unless otherwise provided in a special section of this Law
Coercive measures may be applied to the perpetrator.
2. Compulsory training shall be carried out by the competent authority during the term of imprisonment.
3. Compulsory training shall last from ten to fifty hours.
4. Relations related to compulsory education shall be regulated by law.
SPECIAL CLASS

CHAPTER FIVE
CONFLICT AGAINST PUBLIC ORDER AND SECURITY
Article 5.1. Misconduct in public
1. To defecate in public places, roads, residential areas, streets, squares, or nasal mucus,
If a person throws cigarette butts or garbage, he / she shall be fined ten units of togrogs.
2. Alcohol consumption in places where the consumption of alcohol is prohibited, or at work or in the workplace
in cities and towns, except in cases of necessity or customary use
If you carry a knife or a specially prepared weapon that can injure a person
confiscation of weapons and equipment and a fine equal to twenty five units togrogs.
3. Drugs shall be punishable by a fine of one hundred units, unless criminal liability is imposed
A fine of togrogs or arrest for a term of seven to thirty days with compulsory training
imposed.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 5.2 Hooliganism
1. In a public place or apartment:
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Causing a quarrel;
To provoke others;
Disturbing the peace of others;
1.4. Disrespect to the public;
1.5. Generally accepted norms of conduct in violation of service and queuing procedures
one hundred persons in case of violation of the amount or disruption of the normal operation of the business entity or organization
A fine equal to one unit or seven to thirty days of compulsory training
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
Explanation: The “dwellings” specified in this law are various countries intended for permanent and temporary residence
apartments, houses, gers, huts, hotels, resorts, summer cottages and tents.
/ The explanation of this section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 5.3. Invasion of human body
1. A person who has been assaulted without causing harm to a person shall be fined one hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 5.4. Violation of the Law on Combating Domestic Violence
1. Failure to comply with the legal obligation to report domestic violence
shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units.
2. In case of violation of the rules of temporary shelter, a person shall be fined two hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
3. The purpose of the temporary shelter has been changed or used for purposes other than those specified in the law
a person in the amount of one hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
4. A person with family relationships:
4.1.
4.2. Compelled to take or not to take certain actions against his / her will;
Restricted communication with others;
Violation of the right to possess, use and dispose of scheduled and joint property is a criminal offense
If not prosecuted, he / she shall be subjected to compulsory training and arrested for a period of seven to thirty days
shall be punished.
Note: “Violation of the law” specified in a special section of this law means the law, the General Administrative Law, and others
a violation of an administrative normative act that has entered into force in accordance with the procedures set forth in the law.
/ This explanation was amended by the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 5.5. Disturbing the peace of residents of public housing
1. To ensure the peace of mind of other residents at night in public housing
In case of loss, a person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
Article 5.6. Illegal possession of weapons
1. Illegal carrying or storage of special tools, firearm-like devices and ammunition
confiscation of weapons and equipment used to commit a violation in the amount of one hundred units of togrogs
fine.
2. Owned or possessed firearms other than civilian or guarded firearms
If possessed, the firearm shall be confiscated and a person shall be fined forty units and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of four hundred units togrogs.
3. If a firearm is owned for purposes other than those specified in the law, the firearm shall be confiscated and forty persons shall be killed
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to four hundred units in legal entities
fine.
4. A person who has not attended a training and obtained a certificate in accordance with the law and who does not have the right to own a firearm as specified in the law
confiscate the firearm if the acquisition, possession or use is not subject to criminal liability
a person in the amount of forty units and a legal entity in the amount of four hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
5. Forty persons for violation of the rules of registration, storage, use, possession and purchase of firearms
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to four hundred units in legal entities
fine.
6. If a firearms possession contract is not registered within the period specified by law, a person shall have forty units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to four hundred units.
7. Importing and selling firearms and ammunition without a license is a criminal offense
If it is not expected, the firearm and ammunition shall be confiscated and a person shall be fined in the amount of three hundred units.
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units togrogs.
8. Citizen's ID card and state registration certificate of a legal entity purchasing firearms and ammunition
If a copy is not kept in the electronic register in accordance with the law, a person shall be fined ten units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one hundred units.
9. Violation of the rules for the entry of firearms and ammunition across the state border shall not be subject to criminal liability
is equal to one hundred units for a person and one thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
10. Violation of the rules for importing firearms for sports-training and hunting purposes
a person in the amount of forty units and a legal entity in the amount of four hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
11. Violation of the rules for carrying or transporting firearms, or firearms within the period specified by law
If not included in the census, a person shall be fined in the amount of forty units and a legal entity in the amount of four hundred
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.

Article 5.7. Gambling
/ This article was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
1. Predict the results using dice, cards and other items for the purpose of making a profit in a public place
items used to commit an offense in the case of unimaginable gambling;
confiscation of tools, ill-gotten gains and income in togrogs equal to one hundred units
fine.
Article 5.8. Violation of the rules for organizing demonstrations and rallies
1. A statement or a statement without registration with the competent authority in a place prohibited by law
Demonstrations or rallies were held before the deadline specified in the law, or
If during the demonstration or meeting organized a demonstration or meeting prohibited to change its purpose
for damages and compensation in the amount of one hundred and fifty units of togrogs,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one thousand five hundred units togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. Deliberately obstructed the organization of a demonstration or assembly in accordance with the procedures provided by law
for damages and compensation in the amount of one hundred and fifty units of togrogs,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one thousand five hundred units togrogs.
3. If illegal demonstrations and rallies are organized, damages and compensation shall be paid
a person in the amount of one hundred and fifty units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand five hundred units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
4. Damage caused by intentional interference with a hunger strike in the streets and squares,
Compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to one hundred and fifty units for a person and one for a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of one thousand five hundred units togrogs.
5. Involving a person who has consumed alcohol or is mentally ill in a demonstration or assembly, or
Violations involving the extortion or harassment of others in order to participate in demonstrations or rallies
confiscation of weapons and equipment used in the commission of the crime, and compensation for damages and compensation
one hundred units in togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated December 21, 2017 /
6. Organizers and participants of the demonstration, weapons, toxic substances, explosives, environment,
When committing a violation, carrying anything or an animal that may endanger human life or health
confiscated used weapons and equipment, and indemnified for damages and compensation
shall be punishable by a fine equal to togrogs or by arrest for a term of seven to thirty days.
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
Article 5.9. Violation of the Law on Prevention of Crimes and Violations
/ This article was amended according to the law dated June 06, 2019 /
1. If a person fails to fulfill his / her obligations specified in the Law on Prevention of Crimes and Violations, he / she shall be sentenced to one year
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, in togrogs equal to one thousand units in legal entities
fine.
Article 5.10. Violation of the Law on Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction and Combating Terrorism
/ This article was amended according to the law dated October 10, 2019 /
1. Immediately provide information related to terrorism to the relevant government agency or terrorist
not to be influenced by any intrigue, propaganda or ideology that provokes actions and activities,
not to promote terrorism, public incitement or any public justification activities;
prevention of terrorism or conduct of special counter-terrorist operations, damage and harm
Twenty persons shall be detained if they fail to fulfill their duty to support and assist in the elimination and reconstruction activities
in the amount of one thousand units and in the amount of two hundred thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Directly or indirectly the person or legal entity included in the sanctions and domestic list
non-financing or providing him with economic resources, financial and all other types
for the provision of services, assistance or support for the commission of a violation that is not subject to criminal liability
confiscated used property and income in the amount of twenty thousand units in togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of two hundred thousand units togrogs.
3. The Council's mandate to prevent terrorism, or the request of the Emergency Staff,
the obligation of a person or legal entity to comply with the requirements immediately or to provide him / her with all-round support and assistance
in case of non-compliance, a person shall be fined in the amount of twenty thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of two hundred
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
4. Persons and legal entities included in the sanctions and domestic lists, and their names
It is a criminal offense not to immediately freeze the property or controlled assets of a financier
assets and income equal to the value of unfrozen assets, unless they are liable
confiscated a person in the amount of twenty thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of two hundred thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
5. Persons and legal entities included in the sanctions and domestic lists, and their names
within 24 hours of the intelligence agency's ownership or control of the funded entity
In case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to report, a person shall be fined in the amount of twenty thousand units
A person shall be fined in the amount of two hundred thousand units togrogs.
Article 5.11. Violation of the Law on Toxic and Hazardous Chemicals
1. Toxic and dangerous chemicals:
1.1.export;
1.2.importloh;
1.3. Transportation across the border;
To produce;
To transport;
1.6. Storage;
To sell;
To use;
Violation of basic disposal requirements, procedures, safety rules and technological procedures
confiscation of items and means used to commit a violation, elimination of the violation, and compensation for damages
payment in the amount of three hundred units for a person and three thousand units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
/ This clause was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. Violation of the law:
2.1. Substances that can be used, pesticides, chemical fertilizers, household pests, rodent control, disinfection,
violation of the rules for testing and use of disinfectants or excessive use;
Damage and compensation for violation of the procedure for risk assessment of toxic and hazardous chemicals
payment in the amount of three hundred units for a person and three thousand units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
3. To regulate activities related to toxic and hazardous chemicals approved in accordance with the law;
Illegally earned assets and income in case of violation of the legislation on implementation of legislation
confiscated and indemnified for damages and compensation in the amount of thirty units togrogs,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of three hundred units togrogs.
4. Activities related to toxic and dangerous chemicals without the permission of the competent authority
The smuggled goods were found illegally, unless sent criminally liable
confiscation of property and income, compensation for damages and compensation equal to three hundred units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
5. Tolerance of toxic and hazardous chemicals to human health and the environment
Violation of the standard on the amount of damages and compensation for damages, if not subject to criminal liability
to pay a fee equal to five hundred units to a person and five thousand units to a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
6. Thirty people without internal control over the use and consumption of toxic and hazardous chemicals
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to three hundred units in legal entities
fine.
Article 5.12. Violation of the Law on Controlling the Circulation of Explosives and Explosive Devices
1. Information and reports on explosives and explosive devices have been provided to the relevant authorities
in case of late submission or intentional misrepresentation, a person shall be fined in the amount equal to one hundred units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one thousand units togrogs.
2. Persons authorized to possess explosives and explosive devices:
2.1. Its production, import, export, storage, sale, transportation, use, destruction, safe
safety requirements;
2.2. Procedures for carrying out blasting works and providing services;
2.3. In case of violation of the security zone regime and regulations, a person shall be fined in the amount equal to five hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
3. Explosives and explosive devices through mass media
If advertised, a person shall be fined in the amount of three hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of three thousand
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
4. In case of violation of the rules for production, import and use of pyrotechnic devices
confiscated used items in the amount of one hundred units for a person and one for a legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 5.13. Violation of the Law on Disaster Protection
1. Misleading or lying about disasters, catastrophes, infectious diseases, accidents and dangers
The dissemination of information is equal to five hundred units per person, unless criminally punishable
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated April 29, 2020 /
2. Prohibitions imposed by the competent authorities in the event of a disaster, natural disaster, infectious disease, accident or danger
Tobacco, restriction of movement, violation of their regime, or criminal liability for obstruction
Failure to do so may result in a fine of five hundred units or seven to thirty units
to impose a penalty of arrest for a period of one day, in the amount of five thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This section was added by the law in 4/29/2020 /
3. Information provided by the competent authority in case of disasters, catastrophes, infectious diseases, accidents and emergencies,
five thousand legal entities for failure to provide information free of charge and without hindrance
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
/ This section was added by the law in 4/29/2020 /
4. If a person fails to fulfill his / her legal obligations on disaster protection, he / she shall have one hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated April 29, 2020 /
5. Buildings constructed for the purpose of protection against disasters, catastrophes, accidents, dangers and disaster risks
It is a criminal offense to damage a facility or change its purpose arbitrarily
if it is not expected, to compensate the damage and compensation equal to five hundred units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated April 29, 2020 /
6. If the donor has carried out activities prohibited by law, it shall be equal to one hundred units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated April 29, 2020 /
Article 5.14. Violation of the law on fire safety
1. Citizens and legal entities have not fulfilled their obligations to ensure fire safety or are fire safe
In case of violation of the rules, regulations and general requirements for fire safety
damages and compensation in the amount of one hundred units in togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
2. Violation of the law:
2.1. To develop, update and change the general plan of cities and villages;
2.2. To build, expand, use and repair new buildings and structures;
2.3. Laws and fire safety norms related to changing the technological regime of the plant,
five hundred persons for violation of norms or storage of combustible and lubricating materials in unsuitable places
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to five thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
3. At the request of the fire leader:
3.1. Map of location, features, substances and materials of the fire object
no information provided;
3.2. No form of ownership of any water source shall be provided for preparation, readiness and firefighting
obstructed or not used free of charge;
3.3. Firefighting leader when managing firefighting activities
failure to comply with the decision;
3.4. In case of interference in the performance of duties by a class or unit, three persons shall be detained
one hundred units in togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
4. The law states:
4.1. Fire extinguishing equipment, primary tools, substances and materials in buildings and structures
placement procedures;
4.2. Authorized to store, use, produce and sell flammable materials
three hundred persons in case of violation of the procedure for obtaining a professional opinion of the organization or obtaining a permit
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to three thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
5. One hundred and fifty units per person, unless a mandatory fire hazard assessment is required
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one thousand five hundred units togrogs.
6. Flammable substances or pyrotechnic articles:
To register;
6.2. Storage;
6.3. Transportation;
6.4. In case of violation of the rules of use, a person shall be fined one hundred units and a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
Article 5.15. Violation of safety regulations
1. Technical operation and safety regulations:
1.1. To produce, transfer, distribute, supply and use fuel and energy;
/ This clause was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
1.2. To conduct mineral exploration and mining;
1.3. To use stoves, pressure vessels, lifting and transportation mechanisms;
1.4. During the performance of mining, construction and other potentially explosive activities
In case of violation, a person shall be fined in the amount of three hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of three thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
Page 2

2. Explosive, radioactive, strong, toxic substances:
To register;
2.2. Storage;
To use;
2.4. Transportation;
To send;
To sell;
To acquire;

2.8. In case of violation of the preparation procedure, the person shall be compensated for the damage caused and shall have three hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
Article 5.16. Violation of ordinary guard and guard regulations
1. Ordinary guards and security guards shall be appointed by the state authorities and officials
In case of violation of the rules, a person shall be fined twenty units and a legal entity two hundred units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
Article 5.17. Violation of the Law on Mobilization
1. To ensure national security in the fight against disasters, catastrophes, infectious diseases, accidents and dangers
avoidance or obstruction of mobilization of connected manpower, transport, communication facilities and facilities
in case of causing damage to a person in the amount of fifty units togrogs and to a legal entity in the amount of five hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated April 29, 2020 /
2. A citizen of Mongolia shall have the duty to participate in trainings and mobilization gatherings in accordance with the law
Failure to do so will result in a fine of fifty units togrogs.
3. At the time of mobilization, a citizen of Mongolia did not arrive at the specified place within the specified time, or the mobilization
If the property is not supplied in accordance with the assignment, the person shall be fined in the amount of four hundred units
fine.
Article 5.18. Violation of the Law on State of Emergency
1. State of emergency decision, emergency emergency measures, additional emergency measures,
fifty units per person in case of violation of the limits of application and application of special measures
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
2. The use of communication or amplification and sound amplification equipment is determined
In case of violation of the regulation, a person shall be fined fifty units and a legal entity five hundred units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
3. Violation of the rules of control over the mass media or their temporary operation
Illegal publication, production, distribution, sale or sale of discontinued periodicals
confiscation of earned property and income, compensation for damages and compensation shall be equal to fifty units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
Explanation: Acting due to obstruction of public order in accordance with the law
The assets of political parties, coalitions, associations and public organizations that have ceased their activities shall be turned into state revenue.
Article 5.19. Improper protection of animals that may endanger the environment
/ This article was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
1. Human health due to improper protection of animals that may pose a threat to the environment
In case of minor damage, the damage and compensation shall be equal to one hundred units per person
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 5.20 Violation of the Law on the Legal Status of Human Rights Defenders
/ This article was added by the law in 2 April 2021 and 7
Effective from January 1.
1. Insulting, slandering or urging human rights defenders not to support their activities
If the method is used, the damage shall be compensated in the amount equal to one hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
2. Human rights defenders have used violent methods and acted in a restless manner.
called for the use of human rights defenders for personal gain, human rights and freedoms
Compensation for damage caused by violation of freedom and defamation of the honor, reputation and business reputation of others
payment in the amount of one hundred units for a person and one thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.

CHAPTER SIX
VIOLATIONS OF PUBLIC MORALITY, POPULATION HEALTH AND HYGIENE PROCEDURES
Article 6.1. Violation of the law on waste
/ This article was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
1. Hazardous waste:
Temporary storage;
To collect;
To transport;
1.4. Recycling;
1.5.destroy;
To register;
1.7. If the violation of the reporting procedure is not subject to criminal liability, the damage or compensation shall be compensated
payment in the amount of three hundred units for a person and three thousand units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
2. Vehicle and construction waste:
Cleaning;
To collect;
2.3 classification;
2.4. Transportation;
2.5. Recycling;
2.6. Reuse;
To destroy;
2.8. Compensation for damage caused if the violation of burial procedure is not subject to criminal liability
payment in the amount of three hundred units for a person and three thousand units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
3. Hazardous waste from health facilities:
3.1 classification;
To collect;
3.3. Transportation;
3.4. Recycling;
3.5.reuse;
3.6. Violation of the destruction procedure, methodology and instructions caused if it is not subject to criminal liability
damages and compensation in the amount of three hundred units of togrogs for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units.
4. A fire that has occurred in a unit or organization and has remained in a place used for military purposes
weapons, ammunition, firearms, explosives and toxic chemicals and their residues:
To collect;
4.2. Transportation;
4.3. Recycling;
4.4. Reuse;
4.5. Compensation for damage caused if the violation of the destruction procedure is not subject to criminal liability
payment in the amount of three hundred units for a person and three thousand units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
5. Waste from mining and processing:
5.1.classification;
To collect;
5.3. Transportation;
5.4 recycling;
5.5. Reuse;
5.6. In case of violation of the destruction procedure, the person shall have five hundred units for damages and compensation
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
6. Ordinary waste:
To clean;
6.2.classification;
To collect;
6.4. Transportation;
6.5. Recycling;
6.6. Reuse;
To destroy;
6.8. Compensation for damage caused by violation of burial procedure, unless criminal liability is imposed
payment in the amount of one hundred units for a person and one thousand units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
7. Citizens, business entities and organizations are provided with the law on waste:
7.1. Sorting of ordinary waste;
7.2. Authorized to dispose of waste in designated bins and dumps or to collect and transport waste;
transfer to an organization;
7.3. To hand over the generated hazardous waste to the competent authority or to a designated special point;
7.4. To pay waste service fee within the set time;
7.5. Advertisement as waste on the outer walls, fences and fences of owned buildings and structures
not to place advertisements;
7.6. 50 meters in charge of cleaning waste, snow and ice of a business entity or organization in the territory
to clean up waste, snow and ice from public lands up to;
7.7. Collection, transportation and recycling of waste from construction, demolition and repair activities
transfer to citizens, business entities and organizations authorized to process, destroy and bury and service
In case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to pay, thirty persons shall be compensated for the damage caused
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to three hundred units in legal entities
fine.
8. Waste in infrastructure pipelines or public lands, green areas, flood embankments
In case of abandonment, damages and compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to fifty units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
9. Open-burning waste or synthetic waste in home and low pressure furnaces
If the waste is incinerated, the damage and compensation shall be paid in the amount equal to fifty units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five hundred units.
10. It is a criminal offense for a business entity or organization to build a soil-polluting toilet
if it is not expected, to compensate the damage caused to the legal entity in the amount of two hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
11. Advertising, religious and ritual items placed on public property
If the waste is generated, the damage and compensation shall be equal to fifty units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
12. Citizens, business entities and organizations that have concluded a contract in accordance with the law shall collect waste.
failure to set transportation routes and schedules and to have them approved by soum and district governors
Damage and compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to fifty units to a person, in accordance with the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
13. Collect, transport and recycle waste according to the schedule established by law
handed over to the competent authority for mining, recycling, destruction and burial
Failure to do so shall result in damages and compensation in the amount of fifty units togrogs.
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
14. Ordinary waste meets the requirements of purpose, sealing and safety
Fifty units per person for damages and compensation for non-transportation
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five hundred units.
15. Citizens, business entities and organizations that have signed a contract in accordance with the law shall clean up waste;
caused by failure to take measures to prevent it from falling, spilling or blowing during collection and transportation
Damage and compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to fifty units for a person and five togrogs for a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units.
16. Citizens, business entities and organizations that have not concluded a contract in accordance with the law shall carry out the activity
If the person is in charge, he / she shall be compensated for the damage and compensation in the amount equal to thirty units of togrogs.
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of three hundred units togrogs.
17. With green facilities, recreation, tourism, summer cottages, apartments, public areas and water reservoirs
special and ordinary protection zones for land and water sources, drinking and domestic water supply
Within the recharge zone, mineral resources are identified and prohibited by other legislation
if a facility for recycling, recycling, disposal and burial of ordinary waste has been established on the land
damages and compensation in the amount of five hundred units of togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of five thousand units togrogs.
18. Recycling, disposal and burial of ordinary waste landfills and wastes
if the operation was carried out without the permission of the Governor of the respective aimag or the capital city;
Compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to one hundred units for a person and one thousand togrogs for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
19. Hazardous waste, infectious waste or liquid waste at a centralized waste disposal site,

The burial and incineration of waste containing free liquids caused criminal prosecution
damages and compensation in the amount of one hundred units per person and one legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
20. A centralized waste disposal site has been established in a place other than the designated site, or this type of activity
In case of engaging in activities, compensation for damages and compensation shall be equal to two hundred units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two thousand units.
21. Business entities and organizations are responsible for the collection and transportation of hazardous waste
if it was carried out without the permission of the state central administrative body in charge of environment
damages and compensation in the amount of two hundred units of togrogs for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of two thousand units togrogs.
22. In locations where the construction of hazardous waste storage and disposal facilities is prohibited by law
The established person is not liable for damages and compensation for damages
two hundred units in togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of two thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
23. Collection, storage, recycling and disposal of hazardous waste
Damage and compensation for damage caused without permission shall not be subject to criminal liability
for a person in the amount of three hundred units of togrogs and for a legal entity in the amount of three thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
24. The law provides for the collection, storage, recycling and disposal of hazardous waste
Damage and compensation for damage caused by failure to comply with the requirements shall not be subject to criminal liability
to be paid in the amount of two hundred units for a person and two thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
25. The operator of storage, recycling and disposal of hazardous waste shall comply with the law
failure to comply with the obligation to keep relevant information for 10 years after the closure of the facility
damages and compensation in the amount of two hundred units of togrogs for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of two thousand units togrogs.
26. Compensation for damage caused by ordinary waste dumped on public land or green zone
payment in the amount of three hundred units for a person and three thousand units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
27. Producers and importers of products included in the list of hazardous waste
Recycling and recycling of product waste and waste from their packaging
Damage and compensation for non-fulfillment of obligations to use, recycle and export
for a person in the amount of five hundred units of togrogs and for a legal entity in the amount of five thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
28. Manufacturers and importers are products waste and waste from their packaging
waste collection, reuse, recycling, recycling, burial, disposal and export
to have a life cycle diagram or to make it available to the public
In case of non-compliance, the damage and compensation shall be paid in the amount equal to one hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
Article 6.2. Violation of the law on use of water supply and sewerage in cities and settlements
1. Compensation for damage caused by arbitrary change of water meter seal, location and connection
to pay a fee equal to thirty units for a person and three hundred units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
2. Without the consent of the supplier in water supply facilities and sewerage networks
If connected, the amount of damages and compensation shall be paid to the person in the amount equal to five hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
3. Sterilize untreated wastewater to an acceptable level of wastewater composition
In case of supply to the sewerage network, damages and compensation shall be paid and the operation shall be stopped.
revoke the license and pay the person two hundred units of togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of two thousand units togrogs.
4. Protection zone of water supply and sewerage facilities or sanitary zone
In case of violation of the regime, the violation shall be remedied and the person shall be compensated for the damage caused
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to five thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
5. Protection zone of water supply and sewerage facilities or sanitary zone
In case of unauthorized access to the border and causing damage, the violation shall be eliminated and the damage and compensation shall be compensated
for a person in the amount of six hundred units togrogs and for a legal entity in the amount of six thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
6. Water supply and sewerage facilities, network protection zones, or
If a building or network is built in the sanitary zone without permission, it shall be demolished and acted upon
to compensate for the damage caused by the termination of the operation and to be equal to eight hundred units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to eight thousand units.
7. Protection zones for water supply and sewerage facilities and networks, or
Petroleum products, chemicals and radioactive substances in the sanitary zone:
7.1.saved;
Developed;
7.3.If it is produced, the violation shall be eliminated and the damage and compensation shall be paid
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This clause was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
8. Water supply and sewerage facilities, network protection zones, or
from the state central administrative body in charge of environment and health in the sanitary zone
planted crops using unauthorized fertilizers, or pests using substances and technologies,
If the rodent is destroyed, the violation is remedied, and the damage caused and compensation is paid to one thousand people
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to ten thousand units for legal entities
fine.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
9. Protection zones for water supply and sewerage facilities or networks, or
If wells and boreholes for drinking and non-domestic purposes are drilled in the sanitary zone, the violation shall be eliminated.
damages and compensation in the amount of one thousand units in togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of ten thousand units togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
10. Damage and compensation for violation of the requirements set forth in the technical specifications in accordance with the law
payment in the amount of one thousand units for a person and ten thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
11.Legislation, norms on water supply and sewerage use by suppliers or consumers,
Compensation for damages caused by non-compliance with standards, rules and instructions
a person in the amount of one thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
12. Fresh water leaks, damage to networks and equipment were not repaired within the specified time
If the damage is compensated, the person is entitled to ten units of togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 6.3. Violation of the Law on Tobacco Control
1. Place a person in a place where smoking is prohibited, if he or she is allowed to smoke
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to five hundred units in legal entities
fine.
2. Smoked tobacco in the territory of Mongolia:
2.1.importloh;
2.2.export;
To produce;
To sell;
2.5. In case of violation of the requirements for use, the items, means and law used to commit the violation
confiscation of ill-gotten gains, revocation of licenses and three hundred units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
3. Illegally earned assets and income if smoked tobacco is advertised in a prohibited form
confiscated a person in the amount of three hundred units of togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of three thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
4. Under the guise of social responsibility, either directly or through another organization
In social welfare, health and environmental protection organizations:
4.1. Provided financial or material donations and assistance;
Provided support to others;
4.3. In case of sponsorship, a person shall be paid in togrogs equal to three hundred units;
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units togrogs.
Article 6.4. Violation of the Law on Controlling the Circulation of Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances
1. Drugs, sedatives and psychiatric services licensed to cross the border of Mongolia
effective drugs, substances and their raw materials:
1.1. Permission issued by the competent authority, agreement concluded between the exporter and importer
exceeded the specified type, number and amount;
1.2. Illegally issued to a pharmacy or drug supply organization without proper permission
confiscated property and income in the amount of three hundred units of togrogs for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units.
2. Drugs, sedatives, psychotropic drugs, substances, tools and equipment
device:
To produce;
2.2.preparation;
2.3.processing;
2.4. Storage;
To register;
2.6. Distribution;
2.7. Transportation;
To cross the state border;
2.9. In case of violation of the destruction procedure, the items, means, illegally obtained property used for committing the violation,
confiscation of income in the amount of three hundred units for a person and three thousand units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
3. Drugs, sedatives and psychotropic substances:
3.1. Sold in excess of the permitted amount;
3.2. If illegally sold, the illegally acquired property and income shall be confiscated
one hundred units in togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 6.5. Violation of the Law on Combating Alcoholism
1. Carried out activities without a new license to produce alcohol, or
trade and services do not meet the international technical regulations, standards or quality and safety
alcohol if the condition is not confirmed or the alcohol is supplied without a certificate of conformity
confiscation of beverages, illegally earned assets and income, suspension of operations and revocation of licenses
to make a person equal to thirty units and a legal entity to three hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Without non-food raw materials or without the permission of the competent authority
confiscation of alcohol, ill-gotten gains and activities if alcohol is produced
to suspend the operation, revoke the license in togrogs equal to fifty units per person,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
3. Inputs and outputs of alcohol production lines are not metered or intended
in case of non-use of equipment or non-compliance with technological procedures, hygiene and sanitation requirements
confiscation of alcohol, ill-gotten gains and activities if the production was carried out
to suspend and revoke a license in the amount of fifty units per person, in accordance with the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
4. Kindergartens, schools of all levels, hospitals, students,
The students conducted in the classroom, dormitory, apartment, its entrance, basement, or food and technical
Violation of the procedure for distribution, issuance, consumption and control of alcohol for its intended use
confiscate items, tools, ill-gotten gains and income used to commit the crime, suspend operations,
revocation of a license for a person equal to twenty units of togrogs or for a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of two hundred units togrogs.
5. A restaurant or nightclub licensed to serve alcohol to children
kindergartens, schools of all levels, hospitals, students' classrooms, dormitories, apartments and their entrances,
items, tools and laws used to commit a violation, if used in a basement (except for intentional landscaping)
confiscation of ill-gotten gains, termination of operations, revocation of licenses
in togrogs equal to fifty units, in legal entities in togrogs equal to five hundred units
fine.
6. Non-compliant goods if they do not meet the standards for alcohol labels,
the right to confiscate products and items in the amount equal to thirty units, specifically granted to a person
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of three hundred units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
7. Alcohol labels:
7.1. Committed fraudulently;
7.2. Used illegally;
7.3. If sold, confiscate the items used to commit the violation, illegally earned assets and income;
The license was revoked and a person was issued a special amount equal to thirty units
A legal entity shall be deprived of its rights and fined in the amount of three hundred units togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
8. Permission to produce, sell or serve alcohol has been transferred to others, or
in case of relocation of the factory, the goods, products, items, illegally obtained assets,
confiscate income, suspend operations, revoke licenses and equal thirty persons per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three hundred units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
9. Alcohol:
9.1.importloh;
9.2.export;
9.3. In case of violation of the procedure for crossing the state border through the designated port during re-export
confiscation of used items, tools, illegally earned assets and income equal to fifty units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
10. When importing alcohol included in the list of alcohol imports, the sample
without prior examination by a professional organization or border and customs hygiene control,
items, tools, illegally obtained assets and income used to commit the violation, if not inspected
confiscate and revoke the license in togrogs equal to fifty units per person, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
11. Alcohol:
To produce;
11.2. Transportation;
11.3. Storage;
To sell;
11.5. Employed by a person under the age of eighteen or twenty for sale and service
sold or served alcohol to a minor and used it to commit an offense
confiscation of property, tools, ill-gotten gains and income in the amount of twenty units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two hundred units.
12. Rewarded or rewarded with alcohol, or paid by the state
Funded by state-owned or partly state-owned enterprises or from the local budget
if alcohol was purchased with the organization's funds, the items and tools used to commit the violation,
confiscation of illegally earned property and income in the amount of twenty units of togrogs, legal
A person shall be fined in the amount of two hundred units togrogs.
13. Drunkenness without proper permission, or in places other than those specified in the permit, or on hand
items, means or illegally used for committing a violation if the drink was sold or served with it
confiscated assets and income in the amount of fifty units for a person and five hundred for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
14. Confiscation of illegally earned assets and income for violation of alcohol advertising regulations
a person in the amount of thirty units of togrogs, depriving the specially granted right of the legal entity three
shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units.
15. Aimag and capital city governors or free zone governors in their respective territories
a trade and service agency licensed to sell and serve alcohol
Violation of administrative normative act setting time limit for carrying out activities
Fifty units per person shall be confiscated from the items, tools, illegally obtained assets and income used to commit the crime
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five hundred units.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
16. If a person under the age of twenty-one is tempted to drink alcohol, he has fifty units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 6.6. Violation of the Law on Medicines and Medical Devices
1. Requirements and conditions for production of drugs, drug raw materials, medical devices and introduction of new drugs
In case of violation, confiscate items, tools, illegally obtained property and income used to commit the violation,
Compensation for damages and revocation of operating license
a person in the amount of one hundred and fifty units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand five hundred units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
2. Import of drugs, drug raw materials, medical devices and biologically active products
in case of violation of export requirements or prohibitions, items used in violation,
confiscation of tools, ill-gotten gains and income, damages and compensation
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, in togrogs equal to one thousand units in legal entities
fine.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Note: In the state register at the expense of the person who committed the violation specified in paragraph 2 of this article
drugs and medical devices that are not registered and differ from the state registration model (color, shape, typeface, etc.)
from the customs control zone without importing biologically active products across the border of Mongolia
returns.
/ This explanation was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
3. Medical specialist:
3.1. Incorrect in terms of prescription, method of administration, storage conditions or proper use
provided information;
3.2. The prescription is not written in accordance with the standard;
3.3. Prescription drugs are issued without a prescription;
3.4. If a drug is dispensed with an invalid prescription, a person shall be fined in the amount equal to fifty units
A person shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
4. Medical specialists, health organizations and drug supply organizations:
4.1. Not registered in the Mongolian Drug Registry, or without quality assurance, or used
expired drugs, drug raw materials, medical devices and biologically active products
served;
4.2. To sell drugs and medical devices to doctors in order to increase their income
items, tools used to commit a violation, if involved in incentive or similar activities;
confiscation of ill-gotten gains, damages and compensation for one hundred people
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to one thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
5. Procedures for storage and protection of drugs by drug supply organizations and health organizations
In case of violation, a person shall be fined in the amount of fifty units and a legal entity in the amount of five hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
6. Violation of the law on conducting pre-clinical research or conducting clinical trials
if the damage is compensated in the amount equal to fifty units of togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
7. Violation of the law:
7.1. Violation of the requirements for labeling or labeling of drug packaging;
7.2. Drugs, drug raw materials and biologically active products produced, imported and sold in Mongolia
the product is not registered in the state drug registry;
7.3. Quality assurance of medicines and medical devices to be used for human and veterinary purposes
if not done, a person shall be equal to fifty units of togrogs and a legal entity shall be equal to five hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
8. If a drug is advertised in a form prohibited by law, it shall be equal to three hundred units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
9. If the medical activity is carried out without the permission of the competent authority, the person shall be sentenced to three hundred years
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to three thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
10. According to the law:
10.1. Meets the main raw material and quality requirements registered in the drug registry according to the doctor's prescription
auxiliary raw materials were not used;
10.2. In places other than pharmacies;
10.3. In a pharmacy that does not meet the requirements of drug preparation standards;
10.4. A person who is not entitled to take medication;
10.5. If the drug preparation activity was performed without following the pharmaceutical technology, the infringing goods,
confiscation of products, compensation for damages and damages shall be equal to fifty units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
/ This clause was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
11. It is a violation to sell drugs and drug raw materials without a license from a doctor, medical institution
confiscation of goods and products in the amount of three hundred units for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
12. Compulsory immunizations or grants for free
The sale of drugs or medical devices is a criminal offense, unless criminally punishable
confiscation of items, tools, ill-gotten gains and income in the amount of one hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 6.7. Violation of the Law on Health
1. Treatment, nursing, obstetrics and rehabilitation without the permission of the competent authority
If sent, the person shall have his / her illegally earned property and income confiscated and the damage caused shall be compensated
in togrogs equal to three hundred units, for legal entities in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Accurate information about the illness or disease of the patient or the deceased, except as prohibited by law
a person who has not fulfilled his / her obligations to the relevant organization, citizen, patient or family of the deceased
in togrogs equal to one hundred and fifty units, for legal entities in the amount of one thousand five hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
3. Pathogenic bacteria and their toxins without permission for laboratory and industrial purposes:
3.1. Cultured;
Multiplied;
3.3.saved;
Reserved;
3.5. In case of intentional transportation of a person in togrogs equal to five hundred units, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of five thousand units togrogs.
4. Isolation of infectious diseases, carriers and their contacts that pose a threat to the health of others,
or five hundred persons for damages and compensation for violation of the rules of quarantine
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to five thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
5. A citizen or a person under the age of eighteen who has no legal capacity due to mental illness
For a patient who has been identified as a legal representative (parent, guardian, custodian)
Performed complex diagnoses, surgeries, medical research and experiments without written permission
if the damage is compensated in togrogs equal to five hundred units,
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
6. Clinical trial of new methods and technologies for diagnosis, treatment and disease prevention
If used in medical practice without compensation, the person shall be compensated for the damage caused
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, in togrogs equal to five thousand units in legal entities
fine.
7. Violation of the law:
Violation of the procedure for medical termination of pregnancy;
7.2. Obstetrics, professional activities in the field of gynecology, health care,
If a doctor licensed to provide services performs an abortion in a non-medical setting
revoking a license in the amount of five hundred units per person, in accordance with the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of five thousand units togrogs.
8. In case of illegal abortion by an unlicensed doctor, it is equal to seven hundred and fifty units
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of seven thousand five hundred units togrogs.
9. Medical instruments, equipment, accessories, prostheses:
To produce;
To sell;
9.3.importloh,
9.4. Items and law used to commit the violation in case of violation of the established rules on procurement
confiscation of ill-gotten gains and income in the amount of four hundred units in togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of four thousand units togrogs.
Article 6.8. Violation of the law on medical care and services
1. Compensation for damages caused by a qualified doctor or resident doctor if he / she fails to fulfill his / her duties specified by law
the right to engage in certain professional activities for a period of up to one year
A person shall be fined in the amount of one thousand units togrogs.
2. As provided by law:
2.1. Specialized medical care and services have not been provided;
Failure to comply with the requirements for obstetric care and services;
2.3.Medical and obstetric emergency care shall be provided to the nearest health care provider
If the organization fails to fulfill its obligations, the damage caused shall be compensated and clarified
to deprive a person of the right to engage in professional activities for a period of up to one year equal to two hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two thousand units.
Article 6.9. Violation of the Law on Immunization
1. Fifteen persons who have not fulfilled their obligation to be vaccinated or vaccinated
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
2. Immunization or preventive vaccination:
2.1. Did not meet the requirements;
2.2. In case of using a drug without permission, in togrogs equal to fifty units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
3. Fifty units per person in case of violation of the conditions of storage or transportation of immunization preparations
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five hundred units.
4. Preventive vaccination is legal for children and citizens who are considered to be legally incompetent
in the amount of one hundred and fifty units, if committed without the consent of the guardian;
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one thousand five hundred units togrogs.
Article 6.10. Violation of the Law on Donors
1. Transfusion of donor blood or cells, tissues, without the permission and accreditation of the competent authority,
If the organ transplant was performed, the damage caused shall be compensated illegally
confiscated property and income in togrogs equal to five hundred units for a person and five togrogs for a legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. Damage and compensation for donor activities carried out for profit
to confiscate illegally obtained property and income in togrogs equal to five hundred units,
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
3. Damage and compensation for violation of the requirements and conditions for obtaining cells, tissues and organs from living donors
to pay a fee equal to five hundred units to a person and five thousand units to a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
4. One hundred people if donated cells, tissues or organs are advertised for purchase or sale
in togrogs equal to fifty units, for legal entities in the amount equal to one thousand five hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
5. Exported or uncertified blood, blood products, cells, tissues or organs for profit

If imported, damages and compensation shall be paid and illegally earned assets and income shall be confiscated
a person in the amount of one thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
6. A testament or testament of a deceased person when taking cells, tissues and organs from a non-living donor, except as provided by law
the consent of his or her birth parents, spouse or adult family member
Page
3 non-receipt is not subject to criminal liability, damages and compensation shall be paid
If the
a person in the amount of two hundred units of togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of two thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 6.11. Violation of the Law on Mental Health
1. A health organization that provides mental health care and services to the population,
the medical professional has failed to fulfill his / her legal obligations or to use the method of isolation and mitigation
In case of violation of the regulation, a person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred and fifty units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand
shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
Article 6.12. Violation of the law on food for infants and young children
1. Standards that do not meet the general and special requirements for ingredients, packaging and labeling
products that have not been complied with, or have lost their seal, and are prohibited from importing or selling
Violation if it is included in the food chain or if activities or advertisements are prohibited by law
confiscated items, tools, ill-gotten gains and income of five thousand people
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to fifty thousand units for legal entities
fine.
2. If a person fails to fulfill his / her obligations under the law on food for infants and young children, one thousand people shall be fined
in togrogs equal to five hundred units, for legal entities in the amount of fifteen thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 6.13. Violation of the law on prevention of iodine deficiency by iodizing salt
1. If food salt is not iodized according to the standard by industrial methods, a person has two hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two thousand units.
2. Violation if iodine salt is imported that does not meet the requirements of Mongolian standards
confiscate items, tools, ill-gotten gains and income used to commit crimes
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two hundred units.
Article 6.14. Violation of the Food Law
1. Strategic food to be exported and imported in a given year based on food demand and supply:
In excess of the type and quantity;
1.2. Items exported or imported without permission, used for committing a violation,
confiscation of tools, ill-gotten gains and income, damages and compensation
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Buildings, equipment and tools that meet the standards and technical regulations specified in the law
engaged in food activities in violation of the requirement to have tools, warehouses and vehicles
confiscation of ill-gotten gains, compensation for damages and compensation for three hundred persons
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to three thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
3. Buildings for food production and service:
To build a new one;
3.2. Expansion;
3.3. To update;
3.4. A drawing certified by the competent authority for the installation of new equipment
if not performed in accordance with the project, a person shall be fined in the amount of three hundred units and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
4. To have appropriate professional or specialized human resources to conduct food activities
three hundred units per person if the operation was carried out in violation of the requirements of the law
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
5. Pesticides, chemical fertilizers, household pests and rodents in excess of the maximum allowed by law
Illegal use of destruction, disinfection and disinfection substances in food activities
confiscation of earned property and income, compensation for damages and compensation shall be equal to five hundred units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
6. Food products in violation of the requirements of the law on food export and import
confiscation and damage of food products and products in violation if exported or imported;
Compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to one thousand units for a person and ten togrogs for a legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
7. Concentrators, food additives, cultural assets and food produced by new technologies
In case of violation of the procedure for registration and release for public use, a person shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units,
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 6.15. Violation of the law on food safety
1. A food business operator shall:
1.1. In accordance with the law to the competent authority for food control in the territory under its jurisdiction
failure to fulfill the obligation to report;
1.2. The conclusion specified in the law has not been issued;
/ This provision was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
1.3. The activities of the supervisory authority are prohibited or the activities are continued
Illegal earnings if food activities were carried out without a decision to carry out
confiscation of property and income, compensation for damages and compensation equal to three hundred units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
2. A food business operator handles food raw materials and products
processes, produces, transports, sells, provides services, food products
and personal hygiene and sanitation of personnel who come into contact with items used in the food chain
three hundred units per person if not enrolled in training or medical examination
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
3. Violation of the law:
3.1. Adversely affect human health or expired or expired
manufacture, storage, sale or service of counterfeit food products;
3.2. Food products sold using packaging harmful to human health,
items used in the commission of the offense, illegally, if the service is not subject to criminal liability
confiscation of earned property and income, compensation for damages and compensation shall be equal to five hundred units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
/ This clause was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
4. Negative or potentially harmful to human health, false or required
Violation if food raw materials and products with non-compliant labels are not returned or withdrawn
confiscation of items used in the commission, illegally obtained property and income, damages and compensation
for a person in the amount of one thousand units and for a legal entity in the amount of ten thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
5. Violation of the law:
Relevant production rules and regulations and standards when conducting food activities
not followed;
5.2. Good practices specified in the law have not been introduced in its operations;
5.3. If no trace trace record has been kept for each food raw material or product
damages and compensation in the amount of three hundred units of togrogs for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units.
6. Processed or appropriate food products that have been decommissioned
confiscation and damage caused by the violation, if it was recycled without permission,
Compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to five hundred units for a person and five togrogs for a legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
7. Risk assessment of food raw materials and products derived from GMOs,
if the food was sold illegally in violation of the registration procedure
confiscation of property and income, compensation for damages and compensation equal to five hundred units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
8. Violation of technical regulations in food production, trade and services
in togrogs equal to three hundred units, for legal entities in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
9. Food operators shall ensure the quality and safety of food products
Illegally earned assets in case of production and storage of unsatisfactory raw materials and products,
confiscation of income, damages and compensation in the amount of three hundred units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
10. Incorrectly labeled food raw materials that do not meet the labeling requirements
If produced, sold or imported, a person shall be entitled to three hundred units of togrogs in accordance with the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units togrogs.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 6.16. Violation of the Law on Organic Food
1. Compensation for damage caused by an organic producer if he / she fails to fulfill his / her obligations specified in the law
to pay a fee equal to two hundred and fifty units for a person and two thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
2. Damage caused to organic producers if they do not meet the requirements set by law,
Compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to three hundred units for a person and three togrogs for a legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
3. As provided by law:
3.1. Imported organic food for sale in the territory of Mongolia;
3.2. Damage caused by non-compliance with the requirements for organic food signs, markings and labels;
Compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to four hundred units for a person and four togrogs for a legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
4. The certification body shall:
4.1. Certified organic food in violation of the law;
4.2. To submit the information of the organic producer to the relevant state organization within the period specified by law
If not notified, the power of attorney shall be revoked and the person shall be fined in the amount of four hundred units.
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of four thousand units togrogs.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 6.17. Violation of the Law on Hygiene
1. Caused if the population is not provided with drinking water and living conditions specified in the law
damages and compensation in the amount of two hundred units of togrogs for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of two thousand units togrogs.
2. Location of construction sites, construction design, construction,
Hygiene in the relevant inspection body for commissioning, expansion and change of purpose
If no conclusion has been made, compensation for damages and compensation shall be equal to two hundred and fifty units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two thousand five hundred units.
3. Production and service facilities shall be inspected and certified by the competent authority
not built in accordance with the design, not meeting the sanitary requirements, or the manufacturer of the service
to ensure the quality and safety of raw materials, products and services and to prevent risks,
adverse consequences and failure to take prompt action to address identified deficiencies
damages and compensation in the amount of three hundred units of togrogs for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units.
4. Hygienic requirements for raw materials, goods, products, substances and preparations are not met
damages and compensation in the amount of one hundred units in togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
5. High-risk raw materials, goods and products that may adversely affect human health.
Failure to obtain a hygienic conclusion from the relevant inspection agency for the import of substances and preparations
confiscation and damage caused by infringing goods and products, unless criminal liability is imposed;
Compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to two hundred units for a person and two togrogs for a legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
6. Imported raw materials, goods, products, substances, preparations, techniques and technologies are harmful to human health,
Issued by the competent authority to ensure that it does not adversely affect the environment and meets the hygienic requirements
confiscation of infringing goods and products, unless the certificate is not subject to criminal liability;
for damages and compensation in the amount of two hundred units of togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of two thousand units togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
7. Goods, products, substances and preparations shall be stored in accordance with hygienic requirements and intended for transportation
If the vehicle is not transported by means of means, it shall be equal to fifty units per person for damages and compensation
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
8. If a person's place of work or study does not meet the hygienic requirements, the activity shall be prohibited
to stop, to compensate for the damage caused, to compensate a person in the amount of one hundred units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one thousand units togrogs.
9. Violation of the law prohibits the provision of hygienic conditions and requirements
Damage and compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to fifty units for a person and five togrogs for a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units.
Article 6.18. Violation of the Law on Combating Pornography
1.3 through the production, distribution and sale of publications, books, literature, pictures, films and videos without permission
Advertising pornography in the media is not a criminal offense
confiscation of illegally acquired property and income in the amount of one hundred and fifty units of togrogs,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one thousand five hundred units togrogs.
2.3 for the purpose of preparing, distributing and selling publications, books, articles, pictures, films and videos without permission
Illegally earned property and income, which are not subject to criminal liability for smuggling across the state border
confiscated a person in the amount of one hundred and fifty units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand five hundred
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
3. One hundred and fifty people for violating the requirements for erotic advertising or services
in togrogs equivalent to one thousand five hundred units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
4. Having sex with a prostitute or having sex with a prostitute
If confiscated illegally acquired property and income, a person shall be fined in the amount equal to fifty units.
5. Violation of the rules for the sale of erotic publications, books and videos, or erotic movies required by law,
Fifty units per person for violating the prohibitions on video, drama and dance
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five hundred units.
6. The law in case of violation of the procedure for monitoring erotic advertising or the procedure for conducting erotic performances
confiscation of ill-gotten gains, income and infringing property in the amount equal to fifty units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five hundred units.
7. A person who has organized or brokered prostitution in his / her own premises or land
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, and in the amount of one thousand units for legal entities
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was repealed by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 6.19. Violation of the Law on Physical Culture and Sports
/ This article was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
1. Standards and training programs for training and coaching activities
Failure to comply and failure to monitor the student's health
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one thousand units togrogs.
2. Carried out sports training and coaching activities without a license in accordance with the relevant regulations, or
If the training was conducted by an unauthorized person, the amount shall be equal to fifty units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five hundred units.
3. If sports training and coaching activities are not carried out in accordance with relevant procedures and standards
A coach shall be deprived of his / her license and fined in the amount of one thousand units.
4. Organized sports competitions not specified in the national sports competition schedule
shall be punishable by a fine of one thousand togrogs for a legal entity.
5. If a local sports competition is organized without prior notice
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, and in the amount of one thousand units for legal entities
will be fined in togrogs.
6. Organize sports competitions to organize local sports competitions
activities to monitor the health status of participants who have not been introduced to the rules and standards
If it is not organized and security is not provided, a person shall be paid in the amount equal to one hundred units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one thousand units togrogs.
7. Violation of national anti-doping rules - up to two years
shall be punishable by a fine equal to one thousand units.
Article 6.20. Violation of children's rights
/ This article was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
1. Parents, guardians, custodians or persons legally obliged to take care of,
legal entities:
Deliberate deprivation of a child of clothes, food and shelter;
1.2. The child has consumed food that does not meet hygiene requirements;
1.3. Has not fulfilled his / her obligation to immunize children;
1.4. Failure to fulfill the legal obligations of custody and maintenance shall be a criminal liability
If it is not expected, a person shall be fined in the amount of two hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of two thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
2. A person or legal entity shall:
2.1. When a child is offered to smoke, given as a gift, or to obtain or use smoked tobacco
supported;
2.2. Ownership, inheritance or service fee and incentive in accordance with the legislation
restricted access;
2.3. If the child's right to education, development and living in a healthy and safe environment is restricted
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, and in the amount of one thousand units for legal entities
will be fined in togrogs.
3. The child:
3.1. Illegal right of a child to education on the grounds of non-payment of any fees and charges
limited;
3.2. Photograph without his / her or his / her parents, guardian or custodian's consent;
audio, video and audio-visual recordings were used for information and advertising;
3.3. Illegally holding the name of a child and making a profit or in order to create a profit for himself / herself
Involved in games, festivals and other events that endanger life, health and reputation
is equal to five hundred units for a person and five thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
4. One hundred persons involved in religious activities against the will of the child
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to one thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
5. School, school dormitory, day care center, orphanage, child protection center
and other organizations providing services to children
Violation of children's rights due to failure to fulfill their duty to create a safe and friendly environment is a criminal offense
Unless a person is liable, a person shall be fined one hundred units and a legal entity shall be fined one hundred units
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
6. The alimony payer shall pay the child benefit to be paid monthly by the court decision for more than three months
If a person fails to pay on time, he shall not be subject to criminal liability
A fine of togrogs or arrest for a term of seven to thirty days with compulsory training
imposed.
7. Assaulting or neglecting a child, or drinking alcohol in the presence of a child,
Three hundred units of a person who is under the influence of drugs and violence is not criminally liable
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
8. Prevent risks that may adversely affect the life, health and development of the child
Failure to comply with the duty to prevent, protect, notify and check whether it is caused by violence is a criminal offense
If a person is not liable, a person or a legal entity shall be fined in the amount of three hundred units
shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units.
Article 6.21. Defamation
/ This article was repealed by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 6.22. Taking photographs, making audio, video and audio-visual recordings without permission
1. Ambient lighting inside or outside the dwelling without the permission of the occupant
If a picture is taken, audio, video, audio-visual recordings are made, the amount of a person is equal to two hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two thousand units.
Article 6.23. Refusal to report on international quarantine diseases
/ This article was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
1. A medical certificate from a country where the international quarantine disease occurred
in case of refusal to declare or inaccurate declaration, in togrogs equal to fifty units
fine.
Article 6.24. Prevention of air pollution
/ This article was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
1. Diesel-powered buses and trucks without standard smoke filters
If involved in the movement, the violation shall be remedied in the amount of one hundred units in togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
2. Prohibitions in certain areas for the purpose of protection and prevention of air pollution
raw coal is not allowed in the restricted area in violation of the established administrative norms act
Conflict items confiscated if transported or introduced in the amount of one hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
Article 6.25. Violation of the Law on Fortified Foods
/ This article was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
1. Fortified food producers are:
1.1. An internal control system that does not follow national standards in the production of products
unassembled or manufactured products and concentrates by an accredited laboratory
not certified;
1.2. Food produced without fortification;
In case of violation of the procedure for production, storage and transportation of fortified food, three legal entities shall be fined
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
2. Register the name, type, production and sales information of fortified food in the database
the use of signs and markings indicating that they have not fulfilled their obligations or that they are fortified food
Violation of the regulation shall result in a fine of one thousand togrogs for a legal entity.
3. The importer of concentrates is:
3.1. Transportation and storage of concentrates without compromising quality and safety
mode not followed;
3.2. Fortifying preparations with ingredients other than those specified in the list of food to be fortified
imported;
Concentrators without certification of origin, quality and safety
if imported, confiscate illegally acquired assets and income and the legal entity shall be equal to three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
4. Importers of fortified food do not meet the requirements of mandatory fortified food standards,
or confiscation of ill-gotten gains if unmarked fortified food is imported
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units togrogs.
Article 6.26. Sexual harassment
/ This article was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
1. Giving sex to others with consequences for work, position, honor, fame, property, and emotions
If the motivation to act in a communicative manner is expressed verbally, physically, or in any other way, one thousand people
A fine equal to one unit or seven to thirty days of compulsory training
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term.
2. Prevention of sexual harassment in the workplace by the employer in the internal labor regulations;
one thousand five if the legal entity fails to fulfill its obligation to reflect the norms for resolving the complaint
shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units.

CHAPTER SEVEN
CONFLICT AGAINST ENVIRONMENTAL AND ANIMAL AND PLANT PROTECTION PROCEDURES
Article 7.1. Violation of the Law on Environmental Impact Assessment
1. Decision of the relevant organization without conducting an environmental impact assessment
if the operation was carried out without payment, the illegal activity shall be stopped and the illegally earned assets shall be stopped.
confiscation of income in the amount of three hundred units for a person and three thousand units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
2. Worked without an environmental management plan or did not implement the plan,
a legal entity with five hundred units if the execution is not submitted within the set time and is not reported to the relevant authority
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
3. Failure to comply with the requirements of the environmental impact assessment shall result in the death of three persons
one hundred units in togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
4. Environmental impact assessment analysis and review of the environment
three hundred units per person if a detailed impact assessment is found to have been made incorrectly
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
Article 7.2. Violation of the Law on Soil Protection and Prevention of Desertification
1. According to the law:
Soil protection;
To prevent desertification;
In case of violation of the regulation on measures to combat desertification, a person equal to fifty units shall be fined
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five hundred units.
Article 7.3. Regulate foreign trade in endangered animals, plants and their derivatives
violation of the law
1. Wildlife and flora are not included in the list of rare and very rare animals under Mongolian law
animals included in the annex to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species
if a plant or its derivative is smuggled across the state border without proper permission
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 7.4. Violation of the Law on Air
1. Information on its own activities, ozone depleting substances that adversely affect air quality,
information on import and production of other substitutes and equipment containing them,
information on air pollution sources, air pollutants and emissions
size and internal control information:
1.1. Not reported within the set time;
Intentional misrepresentation;
1.3. Compensation for damage caused by concealed or prohibited activities
payment in the amount of three hundred units for a person and three thousand units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
2. Produces pollutants in excess of air pollution standards, physically negative
If the air is polluted using affected vehicles or other mobile sources
a person in the amount of fifty units of togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of five hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
3. Air protection requirements are not met:
3.1 commissioning of buildings and facilities;
3.2. In case of introduction of equipment and technology, a person shall be entitled to three hundred units of togrogs in accordance with the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units togrogs.
4. The amount specified in the permit for the release of air pollutants and adverse physical effects;
In case of violation of conditions and requirements, a person shall be fined one hundred and fifty units and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of one thousand five hundred units togrogs.
5. Equipment to reduce, clean and control air pollutants and physical impacts
In case of violation of the rules for the use of equipment and tools, a person in the amount of one hundred and fifty units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand five hundred units.
6. Conditions that pollute the air around the population and adversely affect human health
If the amount is equal to one thousand units for a person and ten thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
7. Emissions of pollutants without the permission of the competent authority, adverse physical effects

If a person is polluted by air by engaging in production and services using the resources provided, one thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to ten thousand units.
Article 7.5. Violation of the Law on Air Pollution Charges
1. If the air pollution compensation is not paid, the damage shall be compensated
a person in the amount of twenty units and a legal entity in the amount of two hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Information on sources of air pollution, content of air pollutants,
amount of waste:
Concealed;
2.2. If false information is provided, the person shall have one hundred units for damages and compensation
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
Article 7.6. Violation of the Law on Fauna
1. Animals that have expired contracts or permits, or without contracts and permits:
1.1.used;
Built;
If it is hunted, confiscate the items used to commit the violation, illegally earned property and income,
for damages and compensation in the amount of one hundred and fifty units of togrogs,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one thousand five hundred units togrogs.
2. Materials used to commit a violation if the permission to use, catch or hunt animals has been transferred to others
confiscation of illegally acquired property and income, damages and compensation
in togrogs equal to one hundred and fifty units, for legal entities in the amount of one thousand five hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
3. Hunting and fishing contracts, licenses and certificates transferred to others, specified in the contract
Hunting, trapping, or hunting for industrial purposes without a proper contract
confiscation of illegally used property and income if the animal was hunted or caught;
Damage and compensation shall be paid to a person in the amount of three hundred units in togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units togrogs.
4. In places other than hunting areas, or when hunting is prohibited, or during prohibited periods,
or items used to commit an offense if the animal was caught, hunted or transported by prohibited means;
confiscation of ill-gotten gains, compensation for damages and compensation for three hundred persons
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to three thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
5. Licenses, certificates of origin, wild animals and their raw materials,
items sold or purchased without accompanying specifications, used in violation of the law, illegally
confiscated property and income, and indemnified for damages and compensation
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
6. If an animal has been reintroduced without permission, the items used in the offense have been found illegally
confiscation of property and income, compensation for damages and compensation equal to five hundred units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
7. Materials used to commit a violation if a foreign animal has been domesticated or bred without permission
confiscation of illegally acquired property and income, damages and compensation
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
8. Animals other than those specified in paragraph 5 of this article and raw materials of their origin shall be deemed to be of origin
items or means used to commit a violation, if sold or purchased without a reference, illegally
confiscated property and income, and indemnified for damages and compensation
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 7.7. Violation of the Law on Natural Plants
1.3 Procedures for collecting and harvesting plants without a permit or for the period, amount and time specified in the permit
violate:
Rare natural plants for household use;
1.2. Collected and prepared for the purpose of using abundant plants as production raw materials and earning income,
confiscated illegally prepared goods in the amount of one hundred and fifty units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand five hundred units.
/ This clause was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. Territories, pastures, hayfields and livestock that are important for ensuring the balance of the environment
Collecting or preparing plants for industrial purposes in areas prohibited for use for feeding purposes
If livestock is grazed, it shall be equal to one hundred and fifty units for a person and one thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
3. If a foreign plant is cultivated in nature without permission or imported from abroad, a person
in togrogs equal to five hundred units, for legal entities in the amount equal to five thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
4. Violation of the procedure for collecting and harvesting plants or preparing them for household use
confiscation of ill-gotten gains and income if plants are used as raw materials for production;
damages and compensation in the amount of one hundred units in togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
Article 7.8. Violation of the Law on Plant Protection
1. Violation of technology to control plant diseases, pests, rodents and weeds
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, and in the amount of one thousand units for legal entities
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Quarantine in the area where plant diseases, pests, rodents and weeds are destroyed
The violation of the quarantine regime of plants or other activities carried out before the expiration of the term
is equal to one hundred units for a person and one thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
3. Plant protection agents:
To produce;
3.2. Storage;
3.3. Transportation;
To sell;
3.5. In case of violation or misuse of technology and standards to be used, one hundred persons
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to one thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
4. Plant diseases, pests, rodents and garbage on the land used, possessed and owned
If the plant is found, take immediate measures to prevent its spread to other areas and to the relevant authorities
in case of non-fulfillment of the obligation specified in the law to notify a person in togrogs equal to one hundred units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one thousand units togrogs.
5. When transporting and selling plants and raw materials derived from them, the Governor of the respective soum or district
If the person does not have a certificate of origin from the administration, the amount is equal to fifty units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five hundred units.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 7.9. Violation of forest law
1.3 If non-timber forest products are harvested without permission, confiscated assets and income shall be confiscated.
Damage and compensation shall be paid to a person in the amount of three hundred units in togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. Forest possessed in accordance with the agreement:
2.1. Fire;
Pests;
2.3. If no measures have been taken to protect against the disease, the person shall be compensated for the damage caused
in togrogs equal to three hundred units, for legal entities in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This clause was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
3. If the logging area is not cleared with proper permission, it is equal to three hundred human units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
4. Three hundred people shall be fined for violating technological procedures when harvesting timber or using non-timber forest products
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to three thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
5. Illegally acquired assets, income, if prohibited activities are carried out on forest lands;
confiscation of items and tools used to commit a violation in the amount of three hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
6. Non-timber forest products have been used and prepared in excess of the amount specified in the management plan
If the excess amount is confiscated, the amount is equal to three hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
7. Requirements specified in the law on fire fighting and prevention in forested areas
in case of non-compliance, a person shall be fined one hundred and fifty units and a legal entity shall be fined one thousand
shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
8. In case of fire danger:
8.1. Juvenile and young coniferous forests, burnt forests, dry and deciduous forests and trees in forest and steppe regions
areas with untreated logs and residues, areas with abundant grassy vegetation, and open fires under trees
burned;
8.2. Incineration method was used to clean the logging area;
8.3. Paper, cloth, cotton and other items impregnated with combustible and lubricating materials have been dumped in an unsuitable place;
8.4. Smoking while refueling vehicles and other equipment, burning through windows and doors,
Dispose of explosive waste, ash, matches, or vehicles without sparks
in togrogs equal to three hundred units, for legal entities in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
9. Firefighting tools, equipment and machinery in the area of ​operation in accordance with the contract
equipment is not assembled in accordance with established norms and standards, or in the event of a fire
if it is not ready for use, a person shall be fined one hundred and fifty units and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of one thousand five hundred units togrogs.
10. Compensation for damage caused by non-compliance with the requirements of the Forest Law
to be paid in the amount of fifty units for a person and five hundred units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
11. Logging from the forest without a contract, or in violation of the terms and conditions of the contract
If sent illegally confiscated items and confiscated income in the amount of one thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to ten thousand units.
Article 7.10. Violation of the law on subsoil
1. Arbitrary use of the subsoil shall result in confiscation of illegally acquired property and income
in togrogs equal to fifty units, for legal entities in the amount equal to one thousand five hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Arbitrary construction of groundwater or groundwater regime in a mineral area
one hundred and fifty units per person in case of destruction or damage of boreholes, geodesy and surveying marks
in togrogs equal to one thousand togrogs for a legal entity
fine.
3. Violation of the rules and requirements for geological research in the subsoil
underground constructions for purposes other than misappraisal of mineral resources and mining
in case of misidentification of the conditions of detention, in the amount of three hundred units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units togrogs.
4. Subsoil:
4.1. To make the land damaged during operation safe and repair it so that it can be used in the future
not furnished;
4.2. Appropriate precious metals, precious stones, scientific, historical and cultural values ​discovered during use
not notified to the organization;
4.3. Precious metals, precious stones, scientific, historical and cultural values ​discovered during use in the state
failure to comply with the requirements of the law on delivery;
4.4. If he / she fails to fulfill his / her legal obligations to protect it during use
confiscated property and income in the amount of three hundred units of togrogs for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units.
5. Other than mining, processing of minerals and mining
for underground construction:
5.1. To design;
5.2. A legal entity that has violated the requirements set forth in the law on their construction and commissioning
shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
6. Thirty units per person in case of violation of subsoil safety rules and norms
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three hundred units.
7. Procedures for protection of subsoil, potential hazards and harmful effects of its use
requirements for protection of workers, population and livestock, wildlife, environment and facilities
in case of non-compliance, a person shall be fined thirty units and a legal entity three hundred units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
8. Damage to a mineral deposit, selective extraction of its rich part, or profit
Violation of the requirements for the rational use of mineral balance resources, mineral waste during mining,
If the pollution exceeds the established norms, the illegally acquired property and income shall be confiscated
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, in togrogs equal to one thousand units in legal entities
fine.
Article 7.11. Violation of the Minerals Law
1. The license holder has concealed the amount of minerals extracted, or this
proceeds from the sale of a false contract or for an unreasonably low price
In case of intentional reduction, compensation for damages shall be equal to one thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to ten thousand units.
2. The license holder shall:
2.1. Failure to fulfill common obligations in prospecting, exploration and mining;
2.2. Information, reports and plans on exploration and mining specified in the law have not been submitted in time,
or in case of submission of false information or report, a person shall be fined in the amount equal to one thousand units
A person shall be fined in the amount of ten thousand units togrogs.
/ This provision was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2.3. If a person operates in excess of the license area, he / she shall have one thousand units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to ten thousand units.
/ This provision was repealed by the law in January 10, 2020 /
3. Violation of the procedure for determining or registering the quality of samples of precious metals and gemstones
a person in the amount of three hundred units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
4. In case of intentional destruction of samples, specimens and raw materials taken from the exploration area, three people shall be killed
one hundred units in togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.

Page 4

5. Damage caused by violation of the requirements for the rational use of mineral balance resources,
Compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to three hundred units for a person and three togrogs for a legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
6. Regulated relations related to artisanal and small-scale mining
In case of violation of the regulation, a person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred and fifty units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand
shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
7. Unauthorized persons or legal entities violate the rules established by law, or violate natural values
colored stones:
Mined;
Sold;
7.3. Purchased;
7.4. Transported;
7.5. If stored, items, tools, illegally earned assets and income used to commit the violation
confiscation, damages and compensation in the amount of one thousand units togrogs,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of ten thousand units togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 7.12. Violation of the Law on Common Minerals
1. Unlicensed person or legal entity:
1.1. Exploration of common minerals;
1.2. Extracted or sold common minerals;
1.3. If a mineral deposit has been exploited, two hundred people shall be compensated for the damage caused
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to two thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
2. Information, reports and plans specified in the law have not been submitted on time, or false information and reports
if issued, to a person in the amount of fifty units of togrogs, to a legal entity in the amount of five hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
3. The license holder has illegally obstructed the exercise of his / her legal rights
is equal to three hundred units for a person and three thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
4. Damage caused if the license holder fails to fulfill the general obligations specified in the law,
Compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to one hundred units for a person and one thousand togrogs for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
Note: If a violation specified in this article is committed, the authorized state inspector shall issue a license
Exploration and mining activities of the owner shall be suspended for a period of up to two months, during which time
In case of non-correction of the violation, the issue of revoking the license in accordance with this law shall be resolved by the special
The permit shall be issued to the authorized official of the aimag or the capital city where the area is located.
Article 7.13. Violation of the Law on Petroleum
1. If a person who has not concluded a contract with the State Administrative Body has conducted a search operation, he / she has committed a violation
confiscated used items, ill-gotten gains and income in the amount of five hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
2. Petroleum in areas where exploration and mining activities are prohibited or restricted
In case of conducting exploration or mining activities, the damage caused shall be compensated and special
revoking the permit in the amount of one thousand five hundred units per person, in accordance with the law
A person shall be fined in togrogs equal to fifteen thousand units.
3. The Contractor shall provide any information related to investment and ownership to the Government of Mongolia
in case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to provide at the request of a person in the amount of three hundred units togrogs,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units togrogs.
4. Copies of prospecting, exploration and mining work reports and related documents shall be submitted to the state in accordance with the law
In case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to hand over to the administrative organization, the report and documents shall be issued
a person in the amount of five hundred units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of five thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
5. The license holder shall submit information, reports and plans within the period specified in laws, regulations and agreements
Failure to do so, or submission of false information or report, may result in the issuance of the report or document.
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to five thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
6. Exploration license holder exceeds the mining trial period
If the damage is caused, compensation shall be paid in the amount equal to two thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to twenty thousand units togrogs.
7. Concealment of the amount of oil extracted by the license holder or assets
the investment costs have been artificially inflated, or a false contract has been entered into for this purpose, or
intentionally reduced or attempted to reduce sales revenue by selling at unreasonably low prices
50 percent of the income earned by the legal entity during that period with damages and compensation
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
8. To supply raw materials to the domestic processing plant by the mining license holder
if a person fails to fulfill his / her duties or intentionally avoids fulfilling them, it shall be equal to ten thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one hundred thousand units.
9. When conducting exploration and mining activities, the license holder shall:
9.1. To purchase goods, works and services required for its operations and subcontractors
to give priority to taxpayers registered in Mongolia in the selection process;
9.2. Transactions related to investment and sales income shall be traded in Mongolia
Execute through a bank and fully reflect the transaction in the financial statements in a transparent and open manner;
9.3. Introduce advanced technology in its operations, Mongolian citizen-specialist, professional
Recruitment, training, internships and activities in the oil sector
to cooperate with the state administrative body in introducing it to the public;
9.4. To set equal salaries and bonuses for foreign and domestic employees engaged in similar work,
to protect the legitimate rights and interests of employees;
9.5. Primary and seed related to exploration and mining without the permission of the state administrative body
In case of violation of the obligation not to transfer the report and materials to a third party, a person shall be fined four thousand
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to forty thousand units in legal entities
fine.
10. Loss or destruction of exploration samples, specimens, rock samples and raw materials
damages and compensation in the amount of one thousand units in togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of ten thousand units togrogs.
11. If a license holder obstructs the exercise of his / her legal rights, a person shall be punished
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
12. The license holder has not set the boundaries of the site in accordance with the procedures set forth in the law, or
If the footprint is not transferred, the person shall be fined in the amount of one thousand units
A person shall be fined in the amount of ten thousand units togrogs.
13. The license holder shall:
13.1. Use of toxic chemicals and preparations without permission;
13.2. Use of toxic chemicals and preparations prohibited by law;
13.3. To follow the established technological procedures, rules and regulations when using toxic chemicals and preparations
In case of non-compliance, the amount of compensation equal to five thousand units shall be paid to the person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to fifty thousand units.
14. If the contractor does not approve the program and budget within the period specified by law, the person shall have two thousand units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to twenty thousand units.
15. If the minimum amount of exploration work specified in the contract is not performed, the person shall be equal to four thousand units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to forty thousand units.
16. Contractor:
16.1. To fully fulfill its obligations to rehabilitate the environment;
16.2. As a guarantee for liquidation of exploration and mining facilities for a given year
3 percent of the exploration investment and 1 percent of the contractor's profit oil during operation
The equivalent amount shall be disbursed to Mongolia within 60 days after the approval of the annual plan
to be placed in an escrow account of a operating bank;
16.3. Complete environmental protection and rehabilitation works in accordance with the standards;
16.4. To cover the costs of liquidation of exploration and mining facilities;
16.5 vehicles, machinery, equipment and materials required for exploration and mining activities
When importing raw materials, spare parts and petroleum products, their type and quantity,
unit price information, design of buildings and structures to be built in the territory of Mongolia,
to submit technical documents to the state administrative body;
16.6. An estimate of petroleum resource movement shall be prepared annually by the state administrative body
review;
16.7. In case of discovery of historical, cultural artifacts and artifacts in the course of its activities
to terminate its operations and immediately notify the relevant authorities;
16.8. The mining license holder shall protect the environment;
16.9. An agreement that provides for voluntary support for local development
to establish and work with soum and district governors where the license area is located;
16.10. The state central administrative body in charge of petroleum matters shall be responsible for the environment, rehabilitation,
is obliged to regularly inform on the liquidation of exploration and mining facilities
to have an employee;
16.11. Technical accidents, delays and losses that have been in a difficult financial situation for a long time
established, or terminated by a court decision or an act of a state inspector, or
exploration, construction, exploitation and export activities due to force majeure or other reasons
to notify the state central administrative body in charge of petroleum matters in advance
in case of non-compliance, a person shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of thirty thousand
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
Article 7.14. Violation of the Law on Petroleum Products
1. One hundred persons shall be fined for non-compliance with the obligations set forth in the Law on Petroleum Products
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to one thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
2. Petroleum products:
2.1.importloh;
To produce;
To sell;
2.4. Transportation;
2.5. Standards, rules and norms related to storage equipment, technology and safety
in case of non-compliance, a person shall be fined one hundred units and a legal entity shall be paid one thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
3. Without a license:
3.1. Produced petroleum products;
3.2. Imported all types of fuel, special liquids and combustible gases;
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
3.3. In the case of retail or wholesale trade, in the amount equal to two hundred units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two thousand units.
Note: If the violation specified in this article is committed, the illegally earned property and income shall be confiscated and the violation shall be stopped
suspend operation until removed.
Article 7.15. Violation of water law
1. According to the law:
1.1. Water has been used for purposes other than obtaining a permit;
1.2. Groundwater was used without a permit to drill a well;
1.3. Requirements of civil servants to meet the conditions for water use
not fulfilled;
Failure to comply with water user obligations and requirements;
1.5. The regime of special or ordinary protection zones of water sources or sanitary zones
violated;
Damage and compensation shall be paid if the completed borehole is not sealed and handed over.
for a person in the amount of one hundred and fifty units and for a legal entity for one thousand and five hundred
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
2. Water use permits have been sold or transferred to others, or water is produced
used for its intended purpose without the appropriate contract or permission, or in excess of the amount specified in the contract
damages and compensation in the amount of five hundred units of togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of five thousand units togrogs.
3. Caused if activities were prohibited in the special protection zone of water sources
damages and compensation in the amount of two thousand units for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of twenty thousand units.
4. Compensation for damage caused by changing the main natural course of rivers and streams
for a person in the amount of two thousand units and for a legal entity in the amount of twenty thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
5. According to the law:
5.1. The need to establish a simple protection zone or sanitary zone in the area with water reservoir
to fulfill;
5.2. Water inventory, prospecting, exploration, research reports, monitoring results, water use
timely registration and wastewater registration;
5.3. In case of violation of the procedure for submitting reports and information, a person shall be fined five hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
6. Violation of spring zone protection zone, restricted zone, sanitary zone regime,
or indemnify for damages caused by prohibited activities in these areas
a person in the amount of one thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.

7. Springs:
7.1. Used without a contract or permission;
7.2. Used in excess of the procedure without a contract;
7.3. In case of arbitrary change of purpose, the person shall be compensated for the damage and compensation
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
8. Waste dumped in water reservoirs, or washed of machinery, dirty items, or water
In case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to protect the resources from pollution, compensation shall be paid for the damage caused
a person in the amount of one hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
9. Compensation for damages caused if water use fee is not paid on time
a person in the amount of two hundred units of togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of two thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 7.16. Violation of the Law on Water Pollution Charges
1. Information on water pollutants and the amount, composition and contaminants of wastewater
One of the persons to be compensated for the damage caused if concealed or provided false information
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Compensation for damage caused by waste water supply to unauthorized or unlicensed points
payment in the amount of one thousand units for a person and ten thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
3. If the water pollution fee is not paid on time, damages and compensation shall be paid
a person in the amount of one hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 7.17. Carrying out prohibited activities in special protected areas
1. In special protected areas:
1.1. Violation of laws, administrative norms, standards, regimes and procedures;
1.2. Compensation for damages caused by activities not specified in the management plan
payment in the amount of three thousand units for a person and thirty thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
2. Carrying out activities prohibited by law in special protected areas is a criminal offense
if it is not expected, to compensate the damage and compensation equal to five hundred units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.

CHAPTER EIGHT
VIOLATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY AND OWNERSHIP RIGHTS
Article 8.1. Violation of the Land Law
1. To put signs prohibiting access to and passage of land owned or used by others,
If a person enters a specially protected area without permission, such as building a fence, there are twenty-five units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two hundred and fifty units togrogs.
2. The owner of immovable property shall invade other people's lands for the purpose of using and protecting his / her property
Possession of others for passing roads, electricity, communication, engineering lines, exits and other purposes,
one hundred and fifty units per person in case of violation of the procedure for limited use of the land in use
in togrogs equal to one thousand togrogs for a legal entity
fine.
3. If a land possessor or user fails to fulfill his / her land acquisition obligations within the set time, one person shall be sentenced
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
4. In case of pledge or transfer of land possession certificate in accordance with the law
to register in the state registry or to obtain a land possession certificate only in the form permitted by law
In case of violation of the procedure for transferring or pledging to a citizen or legal entity of Mongolia, possession of land,
termination of the contract of use in the amount of one thousand units for a person and ten thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
5. Caused if a new farmland was created without a decision of the competent authority
damages and compensation in the amount of three hundred units of togrogs for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units.
6. One hundred units per person for violation of the rules of rational use or protection of pastureland
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
7. A person who has decided to use a group in accordance with a contract specified in the law
transferred, pledged, or for more than 183 days the right to possess land without permission
In case of violation of the procedure for use by others, a person shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units
A person shall be fined in the amount of five thousand units togrogs.
8. Livestock grazing or mowing until the hay is harvested in the hayfield registered in the Unified Land Fund category
livestock and animals on the land without official permission of the owner, possessor or user of the agricultural land
In case of violation of the restrictions on entry and grazing, damages and compensation shall be paid
a person in the amount of three hundred units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
9. Violation of the law:
9.1. The land possessor or user has not complied with the requirements for efficient and rational use and protection of land;
9.2. To develop designs or related to land use by citizens, business entities and organizations
Introduce new technologies or place previously untested chemicals and fertilizers in Mongolia
no environmental impact assessment has been conducted by a professional competent authority;
9.3. Citizens and legal entities shall be responsible for environmental balance, public health, livestock, animals, air, forest,
construction of facilities or placement of equipment that may adversely affect water and vegetation,
or underground storage or burial of industrial waste, sewage, toxic or other substances
performed without the permission of a professional authority;
9.4. Damage and compensation for damage caused by land pollution shall not be subject to criminal liability
payment in the amount of one thousand units for a person and ten thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
10. Violation of the law:
10.1. Used land without the permission of the competent authority;
10.2. Conducted arbitrary activities in the state special needs land;
10.3. Land in areas other than those specified for possession in accordance with the land management plan
possessed;
10.4. Unless otherwise provided by law or contract, upon expiration of the right to possess or use land, the land
Citizens and legal entities that possessed and used land have not rehabilitated or improved the land;
10.5. To improve the appearance and sanitary conditions of cities and villages, to protect and rehabilitate land
According to the requirements, the land possessor shall have at least 10 percent of the acquired land with green facilities
In case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to keep, the person shall be compensated for the damage caused and shall have five hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
11. In violation of the Law on Land:
11.1. The use of a double name for land or water in official documents and activities;
11.2. The official name of the land and water has been translated into a language other than Mongolian or by pronunciation of other languages
If it is written incorrectly, a person shall be fined in the amount of three hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of three thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
12. To a person authorized to use land possessed or used by others with limited rights
if a person is intentionally obstructed to use the land for the purposes specified by law, he / she shall have five hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
13. If the state certification of land condition and quality has not been carried out in accordance with established procedures, a person shall be released
in togrogs equal to five hundred units, for legal entities in the amount equal to five thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
14. General requirements for efficient and rational use, protection and hygiene of land
In case of non-compliance, the land possession and use contract shall be terminated and the person shall be compensated for the damage caused
in togrogs equal to five hundred units, for legal entities in the amount equal to five thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 8.2. Violation of the Law on Allocation of Land to Citizens of Mongolia for Ownership
1. In connection with the implementation of the law or the obligations of a citizen entitled to land ownership
Fifty units per person in case of non-compliance with the decision made by the state authority
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
2. To register the acquired land in the cadastral and real estate registry, and to transfer the owned land to others
Procedures related to transfer to civil ownership, possession or use by others, or pledge agreement or property
in case of violation of the procedure for registering the right to own property in the state registration, a person shall be fined fifty units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five hundred units.
3. To protect and keep the boundary point, geodetic point and sign placed at the fixed point,
or compensation for damage caused by failure to fulfill its obligation not to degrade the condition and quality of land
Payment shall be made in togrogs equal to fifty units for a person and five hundred units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
4. If a citizen obstructs the exercise of his / her right to own land in any way, a person shall be fined three hundred
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to three thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
5. Construction, ecological, sanitary, sanitary and fire safety during the use of the owned land
compliance with the status and other relevant standards, rules, regulations and requirements, or the ownership of the land
State inspection of land condition and quality at its own expense every 5 years by an authorized organization
In case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to be executed, one hundred persons shall be compensated for the damage caused
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to one thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
6. Foreign legal entities through sale, trade, inheritance, gift or pledge of their land,
transferred to the ownership and possession of a foreign citizen or stateless person, or to a citizen of Mongolia
a person who has been possessed or used by others without the permission specified in Article 29.1 of the Law on Allocation of Land for Ownership
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
7. A foreign legal entity leasing or leasing civil property land on a contractual basis;
If a foreign citizen or stateless person has leased or subleased the land to others
termination of the contract in the amount of one thousand units for a person and ten thousand units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
Article 8.3. Violation of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights
1. Violation of the Law on Copyright and Related Rights is a criminal offense
confiscate items, ill-gotten gains and income used to commit the violation, unless otherwise agreed
to stop the operation and to compensate the damage and compensation equal to five hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
2. Modified, deleted, illegally altered items written together with the owner's identification mark,
Distributed, smuggled or distributed goods shall not be subject to criminal liability
confiscation of products, items and illegally earned income, and compensation for damages
a person in the amount of five hundred units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of five thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 8.4. Violation of the Patent Law
1. Violation of the Patent Law shall not constitute a criminal offense
confiscation of used items, illegally obtained assets and income, cessation of operations, damage caused,
Compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to five hundred units for a person and five togrogs for a legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
Article 8.5. Violation of trademark owner's rights and consumer rights by geographical indications
1. Violation of trademark owner's rights and consumer rights by geographical indications is a criminal offense
confiscate items, ill-gotten gains and income used to commit the violation, unless otherwise agreed
to stop the operation and to compensate for the damage and compensation caused by the person in the amount of three hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
Article 8.6. Stealing
1. It is a criminal offense to seize other people's property without using force, secretly or illegally
If not, the person shall be subjected to compulsory training and arrested for a period of one to thirty days
shall be punished.
Article 8.7. Misappropriation of property
1. Misappropriation of property and property rights entrusted to others is a criminal offense
Failure to do so may result in a fine of up to five hundred togrogs or compulsory training
shall be punishable by imprisonment for a term of one to thirty days.
Article 8.8. Destruction or damage to property
1. Unlawful destruction or damage to the property of others shall not be subject to criminal liability
A person shall be fined in the amount of two hundred units togrogs.
Article 8.9. Misappropriation of erroneous transactions, erroneous parcels and lost property
/ This article was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
1. Misappropriation of erroneous settlement transactions, erroneous parcels, property and lost property
One hundred persons shall be liable for damages and compensation for non-criminal liability
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to one thousand units for a legal entity
fine.

CHAPTER NINE
AGAINST EDUCATIONAL, CULTURAL, SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL PROCEDURES
CONFLICT
Article 9.1. Violation of the Law on Education
1. Students are pressured or given money to buy books or products
in the amount of twenty units of togrogs, if a person is forced to pay or receive payments and fees not specified in the law;
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of two hundred units togrogs.
2. Twenty persons shall be detained for violating educational standards or requirements for educational institutions
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two hundred togrogs and a legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two hundred togrogs.
3. Business entities and organizations shall create conditions and opportunities for employees to study independently
If a person fails to fulfill his / her obligations, he / she shall be fined twenty units and a legal entity two hundred
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
4. If a teacher is deliberately obstructed in the performance of his / her duties, a person shall be equal to twenty units
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of two hundred units togrogs.
5. A state-registered educational institution that has not obtained a license specified in the law or is not registered
confiscation of illegally earned income if engaged in educational activities without registration;
Two hundred people to recover damages and reimburse students for tuition fees
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to two thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
Article 9.2. Violation of the Law on Primary and Secondary Education
1. Primary and secondary school textbooks do not meet educational standards and hygiene requirements
a person in the amount of twenty units of togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of two hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Beginning, continuing, ending, or students of the general education school year
the vacation period is changed on grounds other than those specified in the Law on Primary and Secondary Education, or the subject is changed
In case of temporary closure, a legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units togrogs.
Article 9.3. Violation of the Law on Higher Education
1. The maximum starting time of the academic year for universities, colleges and colleges
if the educational institution has not established it or the academic year is not divided into quarters
a person in the amount of forty units and a legal entity in the amount of four hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Universities, colleges and colleges have established statistical or other necessary information
Forty units per person if not provided to the relevant authorities in a timely and accurate manner
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to four hundred units of togrogs.
3. If the training was conducted without creating the conditions and environment specified in the license, the person shall have forty units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to four hundred units.
Article 9.4. Violation of the Law on Financing of Higher Education and Social Security of Students
1. Appropriate accounting and financial records for financing, financial support and donations
Failure to do so shall result in a fine of one thousand togrogs for a legal entity.
2. If the student has not been provided with information and advice on the terms and conditions of financial support, contact the person
in togrogs equal to thirty units, in legal entities in the amount of three hundred units togrogs
fine.
3. Higher education institutions:
3.1. The activity is closed;
3.2. The source of income and financing is unknown;
3.3. Production of alcohol, drugs, human and environmentally harmful activities;
received donations and assistance from service organizations and business entities, advertised their activities,
supported, if the shares were purchased by a person in the amount equal to one hundred units, in accordance with the law
A person shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
4. A higher education institution received a student loan or scholarship to correct the results of the study.
Students enjoyed discounts, and relevant news reports and information were repeatedly submitted incorrectly
is equal to three hundred units for a person and three thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
5. Higher education institution that has received funding and financial support from the state budget
Many are audited by auditing organizations and report on the expenditure and results of the state budget
in case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to inform the public, a person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units;
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one thousand units togrogs.
Article 9.5. Violation of the law on libraries
1. Violation of the rules established by the Law on Libraries or transfer of mandatory copies of books
If the obligated person did not hand over the book in accordance with the relevant procedures, the costs shall be paid by the guilty person
a person in the amount of one hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 9.6. Violation of the Law on Culture
1. If a cultural organization is engaged in cultural activities without state registration, the law
confiscation of unearned property and income in togrogs equal to twenty units for a person and for a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of two hundred units togrogs.
2. State-owned buildings and lands used for cultural purposes
illegally used or possessed for other purposes contrary to the main functions of the organization
confiscated property and income in the amount of twenty-five togrogs for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of two hundred and fifty units togrogs.
Article 9.7. Violation of the Law on Cultural Heritage Protection
1. According to the law:
1.1. Cultural heritage registration and database has not been established, or the confidentiality and storage of the database,
failure to meet the requirements for security, accuracy, completeness and accuracy of information;
1.2. Cultural heritage has not been registered in the registration and database within the period specified by law;
1.3. Violation of the procedure for transportation of cultural heritage;
1.4. The importation of historical and cultural monuments across the state border shall not be subject to criminal liability
confiscation of property in the amount of one hundred units for a person and one thousand units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
2. Cultural heritage research and analysis should be based on the characteristics, originality and environment
Damage and compensation for damage caused by violation of the rules or standards established by law
for a person in the amount of five hundred units of togrogs and for a legal entity in the amount of five thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
3. The first valuable offer to sell unique historical and cultural monuments was made without submitting a proposal to the government,
or transferred to the ownership of a foreign citizen, legal entity or stateless person, or mediated
confiscate souvenirs and turn them into state revenue in togrogs equal to two thousand units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of twenty thousand units togrogs.
4. In case of violation of the rules or standards established by the law on restoration of tangible cultural heritage
in togrogs equal to five hundred units, for legal entities in the amount equal to five thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
5. Prohibitions and procedures established by law for the preservation, protection and use of tangible cultural heritage;
violates the standard, or loses its original appearance or integrity, or moves or moves without permission
In case of transportation, the damage caused shall be compensated in the amount equal to five hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
6.Introductions, explanations, signs and markings placed next to immovable historical and cultural monuments
destroyed, or placed on billboards, posters, and other similar devices on monuments
if the damage is compensated in togrogs equal to one hundred units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one thousand units togrogs.
7. In case of violation of the protection regime of cultural heritage or historical and cultural monuments, a person shall be released
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to five hundred units in legal entities
fine.
8. Measures to protect and inform the tangible cultural heritage discovered during subsoil possession and use
if not obtained, the license shall be revoked and the person shall be fined in the amount of three hundred units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units togrogs.
9. It is illegal to reproduce the tangible cultural heritage of public property on a 1: 1 scale without permission
confiscated property and income in the amount of one thousand togrogs for a person and ten togrogs for a legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
10. For paleontological and archeological exploration, excavation and research:
Rare geological findings, special mineralization formations, natural sources such as water sources, mineral springs, springs and oases
damage to the original structure and vulnerable parts;
10.2. Explosives were used;
10.3 used machinery and equipment that may cause damage as a result of the research;
10.4. Sands that have damaged pits, depressions and the appearance of the environment created during excavation and research;
If the piles of dirt and stones are left, the damage is compensated by two thousand units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to twenty thousand units.
11. To preserve, protect and study artifacts of historical, cultural and scientific significance
a room that has lost its original appearance, shape and characteristics, and the artifact does not meet the standards
If it is stored in a room or environment, it shall be equal to one thousand units for damages and compensation
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to ten thousand units.
12. When using tangible cultural heritage for promotion, research, analysis and training
In case of damage or loss, the person shall be compensated for the damage and compensation in the amount of one thousand units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to ten thousand units.
13. Activities prohibited by law in the protection and buffer zones of cultural heritage sites
If the damage is caused, compensation shall be paid in the amount equal to two thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to twenty thousand units togrogs.
14. Paleontological and archeological finds and monuments not registered in the cultural heritage registry and database
illegally acquired property if a citizen, business entity or organization has exhibited or established a museum,
confiscate the income and turn it into state revenue in the amount of six hundred units of togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of six thousand units togrogs.
Article 9.8. Violation of the Law on Future Heritage Fund
1. Violation of the law:
1.1.Investment decision shall be based on estimates and research;
Violation of the principle of strict adherence to the mandate and investment strategy is a criminal offense
If he / she is not liable, he / she shall have five thousand units of compensation for the damage caused
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
2. Damage and compensation for violation of the prohibition on investing in the Fund's assets
A person shall be fined ten thousand units.
3. If a loan is obtained in violation of the law, the person shall be compensated for the damage and compensation
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to one hundred thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 9.9. Violation of the Law on Science and Technology
1. Conducted research or conducted research, experiments, or research that is harmful to humans, animals, or the environment
the process and results of the construction work will have a detrimental effect on the environment, human, animal and animal health
thirty units per person if the discovery has not been reported to a professional organization or the work has not been terminated
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three hundred units.
2.Research organization and staff:
2.1. Report on research, experiment and design work within 60 days after completion of the work
not submitted to the science and technology database;
2.2. Funds allocated for the purpose, progress and financing of research work
Expenditure data and reports shall be provided accurately from time to time at the request of the client and the financing organization
if not, to a person in the amount of twenty units of togrogs and to a legal entity in the amount of two hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
3. The client of research, experiment and design work has not fulfilled its legal obligations,
or in case of evasion, a person shall be fined twenty units and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of two hundred units togrogs.
4. Research carried out by foreign and domestic organizations, legal entities and citizens,
The contractor for the experiment and design shall be in charge of scientific and technological matters
in togrogs equal to twenty units per person, if notified to the state central administrative body;
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of two hundred units togrogs.
Article 9.10. Violation of the Law on Mongolian Language
1. In case of violation of prohibited regulations or procedures established by the Law on Mongolian Language, one person shall be sentenced to one
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, in togrogs equal to one thousand units in legal entities
fine.
2. Defined by the Law on Mongolian Language:
2.1. Names and addresses of streets and squares of cities and settlements, and names of state organizations in the official state language
to write;
2.2. The state administrative center in charge of education for students specified in the law
to acquire knowledge of the official state language in accordance with the program approved by the organization;
2.3. To teach national and state official languages ​to ethnic minorities with other languages
support;
2.4. Public media published in the official language of the state shall be modern Mongolian
one hundred and fifty persons for violation of the rules of literary language norms and terminology
in togrogs equivalent to one thousand five hundred units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
3. Foreign legal entities and non-governmental organizations engaged in business activities in Mongolia
The organization shall communicate with the state organization of Mongolia in the official state language, finance, tax,
documents related to labor, workplace safety and hygiene in the official language of the state
In case of violation of the rules of conduct, a person shall be fined one thousand units and a legal entity shall be fined ten
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
Article 9.11. Violation of the Law on Vocational Education and Training
/ This article was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
1. Operated without a license specified in the law, or in the state registry
If a person is engaged in educational activities without registration, it shall be equal to two hundred units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two thousand units.
2. Non-compliance with vocational education and training standards or a healthy and safe environment
In case of conducting training without recruiting, a person shall be fined in the amount equal to fifty units and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
Article 9.12. Violation of the Museum Law
/ This article was added by the law in January 29, 2021./
1. The general register of the museum and the detailed record of the fund are kept in a place other than the museum.
transferred to others without the permission of the director of the museum, copied in whole or in part,
If it is corrected, a person shall be fined one hundred units and a legal entity shall be paid one thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
2. If a museum item of unknown origin is taken into the museum's collection, two thousand people shall be included
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to twenty thousand units in legal entities
fine.

CHAPTER TEN
VIOLATIONS OF BUSINESS PROCEDURES
Article 10.1. Violation of the Law on Advertising
1. The Law on Advertising states:
1.1. Violation of general requirements for ordering, creating and distributing advertisements;
1.2. Relevant information of the advertiser in the advertisement distributed on the Internet
not reflected;
1.3. The warnings specifically provided for distribution by law shall be issued by the respective media outlet
free of charge on the frequency specified in the relevant decision, regardless of the program
if not distributed, a person shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of five thousand
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
2. According to the law:
An advertisement shall be an order or instruction given by an advertisement producer or an advertisement subscriber
he was not notified in advance of the violation of the law on advertising;
2.2. To show and describe a person, his / her name, reputation, property and works in advertisement,
to quote from the speech and use it in other forms by the person, heir or successor
permission not obtained in advance;
2.3. Name, symbol, product, trademark and name of a well-known and reputable legal entity

Abbreviations may be used in advertisements without the prior consent of the legal entity
in togrogs equal to five hundred units, for legal entities in the amount equal to five thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
3. Advertising subscribers, creators and distributors:
3.1. Advertisement materials and their copies for the last time the advertisement
not stored
for at least six months after distribution;
Page
5
3.2. In the form of reports, news, reviewer's articles and non-advertisements using media
five hundred units per person if placed for advertising or received payment for distribution
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
4. If a person has ordered, created or distributed advertisements prohibited by law, five persons shall be detained
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, in togrogs equal to five thousand units in legal entities
fine.
5. Violation of the rules for creating and distributing advertisements for low-hardness wine, beer and vodka
a person in the amount of five hundred units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of five thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 10.2. Violation of the law on consumer protection
1. Violation of the Law on Consumer Protection:
1.1. To provide consumers with accurate and objective information about producers, sellers and contractors;
1.2. To set a time to eliminate defects in goods, works and services;
Obligations to repair goods, provide technical services and eliminate quality defects
in case of non-compliance, a person shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of five thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
2. A person shall be equal to five hundred units if he / she has not fulfilled his / her duties as a producer, seller or contractor
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
3. The sale, performance, or use of goods, works, or services by deception, misleading, or the use of force;
the conclusion of a contract that infringes consumer rights, or the quality and safety specified in the law and the contract
two thousand for violation of the right to use qualified goods, work and services
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to twenty thousand units in legal entities
fine.
4. If the manufacturer or seller has sold goods that do not meet the requirements of the warranty period
damages and compensation in the amount of five hundred units of togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of five thousand units togrogs.
5. Goods, works and services supplied to the market by producers, sellers and contractors are
causing harm to the life, health or environment of the consumer, or mandatory compliance
Damage and compensation for non-compliance with standards and technical regulations
to be paid in togrogs equal to nine hundred units for a person and nine thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
6. False information related to goods, works and services from producers, sellers and contractors to consumers
If the consumer's interests have been harmed as a result of the transfer, compensation shall be paid for the damage caused
a person in the amount of five hundred units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of five thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
7. Procurement of goods, works and services by misleading consumers from producers, sellers and contractors
five hundred units per person, unless the cause of the artificial shortage is not subject to criminal liability
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 10.3. Production and sale of counterfeit goods and products
1. To make a profit on goods and products that must have a conformity mark to protect them from counterfeiting
in order to:
1.1. Entered or attempted to cross the state border;
Produced;
Stored;
1.4. Transported;
1.5. Items and law used to commit the violation, unless the sale is subject to criminal liability
confiscation of unearned property and income, compensation for damages and compensation
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
Article 10.4. Violation of trade, production, service and operational regulations
1. Trade, production and services to be registered with the competent authority in accordance with the law
unregistered or licensed trade, production or services
a person in the amount of twenty units and a legal entity in the amount of two hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. Carried out trade, production and services in places and points prohibited by the decision of the competent authority
a person in the amount of twenty units of togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of two hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 10.5. Violation of the Bankruptcy Law
1. Defendant, plaintiff and related to the legal claim filed by the bankruptcy trustee
if other persons unreasonably refuse to comply, the person shall be fined one hundred and fifty units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand five hundred units.
2. The court has ruled that the business entity has filed or is about to file for bankruptcy
in the amount of one hundred and fifty units, if the property or documents were hidden or helped to hide
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand five hundred units.
3. If the inventory documents of the defendant's property were forged
damages and compensation in the amount of four hundred units of togrogs for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of four thousand units.
Article 10.6. Violation of the Law on Small and Medium Enterprises
1. The number of employees employed by a small and medium enterprise or service provider under an employment contract, in years
The amount of sales revenue is specified in Article 4.1.1 of the Law on Support of Small and Medium Enterprises and Services
to engage in activities that exceed the limits and do not belong to small and medium enterprises and service providers
failure to notify the registration authority of the incident or failure to submit a report in a timely manner as required by law
If a false report is issued, a person shall be fined fifty units of togrogs and a legal entity shall be fined five hundred togrogs
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated June 06, 2019 /
2. Discounts in violation of the legislation on support for small and medium enterprises and services
If a person has received a loan or issued a double guarantee, he / she shall be entitled to one thousand units of togrogs
A person shall be fined in the amount of ten thousand units and the damage shall be compensated.
/ This section was added by the law in 6 June 2019 /
Article 10.7. Violation of the Competition Law
1. Entrepreneurs aim to limit competition:
To negotiate the price of goods;
1.2. The market by territory, production, services, sales, product names, types and buyers
allocation;
1.3. Production, supply, sale, shipment and transportation of goods to the market
agreements and cartels restricting access, investment, technical and technological innovations
illegally established property, income or property, the establishment of which is not subject to criminal liability
confiscate the entrepreneur up to 6 of the previous year's sales revenue of the product
shall be fined in togrogs equal to one percent.
2. Established between entrepreneurs:
To refuse to establish business relations without economic and technological grounds;
To restrict the sale or purchase of goods to a third party;
2.3. To refuse agreements and agreements that are important to the competition;
2.4. To prevent competitors from joining any organization for the purpose of running a profitable business
the terms and conditions of the contract, agreement (cartel) that are contrary to the public interest or restriction of competition
illegally acquired property, income or property, which is not subject to criminal liability
confiscate the entrepreneur up to 6 of the previous year's sales revenue of the product
shall be fined in togrogs equal to one percent.
3. If the business entity has supported and participated in the agreement or cartel specified in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Article
confiscation of illegally earned assets, income and property of the entrepreneur before the goods
shall be fined in togrogs equal to 6 percent of annual sales revenue.
4. Entrepreneurs aim to limit competition:
4.1. Damage to the reputation of the competitor or its products, or loss of the competitor
disseminating false, inconsistent or distorted information that may be included;
4.2. To give false or inconsistent information about its products or to distort the truth
mislead others;
4.3. Defective quality of goods, dangerous to human life, health and environment
conceal quality;
4.4. To sell competitors' products when selling its own products
impose conditions on non-receipt;
False information that there are promotions and discounts on the sale of the goods
distribution or deliberately arranging for the promotion to be given to another person
to establish;
4.6. Goods through tenders, auctions or state and local property,
When participating in the procurement of works and services, the competitor shall be informed of the actual conditions of the activity
to mislead, oppress and pressure them;
4.7.trade method that contradicts legitimate interests or illegally harms consumers
Illegally earned property, unless the use of the activity is not subject to criminal liability
confiscation of income, damages and compensation in the amount of two thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to twenty thousand units togrogs.
5. The number, quantity and price of goods of a natural monopolist
the change was obtained illegally without notifying the relevant authorities in accordance with the law
Assets, income and items are confiscated from the previous year's sales revenue of the product 3
shall be fined in togrogs equal to one percent.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
6. It is necessary to create conditions for competition, study the market situation and conduct inspections
news, information and documents are provided free of charge, in an undisputed manner and immediately
if it is not issued, or if it is damaged or destroyed, a person shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units,
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
7. Merger of a dominant legal entity with other persons or related entities,
reorganized through a merger, or a competing company that sells similar products
This is an entrepreneur who has bought more than 20 percent of common shares and more than 15 percent of preferred shares
four thousand persons without notifying the state administrative body in charge of competition
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to forty thousand units in legal entities
fine.
8. Restriction of competition, contrary to the public interest, aimed at restricting competition
The contract or agreement that created the conditions, or the entrepreneur supports these agreements and transactions
Compensation for damages caused by participation or carrying out activities prohibited by law
equal to 6 percent of the legal entity's previous year's sales revenue
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
9. An entrepreneur with a natural monopoly and a dominant position shall have a natural monopoly,
caused by the illegal use of its dominance and the conduct of dominant activities prohibited by law
damages and compensation to the legal entity for the previous year of the goods
shall be fined in togrogs equal to 4 percent of sales revenue.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
10. Management of a dominant legal entity A managerial position of a competing legal entity
In case of co-operation, a legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
Note: When imposing a penalty specified in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9 of this Article,
If it is not possible to calculate the annual sales revenue or if no sales have been made, the enterprise
A manager shall be fined in togrogs equal to 5 percent of his / her capital.
/ This explanation was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
-If the entrepreneur who violated the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article voluntarily disclosed it
Depending on the amount of damage, the penalty imposed in accordance with this Law may be reduced.
-If the entrepreneur who violated the provisions of paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of this article voluntarily disclosed it
to inspect up to 100 percent of the penalties imposed in accordance with this law and violations specified in this law
Entrepreneurs who have admitted their wrongdoing within 30 days from the date of commencement of operations 50
can be reduced by up to a percentage.
- Entrepreneurs specified in paragraphs 1 and 2 of this article shall have sufficient evidence of the violation
provided that they are obliged to provide the necessary documents during the inspection
If satisfied, the decision to reduce the penalty shall be made by the state administration in charge of competition
issued to the organization.
Article 10.8. Infringement on business secrets
1. Information and documents related to the secrecy of business entities, organizations, banks and financial activities
the officer in charge, the official, or the person legally acquainted, or the information and facts of the law
three hundred units per person if used or distributed or disclosed to another person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
Article 10.9. Violation of the law on partnership
1. A partnership has conducted production or services that are not registered in the state registry, or its charter and
one hundred persons if the changes in the capital have not been notified to the registration authority within the period specified by law
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to one thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
2. Confiscation of illegally earned assets and income if activities other than those specified in the contract or charter are carried out
a person in the amount of five hundred units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of five thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
3. The law stipulates that the partnership has changed its place of residence to the relevant registration authority
If not notified in writing within the period, a person shall be fined twenty units and a legal entity shall be fined two units
shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 10.10. Violation of the law on cooperatives
1. Violation of the procedure for registration of amendments to the charter in violation of the Law on Cooperatives, or violation of the charter
five hundred people confiscated illegally earned property and income if they carried out activities other than those specified
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to five thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 10.11. Violation of the Company Law
1. A joint stock company shall submit its balance sheet, data and information specified in the law:
1.1. To introduce to the public, authorized organizations and shareholders;
To inform;
1.3 reporting;
1.4. In case of non-fulfillment of the declared obligation, a person shall be fined in the amount equal to five hundred units
A person shall be fined in the amount of five thousand units togrogs.
2. Violation of the Company Law:
The subsidiary has not fulfilled its obligation to prepare separate financial statements;
The parent company has not fulfilled its obligation to prepare consolidated financial statements with its subsidiary;
2.3 shares issued at a price lower than their par value;
In order to protect the legal rights of the creditor, the company's equity at that time
reduced from the amount of share capital specified in the company's charter, or the company's payment
In case of incapacity, the company's property and property rights, the products produced
sold to others at a price lower than the market price;
2.5. The company's securities in excess of the average of 25 percent of the total shares outstanding in the given year
purchased;
2.6. The company has purchased its company's securities at the time of listing on the primary market;
2.7. The total amount of equity reflected in the current balance sheet upon repurchase of shares
If the nominal value of the issued shares is less than the share capital, the company owns
repurchase of common shares;
2.8. The consolidation of an integer number of shares equal to more than 1 percent of the total number of common shares issued by the company;
2.9 issues that were not on the agenda of the shareholders meeting were discussed;
2.10. Changes in the date of the shareholders meeting after the decision to convene the meeting
included;
2.11. The company's governing body directly related to the agenda of the shareholders meeting
appointed an officer or a person with common interests as a member of the meeting census commission;
2.12. Shareholders holding more than 50 percent of the company's voting power
changed the agenda of the meeting postponed due to non-participation in the shareholders meeting;
2.13. A joint stock company shall consider matters within the authority of the shareholders meeting
ballot papers to be decided by external voting of shareholders without convening a meeting
voting without use;
2.14. To state and local administrative organizations, military, police, courts and prosecutors
a person holding a managerial position or serving a sentence in an authorized position in the company
operated;
2.15. The charter of a joint stock company does not provide for the mandatory operation of an audit firm;
2.16. The amount of remuneration to be paid depending on the nature of the conclusion made by the audit organization
established;
2.17. Has not fulfilled its obligation to keep the documents specified in the law;
2.18. To receive and store from the relevant person in accordance with the relevant procedures, to present to the authorized person,
failure to perform such activities as transfer to the archives, or by an official other than those specified by law
executed;
2.19. The place where the company conducts its activities, the documents to be kept specified in the law;
or fails to comply with its obligation to store in a place known and accessible to shareholders;
2.20. Minutes of the primary and accounting, executive meeting of the company,
to get acquainted with documents other than those prohibited by public decrees, decisions and legislation;
failed to fulfill its obligation to provide shareholders with the opportunity to make paid copies;
2.21. The conversion price of securities convertible into ordinary shares issued by a joint stock company.
Above the weighted average trading price of the shares for the last month prior to the date of issue
failed to fulfill its obligation to keep;
2.22. Shares specified in the option to buy or sell common shares issued by a joint stock company
the price from the weighted average trading price of the stock for the last month preceding the date of the option issue
In case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to keep the person above, the person shall be fined in the amount of two thousand units
A company shall be fined in the amount of twenty thousand units.
3. A shareholder of a joint stock company is a shareholder of a securities trading organization
to a person who maintains the registration of shareholders in case of transfer other than through sale
a securities or joint stock company that has not fulfilled its registration obligation or is being issued for sale to the public
to the state authorized body that regulates the securities market
If not registered, a person shall be fined in the amount of one thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of ten thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
4. Shares of a joint stock company alone or in association with an affiliated person
the shares held by the person at the time of acquisition in the amount of a controlling stake or more
within 60 working days from the date of becoming the owner of the controlling stake
The shares held shall not be less than the weighted average of the market price of the shares for the last six months
If a person is not offered to buy at a price equal to two thousand units of togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of twenty thousand units togrogs.
5. A holder of a company's shares, individually or jointly with an affiliated person, may own the company's shares
information on the securities held by the affiliated person or the company's shares
within 3 working days from the date of joint ownership of five or more packages and a controlling stake in the company
if not notified in writing, a person shall be fined in the amount of two thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of twenty units
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
6. Prohibited norms and securities market for non-fulfillment of other obligations specified in the Company Law
Violation of the administrative normative act approved by the authorized state body regulating the loan
a person in the amount of five hundred units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of five thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 10.12. Violation of the Law on Employment Promotion
1. Job placement from job seekers registered in the private labor exchange and central network
to provide funding based on the number of people at the rate set by the employment promotion fund,
to receive service payment directly or indirectly from a citizen who has been hired by a private labor exchange
In case of violation of the rules established by the law on prohibition, a person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred and fifty units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand five hundred units.
2. The employer shall register the information related to the labor force and the workplace in accordance with the relevant regulations;
Register in the information network, post the information, and make changes to the information from time to time
failure to perform his / her duties or information on his / her place of work within the period prescribed by law
in the amount of one hundred and fifty units togrogs, if it has not been handed over to the relevant organization;
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one thousand five hundred units togrogs.
3. Business entity, organization and its branches and units are liquidated, redundant, or
a reduction in the number of employees or work performed by the employee in terms of profession, skills and health,
dismissal of employees by the employer on the grounds of incompetence
from one month to the relevant aimag or district employment agency in accordance with the procedures set forth in the law
Compensation for damages caused by failure to notify at least in advance
a person in the amount of one hundred and fifty units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand five hundred units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
Article 10.13. Law on sending labor force abroad and hiring labor force and specialists from abroad
violation
1. Without proper permission issued by the state central administrative body in charge of labor matters
caused if the labor force or specialist was hired from abroad or the labor force was sent abroad
damages and compensation in the amount of four hundred units of togrogs for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of four thousand units.
2. Business entities, organizations and citizens shall provide jobs for foreign citizens and provide them with income-generating jobs.
If the workplace fee for the service has not been paid in the amount specified by law
to compensate a person in the amount of one thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of ten thousand
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
3. The organization is:
3.1. Implementation of the agreement on sending labor force abroad, receiving labor force and specialists from abroad,
citizens employed abroad, labor force and specialists employed abroad
reports and information have not been issued in accordance with the procedures provided by law;
3.2. Information on the terminated or extended contract has not been issued from time to time;
3.3. The state central administrative body in charge of labor matters or its authorized representative
If the organization has not been officially notified of the terminated or extended contract, the person shall be five
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, in togrogs equal to five thousand units in legal entities
fine.
/ This clause was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
4. The organization employs Mongolian citizens working abroad and from abroad
to take measures to repatriate labor force and specialists upon expiration of the employment contract
in case of non-compliance, a person shall be fined in the amount of two thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of twenty thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
5. Violation of the law:
5.1. To employ foreign citizens, stateless persons and persons under the age of eighteen
mediated;
5.2. Handling toxic, explosive or radiation, biologically active substances, narcotics and drugs
Intermediation for internationally prohibited activities, such as the production or sale of substances, is a criminal offense
If not, a person shall be fined in the amount of two thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of twenty thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
Article 10.14. Violation of the Law on Tourism
1. Tourist service organizations are:
1.1. To plan, compile, advertise tourism products and services, in bulk,
retail and travel arrangements;
1.2. To obtain visas and other travel documents;
1.3.Order tickets by air, rail and vehicle, sell tickets,
to buy;
1.4. To book hotels, tourist camps, apartments and entertainment;
1.5. If activities have been organized to receive, serve and see off the tourist
a person in the amount of one hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. A guide-interpreter demanding a reward from a tourist or the activities of a tourism organization
in the amount of fifty units per person, if the activity is prohibited
will be fined in togrogs.
3. Provide timely information on tourism to the competent authorities and officials
if not, a person shall be fined three hundred units and a legal entity three thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
4. Involve tourism service staff in professional training and courses
in case of non-fulfillment of obligations, a person shall be fined in the amount equal to fifty units and a legal entity in the amount of five hundred
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
5. A tourist service organization shall meet the requirements for its service standards and grades
Failure to comply with the requirements for operating in accordance with the amount of fifty units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five hundred units.
Article 10.15. Violation of the law on labor safety and hygiene
1. Violation of the law on labor safety and hygiene:
1.1. Has not fulfilled his / her enforcement obligation;
1.2. If a person fails to comply with labor safety and hygiene standards, rules and regulations
in togrogs equal to three hundred units, for legal entities in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Concealment of an industrial accident or acute poisoning shall not be subject to criminal liability
a person in the amount of four hundred units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of four thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
3. Construction of industrial and service buildings, machinery and equipment
installation of equipment, their renovation, expansion, commissioning, stoves, pressure vessels, pipelines,
if the lifting and moving mechanism does not meet the labor safety and hygiene requirements
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units togrogs.
4. Ability to work due to industrial accidents, acute poisoning and occupational diseases
five hundred units per person if the percentage of disability of the lost employee is incorrectly determined
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
5. Seventy-five units per person, unless the employee has undergone a preliminary and periodic medical examination
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to seven hundred and fifty units togrogs.
Article 10.16. Violation of the Labor Law
1. Development of four or more percent of the positions in accordance with the law
Business entities and organizations responsible for employing people with disabilities or dwarfs shall pay monthly fees
In case of non-fulfillment of the obligation, compensation for the damage caused shall be equal to one hundred and fifty units
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one thousand five hundred units togrogs.
2. A person who has lifted or carried a heavier load than the amount permitted by a minor
Compensation for damage caused if a minor is employed at night, on weekends, or overtime
payment in the amount of one hundred and fifty units for a person and one thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
3. If an employee is overtime in violation of the overtime limit set by law
for damages and compensation in the amount of one hundred and fifty units of togrogs,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one thousand five hundred units togrogs.
4. Employer:
4.1. In negotiations on concluding a collective agreement and amendments to it
avoided participation or did not start on time;
4.2. There are no grounds to resolve a collective dispute through a mediator or labor arbitration
refused;
4.3. Duties and responsibilities when hiring a person without concluding an employment contract with him / her in writing
executed;
4.4. Hiring an external employee to replace the employee involved in resolving the collective labor dispute
operated;
4.5. Representatives of employees who participated in the settlement of collective labor disputes and negotiations
Disciplinary action was taken in violation of the Labor Law, or dismissal, or
In case of dismissal, the damage caused shall be compensated in the amount equal to one hundred and fifty units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand five hundred units.
5. Concluding collective agreements, organizing strikes, temporarily closing workplaces, proposals
The parties interfered in the exchange of views and free choice in matters of disagreement, or in law
caused by a strike in an organization that violated the restrictions and prohibited the strike
A person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred and fifty units for damages and compensation.
6. Internal labor regulations, job list, job description and job description

order directory, labor norms, normative, basic salary chains, standards not approved and followed, own
The social and health insurance books were not opened due to the fault and the appropriate entries were made
If it is not confirmed, compensation for damages shall be equal to one hundred and fifty units per person
will be fined in togrogs.
7. The employment contract of an employee whose job or position is retained shall be concluded by the business entity,
Damage and compensation shall be paid in case of termination, except in case of liquidation of the organization
An employer shall be fined in the amount of three hundred units togrogs.
8. From the date of concluding the employment agreement:
8.1. The order to hire the citizen has not been issued;
8.2. The social insurance book has not been opened;
8.3. Health insurance book has not been opened;
8.4. Make appropriate entries in the social insurance or health insurance book
If it is not confirmed, compensation for damages shall be equal to one hundred and fifty units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one thousand five hundred units togrogs.
9. Employer:
9.1. To employ an employee under an employment contract, wage contract or other similar contract
if any, the employee was paid a base salary less than the minimum wage;
9.2. The employee's salary has not been paid on time or without a valid reason
detained;
9.3. Vacation pay due to the employee's innocence has not been paid or has been determined by law
If the amount is set below five percent, the person shall be compensated for the damage caused
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to five thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
10. The employer shall provide information on the employee's job, profession, specialization, position and salary
in case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to issue a certificate, a person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units;
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one thousand units togrogs.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
11. Participate in or continue a strike, or work unless otherwise provided by law
five hundred units per person if the employee is forced to stop the strike or refuse to participate in it
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 10.17. Violation of the Law on Social Insurance
/ This article was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
1. An employer shall have fifty units of a person if he / she is not covered by compulsory social insurance according to the law
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five hundred units.
2. In order to avoid paying social insurance premiums, the employer shall deduct premium income
The concealment or intentional reduction of the amount caused is not subject to criminal liability
damages and compensation in the amount of two hundred units of togrogs for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of two thousand units togrogs.
3. The payer of social insurance premiums shall pay the social insurance premiums to the competent authority
Failure to pay within the specified time shall result in compensation of damages equal to fifty units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
4. The employer shall submit the monthly social insurance premium payment report within the period specified by law
Failure to submit or report shall result in a fine of two hundred and fifty units togrogs on the legal entity.
5. An employer has no employment or employment relationship with the business entity or organization
from the social insurance fund, which has paid contributions to the uninitiated or unreasonably increased wages
In case of receiving pensions and benefits, compensation for damages shall be equal to five hundred units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
6. Misappropriation of social insurance funds is a criminal offense
If it is not expected, the illegally acquired property and income shall be confiscated and the damage caused shall be compensated
a person in the amount of one thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
7. If a bank or financial institution delays the payment of pensions and benefits on time, the person shall be released
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to five hundred units in legal entities
fine.
Note: Hidden or intentionally reduced income specified in paragraph 2 of this article shall be paid
A penalty equal to the fee shall be calculated and the amount of the penalty shall not exceed 50 percent of the fee to be paid.
do not exceed.
-If the social insurance premium specified in paragraph 3 of this article has not been paid within the time specified by law
A penalty equal to 0.3 percent shall be charged from the amount of the fee for each day of delay
The amount of the penalty shall not exceed 50 percent of the fee payable.
-Banks and financial institutions that have committed violations specified in paragraph 7 of this article shall be entitled to a monthly pension,
Interest shall be paid for each day of withholding from the amount of the benefit, and the amount of the penalty shall be the amount of the pension or benefit
Calculated at the current interest rate on time deposits of the bank's customers.
-According to the law, paragraphs 3 and 7 of this article apply to voluntary insured.
Article 10.18. Violation of the Law on Innovation
1. To keep the procedures and secrets established by law related to innovation and to protect them from illegal possession
In case of violation of the rules established by the contract for damages, compensation shall be paid to one hundred persons
in togrogs equal to fifty units, for legal entities in the amount equal to one thousand five hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Compensation for damage caused by illegal transfer of information related to innovation projects
payment in the amount of three hundred units for a person and three thousand units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
3. The state administrative center in charge of high technology and national innovation development
Results of research work funded by the state budget without the permission of the organization
If the resulting intellectual property was used to produce or provide services abroad, a violation was found
confiscation of property and income, compensation for damages and compensation equal to one thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to ten thousand units.
Article 10.19. Violation of the Law on Health Insurance
1. The person who is responsible for paying the insured's contribution to the health insurance fund shall pay the premium
In case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to pay or to be paid by the person specified by law, the fee due shall be reimbursed
a person in the amount of two hundred units of togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of two thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. If the health care provider has not fulfilled its legal obligations
for damages and compensation in the amount of two hundred units of togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of two thousand units togrogs.
Note: Employers and general managers are required to pay contributions in this law and in the Law on Social Insurance
If not transferred on time, the fee shall be reimbursed and paid for each day of delay
A penalty equal to 0.3 percent of the fee shall be imposed. The amount of this penalty is payable
The fee does not exceed 50 percent.
Article 10.20. Violation of the rules for production, use and storage of seals and stamps
1. Fifty units per person for violation of the rules for the production, use and storage of seals and marks
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
Article 10.21. Violation of reporting, information, census, survey and registration procedures
1. From the state census and registration of population, property, livestock, domestic animals and business entities
if a person avoids or does not participate in the census or survey without a valid reason
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to five hundred units in legal entities
fine.
2. Failure to provide or respect the registration, report, and information required by law to be provided to the state
fifty units per person in case of unjustified delay or intentional misstatement
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
Article 10.22. Violation of the Law on Electronic Signatures
1. The Law on Electronic Signatures states:
1.1. Engaged in the issuance of a certificate without a license;
1.2. Operating in violation of the terms of the license;
1.3. To check the accuracy of the information of the relevant citizen and legal entity holding the license;
1.4. If the certificate was issued in violation of the obligation to explain the legal consequences of issuing the certificate
a person in the amount of one hundred and fifty units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand five hundred units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
2. The certificate has not been revoked or the certificate has been revoked in accordance with the procedures provided by law
three hundred units per person, unless the certificate is revoked in accordance with the conditions established by law
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
3.Registration of registration information of the registration unit user specified in the law
to the holder, to use the digital signature tool provided by the license holder, or
Public keys shall not be copied when transmitting user information to the licensee
In case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to stay, a person shall be fined fifty units and a legal entity shall be fined five units
shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units.
4. Compile and verify information on the license holder's certification process
In case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to keep records related to the certificate in order to provide opportunities, the person shall be fined ten
in togrogs equal to five units, for legal entities in the amount equal to one hundred and fifty units
will be fined in togrogs.
5. If the content of an electronic document is changed in violation of the law, a person shall have three hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
6. If the database of digital signatures has been destroyed or illegally modified, the person shall be sentenced to three years in prison
one hundred units in togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
7. Confidentiality of a private key is equivalent to three hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 10.23. Violation of the Law on Childcare Services
1. If a child is included in childcare services in violation of the legal age limit
A permit shall be revoked and a person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units.
2. Activities that violate or prohibit the general requirements for childcare services
If the permit is issued, the permit shall be revoked and a person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units.
3. Violation of the rules on the organization of childcare services, or a babysitter
A person who fails to fulfill his / her obligations specified in the law shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units togrogs.
Article 10.24. Violation of the law on metrology
/ The title of this article was amended by the law in 5 May 2019 /
1. According to the law:
1.1. Not to use units of measurement other than those permitted for use in Mongolia;
In case of violation of the name and symbol of the unit of measurement, the procedure for writing and using them, a person shall be appointed
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to five hundred units in legal entities
fine.
2. Packaged products in violation of the requirements, relevant rules, regulations and standards
If the product is sold, a person shall be fined one hundred units and a legal entity shall be paid one
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
3. Not registered in the state unified database of metrological information or does not correspond to the approved model,
or measuring instruments that are not certified or do not meet the requirements for use and installation
human and veterinary diagnosis and treatment, national defense, security and the environment
one hundred units per person used for protection activities and trade and services
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 09, 2019 /
4.Human and veterinary diagnosis, treatment, national defense, security, nature
measuring instruments used for environmental protection activities and for trade and service purposes
imported, produced, edited without registration in the state unified database of metrological information,
one hundred people if installed or not certified measuring instruments are sold
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to one thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 09, 2019 /
5. Incorrect selection, connection and measurement of measuring instruments, or metrological measurement of measuring instruments
In case of changing the indicators and software, a person shall be paid one hundred and fifty units of togrogs,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one thousand five hundred units togrogs.
Article 10.25. Standardization, technical regulations and accreditation of conformity assessment
violate the law
/ The title of this article was amended by the law dated December 21, 2017 /
1. Accredited testing laboratory, certification and technical inspection organization for conformity
Deliberate misrepresentation of the results of the assessment, confiscation of illegally obtained assets and income, damage caused,
compensation in the amount of twenty units for a person and two hundred for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
2. Damage to the public interest, human health, the environment and national security
The organization that conducts testing, certification and technical inspection of potentially hazardous objects is provided by law
Conformity assessment activities were carried out in accordance with the regulations without accreditation for more than one year
is the confiscation of ill-gotten gains, damages and compensation
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, in togrogs equal to two thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
3. The accredited organization shall have the right to conduct conformity assessment within the scope determined by the accreditation
confiscation of illegally earned assets and income, and compensation for damage caused by excessive activities
to pay a fee equal to two hundred units for a person and two thousand units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
4. State inspection of standardization, technical regulation and accreditation of conformity assessment
Illegally earned assets and income if the information and declarations required for implementation have been falsified
confiscated and indemnified for damages and compensation in the amount of thirty units togrogs,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of three hundred units togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated December 21, 2017 /
5. Public interest, human health, environment and national security
technical regulations established for protected objects are not followed, or national standards and technical regulations are not followed
production and services in accordance with the standards of organizations that do not meet regulatory requirements
If a person is in charge, his / her illegally earned property and income shall be confiscated and damages and compensation shall be paid
in togrogs equal to three hundred units, for legal entities in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated December 21, 2017 /
6. Damage to the public interest, human health, the environment and national security
within three months from the date of commencement of production of the product
if not covered, confiscate illegally earned assets and income, and pay damages and compensation
a person in the amount of three hundred units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
7. Violation of the law:
7.1. The national standard has been copied for the purpose of sale;
7.2. A national standard or a standard other than that specified in the standard application procedure has been used;
/ This article was annulled by the law in December 21, 2017 /
Page 6

7.3. Abbreviated standard marking on products that do not meet the standard requirements;

7.4. Intentional increase of product quality classification or degree, or state standard marking,
If the results of the conformity assessment are used illegally, the illegally acquired assets and income shall be confiscated.
Damage and compensation shall be paid to a person in the amount of three hundred units in togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units togrogs.
Article 10.26. Violation of the law on contract guards and security
1. The law stipulates that a security guard conducts security activities without registration in accordance with the law
confiscation of unearned assets and income in the amount of fifty units togrogs for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
2. Violation of the law on contracted security or security guards
In case of violation of operational restrictions, a person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units
A person shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
3. A legal entity in charge of security shall be provided by law:
To acquire, register, use, store and carry firearms and special means;
3.2. In case of violation of fire prevention and use of alarm devices
in togrogs equal to fifty units, in legal entities in togrogs equal to five hundred units
fine.
Article 10.27. Obstructing the license holder to exercise his / her rights
1. The license holder has illegally obstructed the exercise of his / her legal rights
is equal to three hundred units for a person and three thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 10.28. Officials of foreign government organizations and international organizations have the authority
abuse
1. Officials and functions of foreign government organizations and international organizations
It is a criminal offense to use one's rights to the detriment of one's official interests and to create an advantage for oneself or others
If a person is not liable, a person shall be fined in the amount of four thousand units and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of forty thousand togrogs.

CHAPTER ELEVEN
SECURITIES, BANKING, FINANCE, CUSTOMS, TAXES, PROFESSIONAL INSPECTION AND INSURANCE PROCEDURES
CONFLICT AGAINST
/ The title of this chapter was amended by the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 11.1. Violation of the Law on Auditing
1. Audit legal entity:
1.1. Quality control, audit, verification work, etc. of audit and certification activities
not performed in accordance with international standards for certification and related services;
1.2. International auditing standards when auditing the financial statements of a business entity or organization
not followed;
1.3. Audit in the manner and form specified in International Standards on Auditing
no activities;
1.4. Affect the independence of audit activities and the loss of independence
did not avoid any circumstances that could lead to pressure or domination;
1.5. Obligation to maintain confidentiality of customer information to be followed in auditing activities
not fulfilled;
1.6. Realistic advertisements that follow the principles of fair competition and do not mislead customers
to conduct advertisements, to compare its organization with other audit legal entities, and their reputation
failed to fulfill his / her obligation not to commit an offense;
1.7. The principle of approaching the audit from a professional distrust
not followed;
1.8. Audit of financial statements or review of financial statements or other certification
work (providing audit services) for more than five consecutive years in one business entity
shown;
1.9. Due to the replacement of the audited legal entity after five years in accordance with the law
provided audit services to the client organization for the next three years;
Provided asset valuation, tax and accounting consulting services
If the client has audited the financial statements of the organization, the auditor shall be paid one thousand five
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, and in the amount of fifteen thousand units for an audit legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Auditor and audit legal entity:
2.1. Has not fulfilled its obligation to keep audit working papers for the period specified by law;
2.2. Has not fulfilled its legal obligations;
2.3. Has not fulfilled its obligation to have at least one full-time auditor in its field
an auditor in the amount of two hundred units and an audit legal entity in the amount of two thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
3. A legal entity that is required to have its financial statements audited in accordance with the legislation:
3.1. Has not fulfilled its obligation to be audited;
3.2. The audit has not been performed within the period specified by law;
3.3. In case of non-fulfillment of other obligations specified in the law, the person shall be compensated for the damage and compensation
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, and in the amount of one thousand units for legal entities
will be fined in togrogs.
4. An auditing legal entity has conducted or is subject to activities prohibited by law
In case of violation of the requirements, the license shall be revoked and the auditor shall be equal to one thousand five hundred units
in togrogs equal to fifteen thousand units for an audit legal entity
fine.
5. The audit service fee shall be paid based on the performance and financial performance of the client organization
Depending on the circumstances and the nature of the audit opinion, it may not be determined or licensed
if the audit legal entity violates the requirement to use the word “audit” after the given name
confiscated property and income in the amount of one hundred units of togrogs for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
6. The client has not fulfilled its legal obligations as an audit legal entity, or
one of the persons who evaded or refused to comply, or obstructed the audit
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, in togrogs equal to one thousand units in legal entities
fine.
7. When a person or legal entity related to the client conducts an audit of financial statements
Refuse to provide necessary documents and other materials, provide explanations, and conduct audit activities
in case of obstruction of the operation, a person shall be fined in the amount of two hundred units and a legal entity shall be fined in the amount of two hundred units
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
8. A certified public accountant working for an auditing legal entity has been employed by another organization.
or a person equal to one thousand units if he / she has worked for other auditing legal entities on a contract basis
will be fined in togrogs.
9. Business entities and organizations that comply with the standards set forth in Article 4.1.1 of the Law on Accounting
An auditing legal entity authorized to provide audit services shall have at least four specializations with an indefinite right
in case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to have an accountant, the auditor shall be paid one thousand five hundred units
A fine of fifteen thousand units shall be imposed on an audit legal entity.
Note: Clause 1.9 of this article applies to small and medium enterprises specified in the accounting legislation
International financial reporting and public sector accounting of business entities and organizations
does not apply to business entities and organizations that comply with the standard.
Article 11.2. Violation of the Law on State Inspection
1. Persons responsible for state inspection:
1.1. Evaded inspection;
1.2. If the internal inspection procedure has not been established and enforced, one person shall be equal to one hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
2. Documents related to the state inspection by the person responsible for the state inspection
the letter:
Unreasonable refusal to issue;
Repaired;
Damaged;
Avoided;
Destroyed;
2.6. If a false document is issued, a person shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units;
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
Article 11.3. Violation of the Banking Law
1. Confiscation of illegally earned assets and income if the bank operates without a license
a person in the amount of ten thousand units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of one hundred thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. If the bank has engaged in activities prohibited by the law specifically provided for in the banking legislation
confiscation of ill-gotten gains and income in the amount of ten thousand togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 18, 2018 /
3. Loans and loan equivalents specified in the Banking Law or established by the Bank of Mongolia
forty of the bank in case of violation of the restrictions on assets, guarantees and sureties up to five units-percent
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
4. Loans and loan equivalents specified in the Banking Law or established by the Bank of Mongolia
If the restrictions on assets, guarantees and sureties are violated from five to fifteen units-percent
A bank shall be fined in the amount of seventy thousand units togrogs.
5. Loans and loan equivalents specified in the Banking Law or established by the Bank of Mongolia
one of the banks in case of violation of the restrictions on assets, guarantees and sureties by more than fifteen unit-percent
shall be fined in the amount of one hundred thousand togrogs.
6. Failure to meet the bank's prudential ratios may result in restructuring of the bank or
If the conditions for liquidation are not created, the bank shall be fined in the amount of fifty thousand units togrogs. ”
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 18, 2018 /
7. Requirements, duties and tasks set by the Bank of Mongolia within the framework of preventive measures
In case of non-compliance or violation of the decision of the Bank of Mongolia, a person shall be fined ten thousand units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one hundred thousand units
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 18, 2018 /
8. Obstacles to the implementation of supervisory inspections and enforcement measures provided by law
if caused to a person in the amount equal to five thousand units, to a legal entity in the amount of fifty thousand
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 18, 2018 /
9. If a payment document is concealed or a transaction is delayed, a person shall be fined ten thousand
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to one hundred thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
10. The report, balance sheet, data and bank stabilization plan shall be submitted to the Bank of Mongolia in accordance with relevant procedures
Respect financial statements and other information that have not been submitted, submitted or are required to be disclosed to the public
If the information is not disclosed to the public without a reason, the person shall be fined in the amount of five thousand units;
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of fifty thousand units togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 18, 2018 /
11. Mandatory reserves of the Bank and the Bank in other ways than those specified in paragraph 6 of this article
in case of non-compliance with the requirements of the bank specified in the law, a person in togrogs equal to two thousand units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of twenty thousand units togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 18, 2018 /
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
12. If a report or information published by a bank contains false, false or misleading information, a person shall be fined
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to one hundred thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
13. Violating the provisions of the Banking Law or having illegal, false or misleading information
If the advertisement is distributed to a legal entity in the amount equal to fifty thousand units, the advertisement
ten thousand units for a person who prepared or certified advertisements, reports and information
will be fined in togrogs.
14. Confiscation of earned income if engaged in activities prohibited by the banking legislation
a person in the amount of ten thousand units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of one hundred thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated June 22, 2018 /
15. About the Bank except for the cases specified in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 of this Article
decisions and requirements of the Bank of Mongolia, its inspectors and state inspectors in violation of the legislation
in case of non-compliance, a person shall be fined in the amount of one thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of ten thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated June 22, 2018 /
Article 11.4. Violation of the Treasury Fund Law
1. Treasures of the treasury:
To receive;
1.2. Storage;
To protect;
Transfer;
1.5. Placement;
1.6. In case of violation of transportation regulations, a person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units and a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
2. Precious metals, gemstones, articles made of them, unique historical and cultural treasures in the treasury
When transferring memorabilia from one respondent to another, each item shall be counted, weighed and registered
in case of violation of the procedure of calculation and transfer under the supervision of management, the amount of a person equal to sixty units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to six hundred units.
Article 11.5. Violation of the Law on Non-Bank Financial Activities

1. Opening a branch of a non-bank financial institution without permission, or a non-bank financial institution
illegally obtained if a person other than the organization was engaged in the activities of a non-bank financial institution
confiscation of property and income in the amount of four thousand units for a person and forty for a legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
2. Legislation on non-bank financial activities and their implementation
In case of non-compliance with the decision of the Financial Regulatory Commission, the person shall be equal to two thousand units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to twenty thousand units.
3. Advertising with false, misleading or misleading information by a non-bank financial institution
if distributed, a person shall be paid two thousand units of togrogs and a legal entity shall be paid twenty thousand units of togrogs
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
4. If a non-bank financial operator does not meet the requirements set forth in the law, one person shall be appointed
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
5. Income earned if prohibited by law or engaged in activities other than those specified in the license
confiscated a person in the amount of four thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of forty thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
6. Non-bank financial operator:
6.1. Concealment of payment documents or delay of transaction;
6.2 reports, balance sheets and data have not been submitted to the Financial Regulatory Commission in accordance with relevant procedures;
or to the public without a valid reason to disclose the financial statements to the public in accordance with this law
If an uninformed or published report contains false, misleading or misleading information, the person shall be punished
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to twenty thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 11.6. Illegal financial activities
1. Deposit, loan, settlement or conduct with permission and license in accordance with the law
other financial activities were carried out without permission or illegally
confiscation of property and income, compensation for damages and compensation equal to four thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to forty thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 11.7. Violation of the Law on Non-Governmental Organizations
1. From the income of non-governmental organizations:
1.1. Dividends have been distributed;
1.2. Confiscate illegally earned assets and income if a citizen, business entity or organization has paid
a person in the amount of fifty units of togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of five hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. From the property of the non-governmental organization's board member and employee
illegally obtained if engaged in financial or economic activities for personal gain
confiscation of property and income in the amount of fifty units for a person and five hundred for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
3. Submit a report on its activities to the relevant authorities within the period specified by law
Failure to do so shall result in damages and compensation in the amount of twenty units of togrogs.
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of two hundred units togrogs.
Article 11.8. Deposits, settlements and loans of banks and authorized legal entities
violation of the law on operations
1. Storage:
1.1. At the request of the client in case of concluding a deposit agreement for an indefinite period
when the deposit is returned and the obligation to pay interest is not fulfilled;
1.2. In case of concluding a deposit agreement for a certain period of time, after the expiration of that period
failure to return the money at the client's initial request and fulfill the obligation to pay interest;
1.3. On the initiative of one of the depositors of the deposit agreement concluded for a certain period of time
changed or terminated prematurely;
1.4. The interest rate on time deposit is the term specified in the deposit agreement
has not fulfilled its obligation to keep the original agreement until the end;
1.5. The depositor shall make the deposit and income transaction through the trustee
violation of rights;
1.6. A valid power of attorney that meets the requirements set forth in the law, the citizen's identity card,
has not fulfilled its obligation to make a transaction on the basis of equivalent documents;
1.7. Violation of the procedure for making transactions in case of inheritance or bequeath of savings
If the client has caused damage, the person shall be compensated for the damage and compensation in two hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two thousand units.
2. Storage:
2.1. To make transactions from the client's cash only with his / her consent or instruction;
2.2. Accurately calculate and issue interest rates on savings deposits;
2.3. To keep the client's account secret;
To compensate the damage caused by his / her own fault;
2.5. Damage to the client due to violation of the procedure for fulfilling other obligations agreed upon by the parties
In case of causing damage, compensation shall be paid in the amount equal to four hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to four thousand units.
3. Banks and legal entities authorized to conduct settlement activities:
3.1. To spend the payment to be made only on the debtor's money
to perform with the consent of the authorized person;
3.2. When making a settlement with the participation of a legal entity, the set of such settlement documents
check;
3.3. To make payments and settlements in the order received;
3.4. The obligation to execute the payment transaction submitted by the debtor within the same day
The transaction was made in violation of the incomplete payment document, or payment document
three hundred persons to be compensated for the damage caused if the transaction was concealed or the transaction was delayed
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to three thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
4. Forgery of loan guarantees and pledged documents specified in the law
If the damage is caused, compensation shall be paid in the amount equal to five hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
Article 11.9. Violation of the Law on Savings and Credit Cooperatives
1. Savings and credit cooperatives, their authorized officials, savings and credit cooperatives
contact:
1.1. 30 working days prior to the decision of the Board of Directors to be considered an inactive member
failed to notify the member in writing;
1.2. It was possible or was possible to receive the notification specified in clause 1.1 of this article
However, a member who does not respond within 15 working days shall be considered an inactive member
Equity equivalent to contributed capital, deposit balance, and percentage of annual income
Assets and interest payments shall be centralized in a special account and reflected separately in financial statements and information
failure to fulfill obligations;
1.3. To perform settlements with inactive members in accordance with the procedures specified in the law
not fulfilled;
1.4. To be repaid from the stabilization fund to financially difficult savings and credit cooperatives
failed to fulfill its obligation to provide conditional financial assistance with the approval of the Financial Regulatory Commission
is equal to two hundred units for a person and two thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Savings and credit cooperative and its members:
2.1. The conditions set by the member of the savings and credit cooperative specified in the law have not been met;
2.2 The Board of Directors shall maintain and maintain the registration of members and be responsible for its accuracy.
failed to notify the Committee on Financial Regulations within the period specified by law;
2.3. In the cases specified in the charter of the Savings and Credit Cooperative, the member's rights shall be equal to those of the Savings and Credit Cooperative
arises from the full contribution of the minimum share capital to the cooperative, in this case the member
failed to fulfill its obligation to fully contribute its share capital or share capital within the period specified in the charter
not included;
2.4. In case of compulsory meeting of all members specified in the law, the meeting of all members
not convened;
2.5. The regular meeting of all members has not been convened within the period specified by law;
2.6. The maximum amount of share capital that one member of a savings and credit cooperative can contribute is total
if the member's contribution exceeds 10 percent of the capital, the person shall be entitled to one hundred and fifty units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand five hundred units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
3. Savings and loan operators shall:
3.1. A license issued by a state authority for savings and loan activities, or
has failed to fulfill his / her duties on the basis of rules, regulations and conditions approved in accordance with the law;
3.2. Has not obtained a license from the authorized state body or is prohibited by law
in charge of financial work and services;
3.3. The procedure for keeping the money of its members only on the basis of a written agreement
violated;
3.4. In accordance with the law or the charter of the savings and credit cooperative and the rules of credit operations
violated the procedure for granting loans only to its members;
3.5. The amount of loan to be issued to one member or affiliated person shall be authorized by the state
violation of prudential ratios set by the organization;
3.6. To submit its quarterly and annual financial statements to the authorized government body within the set timeframe
not delivered;
3.7. Has financial statements of the savings and credit cooperative required by the state authority
If additional relevant evidence is not submitted, the person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units;
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one thousand units togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 11.10. Violation of the Securities Market Law
1. A special permit issued by a state authority for the activities of a regulated entity
confiscation and damage caused by illegally obtained property and income, if engaged in business without permission, registration or permission,
compensation in the amount of three thousand units for a person and thirty for a legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
2. Individuals and legal entities:
2.1. Not registered in the securities registry or restricted to be offered to the public
offered shares of a responsible company to the public;
2.2. The issuer of securities shall use the funds raised from the securities trading for the securities
spent for purposes other than those specified in the brochure;
2.3. A person other than those specified in the law shall have the name “Securities Company” in detail
marking or abbreviation “PSC” is used;
2.4. During the period of suspension or revocation of the license
for the purpose of protecting the interests of the entity's customers, except with the consent of the competent authority
made agreements, transactions and transactions;
2.5.Investment fund has carried out activities prohibited by law;
A person engaged in securities ownership registration activities shall issue its own securities
arbitrarily disposed of registered securities without the consent of its owner;
2.7. About the securities held by the custodian
entered into or disposed of a contract or agreement with any person other than the owner;
2.8. The obligations of the custodian to others
performed with securities and cash in the customer's account;
2.9. Illegally acquired assets, if the stock exchange has engaged in activities prohibited by this law;
confiscation of income, damages and compensation in the amount of three thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to thirty thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
3. Illegal failure to fulfill the general obligations of the securities issuer specified in the legislation
confiscated property and income, and indemnified for damages and damages
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to twenty thousand units.
4. Securities market participants, regulated operators and auditors
an organization exercising its powers, or a competent regulatory body of a foreign country, or many
the required information specified in the request of the state organization within the specified time and in the required form
a regulated entity, a securities issuer, or their related persons, or
illegally obtained if the written request of any person related to the situation has not been complied with
confiscation of property and income, compensation for damages and compensation equal to two thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to twenty thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
5. Issuer of securities:
Include incomplete, false and misleading information in the prospectus of securities to be offered to the public
made public and made false promises;
5.2. Any changes have been made to the securities prospectus without the permission of the competent authority;
5.3. To the state authority to regulate the securities market in violation of the procedures set forth in the law
unregistered securities were introduced to the public;
5.4. Any advertisement has been made about the securities specified in clauses 5.1, 5.2 and 5.3 of this article;
5.5. Other types of securities specified in provision 5.4 of this Article for the purpose of attracting financing
If the information is made public, the illegally obtained assets and income shall be confiscated and the damage caused shall be compensated
to pay a fee equal to two thousand units for a person and twenty thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units. License to provide underwriting services
shall be fined in the amount of thirty thousand units.
6. Holders of internal information specified in the securities legislation:
6.1.Securities whose exchange rate and trading volume fluctuate due to this information and financial instruments based on it
participated in instrument trading;
6.2. Whether or not the information is known to be internal information
offered to participate in trading in volatile securities and financial instruments based on them,
or persuaded;
6.3. Except for the obligation to disclose information in terms of position and duties
illegally obtained assets, unless the disclosure of internal information to others is not subject to criminal liability;
confiscation of income, damages and compensation in the amount of two thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to twenty thousand units togrogs.
7. As stated in the securities legislation:
7.1.Securities issuer shall obtain internal information specified in the law from the stock exchange and authorized organization
to inform the public in accordance with established procedures and to disclose internal information to the public by an authorized organization or
failed to notify the securities trading organization;
7.2. Violation of the procedure for disclosing internal information to the public in the form specified by law;
7.3. Fake trading in the securities market or artificially pricing of securities;
established;
7.4. Participated in trading by deceiving securities market participants and customers, or
to exclude or otherwise abuse the securities market is a criminal offense
confiscation of illegally earned assets and income, and compensation for damages caused if no liability is imposed
to pay a fee equal to two thousand units for a person and twenty thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
8. The stock exchange has not fulfilled its obligations to meet the conditions and requirements set forth in the law, or it is valuable
Rights of participants in the securities market for the purpose of implementing the legislation on the securities market
non-compliance with the decision of the competent authority or assignment of the competent authority
failed to fulfill its obligation to report on performance in accordance with relevant procedures, or failed to fulfill its obligations within the required period
A member of a company's consortium is a regulated entity authorized by other members of the company's consortium
Illegally acquired assets and income if the required information required by the organization has not been provided
confiscation, compensation for damages and compensation in the amount of two thousand units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of twenty thousand units togrogs.
9. Illegally earned assets in case of violation of the procedure related to issuance of depository receipts specified in the law,
confiscation of income, damages and compensation in the amount of two thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to twenty thousand units togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
10. According to the law:
Broker;
10.2. The dealer;
10.3. Confiscation of illegally earned assets and income in case of violation of the underwriting procedure;
for damages and compensation in the amount of two thousand units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of twenty thousand units togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
11.Information to the interested person free of charge by the issuer of securities in the primary securities market
If a person fails to fulfill his / her obligation to pay damages, he / she shall be compensated five hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
12. Individuals and legal entities:
12.1. After the decision to issue securities has been registered with the competent authority
Unless otherwise agreed, until the securities are traded on the primary securities market
changed;
12.2. In case of additional issuance of the previously offered type of securities in a closed environment
has not registered its decision to sell with the competent authority;
12.3. A legal entity that has previously offered securities to the public shall close other types of securities
the securities have not been registered with the competent authority;
12.4. Securities approved for public offering other than those issued by the Government
Securities that have not been registered or have been refused registration by the competent authority
introduced or advertised;
12.5.Securities were sold on credit in the primary securities market or otherwise as required by law
if not specified, possessed free of charge;
12.6. After the issuer has completed the sale of the securities in the primary securities market
in accordance with the procedure established for reporting the securities traded on the primary securities market within a day
failed to fulfill its obligation to submit to the competent authority;
12.7. In case a legal entity registered in Mongolia is listed on a foreign stock exchange
failure to notify the competent authority;
12.8. In violation of the amendments made to the charter of the securities issuer in accordance with the court decision
amendments to the charter;
12.9. A company that has submitted a proposal in violation of the procedures established by the competent authority or has not submitted a proposal
carried out activities aimed at purchasing shares;
12.10. A shareholder of a regulated entity engaged in regulated activities specified in the law
to sell, trade, pledge or other forms of shares without the permission of the competent authority
transferred;
Note: This provision refers to influential shares of a regulated entity in the form of a joint stock company
belongs to the owners.
12.11.Investment management company shall be responsible for payment of service costs and performance
payments and fees other than bonuses are paid from the fund's assets;
12.12. A person engaged in registration of securities ownership rights to own securities
to keep the registration information and documents intact for the period specified by law, or
failed to fulfill its obligation to inform and report in accordance with relevant procedures;
12.13. Owner of securities / trustee /, engaged in custodian and brokerage activities
The information required to be submitted by the entity to a particular securities registry is accurate and prompt
failure to fulfill the obligation to provide;
12.14. One securities shall be issued by only one company engaged in specific securities registration activities
registered in a legal entity or double registered in another legal entity;
12.15. Ownership of securities in case the payment transaction is completed
failure to fulfill its obligations in accordance with the principle of transfer of rights;
12.16The legal entity authorized to conduct securities central depository activities is valuable
at the request of the securities issuer on the transfer of ownership of the securities and securities registration activities
failure to fulfill the obligation to inform the person in charge;
12.17. A legal entity authorized to conduct securities central depository activities in front of others
obligations in the client's account with securities and related cash
performed;
12.18. The stock exchange has failed to approve the procedure required by law and fulfill its obligation to inform the public;
12.19. The stock exchange is obliged to disclose to the public the information specified in the law on securities trading
not fulfilled;
12.20. An authorized official of the stock exchange is regulated by a participant in securities trading
held any position in a legal entity;
12.21. It is illegal to engage in regulated activities other than those permitted by law
confiscated property and income, and indemnified for damages and damages
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to twenty thousand units.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
13. Securities market participants, regulated operators and auditors:
13.1. The custodian organization shall have a controlling stake in the joint stock company
owned by the shareholder alone or jointly with a related party
from the date of becoming a controlling shareholder if the shares have reached a controlling stake or more
within 60 business days after the last share of the shares held by other shareholders
the obligation to purchase at a price below the weighted average of the six-month market price
authorized within 5 working days after the acquisition of a controlling stake in the company
Obligation to notify organizations and stock exchanges and inform the public through its website
not fulfilled;
13.2. Owns a controlling stake in the company individually or jointly with a related party
5 business days for each increase or decrease in the controlling stake of the entity by 5 percent
to notify the authorized organization and the stock exchange and inform the public through its website
failure to fulfill obligations;
13.3. The offeror shall submit his / her proposal to purchase the company's shares to the competent authority and the public
did not fulfill the obligation to report at the same time;
13.4. A transaction made by a regulated entity in connection with a licensed activity, its own
and primary and accounting records that fully reflect the movement and changes in the client's assets
failed to fulfill its obligation to maintain, balance sheet income and results report in a timely and accurate manner;
13.5. The regulated person shall submit the documents and registration specified in paragraph 1 of this Article to his / her organization
Has not fulfilled its obligation to transfer to the archives for at least 5 years;
13.6. The regulated entity shall submit the license to the competent authority within one month
Obligation to select a registered auditing organization, conclude a contract and notify the competent authority
not fulfilled;
13.7. A person prohibited by law has been appointed as an auditor;
13.8. Termination or termination of the contract concluded by the regulated entity with the audit organization
failed to notify the competent authority in writing within 7 days after the event;
13.9. The financial condition of the regulated entity during the audit in accordance with the law
the auditor in the event of a material adverse event or a breach of other financial regulations
to immediately notify the competent authority or regulated entity in writing
not fulfilled;
13.10. The stock exchange is listed on its securities and specified in the law on securities issuer
failed to fulfill its obligation to disclose information to the public through the website;
13.11. A person engaged in regulated activities with a license shall provide information specified in the law
failure to fulfill the obligation to inform the person specified in the law;
13.12. If required by the Committee on Financial Regulations, the investor shall own or its
failure to provide information on securities owned by related parties;
13.13. Rights to documents, materials and information obtained within the scope of authority specified in paragraph 4 of this Article
informed or transferred to any person without the consent of the competent authority;
13.14. All relevant accounts required by the regulated entity to protect the customer's assets,
If the source of the documents and materials has not been transferred to the receiver, the illegally acquired property and income shall be confiscated.
damages and compensation in the amount of one thousand units in togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of ten thousand units togrogs.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
14. Securities market participants, regulated operators and auditors are
Audit your accounting and other records at the end of each financial year;
The audited copy of the financial statements together with the audit report
if he / she fails to fulfill his / her obligation to submit to the competent authority within the period specified in the legislation
confiscation of unearned property and income, compensation for damages and compensation to one thousand five people
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, and in the amount of fifteen thousand units for legal entities
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
15. Securities market participants, regulated operators and auditors:
An issuer of securities in the primary securities market shall provide information specified in the law free of charge
failure to fulfill the obligation to give to the interested person;
15.2The issuer of securities trading its securities on the secondary securities market is specified in the law
within 1 working day after the occurrence of the situation to the competent authority, the stock exchange or
failed to fulfill its obligation to inform the public through its website;
15.3The investor shall register the securities in its ownership and nominal holders
When transferring all necessary information related to securities to the securities registrar or
failed to notify the nominal holder;
15.4. The self-regulatory body shall have rights in matters related to the activities of its members
failed to fulfill its obligation to promptly deliver any information provided by the relevant organization to each member;
15.5. The self-regulatory organization has not complied with the instructions given by the competent authority;
15.6. A self-regulatory organization shall be composed of its members in accordance with the legislation, the organization's charter,
authorized to report on the violation of the rules and the measures taken in connection with the violation
failure to immediately notify the organization;
15.7. The self-regulatory body has established its financial or operational report
has not fulfilled its obligation to submit to the competent authority and inform the public within the specified period;
15.8. A self-regulatory body and its authorized body from the competent authority in accordance with the law
the board or all of the matter from the date of the action taken by the official or specialist
to discuss and decide at the members' meeting within 60 days and notify the competent authority
in case of non-compliance, confiscate illegally earned assets and income, and pay damages and compensation
a person in the amount of two thousand units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of twenty thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 11.11. Violation of the Law on Asset-backed Securities
1. If a special purpose company is established by a person other than those specified in the law, one thousand people
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to ten thousand units for legal entities
fine.
2. Special purpose company, housing finance company:
2.1. Did not use the detailed and abbreviated notation specified in the law in the given name;
2.2. A special purpose company specified in the name of a person other than those permitted by law
detailed and abbreviated notation is used;
2.3. Engaged in activities prohibited by law;
2.4. His / her authorized official and trustee shall be in charge of property and assets
Take all necessary measures to protect the interests of investors and the total number of specialized companies
assets, financial statements, balance sheets, documents, letterheads and stamps of the right holder
to cooperate in all aspects with the recipient in the exercise of its rights and obligations
a person who has not fulfilled his / her obligations shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of five thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
3. An issuer of collateralized securities may register a portfolio of assets without the permission of the supervisor
the issuer of securities or the issuer of pledged securities who has exchanged the assets in the portfolio
If the report is not submitted to the competent authority in accordance with the amount of five hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
4. Issuer of collateralized securities:
The portfolio registrar has not been appointed;
4.2. The securities market within the period specified in the law on appointment of the portfolio registrar
not notified to the state loan authority in accordance with the law;
4.3. Failed to fulfill its obligations specified in the law, or the regulatory authority in accordance with the law
violation of the issued administrative normative act;
4.4. The bank is the authorized body and the registration of the collateral securities portfolio
In the Bank of Mongolia, a housing finance company is a person if it has not been delivered to the authorities
in togrogs equal to five hundred units, for legal entities in the amount equal to five thousand units

will be fined in togrogs.
5. The portfolio registrar shall protect the portfolio that secures the securities
Obligation to deliver the required originals of all relevant accounts, documents and materials to the receiver
in case of non-compliance, a person shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of five thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
Article 11.12. Violation of the Law on Bank Deposit Insurance
Page 7

1. According to the inspection report of the Bank of Mongolia, the bank's financial condition has deteriorated or
Insurance reimbursement to depositors who have been found to have exercised financial privileges in obtaining banking services
paid or intentionally provided false information to the insurance indemnity bank, or
If the insurance indemnity is paid using the information, the employee will receive an amount equal to four thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated February 8, 2018 /
2. Insurance indemnity not paid in accordance with the law or insurance paid in accordance with the law
Damage or compensation if the amount of compensation was intentionally miscalculated or false information was provided
to pay a fee equal to two thousand units for a person and twenty thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
3. The assets of the Deposit Insurance Fund have been used for purposes other than those specified in the law, or
placed in financial instruments other than those permitted by law, or the Deposit Insurance Corporation
caused by engaging in activities other than those specified in the law or establishing a for-profit legal entity
damages and compensation in the amount of four thousand units per person, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of forty thousand units togrogs.
4. Member of the National Deposit Insurance Committee, Corporation, except as provided by law
The employee, the inspector and the person performing the work under the contract in the Corporation are found in accordance with their official duties
If a person discloses information about a corporation or bank to others, it is equal to two thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated February 08, 2018 /
5. Regulation on deposit insurance premium approved by the National Deposit Insurance Committee
Damage caused if the fee specified in the law is not paid or is not paid on time,
5 percent on the policy interest rate of the Bank of Mongolia from the amount not paid by the legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to the amount multiplied by the added percentage.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated February 08, 2018 /
6. A bank is required by the Deposit Insurance Corporation to perform its functions specified by law
The information was not submitted to the Deposit Insurance Corporation in the form and time set by the bank
is equal to five thousand units for a person and fifty thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated February 8, 2018 /
7. If the bank does not provide the necessary additional information at the request of the corporation, the person shall be released
in togrogs equal to three thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to thirty thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was added according to the law dated February 08, 2018 /
/ This part was repealed by the law in January 10, 2020 /
8. The bank has violated the procedure for submitting bank reports, information and data approved by the National Committee
a person in the amount of two thousand units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of twenty thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was added according to the law dated February 8, 2018 /
9. If a bank submits incomplete or incorrect information, it shall be equal to two thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to twenty thousand units.
/ This part was added according to the law dated February 8, 2018 /
10. The Bank shall establish a deposit insurance system and insurance in accordance with the procedures approved by the National Committee
Obligation to provide the depositor with information on the amount of compensation and its calculation period
If a person fails to comply or misrepresents the deposit insurance system
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to twenty thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was added according to the law dated February 8, 2018 /
11. The Bank shall not disclose the information specified in paragraph 10 of this Article for advertising purposes or for the purposes of the Bank
if used in a way that adversely affects the stability of the sector and the trust of depositors
two thousand units in togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of twenty thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was added according to the law dated February 8, 2018 /
12. A bank shall not be subject to deposit insurance in accordance with the law in the event of an insured event
if the insurance indemnity was paid to the depositor, he / she deliberately provided false information or
a person who has paid insurance indemnity using the information in togrogs equal to two thousand units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of twenty thousand units togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated February 8, 2018 /
Article 11.13. Violation of the Law on Insurance
1. Illegally earned assets and income if insurance activities are carried out without a license
to confiscate a person in the amount of one thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. A person or legal entity residing in Mongolia shall be entitled to property in the territory of Mongolia
authorized to conclude an insurance contract with a foreign insurer that has not obtained a license in accordance with
In case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to obtain permission from the organization, a person shall be fined six hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to six thousand units.
3. The rights of the insurer in respect of the property specified in this section in its possession and ownership in violation of the law
If a person commits an act prohibited by law without the written permission of the competent authority, one thousand persons
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to ten thousand units for legal entities
fine.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
4.Insurer:
4.1. Conducted activities prohibited by law;
4.2. For the purpose of certifying the financial statements of an auditor who does not meet the requirements set forth in the law
appointed;
4.3. The long-term insurer has not appointed its actuary in accordance with the law or as provided by law
the actuary has not been inspected in time;
Only in violation of the rules for conducting insurance activities and not related to insurance activities
engaged in activities;
4.5. Violation of the procedure for using the word “insurance” after the given name;
4.6. Obligations of the insurer and its related persons established by law during the operational audit
not fulfilled;
4.7. From the date of receipt of the notification on suspension or revocation of the license
has entered into a new insurance contract without the written consent of the competent authority, or
renewed or amended the insurance contract concluded before that date;
4.8. Transferred or consolidated insurance activities without the permission of the competent authority
is equal to one thousand units for a person and ten thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
5. If all shares issued by an insurance company have been paid in non-monetary form, five persons shall be fined
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, in togrogs equal to five thousand units in legal entities
fine.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
6. Based on the insurer's documents, the auditor shall issue:
6.1. The insurer has become insolvent or may become insolvent;
6.2. Has committed or may have committed a crime related to insurance activities;
6.3. The right to conclude that the insurer has seriously violated the legislation and the set of insurance rules
In case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to notify the relevant authority, a person shall be fined in the amount of six thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
7. The insurer has terminated its contract with the auditor or the auditor is unable to work
In the event of a notice of dismissal, the auditor shall:
7.1. On termination or dismissal of the contract and its grounds;
7.2. In case of conclusion specified in clauses 6.1, 6.2, 6.3 and 6.4 of this article,
In case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to provide information to the organization, a person shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
8. Illegally earned assets if a person who is not authorized to engage in actuarial activities has acted as an actuary,
A person shall be fined three thousand units of income.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
9. The actuary is:
9.1. The insurer has violated or may have violated the legislation and the set of insurance rules, or
the insurer considers that the violation of the legislation will seriously affect the interests of the insured
the competent authority has not been notified of the conclusion based on the documents;
9.2. The insurer has been notified and determined that the provisions of Article 9.3 of this Article have been established in accordance with the law
If the insurer has not taken any measures within the period, it shall be obliged to immediately notify the competent authority
not fulfilled;
9.3. The insurer shall terminate the contract concluded with him / her or declare that he / she is unable to work
in case of dismissal, refusal to provide information to the competent authority on issues specified by law
A person shall be fined in the amount of two thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
10. A person applying for a license to conduct insurance business, or an insurer or others
any permission issued by the entity to the competent authority in accordance with the law and the set of insurance regulations
changes in information and documents submitted to the competent authority prior to consideration and resolution of the requested application
the person requesting permission has not fulfilled his / her obligation to notify him / her immediately in writing, or any person,
legal entity insurance legislation and authorized organizations on their implementation
In case of non-compliance with the decision, the person shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units
A person shall be fined in the amount of five thousand units togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
11. If a person is not insured by the compulsory insurance established by law, it shall be equal to one hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
12. Failure to fulfill obligations specified in the Law on Insurance, or violation of prohibited norms, or
The information required to determine the amount of indemnity was not provided within the time period required by the insurer
a person has one hundred and fifty units of togrogs and a legal entity has one thousand five hundred units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
13. 10 percent or more of the insurer's common shares may be sold alone or in violation of the law
A person who jointly possesses a property shall own the property in his / her possession and possession by an authorized organization
if transferred to others without written permission, in the amount of five hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
14. Any person in violation of the law without the written consent of the competent authority
10 percent or more of the insurer's common shares alone or in cooperation with other persons
in case of non-possession or ownership of a person in the amount equal to five hundred units, by law
A person shall be fined in the amount of five thousand units togrogs.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
15. Insurer:
15.1. The minimum capital of the insurance company established by law has not been established;
15.2. The insurance reserve fund specified in the law has not been established;
15.3. Dividends have been distributed in violation of the conditions for distribution of dividends established by law, or
announced for distribution;
15.4. The solvency criteria specified in the law have not been complied with;
15.5. The insurer has not kept its accounting on an accrual basis;
15.6. The accounting and financial statements have not been properly maintained;
15.7. The company requested by the competent authority in connection with its membership in the consortium
the member of the cooperative has not submitted the consolidated financial and corporate report of any person;
15.8. Issues deemed necessary by the competent authority regarding the financial condition of the insurer
failure to comply with the requirement to be examined by an actuary or to submit an actuarial report;
15.9. A plan to reinsure the liability for insurance risk specified in the set of insurance rules
not approved by the competent authority;
15.10. To approve the business plan and its activities last approved by the competent authority
has not fulfilled its obligations to implement and comply with the business plan;
15.11. To issue a detailed report on the reinsurance plan within the specified time
failed to deliver to the organization or attach a copy of the reinsurance agreement to the report;
15.12. Violation of the procedure for establishing and spending the long-term insurer's fund;
15.13. The address of the General Administration and its changes have not been notified to the competent authority;
15.14. Violation of the procedure related to opening a branch or representative office specified in the law;
15.15. Without violating the procedure for appointing an authorized official without the consent of the competent authority
appointed;
15.16. In case of requesting a response in connection with the operational inspection report, accept the report
within 14 working days from the date of receipt or within the period specified in the report to the competent authority
failure to respond;
15.17. For the purpose of exercising the powers specified in the legislation by the competent authority, or
instructed to provide information and documents in accordance with the request of the foreign regulatory authority
notification received but not complied with;
15.18. Failure to comply with instructions given by the competent authority;
15.19. In case the minimum amount of the share capital does not reach the amount specified by law
failure to immediately notify the organization in writing;
15.20. In case the solvency does not reach the level specified in the law, to the competent authority
failure to immediately notify in writing;
15.21. 5 working days for each actuator appointed or dismissed by the competent authority
has not fulfilled its obligation to notify in writing;
15.22. The mandate of his / her authorized official has expired or he / she has been dismissed at his / her request
in case of failure to notify the competent authority in writing within 5 working days
a person in the amount of five hundred units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of five thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
16. The minimum amount of the insurer's authorized capital issued by the auditor based on the insurer's documents,
company shares, solvency criteria, insurance reserve fund, dividend distribution,
the conclusion that the advance or loan-related restrictions have been violated in any way
in case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to notify the organization, in togrogs equal to three thousand units
fine.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
17. The actuary is:
17.1. Has not complied with the actuarial standards specified in the set of insurance rules in its operations;
17.2. Financial condition of the insurer, reserve fund, solvency, profit of the insurer and the insured
Obligation to notify the insurer of taking necessary measures on any issue that may affect the interest
Failure to do so will result in a fine of three thousand togrogs.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 11.14. Violation of the law on professional insurance participants
1. It is illegal to engage in insurance business activities without a license
confiscation of earned assets and income shall be equal to two thousand units for insurance brokers and insurance loss adjusters
will be fined in togrogs.
2. The minimum share capital of insurance brokers and insurance loss adjusters shall be in accordance with the law
in case of failure to form or the authorized capital does not reach the amount specified by law
In case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to notify the organization, the insurance broker and the insurance loss adjuster shall be three
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
3. Payment of all shares issued by insurance brokers and insurance loss adjusters shall be non-monetary
in the form of a person in the amount of five hundred units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of five thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
4. If an insurance professional participant does not keep his / her accounting on an accrual basis, two persons shall be considered
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, in togrogs equal to two thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
5. If an auditor who does not meet the requirements of the law is appointed, the person shall be equal to two hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
6. Activities in cooperation with an insurer whose insurance professional participant has not obtained a license
paid in accordance with the contract concluded by the insurer, except in cases provided by law
received or possessed the fee, or entered into a related transaction, or in accordance with the law
in case of non-fulfillment of the order of the delivered authority, the person shall be equal to three hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
7. Relevant person and his / her authorized official during the inspection conducted by the competent authority
the officer or employee has failed to fulfill his / her duties specified in the law or is authorized in connection with the inspection report
if the organization requests a response, within 14 days from the date of receipt of the report by the relevant person, or
to respond to the competent authority within the period specified in the report, or from the competent authority
in the event of failure to deliver the written request, the person shall be fined two hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two thousand units.
8. A person applying for a license to engage in the activities of an insurance intermediary,
or rights from insurance participants and other persons in accordance with the law and the set of insurance regulations
before considering and resolving the application for permission submitted to the competent authority
If there is a change in the information and documents submitted to the organization, the person requesting permission shall immediately notify in writing
in case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to notify, a person shall be fined in the amount of two hundred units and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of two thousand units togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
9. Failure to fulfill obligations specified in the law on professional insurance participants or prohibited
the information required to determine the amount of compensation for violation of the amount within the period required by the insurer
If not provided, a person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred and fifty units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand
shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
Article 11.15. Violation of the Law on Driver's Insurance
1. The insurer shall provide the information necessary to determine the insurance case and the amount of indemnity
Failure to do so within the required time shall result in a fine of twenty five units togrogs.
2. The insurer and the driver's insurance fund representative shall represent the victim and his / her legal representative.
Insured shall inspect the insured event within 3 days after the insured submits the application
In case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to appoint an appraiser, a person shall be fined in the amount equal to fifty units
A person shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
3. Compensation has not been paid in accordance with the conditions, procedures and time specified in the law, or it is clear
three hundred units per person, unless the victim has given a written response to the refusal stating the reasons
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
4. Transferring an insurance contract or taking action without the permission of the Financial Regulatory Commission
In case of consolidation of operations, a person shall be paid fifty units of togrogs and a legal entity five hundred togrogs
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
5. Driver's insurance activity without fulfilling the obligation to accumulate funds in the driver's insurance fund
if engaged in operations, a person in the amount of fifty units togrogs, a legal entity in the amount of five hundred togrogs
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
6. The owner of the vehicle or a qualified driver of the vehicle specified in the law, or “C”,
Mandatory driver's insurance for drivers of Class D vehicles
in case of non-fulfillment of obligations or violation of other insurance-related regulations, a person shall be equal to fifty units
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
7. A driver is allowed to use the vehicle without traffic insurance
In case of participation, it shall be equal to 50 percent of the insurance to be reimbursed to individuals and legal entities
will be fined in togrogs.
8. Violation of the Law on Driver's Insurance or failure to fulfill its legal obligations
the vehicle of the vehicle owner has been inspected or registered in the state registry
If registered, a person shall be fined twenty five units of togrogs.
9. If the driver's insurance fund is misused for the purpose specified in the law, five persons shall be fined
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, in togrogs equal to five thousand units in legal entities
fine.
10. If a person carries out driver's insurance business without a permit, he / she shall have three hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
Article 11.16. Violation of the Law on Loan Guarantee Fund
1. The minimum amount of the Fund's own capital set in accordance with the law and the adequacy of its own capital
issued a guarantee in violation of the relationship, reports, balance sheet, data and authority in accordance with the obligations under the law
the disclosures and information requested by the organization have been avoided without a valid reason
A person shall be fined in the amount of one thousand units togrogs.
Article 11.17. Violation of the Law on the Development Bank of Mongolia
1. Violated the requirements for projects and programs set forth in the Law on the Development Bank of Mongolia
is equal to four thousand units for a person and forty thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Supervisor of the bank for the implementation of projects and programs financed by the Development Bank
if the inspection carried out in accordance with the grounds and procedures specified in the law is obstructed, four thousand persons shall be fined
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to forty thousand units in legal entities
fine.
3. If a payment document is concealed or a transaction is delayed, a person shall be fined one thousand
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to ten thousand units for legal entities
fine.
4. The balance sheet and data have not been submitted in accordance with relevant laws and regulations, or the Development Bank
Annual financial statements and audit findings of the Bank of Mongolia, Government, Finance,
Not submitted to the state central administrative body in charge of budget matters or to inform the public
two thousand units per person if the financial statements are not disclosed to the public without a valid reason
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to twenty thousand units.
5. If the published report or information contains false, false or misleading information, the report or information shall be considered
Certified Executive Director and other authorized persons in togrogs equal to two thousand units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of twenty thousand units togrogs.
6. More than 60 of the total funding from the Development Bank to issue guarantees and sureties
a person who violates his / her obligation to spend at least a percentage on export-oriented projects and programs
in togrogs equal to four thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to forty thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
7. About the Development Bank of Mongolia, except as specified in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of this article
In case of violation of the law, a person shall be fined in the amount of one thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of ten thousand
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
Article 11.18. Violation of the Law on Accounting
1. Business entities and organizations:
Failure to comply with the registration standards specified in the law;
1.2. If operating in the territory of Mongolia, the accounting shall be Mongolian
not conducted by language;
1.3. If operating in the territory of Mongolia, the transaction shall be made in national currency
not registered and reported by character;
1.4. A business entity, organization and representative office shall be a state entity in charge of finance and registration
In case of consultation with the central administrative body, to register transactions in foreign currency
In this case, the financial statements are expressed in MNT, the national currency
failure to fulfill its reporting obligations;
1.5. The executive management and the general accountant shall sign and stamp the financial statements /
failure to fulfill the obligation to mark / stamp;
1.6. A business entity or organization shall prepare its financial statements within the period specified by law
failed to fulfill its obligation to submit to the organization in electronic form;
1.7. A client financial institution that has received financial statements in electronic form in accordance with the law
failure to fulfill obligations;
1.8. The financial statements submitted by the customer to the financial institution in electronic form shall be submitted by the business entity
The executive management of the unit or organization or the chief accountant shall sign electronically
not certified;
1.9. To communicate based on the electronic financial statements certified by the client financial institution
the organization has not fulfilled its obligation to calculate taxes, fees and charges;
1.10. A business entity or organization responsible for complying with the standards specified in the law shall pay the first half of the year and
Annual financial statements in electronic form for the client financial institution within the period specified by law
not delivered;
1.11. A business entity or organization responsible for preparing consolidated financial statements shall submit annual consolidated financial statements
submit financial statements to the parent company's financial institution within the period specified by law
not submitted electronically;
1.12. On archiving and record keeping of accounting documents and financial statements
has not fulfilled its obligation to keep it for at least 10 years, unless otherwise provided by law;
/ This part was amended according to the law dated April 24, 2020 /
1.13. General design of primary accounting documents, methodology for compiling and managing
failure to comply with the initial internal documents and forms approved by the organization in accordance with its specifics;
1.14. The executive management and the accountant shall be responsible for the production and service stages and business activities
Each movement and change of assets and resources in the course of the operation shall be documented in the primary documents
and failed to comply with the obligation to make an electronic entry;
1.15. The primary document shall be signed by the employee who made, approved or inspected it.
stamp, / mark / for confirmation, electronic document with electronic signature
failure to fulfill the obligation to certify;
1.16.Registered works and transactions without primary documents and reflected in the financial statements;
1.17. Has not maintained accounting records and prepared financial statements;
1.18. Accounting has not been maintained by double entry method;
1.19. Accounting information processing has not been performed in the order specified by law,
or the items to be registered are not registered;
1.20. Regardless of the country of origin of the business activity or transaction, the relevant primary
Obligation to keep documents and registration forms together with other documents and registration forms in accordance with the law
not fulfilled;
1.21. The cause of the accounting error and the method of correction shall be specified
to make corrections based on the reflected facts and reports, the official who approved the correction and made the correction
Obligation to sign and certify and correct errors by including them in the financial statements in the event of an error
not fulfilled;
1.22. Additions to the financial statements required by the legal entity
explanations and clarifications were not provided in a timely and accurate manner;
1.23. Management in accordance with accounting legislation, standards, rules, procedures and instructions
failure to approve and follow accounting policy documents;
1.24. The person who maintains accounting records, prepares financial statements and reports shall be a professional,
or has not fulfilled his / her duties as a certified public accountant;
1.25. If the chief accountant fails to fulfill his / her duties specified in the law, the person shall be equal to four hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to four thousand units.
Article 11.19. Violation of the tax law
/ This article was amended according to the law dated March 22, 2019 /
1. If a person or legal entity fails to pay tax within the period specified by law, it shall be considered as overdue
shall be fined in togrogs equal to 0.1 percent of unpaid tax.
2. Taxpayers and legal entities:
2.1. To register as a taxpayer a person or legal entity obliged by law to pay or withhold taxes;
To open a personal file with the tax administration;
2.3. To submit tax reports to the tax administration within the period specified by law;
2.4. The owner or possessor of a taxable item other than income shall own the item or
to notify the tax administration within the period prescribed by law after the start of possession, to open a personal file, and to file a personal
to make changes in the case;
2.5. To maintain financial statements and records in accordance with the procedures set forth in the General Taxation Law;

2.6. Cash registers, printing equipment, printing toner that meet the requirements of Mongolian standards,
use payment paper and POS terminal machine;
One hundred persons who have not fulfilled their obligation to send payment receipts to the unified tax system fund
in togrogs equal to fifty units, for legal entities in the amount equal to one thousand five hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
3. Taxpayers and legal entities:
3.1. From the date of transfer of ownership rights to others through sale or gift of immovable property
to notify the relevant tax authority within the period specified by law;
3.2. After the change of information of the legal entity and changes in the personal file
to notify the tax administration within the period specified by law and to make changes in the registration and personal file;
3.3. The registration number issued by the tax administration shall be issued in accordance with the tax legislation
failure to reflect in reports, news, customs declarations, payment or other required documents
is equal to one hundred units for a person and one thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
4. Taxpayers and legal entities:
4.1. Incorrect address of permanent or temporary residence or place of business
defined;
4.2. Failed to appear when summoned by the tax administration without a valid reason;
4.3. Not to indicate where the taxpayer resides unless the court considers him / her missing
evaded payment of taxes, fines and penalties;
4.4. Certificates, copies of documents and bank transactions required for tax audit purposes
the statement was not submitted on time;
4.5. In case of obstruction of sealing of assets for the purpose of collecting tax debt, the tax shall be reimbursed
a person in the amount of four hundred units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of four thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
5. Sealed and pledged property of an authorized official of a tax authority:
5.1. Lost;
5.2. Arbitrarily transferred to others;
Damaged;
5.4. If sold without permission, the damage caused shall be compensated and the person shall be fined five hundred
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to five thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
6. Taxpayers and legal entities:
Prepare required accounting, balance sheet, tax information and related documents
not given;
6.2. Not allowed to enter the premises and warehouse;
6.3. The census has not been conducted;
6.4. If the work was not photographed, inspected, pledged or sealed;
a person in togrogs equal to one hundred units, a bank, non-bank financial institution, stock exchange,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
7. Taxpayers, legal entities, banks, non-bank financial institutions and stock exchanges:
7.1. To create conditions for uniform observance of tax legislation at the national level;
to comply with administrative normative acts issued in accordance with the law in connection with enforcement
not followed;
7.2. In the event that a taxpayer is fired or dismissed, the employer shall resign
Record the amount of tax deducted and where it was transferred within the period specified by law from the date of
failure to fulfill the obligation to return the receipt to the tax authority;
7.3.failure to fulfill its legal obligations on implementation of tax legislation;
7.4. Procedures established by law for compiling, maintaining and storing tax-related documents
In case of violation, a person shall be fined in the amount of four hundred units, bank, non-bank financial institution,
A stock exchange or legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to four thousand units.
8. Persons and legal entities selling goods, works and services:
2.1 percent of the amount of income earned during the previous reporting month, if payment receipt has not been issued;
8.2. If the payment receipt was issued in deviation from the sales price, it is the same as in the previous reporting month
shall be fined in togrogs equal to 20 percent of the value of income earned during the period.
8.3. It is not possible to determine the income earned during the previous reporting month specified in Articles 8.1 and 8.2 of this Law
if no payment receipt has been issued or a receipt has been issued that differs from the sale amount
a person in the amount of one thousand five hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of fifteen thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
9. The use of information from the Unified Tax Fund for purposes other than those specified in the law is a criminal offense
one thousand five hundred for damages and compensation for non-liability
in togrogs equal to one unit, and in the amount equal to fifteen thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
10. Failure to pay vehicle and self-propelled vehicle tax within the period specified by law
10 percent of the tax to be reimbursed and the person to be reimbursed
will be fined in togrogs.
11. Report on price transfers related to transactions between related parties
If the tax office is not paid on time, the tax shall be reimbursed:
11.1. Transactions made between related parties in each country in terms of reporting are total
4 percent of the amount;
11.2. In the case of a general price transition report or an internal price transition report
3 percent of the total amount of transactions between related parties;
11.3. Between the related parties in the annual report of the price transfer transaction
A fine equal to 2 percent of the total amount of the transaction shall be imposed.
12. A person who prepared a tax return or participated in the preparation of a tax return and signed it shall be deducted from the tax
The manager who knew about the unpaid budget, or should have known, deducted taxes from the budget
the manager in charge and the chief accountant in charge of payment shall perform their duties properly
In case of violation of this Article due to non-compliance, a person shall be fined four hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
13. Respect the information required by the tax administration for the purpose of information exchange
Failure to submit information without good reason, in violation of the law and the agreement, directly or indirectly other information
four hundred units for a person who has passed to a person, made a false statement, destroyed or changed the information
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to four thousand units.
Note: - The amount of the fine specified in paragraph 1 of this article shall not exceed 10 percent of the amount of tax payable
do not exceed.
-If the tax administration has extended the tax payment period and provided a discount, it is specified in paragraph 1 of this article
not considered overdue.
Article 11.20. Violation of the law on specialized tax consulting services
1.Certified tax advisor:
1.1.conducted activities prohibited by law;
1.2. A tax attorney working on the main staff of a tax accredited legal entity
the accountant has a second job in another organization other than research and training, or other
If a person has worked under a contract with a tax authorized legal entity, it shall be equal to two thousand units per person
will be fined in togrogs.
2. If a person provides consulting services without obtaining the rights and license specified in the law, three hundred persons shall be employed
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to three thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
3. It is illegal for a client to provide consulting services from a tax accredited legal entity
pressured to take action, or demanded instructions and instructions to follow;
or actions aimed at violating the principles of specialized tax advisory services provided by law
if the operation was carried out, a person shall be fined in the amount of four hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of four hundred units
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
4. A licensed or licensed association of specialized tax advisors
in respect of a revoked tax accredited legal entity, or authorized or authorized
if he / she fails to fulfill his / her obligation to disclose the name of the canceled tax advisor to the public from time to time
a person in the amount of two hundred units of togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of two thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
Explanation: - Concealment of taxable income, other than income, and tax evasion
participated in, or informed of, or used for personal gain, except as provided by law
The damage caused shall be reimbursed by the tax authorized legal entity.
-Failure of a tax accredited legal entity to implement the provisions of paragraph 3 of this article
A professional tax advisor shall not be liable for the occurrence.
- Liability arising from non-receipt of advice given by a tax accredited legal entity
a tax authorized legal entity shall not be liable.
- Compensation for damages caused to a person guilty of imposing a penalty in accordance with this law
shall not be a ground for dismissal.
Article 11.21. Violation of the Customs Law
1. Violation of the Customs Law:
1.1. The goods have not been written in the Customs declaration or have been written falsely;
Customs price, quantity of goods, Customs clearance procedure, type of goods, stamp, purpose
false declaration of classification or origin;
1.3. The shape and packaging of the goods have been changed or concealed from the Customs audit;
1.4. Customs documents have been replaced or amended;
1.5. Customs marking has been changed, changed or damaged and tax evasion has occurred
If an attempt is made to evade, the tax shall be reimbursed and the amount of tax reimbursed to the person or legal entity
A fine of 50 percent togrogs shall be imposed.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated March 22, 2019 /
2. Goods and means of transport used as concealment or outside the customs control
Goods related to the violation shall not be subject to criminal liability for smuggling goods across the border
equal to 30 percent of the amount of tax to be confiscated or recovered and reimbursed to individuals and legal entities
will be fined in togrogs.
3. In case of violation of the rules for using the customs information system, damages and compensation shall be paid
a person in the amount of one hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
4. Violation of the customs control zone regime is illegal for goods and means of transport across the customs border
if not related to the introduction, in the amount of fifty units for a person and five for a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units.
5. Goods under customs control are moved, loaded or unloaded without the permission of the customs
one hundred persons, if unloading or transshipment do not show signs of violation specified in paragraph 1 of this Article
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to one thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
6. Goods under customs control were issued without the permission of the customs and exported across the customs border
in case of damages and compensation in the amount of one thousand units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of ten thousand units togrogs.
7. Damage, alteration, destruction of customs markings or customs clearance
Unauthorized change of destination address may result in smuggling of goods
if not related, a person shall be paid two hundred units of togrogs and a legal entity two thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
8. Goods temporarily imported across the customs border without imposing customs or other taxes;
Damage and compensation for failure to return the vehicle within the specified time
for a person in the amount of four hundred units of togrogs and for a legal entity in the amount of four thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
9. False declaration of customs value for the purpose of illegal refund of customs duties and other taxes
for damages and compensation in the amount of four hundred units togrogs,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of four thousand units togrogs.
10. Improper disposal of goods covered by customs duties and other tax exemptions and exemptions
If spent or lost, the items used to commit the violation, the damage caused and compensation
Reimburse and reimburse taxes based on legislation, exchange rates and tariff rates
shall be fined in togrogs equal to 50 percent of the amount of tax paid.
11. Goods subject to tariff and non-tariff restrictions in the manner specified in paragraph 1 of this article
goods illegally imported or attempted to cross the customs border
confiscated or paid the price in the amount of one hundred units for a person and one for a legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
12. Violation of the procedure for declaring goods approved by the Central Customs Administration in accordance with Articles 1 and 11 of this Article
in the amount of two hundred units of togrogs, if there are no other elements of violation specified in paragraph
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of two thousand units togrogs.
13. A carrier who has violated his / her legal obligations shall be fined in the amount of seven hundred and fifty units
fine.
14. A customs broker or declarant has violated the customs legislation or specified in the legislation
In case of abuse of rights, a person shall be fined in the amount of three hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of three hundred units
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
15. In case of violation of the requirements of the customs clearance procedure provided by law, a person shall have two hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two thousand units.
16. Loss of goods and means of transport imported into the Customs Bonded Zone or by the Customs
If destroyed without permission, the person shall be entitled to compensation for damages and five hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
17. This article deals with the correction and falsification of documents related to customs clearance
In the absence of other violations, a person shall be fined in the amount of three hundred units and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
18. Information and reports specified in the customs legislation were incorrectly submitted or not submitted on time
is equal to three hundred units for a person and three thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
Note: - A registered customs officer who has repeatedly violated the provisions of paragraph 14 of this Article
the right shall be revoked and the violation shall be punished in accordance with the law.
- Deliberately equipping vehicles for the purpose of smuggling goods across the customs border;
If the vehicle is used as a concealment, such as changing its purpose, the vehicle may be confiscated or the price reduced
and centralized in the state budget.
-The “compensation” specified in this article is the law that was in force at the time of the violation
Taxes and fees specified in the legislation.
-Customs and other taxes specified in paragraph 18 of this article have not been paid on time
An interest rate of 0.3 percent shall be imposed for each day of delay based on the tax amount, and the amount of the interest shall be the same
shall not exceed 50 percent of the amount of tax to be reimbursed. The “interest” specified in this interpretation is in the Civil Code
does not apply to the specified "penalty".
/ The explanation of this article was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 11.22. Animals, plants, their raw materials and products across the state border
Violation of the law on quarantine control and inspection at the time of introduction
1. During quarantine inspections, animals, plants and their raw materials,
if the product is unloaded from a vehicle without the permission of the state inspector, forty people
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to four hundred units in legal entities
fine.

Page 8

2. Vehicles that have not been cleaned, disinfected or shipped, or animals,
When unpacking the packaging of plants and their raw materials and products
a person in the amount of one hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
3. The parcel service organization shall provide animals, plants, their raw materials,
Notify the veterinary and plant quarantine organization about the arrival of the package with the product,
If an examination is not conducted, a person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
4. The information contained in the certificate without import or export, or false, or other accompanying information
animals, plants, their raw materials and products that do not comply with the documents at the state border
one hundred persons prohibited from crossing the border if introduced or attempted to enter
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to one thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
5. When smuggling animals, plants, their raw materials and products across the state border,
legal entity animals, plants, raw materials, products, their railings, mats, packaging,
Quarantine inspections of vehicles at border crossings and inland customs control areas
if not, a person shall be fined one hundred units and a legal entity shall be paid one thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
6. Animals, plants, their raw materials and products:
6.1.importloh;
6.2.export;
6.3. Transit;
6.4. In case of non-fulfillment of obligations under the law on transportation, a person shall be fined one hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
7. Analyze and certify animals, plants, their raw materials and products,
the costs of their detention, treatment, cleaning, disinfection and disinfection
In case of evasion of responsibility, a person shall be fined one hundred and fifty units and a legal entity shall be fined one hundred and fifty units
shall be fined in the amount of one thousand five hundred units togrogs.
8. A person who has received a notice prohibiting entry across the state border in cases provided by law;
in the country of export of animals, plants, their raw materials and products prohibited by legal entities
If the obligation to return is not fulfilled, the received animals, plants, raw materials and products shall be destroyed.
for damages and compensation in the amount of two hundred units of togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of two thousand units togrogs.
Article 11.23. Violation of the law on promissory notes
1. Incomplete entry of promissory note composition, issuance of promissory note or payment specified in promissory note
agreed to pay in installments, or unreasonably refused to pay, or paid
the time limit for issuing the permit has expired, or the promissory note has been transferred to others without mutual consent
If a promissory note is transferred without a transfer note, a person shall be paid in the amount equal to three hundred units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units togrogs.
Article 11.24. Violation of the Law on Excise Tax Stamps
1. Violation of the Law on Excise Tax Stamps:
1.1. Supplied or imported or sold unmarked alcohol or tobacco,
or sold;
1.2. Has not fulfilled its obligation to sell the goods produced by stamping;
Accurately determine the amount of alcohol used in production and the amount of alcohol produced
has not fulfilled its obligation to determine and submit to the relevant tax or specialized inspection agency;
1.4. To accurately determine the quantity of imported alcohol and tobacco, to the relevant tax administration and related
failed to fulfill its obligations to the customs;
1.5. Excise tax mark shall not be affixed to imported alcohol and tobacco;
Business entities and organizations engaged in alcohol and tobacco production or import activities
if the mark obtained from the national tax administration has been transferred or sold to others, the mark shall be unmarked or forged
Confiscation of alcohol and tobacco with the mark, compensation for damages and damages, one thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to ten thousand units.
Article 11.25. Violation of the Investment Law
1. The goods, works and services provided by the Investor are national or
If it does not meet international standards, a person shall be fined two hundred units and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of two thousand units togrogs.
2. If the legal entity holding the stabilization certificate has not made the investment in accordance with the law
a person in the amount of four thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of forty thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
3. Compensation for damage caused by illegal documentation of the stabilization certificate
to pay a fee and deprive a person of certain rights in togrogs equal to two thousand five hundred units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of twenty five thousand units togrogs.
Article 11.26. Violation of the law on investment funds
1. A license issued by an authorized organization to conduct the activities of a regulated entity,
confiscation of illegally earned property and income, and compensation for damages caused by unauthorized registration
to pay a fee equal to five thousand units for a person and fifty thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
2. The investment fund's presentation shall contain incomplete, false and misleading information
introduced, or made false promises, or any without the consent of the competent authority in the presentation
a presentation that has not been amended or registered with the competent authority in violation of the law
introduced or advertised the securities or attracted funding
confiscation of illegally obtained assets and income if other types of information have been made public for the purpose of
for damages and compensation in the amount of eight thousand units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of eighty thousand togrogs.
3. Violation of the law:
3.1. Operating procedures of investment funds and investment management companies
violated;
3.2. Conducted prohibited activities;
3.3. Carried out the process of establishing a mutual investment fund or provided information to others,
or raised funds from others;
3.4. A mutual investment fund shall be open to the public in a regulated market specifically provided by law
invested in other types of investment instruments other than traded financial instruments;
3.5.The mutual investment fund used financial leverage or the price of securities
investment instruments included in the asset structure with the condition of benefiting from the reduction;
3.6. Conversibility of investment instruments invested by investment funds
Depending on the capabilities of the investment management company in the fund's rules and investment policy
to sell investment instruments to others before maturity and to raise cash
The formation of a specific plan before the expiration of the fund's operations
other investments with cash generated as a result of pre-performed operations
invested in instruments;
3.7. After the decision to liquidate the mutual investment fund is made, the fund's assets shall be transferred to the law
disposed of other than for sale in accordance with special provisions;
3.8. An investment fund registered abroad shall have shares in the territory of Mongolia,
the unit has sold its rights to the public;
3.9. The custodian shall be responsible for the investment management and custodian in the case of one investment fund
the service is provided simultaneously;
3.10. The investment management company is approved by the legislation and the competent authority
procedures, instructions, rules of the fund, rules of trust management of the fund's assets, investment
how the obligations specified in the policy document or under the agreement with the investment fund
The custodian who keeps the fund's assets under the contract is responsible for monitoring its implementation
in case of non-compliance, confiscate illegally earned assets and income, and pay damages and compensation
a person in the amount of five thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of fifty thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
4. If the information and notification specified in the law have not been provided to the relevant person in accordance with the relevant procedures, the law
confiscation of ill-gotten gains, damages and compensation for two thousand people
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to twenty thousand units in legal entities
fine.
5. An investment management company is involved in the management of the fund's assets
that the transaction was not made on its own behalf or that the trustee is exercising management
not notified or did not select an audit company and conclude a contract within the period specified in the liquidation law,
or non-compliance with the requirements, confiscation of illegally acquired property and income, and damage caused;
Compensation shall be paid in the amount of two thousand units for a person and twenty for a legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
6. Violation of the law:
6.1. Detailed or abbreviated designation of the investment fund has been used;
Issued derivative financial instruments based on the unit rights of the investment fund;
6.3. Investment, except as authorized and recognized by the competent authority
advertising related to the foundation;
6.4. Investment management agreement in accordance with the law or the fund's charter
a provision to reduce or release the duties and responsibilities of the company or the custodian
if specified, a person shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of thirty thousand
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
7. Deliberately failing to provide information necessary for the receiver to exercise his / her rights and obligations
In case of evasion, confiscate illegally earned property and income, and pay damages and compensation
a person in the amount of two thousand units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of twenty thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 11.27. Violation of the Law on Property Valuation
1. In case of interference in the activities of the appraiser conducting the appraisal of the property, the person shall be considered as two
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, in togrogs equal to two thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
2. Violation of the property valuation methodology:
2.1. The value of the property has been determined;
2.2. The appraisal was made knowing the conditions under which the property appraisal cannot be performed;
2.3. The information related to the client's confidentiality obtained during the appraisal shall be his / her own or
if it is used in the interests of a third party, damages and compensation shall be paid;
deprivation of the right to conduct business in the amount of one thousand units per person, legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of ten thousand units.
3. Confiscation of illegally obtained assets and income if the property was valued without a license
A person shall be fined in the amount of eight thousand units.
Article 11.28. Violation of the Law on Currency Regulation
1. A citizen of Mongolia, established in accordance with the laws of Mongolia and residing in Mongolia
the legal entity in which it is located, its branches and representative offices abroad to place assets abroad,
To register with the state central administrative body in charge of finance and budget when issuing loans and grants
in case of non-fulfillment of obligations, a person shall be fined in the amount equal to fifty units and a legal entity in the amount of five hundred
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
2. The person specified in paragraph 1 of this Article shall receive income in foreign currency in cash or non-cash payment
60 days from the date of receipt of the income by a commercial bank authorized by the Bank of Mongolia
in case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to sell or deposit within one hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units
3. Commercial bank:
3.1. To execute transactions that may affect the togrog exchange rate with the permission of the Bank of Mongolia;
3.2. To maintain the confidentiality and security of the client's foreign currency account;
3.3. To make foreign currency transactions at the customer's initial request and to pay interest on the balance of the asset
Failure to fulfill the obligation shall be punishable by a fine of two thousand togrogs.
4. The person specified in paragraph 1 of this Article and a temporary resident participating in currency relations shall be a foreigner
The Bank of Mongolia and its authorized bodies shall have the right to sell, buy, borrow and transfer foreign currency
one hundred units per person in case of non-fulfillment of obligations through a issued commercial bank
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
5. Failure to fulfill its obligation to register its foreign currency loan with the Bank of Mongolia
a person in the amount of one hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
6. Without the permission of the Bank of Mongolia or outside the scope of the issued permission:
6.1. To conduct non-cash foreign currency payment and settlement activities;
To buy and sell foreign currency in cash;
6.3. To open foreign currency account and make transactions in the name of permanent and temporary residents;
6.4. To conduct all types of assets and liabilities such as lending in foreign currency and issuing guarantees
In case of non-fulfillment of obligations, a person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
7. Procedures approved by the competent authority for late submission of foreign exchange trading information
Failure to do so will result in a fine of one hundred units for a person and one thousand units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
Article 11.29. Violation of the Law on Combating Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing
/ This article was amended according to the law dated April 26, 2018 /
1. According to the Law on Combating Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing:
1.1. To open an account or make a transaction under anonymous, numbered or false name;
To use a closed account;
1.3. Interacted with a cover bank;
1.4. In contact with a bank that has established relations with a cover bank;
1.5. A procedure prohibiting the continuation of a previously established relationship with a canopy bank
In case of violation, confiscate assets and income equal to the value of the infringing transaction
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to twenty thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Violation of the provisions of the law on determining the final owner

confiscation of assets and income equal to the amount of five thousand units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to fifty thousand units.
3. The person responsible for informing the client shall provide the client with official sources, documents,
the value of the conflicting transaction if the obligation to identify using data and information sources is not fulfilled
confiscation of property and income equal to one thousand five hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to fifteen thousand togrogs.
4. The person responsible for informing shall take measures to identify the customer specified in the law
If not implemented, the person shall be deprived of assets and income equal to the value of the conflicting transaction
in togrogs equal to one thousand five hundred units, for legal entities in the amount of fifteen thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
5. The person responsible for informing is required to identify the customer in accordance with the law
if any services were provided to a person or legal entity who refused to provide the information
confiscation of assets and income equal to the amount of three thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to thirty thousand units.
6. The person responsible for informing shall carry out activities to identify the customer in a simplified manner
Assets equal to the value of the infringing transaction, in case of violation of the relevant regulations;
confiscation of income in the amount of three thousand units for a person and thirty thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
7. Politically influential persons, money laundering and terrorist financing in accordance with the law
to combat money laundering and terrorist financing by international organizations with combat missions
individuals, legal entities, money laundering and terrorism in a country declared to have an inadequate control system
activities in sectors that are rated as high risk by the national risk assessment to combat financing
the person or legal entity operating is not treated as a high risk customer
with confiscation of assets and income equal to the value of the infringing transaction, three thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to 30 thousand units.
8. Transfers made, received and transmitted by a person responsible for informing shall be made by the transferor or receiver
the transfer was made, received, or did not contain the information specified in the law on the recipient
If transferred, the amount of assets and income equal to the value of the conflicting transaction shall be confiscated per person
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
9. Issued by the United Nations Security Council or by a relevant government agency
Violation of the law on the application of sanctions is not subject to criminal liability
twenty thousand units per person with confiscation of assets and income equal to the value of the conflicting transaction
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two hundred thousand units.
10. Violation of the law on confidentiality of information is a criminal offense
If it is not expected, to compensate the damage and compensation equal to five thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to fifty thousand units.
11. To ensure and monitor the implementation of the legal obligations of the reporting entity
to carry out activities specified in the law on obtaining documents, reports, information and explanations for the purpose
information that obstructs, does not comply with legal requirements, calls for non-compliance, or requires
Failure to do so in a timely manner and attempting to interfere shall not constitute a criminal offense
in case of damages and compensation in the amount of three thousand units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of thirty thousand units togrogs.
12. Identify the customer as a high-risk customer
review the elimination of deficiencies due to violations of detailed procedures
in case of non-compliance with the duties, tasks and requirements given by the inspector or state inspector
confiscation of assets and income equal to the value of the property and compensation for damages
a person in the amount of five thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of fifty thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
13. The person responsible for reporting specified in the law shall make foreign transfers, transfers and settlements
to obtain information in accordance with the law before establishing correspondent relations with a foreign bank for the purpose of
duties and tasks given by the inspector to eliminate the deficiencies due to non-fulfillment of his / her duties;
In case of non-compliance, the assets and income equal to the value of the infringing transaction shall be confiscated.
for damages and compensation in togrogs equal to five thousand units;
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of fifty thousand units togrogs.
14. The person responsible for informing is his / her money before introducing a new product or technology
risk assessment and risk mitigation measures that can be used to finance money laundering and terrorism
to eliminate the shortcomings due to non-fulfillment of its legal obligations to take effective measures
Damage caused in case of non-fulfillment of duties, tasks and requirements given by the inspector or state inspector,
Compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to one thousand units for a person and ten togrogs for a legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
15. Regular monitoring of information provided by law on identification of customers by the person responsible for informing
to eliminate the shortcomings due to non-fulfillment of the obligation to update the information every time a change is made
in case of non-compliance with the duties, instructions and requirements given by the inspector or state inspector
confiscation of assets and income equal to the value of the property and compensation for damages
a person in the amount of one thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
16. The person responsible for reporting as provided by law shall identify the customer as a third party
the inspector to eliminate the shortcomings due to the violation of the requirements in the case of
if the duties, tasks and requirements given by the state inspector are not fulfilled, the value of the transaction is inconsistent
confiscation of property and income in the amount equal to five thousand people for damages and compensation
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to fifty thousand units for legal entities
fine.
17. To eliminate the shortcomings due to violation of the rules on special control provided by law
the value of the conflicting transaction if the duties, tasks and requirements given by the inspector have not been fulfilled
confiscation of property and income equal to one thousand people for damages and compensation
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to ten thousand units for legal entities
fine.
18. Violation of the rules on internal control of the reporting entity specified in the law
duties, tasks and requirements given by the inspector and state inspector to eliminate the shortcomings
In case of non-compliance, assets and income equal to the value of the infringing transaction were confiscated and caused
damages and compensation in the amount of three thousand units per person, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of thirty thousand units togrogs.
19. The person responsible for informing is:
19.1. The internal control program has not been approved and registered;
19.2. If an unqualified official is appointed, damages and compensation shall be paid
for a person in the amount of five hundred units of togrogs and for a legal entity in the amount of five thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
20. Reporting transactions, information about suspicious transactions, sealing assets,
in case of non-fulfillment of other obligations specified in the law related to suspension, the value of the conflicting transaction
confiscation of property and income equal to the amount of, and compensation for damages and compensation
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to fifty thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
21. Identify customers specified in the law, conduct special monitoring and inform about transactions,
If a person fails to fulfill his / her obligation to keep documents about the customer, he / she shall be fined
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
22. To the Customs:
22.1. Avoided making an accurate statement;
Refusal to submit an accurate statement;
22.3. If false, equal to the value of the infringing payment instrument or currency
the amount of assets and income confiscated from a person or legal entity in violation of a payment instrument or currency
shall be fined in togrogs equal to 15 percent of the value.
Article 11.30. Violation of the law on making payments in national currency
1. Cash deposits, loans and any equivalent of a bank or non-bank financial institution
Contracts to be concluded in connection with services and derivative financial instruments, and obligations under them to foreign
Except as expressed in foreign currency and the performance is secured in foreign currency:
1.1. The price of goods, works and services in the territory of Mongolia only in the national currency
failure to fulfill its obligation to express and make payments;
1.2. The price is set in foreign currency or unit of account without the official permission of the Bank of Mongolia, or
Assets and income earned from the activity if the settlement has been made or advertised
confiscated a person in the amount of four thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of forty thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
2. A licensed legal entity has been asked by the competent authority to eliminate the violation
Failure to comply with the requirements deprives the legal entity of forty thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
Article 11.31. Violation of the Law on Credit Information
1. If information prohibited by the Law on Credit Information is included in the credit information, one person shall be considered
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Information of information providers and legal entities providing credit information services
In case of violation of the requirements of the law on collection and supply, a person shall be equal to two thousand five hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to twenty five thousand units togrogs.
3. Borrowers, information providers and credit information service providers shall provide credit information
Deliberate misrepresentation, misrepresentation, misrepresentation or misrepresentation shall not be subject to criminal liability
is equal to two thousand units for a person and twenty thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
4. Violation or illegal use of credit information is a criminal offense
If not, a person shall be fined two thousand five hundred units and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of twenty five thousand units.
5. Harm to others due to failure to protect the confidentiality and security of credit information
in the amount of two thousand five hundred units, if a person is not subject to criminal liability;
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of twenty five thousand units togrogs.
Article 11.32. Violation of the Law on National Payment System
/ This article was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
1. If he / she has engaged in activities prohibited by the Law on National Payment System
to deprive a person of the right to conduct professional activities in togrogs equal to twenty thousand units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of two hundred thousand units togrogs.
2. Law on National Payment System, administrative normative acts issued in accordance with it,
or the decision of the person authorized by law to implement them has not been complied with
a person in the amount of ten thousand units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of one hundred thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
3. Obstacles to the continuous and reliable operation of the system specified in the Law on National Payment Systems
if caused to a person in the amount of ten thousand units, to a legal entity in the amount of one hundred thousand
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
4. Obstructing the monitoring and inspection of the national payment system and its activities
if caused to a person in the amount of ten thousand units, to a legal entity in the amount of one hundred thousand
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
5. Concealment of payment and settlement documents or delay of payment
a person in the amount of ten thousand units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of one hundred thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
6. Reports, information and documents shall be submitted to the Bank of Mongolia in accordance with the law and administrative norms in accordance with them
If it is not issued in accordance with the act, a person shall be fined in the amount of ten thousand units
A person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred thousand units.
7. Permission if the requirements set by the Law on National Payment System are not met
A holder shall be fined in the amount of one hundred thousand units togrogs.
8. If a report containing false, false or misleading information is published, one hundred legal entities shall be fined
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
9. If a report containing false, misleading or misleading information is confirmed, a person shall be fined ten thousand
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
10. Payment service provider, operator, person related to providing payment service,
advertisement with false, false or misleading information about the contractor's activities
If an advertisement is distributed, a legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one hundred thousand units togrogs.
11. If the right to distribute advertisements specified in paragraph 10 of this Article is granted, a person shall be fined ten thousand
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.

CHAPTER TWELVE
VIOLATION OF CONSTRUCTION, INDUSTRY AND ENERGY REGULATIONS
Article 12.1. Violation of the construction law
1. As stated in the Law on Construction:
1.1. Norms and standards of construction that are mandatory or selective for construction activities
non-compliance with the document;
1.2. The state in charge of construction shall submit construction norms and normative documents
published without the permission of the central administrative body;
1.3. The customer and the contractor shall choose the boundaries and size of the land allocated for the construction of the facility
deliberately changed;
1.4. Facilities to be financed from the state and local budgets and foreign loans and grants
Budget estimates have not been prepared by qualified budgeters;
1.5. Construction work was performed without design;
1.6. International or national in the construction, renovation, expansion and repair of buildings and structures
materials and products that do not meet the requirements of the standard or do not have a certificate of origin or conformity,
wood was used in the construction of items and building formwork;
State administrative center in charge of construction matters for citizens and legal entities providing consulting services
not registered in the unified registration of the organization;
1.8. A legal entity licensed to produce construction materials shall perform the functions specified in the law
not implemented;
1.9. The owner or possessor shall cause damage to the building or structure by the relevant professional organization
without permission to change the basic design, structure, planning and purpose, or in the building
adversely affecting the environment, human life and health and disrupting normal use
engaged in potentially prohibited activities;
1.10. Electricity, heat, hot and cold water required during the construction work
Provides temporary and non-permanent facilities for electricity, communications, heating,
hot and cold water supply;
1.11. If he / she has been operating in a building or structure for which a certificate has not been issued or has not been completed
damages and compensation in the amount of five hundred units of togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of five thousand units togrogs.
2. Business entities and organizations:
2.1. Construction permit specified in the law has not been obtained;
2.2. The design of the building to be certified as specified in the law has not been approved;
2.3. With the construction work permit issued in case of rejection of the design probability
If the construction work is started, the damage caused shall be compensated and the person shall be paid one thousand units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to ten thousand units.
3. The size of the construction site of the building specified in the project during the construction work,
arbitrarily altered boundaries, designs, architectural drawings, and construction materials
in case of damages and compensation in the amount of one thousand units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of ten thousand units togrogs.
4. Not licensed for construction activities or in the general fund of the construction sector
If the person is engaged in unregistered construction activities, the person shall be compensated for the damage caused
in togrogs equal to five hundred units, for legal entities in the amount equal to five thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
5. The client of construction work is specified in the law:
5.1. The requirements for construction have not been met;
5.2. Has not fulfilled his / her duties;
5.3. In case of violation of the protection regime of the building, damages and compensation shall be paid
for a person in the amount of five hundred units of togrogs and for a legal entity in the amount of five thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
6. The designer is required by law:
6.1. The requirements for construction design are not met;
6.2. The requirements for construction have not been met;
6.3. Has not fulfilled his / her duties;
6.4. Damage caused in case of violation of the procedure for not approving the design;
Compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to five hundred units for a person and five togrogs for a legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
7. Construction contractor:
7.1. Employees working at the construction site are not covered by life insurance;
7.2. The requirements for construction have not been met;
7.3. The requirements for the construction site are not met;
7.4. If the person fails to perform his / her duties, he / she shall be compensated for the damage caused and shall be fined five hundred
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to five thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
8. If the user or possessor of the construction did not fulfill his / her obligations specified in the law
damages and compensation in the amount of four hundred units of togrogs for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of four thousand units.
9. Foreign citizens and legal entities working in the construction sector shall:
9.1. Lawyer with professional experience in applying for participation in construction activities
to obtain a work permit in accordance with the legislation;
To obtain a license specified in the law when conducting construction activities;
9.3. Unless otherwise provided by the legislation of Mongolia, state and local budgets and foreign loans
Construction activities to be financed by aid shall be authorized by the law of Mongolia
to conclude and operate an agreement with a legal entity;
9.4. A special permit issued by the competent authority of the country for the application for a license specified in the law
attach a permit certificate;
9.5. In case of violation of the registration procedure for construction activities in accordance with the law
damages and compensation to a foreign citizen in the amount of five hundred units
A foreign legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
Article 12.2. Violation of the Law on Geodesy and Cartography
1. Different scales, maps of all categories, geodetic measurements and verification:
1.1. Not conformed to the integrated system of coordinates and heights or not made;
1.2. If it was not performed in accordance with the requirements of accuracy, standards, norms and rules
damages and compensation in the amount of three hundred units of togrogs for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units.
2. The use of large-scale maps is not a criminal offense
in togrogs equal to three hundred units, for legal entities in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
3. In the production and service of geodesy and cartography:
3.1. Has not obtained a license to engage in geodetic and cartographic production and services;
3.2. The measuring instrument has not been certified;
3.3. With project funds implemented by state and local budgets and state organizations
work report, source material, coordinate list (catalog), diagrams, records, other figures
If the information is not transferred to the central database free of charge, damages and compensation shall be paid
a person in the amount of five hundred units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of five thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
4. Conditions for the destruction or damage of geodetic or cartographic permanent points and markings, or for measurements
tampered with, or failed to take protective measures, or moved without proper permission, or
resettlement or damage to land, buildings, structures and other objects during construction
if the damage is compensated in togrogs equal to five hundred units,
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
5. Permanent geodetic point and sign shall be placed by the soum or district government where the point and sign is located
to the head or, in the case of a border strip, to the management of a special unit under the General Agency for Border Protection
Failure to do so shall result in damages and compensation in the amount of twenty units of togrogs.
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of two hundred units togrogs.
6. Citizens and legal entities have not made maps of buildings and structures built for their own use.
or the map is not included in the unified geodetic and cartographic database free of charge
Damage and compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to twenty units to a person, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of two hundred units togrogs.
7. Owners and possessors of land and buildings where permanent geodetic points and signs are located,
Compensation for damage caused if the user does not create conditions for unimpeded geodetic activities
to pay a fee equal to twenty units for a person and two hundred units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
Article 12.3. Violation of the Law on Cadastre Mapping and Land Cadastre
1. According to the law:
1.1. Conducted land cadastral activities without a relevant permit or land cadastre
corrections to relevant materials;
1.2. Incorrect registration of the unified land fund or state registration of land;
1.3. Made arbitrary changes to the land cadastre database or copied them to others
If the transfer is not subject to criminal liability, damages and compensation shall be paid
a person in the amount of three hundred units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Land cadastre and cadastral mapping activities:
Caused an obstacle;
Interference;
2.3. If a person fails to participate in accordance with his / her obligations, he / she shall be entitled to three hundred units of togrogs
A person shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units togrogs.
3. Individuals and legal entities:
3.1. For the protection of the signs marking the border turning points of their estates on the spot
failure to take responsibility for integrity;
3.2. Geodetic points, signs and land boundary markers on the land owned and used;
damage, or destruction, or unauthorized relocation
equivalent to three hundred units per person if the points are moved, relocated or destroyed
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
4. Estate and unit area:
Arbitrary change of size and location;
4.2. If the boundary marker is moved, damaged or destroyed, thirty persons shall be killed.
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to three hundred units in legal entities
fine.
5. Violation of the law on cadastral mapping coordinate system, scale and accuracy,
cadastral maps of all categories in the applicable coordinates, height system, scale and accuracy
Failure to do so shall result in damages and compensation in the amount of twenty units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two hundred units.
Article 12.4. Violation of the Housing Law
1. Housing planning, basic building structure, design and engineering network without permission
If the original design is changed, the violation is eliminated and three hundred people in accordance with the original design
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to three thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. Misappropriation of land, surrounding roads and areas, or roads and squares
If the movement is blocked, a person shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units and a legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
3. Damage caused in case of violation of the rules of apartment use due to water loss or power outage,
Compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to one hundred and fifty units for a person and one for a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of one thousand five hundred units togrogs.
4. Building planning, hygiene and safety norms in public apartment buildings
in the amount of three hundred units per person engaged in production or services that are violated or prohibited
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
5. Illegally acquired assets and income if an apartment is built without a permit in a center or settlement
confiscation, compensation for damages and damages in the amount of four hundred units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of four thousand units togrogs.
6.Empartmental engineering network, substation, water and heat transmission center, etc.
Compensation for damages caused if the cost of the service area is included in the cost of housing
to pay a fee equal to four hundred units to a person and four thousand to a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
7. A contracted professional organization shall provide services such as water, heat and electricity to residents
If the financial statements related to payments and fees are not reported to the residents annually, the law shall apply
A person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred and fifty units togrogs.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Article 12.5. Violation of the Law on Urban Development
1. As stated in the Law on Urban Development:
Fire between apartments, public buildings, factories and ancillary industrial facilities
calculate the separation distance;
Not less than 30 percent of the total area included in the construction plan
to have gardens, green areas and parking lots;
1.3. The design of the building shall include the approved general development plan of the city or village,
be consistent with the decisions of the partial master plan, the size and purpose of the allocated land;
1.4. The law stipulates that the construction area shall not exceed 70 percent of the land in violation of the law
one thousand units per person for confiscation of non-earned property and income, compensation for damages and compensation
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to ten thousand units.
2. According to the Law on Urban Development:
Requirements for territorial zoning;
2.2. Procedures for creating infrastructure for persons with disabilities;
2.3.Regulations restricting urban development activities;
Procedures for openness of urban development cadastre information;
2.5. Illegally obtained in case of violation of the rules prohibiting the implementation of urban development activities
confiscation of property and income, compensation for damages and compensation equal to one thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to ten thousand units.
3. In developing urban development documents:
3.1 business entity or organization without a license or not selected through a tender
developed;
3.2.Norms, rules and regulations approved by the state central administrative body in charge of urban development
not followed;
Requirements for buildings and structures, their infrastructure supply, green facilities,
hygiene, ecology and fire safety are not included;
3.4. The client of the urban development document shall be the law related to the urban development document
Illegal if the state expert opinion has not been issued in accordance with the legislation, norms, rules and regulations
The confiscated property and income shall be confiscated and the person shall be compensated for the damage and compensation caused
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to eight thousand units.
4. Obligations of business entities, organizations and citizens to implement urban development activities
in case of non-compliance, confiscate illegally earned assets and income, and pay damages and compensation
a person in the amount of one thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 12.6. Violation of the Law on Urban Redevelopment
1. The project after the decision of the Citizens' Representatives Khural on the implementation of the project
engineering preparation for the selected site or according to a partial master plan,
in areas where engineering, social infrastructure and public buildings are planned to be built:
1.1. To build new buildings and structures;
1.2. The right to own, possess or use land has been granted or transferred;
1.3. Arbitrary expansion and renovation of buildings and structures;
1.4. Transfer of rights to others;
Leased;
1.6. In case of relocation, confiscation of illegally earned property and income, damages and compensation
payment in the amount of one thousand units for a person and ten thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
2. In case of non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of contractual obligations, a person shall have one thousand units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to ten thousand units.
3. Land not vacated or land in the area selected for the urban redevelopment project
In case of obstruction of the release process, a person shall be fined in the amount of one thousand units
A person shall be fined in the amount of ten thousand units togrogs.
Article 12.7. Violation of the Law on Addressing
1. To establish or address standards for addressing streets, roads, squares and immovable property
In case of violation of the regulation, confiscated illegally earned assets and income shall be confiscated and damages and compensation shall be paid
a person in the amount of one hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.

Article 12.8. Violation of the Energy Law
1. Violating the provisions of the Energy Law:
1.1. Engaged in activities without a license;
1.2. The license has been transferred to others;
Page 9

1.3. Operated under the license of others;
1.4. If energy has been sold at prices other than those approved by the competent authority
confiscation of sales revenue in togrogs equal to two hundred and fifty units for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of two thousand five hundred units togrogs.
2. One hundred persons shall be fined if they fail to fulfill their obligations under the Energy Law or the contract
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to one thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
3. Restricting consumer rights by imposing conditions and requirements not specified in laws, contracts and licenses,
or if the supply and consumption of energy is suspended on grounds other than those provided by law
one hundred units in togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
4. Violating the provisions of the Energy Law:
4.1. Arbitrary energy meters, meters, their parts, seals, location and connections
altered or disrupted;
4.2. Used energy without permission;
4.3. Violation of the rules for protection of networks and use of electricity and heat;
4.4.If illegally allocated land in the protection zone, the price of illegally used energy, damage caused,
Compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to fifty units for a person and five hundred togrogs for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
5. Licensing conditions and requirements, obligations specified in the law, integrated network, central heating
supply rules, installation and maintenance of power facilities and equipment, safety
Violation of operational norms, standards, rules and regulations, resolutions of the Energy Regulatory Commission, or
caused an industrial accident, caused property damage or caused technical damage
if the damage is compensated to the person in the amount of five hundred units togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of five thousand units togrogs.
6. In violation of the Energy Law, within the protection zone of the network:
6.1. Built houses, apartments and buildings;
6.2. If the network has carried out activities other than those approved by the owner or possessor
Compensation for damages caused by stopping, demolishing buildings and taking measures to vacate the strip
Payment shall be made in togrogs equal to fifty units for a person and five hundred units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Note: The customer complies with the technical specifications issued by the competent authority
Damage to the energy distribution and supply organization due to disconnection or arbitrary increase of capacity
In case of non-compliance with the requirements for compensation for damages caused by the energy of the consumer
suspend use.
Article 12.9. Violation of the law on energy saving
/ The title of this article was amended by the law dated January 10, 2020 /
1. If an obligated consumer fails to fulfill his / her legal obligations, he / she shall have three hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 12.10. Means illegally connected to public engineering facilities
Violation of the rules of application
1. Illegal use of public engineering facilities, or
In case of violation of the relevant rules and regulations, the person shall be compensated for the damage caused by five hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
Article 12.11. Violation of the Law on Nuclear Energy
1. Safety requirements related to nuclear and radiation safety
In case of violation, the activity is suspended until the violation is eliminated and the person is fined three hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. Licenses for the use of radioactive minerals, radiation generators and nuclear energy
Illegally earned assets, income, produced if the activity was carried out in violation of the provisions
confiscated products in togrogs equal to one thousand units per person and ten togrogs for legal entities
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
3. Illegally acquired property, if the accident or violation has not been reported in accordance with the relevant procedures,
confiscation of income and products produced in togrogs equal to one thousand units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of ten thousand units togrogs.
4. Failure to provide required information or reports, or false information, or radiation
if the employee is not covered by the individual dose control of the professional beach until the violation is eliminated
suspended in the amount of three hundred units for a person and three thousand units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
5. Within the period set by the state administrative body to receive the radiation generator
If not registered, a person shall be fined five hundred units and a legal entity five
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
6. If the type of radiation generator is changed, the person shall be given five hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
7. If the license has not been renewed in accordance with the relevant regulations, the person shall be fined five hundred
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to five thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
8. Deliberate destruction of samples, specimens and raw materials taken from the exploration area
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, in togrogs equal to five thousand units in legal entities
fine.
9. The license holder shall:
9.1. Concealment of the amount of radioactive minerals extracted;
9.2. Concluded a false contract for the purpose of concealment;
9.3. If the sales revenue is intentionally reduced, the radioactive minerals extracted
The difference between the size and the sale price shall be reimbursed to the state revenue equal to one thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to ten thousand units.
Article 12.12. Violation of the Renewable Energy Law
/ This article was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
1. A transmitter is a transmission of electricity supplied by a generator
connection and expansion of the network distribution facility in accordance with the technical requirements and its costs
in case of non-fulfillment of the obligation, the transferor shall be fined in the amount of two hundred and fifty units
fine.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN
VIOLATIONS OF AGRICULTURAL AND AGRICULTURAL PROCEDURES
Article 13.1. Violation of the Law on Agriculture
1. A steppe land for agricultural purposes without the permission of the relevant organization specified in the law
if possessed or used, the person or legal entity that plowed the steppe shall rehabilitate the land;
for one hectare of plowed land in the amount of one hundred units for a person and one thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
2. Irrigated areas in accordance with the relevant technology for the first time to put arable and fallow lands into circulation
land for grain production, except for processing or fallow
If reversible plowing techniques and technologies are used, the person or legal entity that plowed the land shall compensate the land
for each hectare rehabilitated and plowed in the amount of fifty units for a person and five for a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units.
3. Crop producer:
3.1. Soums, when all or part of the arable land is not used for two years,
not officially notified to the district governor;
3.2. Quarantine diseases, pests, rodents and weeds were detected in the agricultural land
in case of failure to notify the professional organization within 5 working days or take necessary measures
if not, a person shall be equal to one hundred units and a legal entity shall be equal to one thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
4. In case of abandonment of arable land, one hundred people shall be compensated for the damage caused
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to one thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
5. Caused if prohibited activities were carried out in the area of ​agricultural production
damages and compensation in the amount of one hundred units per person and one legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
6. 500 meters outside the edge of the field:
Livestock grazing;
Scattered;
6.3. Damage caused by pasture wintering, spring, summer and autumn grazing,
compensation in the amount of twenty units for a person and two hundred for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
7. Accredited laboratory of the soum found violations during agrochemical and agrophysical analysis
unless notified to the land officer, agricultural specialist or district land office
damages and compensation in the amount of forty units of togrogs
A person shall be fined in the amount of four hundred units togrogs.
8. Agrochemical and agrophysical analysis shall be conducted every five years by the owner or user of the farmland
If it is not done with funds, a person shall be paid four hundred units of togrogs and a legal entity shall be paid four
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
Article 13.2. Violation of the law on seeds and varieties of cultivated plants
1. Violation of the law:
Seeds and varieties of cultivated plants are not included in the control specified by law;
1.2. If seeds were sold, imported or supplied that did not meet the state quality standards.
a person in the amount of one hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 13.3. Violation of the law on seed insurance
1. The insurer shall pay compensation equal to 80 percent of the value of the seed insurance
the damages have not been paid or are not paid within 21 days from the date of the conclusion
if it is avoided, the damage is not reimbursed or incomplete on a daily basis
shall be fined in togrogs equal to 0.1 percent of the disbursement fee.
2. 20 percent of the total area of ​crops not irrigated in a given year, irrigated crops,
or if 10 percent of the total area of ​unirrigated crops in the western region is not insured
The fee shall be reimbursed in togrogs equal to twenty units for a person and two hundred togrogs for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
Article 13.4. Violation of the Law on Livestock Genetic Resources
/ This article was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
1. Accreditation to provide professional services, degree, livestock breeding, technological work,
If the service is performed, the violation shall be eliminated and the legal entity shall be fined in the amount equal to five thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Herders, persons with livestock and legal entities shall:
2.1. Nuclear herd and breeding animals are not included in the inspection and classification during the technological period, they are productive
quality has not been assessed and certified;
2.2. Seeds and embryos were not used under the supervision of livestock breeding, technological work and service units
If the violation is eliminated, a person shall be fined one hundred units and a legal entity shall be fined one thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
3. Herders, persons with livestock and legal entities shall:
3.1. Animals of other breeds or standards without the permission of the authorized professional organization
non-compliant inseminators were used as enhancers;
3.2. If a breeder of a different breed or strain has been used than is permitted to breed in the given region
a person in the amount of three hundred units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
4. Herders, persons with livestock and legal entities shall differentiate livestock by unique personal numbers
in case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to register and register the person in the amount equal to fifty units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five hundred units.
5. Creation of new breeds and strains of animals, production of seeds, ovaries and embryos without special permission,
five hundred units per person if engaged in service introduction and microbial culture activities
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
6. The license holder shall:
Violation of the type and quantity of livestock and breeding products to be imported in a given year;
6.2. When exporting livestock breeding products abroad, each of these types, species and series
If the same copy of the sample is not placed in the national gene pool of the animal, it is equivalent to three hundred human units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
7. Livestock breeding, technological work and service providers are:
7.1. Traditional knowledge related to livestock and livestock genetic resources has not been registered;
7.2. Assessment of pedigree, pedigree, fertility, appearance, shape, body and offspring quality
not done;
7.3. During the technological period, breeding animals shall be inspected, classified and selected, and young animals shall be bred
selection, no core herd;
7.4. Isolation of inseminators of small animals and, if necessary, large animals from the herd, livestock breeding,
Damage caused by non-fulfillment of legal obligations to provide technological services;
Compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to one hundred units for a person and one thousand togrogs for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
Article 13.5. Violation of regulations on livestock, meat production, trade and services
1. Violation of the rules for livestock, meat production, trade and services:
1.1. Livestock and meat collected for the purpose of livestock and meat preparation without a certificate of origin, or livestock and meat
transported and sold;
/ This clause was amended according to the law dated January 16, 2020 /
If livestock and meat are prepared in a place other than a specially prepared central point, one person shall have one hundred and fifty units
in togrogs equal to one thousand togrogs for a legal entity
fine.
Article 13.6. Violation of the Law on Agricultural Commodity Exchange
1. Goods and raw materials were sold using the name of the exchange in over-the-counter trade
If one hundred people are deprived of their ill-gotten gains and income, and damages and compensation are paid
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to one thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
2. Violation of regulations prohibited by law on the activities of stock exchanges and exchange employees
confiscation of illegally earned assets and income, compensation for damages and activities
A permit shall be revoked and a person shall be fined in the amount of three hundred units togrogs.
3. Accurately report the quality and quantity of goods and raw materials traded on the exchange,
If the damage was caused due to non-registration, the illegally acquired property and income shall be confiscated and the damage caused shall be
Compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to three hundred units for a person and three togrogs for a legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
4. Compensation for damages caused by violation of the law by a participant in exchange trading
to pay a fee, revoke the consent of the bidder and equal the person to two thousand units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to twenty thousand units.
5. Goods and raw materials included in the list of goods and raw materials to be traded on the exchange shall be exported through the exchange
In case of violation of the requirement to be traded, illegally acquired assets and income shall be confiscated and damages shall be compensated
to pay a fee equal to three hundred units for a person and three thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
Article 13.7. Violation of the law on GMOs
1. Certain activities in case of violation of the rules established by the Law on GMOs
one hundred persons shall be deprived of the right to conduct for a period of three months and shall be compensated for the damage caused
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to one thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
Article 13.8. Violation of the Law on Index-Based Livestock Insurance
1. Indexed livestock insurance activities have been carried out without concluding a reinsurance contract
damages and compensation in the amount of one thousand units in togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of ten thousand units togrogs.
2. Damage caused in case of incomplete or unreasonable refusal to pay compensation,
Compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to five hundred units for a person and five togrogs for a legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
3. Compensation for damages incurred in violation of the relevant regulations
payment in the amount of one thousand units for a person and ten thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
4.3 if the funds of the reinsurance company were spent in violation of the relevant regulations
damages and compensation in the amount of two thousand units for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of twenty thousand units.
Article 13.9. Violation of the Law on Animal Health
/ This article was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
1. Livestock in an environment that does not meet veterinary, sanitary and hygienic requirements for public use
If killed, the violation shall be remedied and the person shall be fined in the amount of two hundred units and the legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of two thousand units togrogs.
2. Dissemination of diseases and food of animal origin due to violation of veterinary regulations and instructions
and conditions for the safety of non-food raw materials and products, and for the torture of animals
If the situation arises, a person shall be fined fifty units and a legal entity five hundred units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
3. Herders, animal breeders, and livestock owners are required to provide immunizations, samples, and livestock.
The animal is taken in case of signs of infectious disease and death for unknown reasons
If a person fails to fulfill his / her legal obligations, he / she shall be compensated for the damage caused
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, and in the amount of one thousand units for legal entities
will be fined in togrogs.
4. Herders, animal breeders, livestock and animal owners are drugs that are not registered in the state veterinary veterinary registry
if used, it shall be equal to fifty units for a person and five hundred units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
5. Veterinary service unit is:
5.1. Immediate medical examination of all livestock of the khot ail and intensive farm where the disease is suspected shall be carried out.
Animals that have not been initially diagnosed or suspected of having an infectious disease should be monitored with special markings
not received;
5.2. In order to confirm the initial diagnosis, samples shall be taken in accordance with relevant procedures and instructions specified in the law
If not delivered to the veterinary department within the specified period, the legal entity shall be fined five hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
6. Veterinary service unit is:
6.1. Measures to prevent infectious, highly contagious and parasitic animal diseases in violation of the law
the amount was not implemented on time;
6.2. By a person without a power of attorney to provide professional services and by a technical worker without a professional license
If the veterinary service has been performed, the legal entity shall be compensated for the damage caused
shall be fined in the amount of two thousand units togrogs.
7. Persons not authorized to provide professional services, technical staff without professional license livestock
If a person is engaged in medical services, he / she shall be entitled to compensation for damages and two hundred units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
8. Aimag, capital city, soum and district laboratories are:
Safety indicators of food and non-food raw materials and products of animal origin
not done in accordance with the methodology specified in the standard;
8.2. If the certificate of probation was issued without examination, the legal entity shall be fined one thousand
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN
INFORMATION, COMMUNICATION, TRANSPORTATION AND USE OF VEHICLES,
VIOLATION OF TRAFFIC SAFETY RULES
Article 14.1. Violation of the Law on Communications
1. Any signs, poles and protective devices placed along communication lines and networks
one hundred units if a person has been dropped, broken, or destroyed, or their inscriptions removed
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
2. Garbage in cable drawers, wells, ducts, mailboxes, or other contaminants
is equal to one hundred units for a person and one thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
3. In the communication protection zone:
3.1. Conducted prohibited activities;
3.2. If the work was performed without prior permission, in the amount equal to fifty units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five hundred units.
4. Communication equipment:
To update;
4.2. Expansion;
The Communications Regulatory Commission on changing or suspending the purpose of the service,
if the consumer has not been notified in advance, the person shall be fined in the amount equal to thirty units and the legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of three hundred units togrogs.
/ This part was repealed by the law in 5 May 2019 /
5. Operation, service, production standards, technical and technological conditions of communication,
In case of violation of the procedure, the damage caused shall be compensated in the amount equal to one hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
6. Damage or loss of communication equipment placed on public land
In case of damage, compensation for damages in the amount of one hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
7. Exploration, design and construction of buildings, engineering lines and networks
When constructing facilities and networks, the communication lines and networks included in their area shall be appropriate
interrupted or transported without permission, or as a result, the network / communication cable,
overhead lines, consumer cable boxes, cupboards, input wires, transformers, ducts,
Damage and compensation in case of damage or decommissioning of mailboxes, etc.
to be paid in the amount of thirty units for a person and three hundred units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
8. Connect to a communication network without a license and establish a communication network
used, or in charge of, or unlicensed communication lines and network equipment
If the device is used, the person who stopped the operation and compensated for the damage caused
in togrogs equal to thirty units, in legal entities in the amount of three hundred units togrogs
fine.
9. Servant:
9.1. If the equipment certified in accordance with the law has not been used, the consumer shall be registered
not registered by number and not served to other service providers on the same terms;
/ This provision was amended according to the law dated May 30, 2019 /
9.2. Renovation and expansion of communication equipment, change of service purpose, temporary
the termination was not notified in advance by the Communications Regulatory Commission or the consumer;
9.3. If the communication service has been stopped except for the cases specified in the legislation
damages and compensation in the amount of thirty units of togrogs for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of three hundred units togrogs.
10. Public service communication network does not meet normal working conditions, public
to place the service communication network and work on the communication equipment
in case of obstruction, a person shall be fined in the amount of thirty units and a legal entity in the amount of three hundred units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
/ This section was added by the law in 5 May 2019 /
11. One hundred units per person for violating the terms and conditions of the domain name service
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
/ This section was added by the law in 5 May 2019 /
12. If a domestic communication network is used by others for profit, one person shall be considered
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, in togrogs equal to one thousand units in legal entities
fine.
/ This section was added by the law in 5 May 2019 /
Article 14.2. Violation of the Law on Radio Waves
1.Radio equipment:
1.1. Without a license;
1.2. Has not received a certificate;
1.3. If a person is employed without registration, in the amount of fifty units of togrogs, according to the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
2. Operation of radio equipment for purposes other than those specified in the license or certificate
location, scope, capacity, technical specifications changed or not registered,
or concealed in togrogs equal to fifty units for a person and five hundred togrogs for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
3. Unauthorized alteration of the radio frequency band or violation of the contract, conditions and requirements
a person in the amount of fifty units of togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of five hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
4. Worked or interacted in a frequency band allocated for special use
in case of causing damage to a person in the amount of fifty units togrogs, to a legal entity in the amount of five hundred togrogs
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
5. In the operation of other radio communications or radio equipment users:
5.1. Caused mutual influence;
5.2. Loss of normal operation;
5.3. If an uncertified device is used, a person shall be paid in the amount equal to fifty units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
6. Illegal obstruction of the license or certificate holder to exercise his / her rights
a person in the amount of thirty units and a legal entity in the amount of three hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
7. A license holder shall have a license and its rights and obligations specified in the license
If the license is transferred without the permission of the issuing authority, the license shall be revoked.
a person in the amount of one hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This section was added by the law in 10 November 2019 /
Article 14.3. Violation of the Postal Law
1. A legal entity authorized to provide postal services shall provide postal services
one hundred units per person in case of non-fulfillment of obligations or prohibited activities
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
2. An employee of a postal service provider performing his / her duties
in the territory of the client, or at all types of transport stations, local road posts, bridges and parking lots
in case of violation of the right of unimpeded access without any fees and charges, in the amount equal to fifty units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five hundred units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 30, 2019 /
3. Postman:
3.1. Temporary storage and unpacking of unallocated postal items specified in the law;
upon the expiration of the storage period specified in the procedure for confiscation or destruction, the person receiving or sending
violation of the disclosure procedure for the purpose of determining the address;
3.2. After opening the postal item or after determining the address of the sender
he / she has not been informed of the relevant reasons and grounds;
3.3. To determine the owner of the address, even if the activities specified in Articles 3.1 and 3.2 of this Article have been carried out
if it is not possible, the parcel shall not be transferred to the relevant authority or provided by law
not destroyed in accordance with regulations;
3.4. Regulatory Commission and consumers on establishment, expansion and liquidation of postal network
unannounced;
/ This provision was added by the law in 5 May 2019 /
3.5. Has not fulfilled its obligation to keep its network open to other service providers;
/ This provision was added by the law in 5 May 2019 /

3.6. Grounds for proposals on tariffs for domestic or international postal services,
If the bill is not submitted to the Coordination Committee, the person shall be paid fifty units of togrogs,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated May 30, 2019 /
Article 14.4. Violation of the Law on Roads
1. Caused if the road or road structure is damaged, damaged or unusable
damages and compensation in the amount of three hundred units of togrogs for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units.
2. Users of roads and road facilities:
2.1. Road carriageway, lane and control lane without the permission of the competent authority
construction, maintenance of roads and road facilities on the ground, which may interfere with the work or traffic
participants engaged in hazardous activities;
Dumped garbage, sewage, stones, metal and other items on the roadway, curbs and lanes,
or placed or stacked;
2.3. Trading in the road corridor or other activities not related to road use
conducted operations;
2.4. Without special protection or permission, crawler or construction of the road or road construction
caused by driving on a road that is oversized and overloaded
damages and compensation in the amount of one hundred and fifty units of togrogs
A person shall be fined in the amount of one thousand five hundred units togrogs.
Explanation: Damage to business entities, organizations and individuals due to non-compliance with road use conditions
If the law enforcement agency determines that the accident occurred, it shall be responsible for the maintenance and protection of the road
The road authority shall be responsible for the damage.
Article 14.5. Damage, alteration or pollution of roads, road constructions, signs and markings
1. Approved drawings of roads, bridges and road constructions planned to be built or overhauled,
In case of violation of the project, the person shall be compensated for the damage caused and shall have five hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
2.3 the direction and flow of traffic has been changed, blocked or blocked without permission
if a movement is organized, a person shall be fined three hundred units and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units.
3. The location of road signs, markings and traffic control equipment without permission
in the amount of three hundred units per person if modified, re-installed or confiscated
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
4.3am, road signs, markings, traffic lights, barriers, fences and directional devices on the roadway
Failure to place intact in accordance with the standard will give incorrect information to road users and traffic
obstructing traffic safety and creating conditions for traffic accidents and crimes,
or compensation for damage caused by a business entity or organization in the event of a traffic accident or violation
payment in the amount of one hundred units for a person and one thousand units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
5.3am, road facilities are not maintained in accordance with the standards
creating conditions for traffic accidents and violations that interfere with safety, or the road
In case of a traffic accident or violation, compensation and damages caused by the relevant business entity or organization
to be paid in togrogs equal to one hundred units for a person and one thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
6. Damage and compensation for damage caused to the road or roadway
for a person in the amount of five hundred units of togrogs and for a legal entity in the amount of five thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
7. Unauthorized demolition of roads, entrances, for the purpose of constructing or expanding engineering networks
adversely affecting road safety, such as exits, parking lots, and speed bumps
five hundred units per person for damages and compensation if the affected activities were carried out
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
Inspection at 8.3am, filter well cover is missing, broken, road level
The business entity in charge of traffic accidents and violations caused by non-placement at the same level
Damage and compensation caused by the unit shall be equal to one hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
Lighting installed at 9.3am or along the road will not turn on, parts are missing / lamps, luminaires,
Traffic accidents such as crooked heads, bent poles, or poor lighting
Damage and compensation caused by the responsible business entity or organization, if conditions are created
to be paid in togrogs equal to one hundred units for a person and one thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
10. Confusion with road signs and other traffic control devices, their appearance and results
reduce, dazzle or distract traffic participants, or cause traffic congestion
security posters, billboards, electronic boards,
Damage and compensation for information facilities, other equipment and facilities
payment in the amount of one hundred and fifty units for a person and one thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
11. In the organization of traffic on road signs, traffic lights or their pillars and backs
one hundred and fifty persons to be compensated for the damage caused if other items are placed
in togrogs equivalent to one thousand five hundred units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
12. On a road or road structure:
Car washing;
12.2. Activities that adversely affect traffic safety through trade
If it is sent, the damage and compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to fifty units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
13. On a road or road structure:
13.1. To build unlicensed constructions and fences;
13.2. To place fast service points and containers;
13.3. To conduct production and services;
13.4. Negative to road safety by placing entertainment and exhibition items
five hundred units per person for damages and compensation if the affected activities were carried out
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
14. Obstructing traffic without permission:
To work;
To install lighting;
14.3. If planting and lawning activities have been carried out, the violation shall be eliminated and one hundred and fifty people shall be detained
in togrogs equivalent to one thousand five hundred units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
15. Combustion and lubrication materials shall be disposed of by the competent authorities during the day on the roads of centralized cities and settlements
if transported without a permit, a person shall be fined three hundred units of togrogs and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of three thousand units.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
16. Employees and officials of business entities and organizations engaged in construction and earthworks
to clean the mud of tires of vehicles traveling on paved roads and railway crossings,
or one hundred and fifty units per person for non-compliance with the obligation not to pollute the road surface
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one thousand five hundred units togrogs.
17. Without a main road permit, or route violation, or without a designated cover or reflector,
Trucks with gravel, dirt, mortar and water spilled on the roadway without trays
a person in the amount of one hundred and fifty units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand five
shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units.
Unauthorized physical training, competitions, contests, demonstrations, rallies and performances at 18.3am
one hundred and fifty units per person if operating and obstructing traffic
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand five hundred units.
19. Driving practice without determining the direction and duration of driving practice
a person in the amount of one hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
20. Violation of standards, norms and rules when traveling and transporting on roads and road facilities
If the above or the total weight is exceeded, a person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred and fifty units
A person shall be fined in the amount of one thousand five hundred units togrogs.
Article 14.6. Violation of the Law on Road Transport
1. If you have not bought a ticket for public transportation, you have ten units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
2. When traveling by public transport:
2.1. Carrying items that may endanger the life or health of others;
2.2. Damage or compensation in case of damage or damage to parts of public transport
A fine equal to twenty five units shall be imposed on a person.
3. The carrier shall be responsible for meeting the conditions and technical requirements for the carriage of goods and passengers
if not transported by a vehicle, in the amount of one hundred and fifty units togrogs, legal
A person shall be fined in the amount of one thousand five hundred units togrogs.
4. Owners, possessors and drivers of motor vehicles:
4.1. To prevent vehicles from fire;
To ensure road traffic safety;
4.3. Protection of the environment;
4.4. To ensure conditions that do not disturb the health and peace of citizens;
4.5. Obligation to place vehicles in designated, permitted premises, parking lots and areas
Failure to do so will result in a fine of ten units togrogs.
5. If a vehicle that is not under technical control is involved in traffic, a person shall be detained
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two hundred togrogs and a legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two hundred togrogs.
6. Driving under the influence of alcohol, drugs or psychotropic substances
If a permit is issued, a person shall be fined in the amount of three hundred units togrogs.
7. Newly established routes and parking lots of unauthorized vehicles without permission, or
If it is changed, a person shall have one hundred units of togrogs and a legal entity shall have one thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
8. Carried out technical inspection of vehicles without a license specified in the law,
If a number is produced, confiscate illegally earned assets and income equal to one hundred units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
9. Violation of public rules and regulations issued by the competent authority in accordance with the law
for damages and compensation in the amount of twenty five units togrogs,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of two hundred and fifty units togrogs.
10. Obligations specified in the law:
10.1. The carrier;
10.2. The carrier;
10.3. If the passenger fails to comply, the damage shall be compensated and the person shall be fined fifteen
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to one hundred and fifty units in togrogs for legal entities
fine.
11. The license holder to conduct technical inspection shall comply with the conditions and requirements specified in the law
Failure to do so will result in damages and compensation in the amount of thirty units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three hundred units.
12. If a public passenger without a transportation contract is engaged in public transportation services, he / she shall have one hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
13. If the auto service organization does not meet the requirements set by law, it shall have fifty people
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five hundred units.
Article 14.7. Violation of the law on traffic safety
1. Not allowed to drive a vehicle (except for driving practice), or transport
If a person whose driving license has expired has driven a vehicle, the person has two hundred units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
2. No driver's license (except for driving practice) or license
one hundred units per person if the driving of a completed heavy vehicle is transferred
will be fined in togrogs.
3. Passenger:
3.1. Vehicle when consuming alcohol, drugs or psychotropic substances
drove;
3.2. Whether alcohol, drugs or psychotropic substances have been used in accordance with relevant procedures
If the inspection is avoided, the driver's license is suspended for one year and the person is four
shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units.
4. Heavy vehicles using alcohol, drugs or psychotropic substances
If the driver is transferred, a person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units togrogs.
5. A person who is not licensed to drive a vehicle or whose driving license has expired shall be subject to alcohol,
driving while under the influence of drugs or psychotropic substances, or due process
Compulsory training and arrest for seven to thirty days if evading due process
shall be punished.
6. Transportation when you are sick or tired and unable to ensure traffic safety
Driving a vehicle shall be punishable by a fine of 25 units of togrogs.
7.3 Transportation by a sick or tired person that interferes with road safety
If the vehicle is driven, a person shall be fined twenty units and a legal entity two hundred
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
8.3 If a person drives a vehicle without documents specified in the traffic rules, he / she shall be detained
shall be fined in the amount of five units togrogs.
9. The driver transferred the vehicle to a person without documents specified in the traffic rules
shall be punishable by a fine of ten units togrogs.
10. In accordance with the law:
10.1. Not registered in the state registry;
10.2. Not included in the technical inspection;
10.3. A person who participated in the traffic by a vehicle that failed the technical inspection
in togrogs equal to fifty units, in legal entities in togrogs equal to five hundred units
fine.
11. The state registration number is:
Removed;
11.2. Blurred vision has deteriorated;
11.3. Driving a vehicle that is unrecognizably contaminated or has a wrong number plate
If a person participates in the movement, he / she shall be paid ten units of togrogs and a legal entity one hundred units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
12. Traffic by vehicles without state registration number or with hidden number
in case of participation, a person in the amount of twenty-five units of togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of two hundred and fifty
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
13. If a vehicle with a false state registration number is involved in traffic, three
deprivation of the right to drive for a period of one month in the amount equal to fifty units for a person or a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
Page 10
14. Work brake system and steering mechanism do not work, trailer connection / when with trailer /
The exterior lighting fixture is incomplete when it is broken or dark and visibility is limited
If a person is involved in traffic while driving a vehicle, the amount is equal to twenty-five units
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of two hundred and fifty units togrogs.
15. Incomplete vehicles prohibited for use other than those specified in paragraph 14 of this Article
If a person is involved in traffic while driving, he / she shall be fined in the amount equal to twenty units
A person shall be fined in the amount of two hundred units togrogs.
16. Driving a vehicle equipped with special sound and light signals prohibited by law
If a person participates in the movement, he / she shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units togrogs.
17. Drivers of vehicles with special sound and light signals Traffic
in case of non-exercise of traffic privileges in accordance with the rules, a person equal to twenty units
will be fined in togrogs.
18.3am It is a criminal offense for a driver involved in a traffic accident to flee the scene of an accident
Failure to do so shall be punishable by a fine of one hundred togrogs.
19. A driver involved in a traffic accident shall be subject to traffic other than those specified in paragraph 18 of this article
Failure to fulfill the obligations specified in the charter shall be punishable by a fine of 25 units of togrogs.
20. Driver or passenger protection zone according to the traffic rules
Failure to do so will result in a fine of twenty units togrogs.
21. If a motorcycle or moped driver or passenger is not wearing a helmet, a person is entitled to ten units.
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
22. If a mobile phone is used while driving a vehicle, the driver shall be equal to twenty units
will be fined in togrogs.
23. If a driver violates traffic lights or traffic lights and engages in traffic, a person shall be detained
A fine equal to one unit shall be imposed.
24.3. In case of violation of the vehicle audible alarm procedure specified in the traffic rules, a person shall be punished
shall be fined in the amount of twenty units togrogs.
25.3 in case of violation of the procedure for using emergency signals and emergency stop signs specified in the traffic rules
A person shall be fined in the amount of twenty units togrogs.
26. The driver shall give way to the privileged vehicle specified in the traffic rules
Failure to comply with the requirements shall result in a fine of twenty units togrogs.
27. The driver shall start the traffic specified in the traffic rules, or change the direction of traffic, or
Violation of the row occupancy procedure shall result in a fine of twenty units togrogs.
28. The act of turning back or reversing in a prohibited place specified in the traffic rules
A person shall be fined twenty units of togrogs.
29.3 in violation of the traffic rules:
29.1. The vehicle traveled on the outside of the roadway, on the sidewalk or sidewalk;
29.2. Entered through vehicles in a convoy or people on a demonstration,
or placed between them;
29.3. In case of violation of the rules of transportation, a person shall be fined twenty units
will be fined in togrogs.
30.3 Vehicle if the driver went against the traffic conditions prohibited by the traffic rules
A person shall be deprived of the right to drive for a period of three months and fined in the amount of fifty units.
31. The driver shall exceed the speed limit of the vehicle specified in the traffic rules
Exceeding 10-50 percent shall be punishable by a fine of 50 units togrogs.
32. The driver exceeds the maximum speed limit of the vehicle specified in the traffic rules
If more than 50 percent is exceeded, the driver's license will be suspended for six months
shall be fined in the amount of fifty units togrogs.
33. The driver brakes abruptly when it is not needed, or creates a dangerous situation, or is disrespectful
If a person goes too slow for no reason and obstructs the movement of others, the person is ten
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
34. In case of violation of the overtaking procedure specified in the traffic rules, a person shall be equal to twenty units
will be fined in togrogs.
35.3 According to the traffic rules, the driver must:
35.1. Traffic of other vehicles in violation of the rules of temporary and long parking on the carriageway;
35.2. Stopping at a crosswalk or on a sidewalk that is not permitted by a road sign
Obstruction of passenger traffic shall be punishable by a fine of 20 units togrogs.
36. If a driver violates the traffic rules within the district according to the traffic rules, a person shall be punished
shall be fined in the amount of twenty units togrogs.
37. According to the traffic rules, the driver shall do so except as specified in paragraphs 35 and 36 of this article
in case of violation of the procedure for temporary and long-term parking of a vehicle, in togrogs equal to ten units per person
fine.
38. Preference shall be given to vehicles crossing intersections and pedestrian crossings
Failure to give way to pedestrians shall result in a fine of twenty units togrogs.
39. Section 38 of this article prohibits overtaking in accordance with the traffic rules
A person shall be fined twenty five units of togrogs for committing the specified act.
40. If a person crosses a railway crossing or violates the rules of crossing a railway crossing,
shall be punished by a fine equal to twenty five units of togrogs.
41. The driver has not switched on the high beam of the vehicle to the low beam or on the vehicle
In case of violation of the rules for the use of external lighting, a person shall be fined twenty units
will be fined in togrogs.
42. In case of violation of longitudinal traffic rules, a person shall be fined in the amount equal to twenty units
fine.
43. If a driving instructor violates the rules of the practice set forth in the traffic rules, a person shall be punished
shall be fined in the amount of fifteen units togrogs.
44. In case of violation of the rules of towing a vehicle, a person shall be fined in the amount equal to thirty units
fine.
45.3 If a person violates the rules of transportation specified in the traffic rules, it shall be equal to fifty units
will be fined in togrogs.
46.3 According to the traffic rules, the rules for transporting heavy, bulky, toxic and dangerous goods were violated
is equal to one hundred units for a person and one thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
47. Carriage of cargo specified in the traffic rules, except as provided in paragraph 46 of this article
In case of violation of the regulation, a person shall be fined fifty units and a legal entity five hundred units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
48.3. A person who has turned to the left or turned back in violation of the provisions of the sign and note
shall be fined in the amount of fifty units togrogs.
49. Prohibition signs indicating the actual weight and axle load limits of the vehicle
In case of violation, a person shall be fined in the amount of fifty units and a legal entity in the amount of five hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
50. Violation of road signs and markings other than those specified in paragraphs 48 and 49 of this Article
A person shall be fined in the amount of twenty units togrogs.
51. Violation of traffic rules by a driver causing damage to the health and property of others
A person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units togrogs unless criminal liability is imposed.
52. Individuals and legal entities:
To comply with the traffic rules;
52.2. Traffic safety when performing work and services on and in the vicinity of the road
not met;
52.3.failure to fulfill the obligation to clear the road pollution, snow and ice related to the place of residence
a person in the amount of twenty units and a legal entity in the amount of two hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
53. If a pedestrian or a passenger in a vehicle violates traffic rules, a person shall be fined ten times
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
54. Parents, guardians and relevant officials of all levels of educational institutions
It is safe to drive a child under the age of 1 without a guardian
A person shall be fined 50 units of togrogs for causing a violation.
55. Driving without a driver's license (except for driving practice) or driving
by a person whose rights have been terminated or who has consumed alcohol, drugs or psychotropic substances
in the amount of twenty units per person required to drive or influence a vehicle
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two hundred units.
56. Driver:
56.1. Violated labor and rest regime or did not comply with relevant laws;
56.2. Driver's duties shall be organized in accordance with traffic safety requirements
If not established, a person shall have fifty units of togrogs and a legal entity shall have five hundred units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
57. Aimag and capital city governors shall be responsible for managing traffic congestion and delays
in accordance with the legislation of Mongolia and traffic rules on the territory of the vehicle
In case of violation of an administrative normative act restricting movement, a person shall be equal to twenty units
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of two hundred units togrogs.
/ This section was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
Note: The “vehicle” referred to in this article is defined in the Law on Traffic Safety
3.1.1 and “driver” as specified in 3.1.3 of the Law on Traffic Safety
understand.
Article 14.8. Violation of the Civil Aviation Law
1. Without the set of documents specified in the Civil Aviation Rules or without a license
In the case of aviation operations, the damage caused shall be compensated in the amount of two thousand people
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to twenty thousand units in legal entities
fine.
2. Flight safety or security inspection by a person authorized by law,
If the inspection is not carried out in accordance with the relevant procedures, the right to conduct the inspection shall be suspended for a period of up to one year
A person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units togrogs.
3. Aviation activities in case of violation of general rules and regulations in civil aviation
deprivation of the right to operate for a period of one year in the amount of three hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
4. Respect for emergencies during which it is not possible to continue the flight
Failure to report without good reason shall result in the suspension of the professional license for one year
shall be fined in the amount of five thousand units togrogs.
5. Illegal entry into a protected area related to civil aviation activities
shall be fined in the amount of fifty units togrogs.
6. An international airline carries passenger information on a civil aircraft
not delivered to the competent authority without a valid reason before take-off, or information
In case of incomplete delivery, the air carrier shall pay a legal entity in the amount of five thousand units togrogs
fine.
/ This section was added by the law in December 31, 2020 /
Article 14.9. Violation of the law on the use of airspace in flight
1. In case of violation of the rules of use during flight during airspace safety control
the chairman in togrogs equal to three hundred units and the legal entity in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. If the violation detected during the airspace inspection is exceeded, the person shall be placed
in togrogs equal to units, in togrogs equal to five hundred units in legal entities
fine.
3. Confiscation and damage of illegally obtained assets and income in case of airspace violation,
Compensation shall be paid to the captain of the aircraft in the amount equal to fifty units, in accordance with the law
A person shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
Article 14.10. Violation of the Law on Railway Transportation
1. Inadequate measures have been taken to prevent railway crashes, accidents and defects, or the railway
in the case of railway transport operations, if the instructions have not been given to the employee in accordance with the established procedures
one thousand five hundred units for participants, owners of public or specialized roads and areas
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Caused in case of violation of common set of rules, standards, relevant norms and rules of railway transportation
damages and compensation in the amount of one thousand units for a person and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of ten thousand units.
3. Violation of the railway danger zone regime shall result in a fine of one hundred and fifty units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand five hundred units.
4. One hundred and fifty units per person in case of violation of the railway corridor or security zone regime
in togrogs equal to one thousand togrogs for a legal entity
fine.
5. Violation of the law:
5.1. To place on the railway items that may impede the movement of trains, livestock, ordinary vehicles,
to take vehicles out of railway crossings;
5.2. Unauthorized access to the railway dangerous zone;
5.3.People with livestock should leave their livestock unattended and put it in the railway fence;
5.4. To stop the train arbitrarily;
To travel on the roof and steps of the rolling stock;
5.6. Traffic safety procedures for landing and boarding in the middle of train traffic
Violation is punishable by a fine of 150 togrogs.
6. Railway constructions, safety nets, barriers, parts of trains and their rolling stock,
Damage or compensation for damage to or damage to passenger train equipment
A person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred and fifty units togrogs.
7. Use of railway infrastructure, railway transportation operations, or infrastructure,
In the production, assembly and repair of components :
7.1. Without a license;
7.2. Changing the terms and requirements of the license;
7.3. Transfer the license to others;

7.4. If engaged in other people's licenses, one person shall be compensated for damages and compensation
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
8. In case of violation of railway transport safety regulations, a person shall be equal to twenty units
will be fined in togrogs.
9. Obligations specified in the law:
9.1. A participant in transportation activities;
9.2. Infrastructure owner;
9.3. The carrier;
9.4. Damage caused by non-compliance by the owner of public or exclusive roads and areas,
Compensation shall be paid in togrogs equal to fifty units for a person and five hundred togrogs for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
Article 14.11. Violation of the Law on Inland Waterway Transport
/ This article was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
1. If a carrier fails to fulfill its obligations under the law, it shall not be subject to criminal liability
in togrogs equal to fifteen units, and in the amount equal to one hundred and fifty units for legal entities
will be fined in togrogs.
2. The passenger is:
2.1. Endangering the life or health of others while traveling by waterway
not to carry potential items;
2.2. Not to damage or damage the vehicle while traveling by waterway transport, and to protect the environment
not to pollute;
2.3. To receive a ticket for each passenger to be served by waterway transport;
2.4. Current legislation, rules and regulations on ensuring water transport safety;
Strict adherence to procedures, instructions and legal requirements of the competent authority,
to fulfill;
2.5. To observe social order and internal regulations on waterway vehicles
Fifteen units of a person shall be deemed not to be subject to criminal liability for non-performance of his / her duties
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
3. Waterway vehicles are not registered, certified and inspected
Unauthorized transportation is not a criminal offense
in togrogs equal to twenty five units, for legal entities in the amount equal to two hundred and fifty units
will be fined in togrogs.
4. Captains, crew members, owners, possessors and drivers of waterway vehicles shall be intoxicated
Driving a watercraft while under the influence of alcohol or drugs
the right to drive a watercraft for up to one year, unless criminally punishable
for the term of deduction of a person in the amount of fifteen units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of one hundred and fifty
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
5. Captains, crew members, owners, possessors and drivers of waterway vehicles shall:
5.1. State inspector of waterway transport inspection and other rights to determine whether he / she has consumed alcohol
evaded inspection by an official;
5.2. Abruptly in the water in order to attract the attention and interest of passengers and travelers while transporting
to make a turn and perform various illegal performances;
5.3. Transported passengers and travelers without life jackets and life jackets that do not meet the requirements;
5.4. Danger to the traffic safety of other waterway vehicles while participating in traffic
overtake, cause to overtake, weave in the direction of movement, front and back
obstructed the movement of other vehicles, such as detours;
5.5. Driven by a person who is not licensed to drive a waterway vehicle;
5.6. Transportation of a child under the age of sixteen without a guardian or custodian;
5.7. The purpose of the waterway vehicle and the engine capacity specified by the manufacturer
increased and modified;
5.8. In case of incomplete or damaged waterway vehicle, the violation
to liquidate a person in the amount of one hundred and fifty units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand five hundred
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
Article 14.12. Violation of airspace regime in the zone of special state protection
/ This article was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
1. Violation of the regime established by the state special protection organization and violation of state special protection
In the case of unmanned aerial vehicles flying in the airspace of the region, the violation shall be remedied.
a person in the amount of one hundred units and a legal entity in the amount of one thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN
CONFLICT AGAINST THE NORMAL ACTIVITIES OF GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATIONS
Article 15.1. Not to provide assistance to health organizations and law enforcement agencies
1. Without a valid reason:
1.1. Crime, industrial accident, fire and other natural disasters
to arrive at the place of occurrence or public disorder;
To prosecute a criminal;
1.3. To take a person with injuries to hospital who may cause serious damage to his / her life and health;
To deliver the offender to the police;
To pursue or arrest a person suspected of a crime;
1.6. Transportation, communication or information for the transmission of urgent information on a crime or violation
use of tools by civil servants, health care workers and law enforcement officers
in case of refusal, a person shall be equal to twenty units of togrogs and a legal entity shall be equal to two hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 15.2. Non-compliance with decisions of public officials and obstruction of their activities
1. A civil servant or a person entitled to a state inspector shall fulfill his / her legal obligations
in order to:
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
1.1. Has not complied with the legal requirements or has called on others not to comply;
1.2. The relevant information and data required by law has not been provided in time or
intentionally provided false information or misleading;
1.3. A person who obstructed or attempted to influence his / her activities
in togrogs equal to fifty units, in legal entities in togrogs equal to five hundred units
fine.
2. Implementing law enforcement functions:
2.1. Failure to comply with or failure to comply with legal requirements set by a civil servant
urged;
Obstructed the activities of a civil servant;
2.3. If a civil servant is resisted or insulted without the use of force, two hundred persons shall be sentenced
in togrogs equal to fifty units, for legal entities in the amount equal to two thousand five hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
Explanation: The “law enforcement function” specified in this law is the decision of the police, intelligence, customs and court.
executive, state special security service and anti-corruption, border protection, foreign citizens,
understand the duties of the civil servant in accordance with the law.
/ This explanation was amended by the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 15.3. As a citizen's representative in court without a valid reason
to refrain from interfering and obstructing court proceedings
1. A person elected as a citizen's representative in court shall be treated with respect as provided by law
If a person intentionally avoids participating in court proceedings without a reason, three hundred persons shall be sentenced
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
2. The employer specified in the law shall participate in the court hearing as a citizen's representative in court
one thousand units per person if the employee is not given leave or obstructed in any way
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 15.4. Attempt to influence the independence of judges
1. To influence in any way the proceedings of a judge or case,
insulted, attacked, attempted to resist, or violated the security rules of the court or judge
a person in the amount of one thousand units and a legal entity in the amount of ten thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 15.5. Violation of court procedure
1. In case of violation of the rules and regulations of the judicial session, a person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units
fine.
Article 15.6. Obstructing a prosecutor to exercise his / her powers
1. Intentionally obstructing a prosecutor in exercising his / her powers under the law, or
in case of insult or violation of liberty, a person shall be fined in the amount equal to fifty units
A person shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
Article 15.7. Obstruction of proceedings
1. A witness, victim, or expert who deliberately avoids appearing when summoned by a court or prosecutor
evaded, refused to testify or obstructed the proceedings
A person shall be fined in the amount of three hundred units togrogs.
2. A participant in the proceedings shall appear in court or testify in court
refusal, evasion, or actions of a citizen's representative or court administrator
Obstruction of the operation shall be punishable by a fine of 300 togrogs.
Article 15.8. Violation of the Law on Legal Assistance to Insolvent Defendants
1. Defendant participating in the investigation of a case shall lie that he is insolvent
A person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units.
Article 15.9. Providing false calls and information
1. Crimes, violations, ambulances, disasters, catastrophes, technical accidents and fires
Compensation for damage caused by false calls and information to the competent authority about the fire
A person shall be fined 50 units of togrogs.
2. Fight crime, ensure public safety, prevent, rescue and rebuild
obstructing the movement of vehicles on call for operations and medical ambulances
Damage or compensation for damage caused or intentionally resisted or road closures
for a person in the amount of three hundred units of togrogs and for a legal entity in the amount of three thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
Article 15.10. Failure to report a crime
1. The right to intentionally commit a crime or to know for sure that a crime has been committed
a person in the amount of five hundred units togrogs, if not notified to the relevant organization or official;
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five thousand units.
Article 15.11. Concealment of a crime
1. A person who intentionally conceals a serious crime without prior promise shall have seven hundred and fifty units
in togrogs equal to, in togrogs equal to seven thousand five hundred units for legal entities
fine.
Article 15.12. Violation of the Law on Mediation
1. In case of violation of the procedure established by law related to mediation, one hundred persons shall be fined
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to one thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
Article 15.13. Failure to comply with the legal requirements of the intelligence organization and obstruction of its activities
cause, participate, influence
1. Intentionally giving false information, misleading, or intelligence to an intelligence agency
non-compliance with the legal requirements of the organization, interference in its activities, obstruction
if the direct cost of verifying the information is paid in the amount of three hundred units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units
Article 15.14. Violation of the Law on State and Official Secrecy
/ The title of this article was amended by the law dated January 10, 2020 /
1. According to the law:
1.1. To classify as state and official secrets;
/ This clause was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
To get acquainted with state and official secrets;
/ This clause was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
1.3. To keep or disclose state and official secrets;
/ This clause was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
1.4. To transfer state or official secrets or to ensure protection regime
Violation of the rules shall result in a fine of one hundred and fifty units togrogs.
/ This clause was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
2. Confidentiality or use of information that is not a state or official secret for personal purposes
A person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred and fifty units if he / she is not subject to criminal liability.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated January 10, 2020 /
Article 15.15. Violation of the Law on State Special Protection
1. Damage and compensation for violation of regulations prohibited by the Law on State Special Protection
Payment shall be made in togrogs equal to fifty units for a person and five hundred units for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
Article 15.16. Violation of the Law on the Government House of Mongolia
1. In the Government House:
1.1. Conducted prohibited activities;
1.2. Has brought or attempted to enter a prohibited item;
In case of damage to the property of the Government House, a person shall be fined in the amount equal to fifty units
A person shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
2. In the Government House and its territory:
2.1. Expressed his / her demands through demonstrations, rallies, hunger strikes and sit-ins;
Obstructed the intruder;
2.3. If a person enters under the influence of alcohol or consumes alcohol in violation of the law, he / she shall have one hundred units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
Article 15.17. Violation of the Law on Military Service
1. A citizen who has received a summons shall respect the place and time of conscription at the appointed time and place
Failure to appear without a valid reason shall result in a fine of one hundred and fifty units togrogs.
2. The employer has failed to fulfill its statutory obligations or military obligations
In case of obstruction of a citizen, the person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units
A person shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
3. Violation of military registration regulations or mobilization of schools, gatherings and conscription
A fugitive conscript or citizen of military age shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated June 27, 2018 /
Article 15.18. Violation of the Law on Police Service
1. The Civil Council, which is responsible for public oversight of the police
registration, investigation or enforcement of a case by a member of the police
forty persons per person involved in the operation or political activity
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Public roads and streets used by individuals and legal entities to ensure their safety,
Integrated police information network and video surveillance network
not connected to the network, or does not meet the required specifications, or video
one hundred units per person if not provided by the police or officers or deliberately destroyed
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
Article 15.19. Violation of the Law on State Population and Housing Census
1. Citizen:
To give accurate and complete answers to the census questionnaire;
1.2. To introduce the census staff to their premises and apartments;
1.3. If the documents on participation in the census have not been fulfilled by the census officer
A person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units togrogs.
2. If the census information is disclosed within the period prohibited by law, a person shall have one hundred and fifty units
in togrogs equal to one thousand togrogs for a legal entity
fine.
Article 15.20. Violation of the Law on State Symbols
1. A person shall be deemed to have lost the size and proportion specified in the law when creating and depicting a state symbol
in togrogs equal to twenty units, in togrogs equal to two hundred units in legal entities
fine.
2. Deliberately altering, destroying or damaging the state emblem
in togrogs equal to fifty units, in legal entities in togrogs equal to five hundred units
fine.
Article 15.21. Law on state titles, decorations, medals, uniforms and insignia of civil servants
misuse
1. If a person who has not been awarded a state title, order or medal wears a title badge, order or medal, put a person
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
2. In case of illegal production or sale of state titles and medals, one hundred and fifty people
in togrogs equivalent to one thousand five hundred units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
3. Used by a person who does not have the right to use a civil servant's uniform, title or badge
A person shall be fined five hundred units togrogs with confiscation of uniform, title and badge.
4. Five hundred people if they acted in the name of a civil servant or law enforcement officer
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
Article 15.22. Violation of the Law on State-Church Relations
1. The status of a citizen's religion shall be specified in official documents, unless the person so desires
or interfering in the internal affairs of the church, except as provided by law
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, and in the amount of one thousand units for legal entities
will be fined in togrogs.
2. From the temple:
Performed the duties of a state organization;
2.2. Has conducted or participated in political activities for the sake of state power
if it is financed in the amount of one hundred and fifty units for a person and one thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
3. Religious training and gatherings are organized in state-owned schools and organizations
a person in the amount of three hundred units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of three thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
Explanation: Organizing religious trainings and gatherings in state-run schools and organizations
does not apply to scientific training on religious culture and knowledge heritage.
Article 15.23. Violation of the procedure for state registration
1. An applicant for state registration:
1.1. Has not fulfilled his / her obligations specified in the law;
1.2. The state registration application, application, request and attached evidence specified in the law are accurate
Failure to declare the damage and compensation in the amount equal to fifty units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to five hundred units.
Article 15.24. Violation of the Law on Civil Registration
1. If a person is not registered in the civil registry within the established period, he / she shall be equal to twenty units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. Citizen's ID card, ordinary passport, state registration certificate pledged, pledged,
In case of intentional injury, a person shall be fined twenty-five units of togrogs and a legal entity shall be fined two hundred togrogs
shall be fined in the amount of fifty units togrogs.
3. If a diplomatic or official passport is taken hostage or intentionally damaged, a person shall have twenty-five units.
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to two hundred and fifty units togrogs.
4. In case of violation of the rules on state civil registration, a person shall be equal to thirty units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three hundred units.
Article 15.25. Violation of the procedure for reporting statistical data
1. A person who repeatedly interrupts or intentionally misrepresents statistical data
in togrogs equal to fifty units, in legal entities in togrogs equal to five hundred units
fine.
Explanation: An enterprise that repeatedly interrupts, delays, or intentionally misrepresents statistics
Influencing the reputation of a business by informing the public through the media
can be.
Article 15.26. Violation of the law on archives and record keeping
/ This article was amended according to the law dated April 24, 2020 /
1. Archival documents have been corrected, contaminated, damaged, and the documents are intact
lost, lost, destroyed without proper permission, uniquely valuable, very valuable
documents used for purposes other than those specified in the law, or storage, protection and use of archival documents,
In case of violation of the established procedure for transfer to the state archives, a person shall be fined in the amount equal to thirty units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three hundred units.
2. Violated the general rules of record keeping, stamping, making and using letterheads
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units togrogs.
Article 15.27. Non-compliance with a court decision
1. If a person sentenced to disqualification violates the obligations imposed by the court, a person shall have one hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
2. A person who is not a participant in the enforcement proceedings shall have regard to the property of the payer
If a declaration is intentionally false, a person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred units
A person shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
3. Court decisions of citizens and legal entities that are not participants in the enforcement proceedings
During the execution:
3.1. Violation of the obligation imposed by the decision executor by the notification letter;
3.2. Information on the payer's assets has not been submitted within the period specified by law;
3.3. Response that the payer's assets have not been sealed or sealed within the specified period
unknown;
3.4. Illegal transfer or loss of sealed assets to others, and illegal related to them
received an illegal request or demand of the person who made the transaction or sealed the property;
3.5. To execute a court decision on sealed and deducted assets
not transferred to the organization or the person specified by the decision executor;
3.6. To be obliged to make payments of property nature arising in accordance with the agreement or transaction
Amendments to and termination of related agreements and transactions, payments made in accordance with such agreements and transactions
failure to comply with the decision to prohibit the transfer of the right to demand performance of the obligation to pay;
3.7. Assets sealed, confiscated and decided to be sold in accordance with the law
not transferred to a court decision enforcement agency;
3.8. Has not fulfilled the obligation to collect payments and deductions from the payer's salary and other income;
3.9. Obligation to execute a decision to impose a sentence or coercive measures on community service
non-compliance, or concealment of a violation committed by a convict or person subject to coercive measures,
falsification of time records of convicts and persons subject to coercive measures;
3.10.compulsory measures of deprivation of liberty, punishment, deprivation of rights, imposition of obligations, restriction of rights
failure to fulfill the obligation to execute the decision;
3.11. Failure to fulfill his / her obligations under the law and contract on employment of prisoners;
3.12. The detainee has been transferred something prohibited by law or the internal regulations of the detention center;
3.13. Has not fulfilled his / her legal obligations while taking a prisoner on leave;
3.14. False inquiries about the health status of the convict or person subject to coercive measures,
if a reference or conclusion is made, a person shall be fined two hundred units and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of two thousand units togrogs.
Article 15.28. Violation of the law on local protection
/ This article was added by the law in 7/27/2018 /
1. To report on threats that have not fulfilled their assigned local security duties
others who have not been notified in a timely manner or who have received local protection training and organization
Failure to fulfill the obligation to participate in the event shall result in a fine of fifty units togrogs.
2. To act as a member and staff of the local security unit
Provide opportunities and involve them in local protection training and other organized activities
failure to fulfill its duties or assignments set by aimag and capital city governors and local protection
in case of non-fulfillment of obligations under the plan, the legal entity shall be fined five hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 15.29. Violation of the Law on Advocacy
/ This article was added by the law in October 18, 2019 /
1. If a foreign defense attorney violates the procedure set forth in Article 30.2 of the Law on Advocacy, five persons shall be sentenced
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to fifty thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
2. The person responsible for maintaining the secrecy of the defense shall disclose, secrecy, or personal secrecy of the defense.
and a person who is not criminally liable for using it for the benefit of a third party
in togrogs equal to five hundred units, for legal entities in the amount equal to five thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
Article 15.30 Regulation of public and private interests in public service
Violation of the Law on Prevention of Violations
/ This article was added by the law in January 10, 2020 /
1. To perform the duties of an owner's representative in a state or locally owned legal entity
by a person who has violated the law within two years after the termination
to pay the price of illegally received gifts and services equal to one thousand units per person
will be fined in togrogs.
2. The President of Mongolia, a member of the State Great Hural, the Prime Minister of Mongolia and the Government
Member, Member of the Constitutional Tsets, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, Judge of the Supreme Court,
The Prosecutor General, the head of the organization directly accountable to the State Great Hural, the aimag,
Governor of the capital city, Chairman of the Presidium of the aimag and capital city Citizens 'Representatives' Khural, Ministry
Secretary of State, Head of Government Agency, State-Owned Company, International
the person who has held or is holding the position of the head or director of the organization, or his / her affiliation
open tender within two years after the dismissal of the person with public office
goods and works for state and local needs, except for those decided by tender;
service purchasers, government financial resources, and government-guaranteed borrowers
shareholder of the business entity, owner of the property, partner or sole proprietor performing them
A person shall be fined in the amount of one thousand units.
3. To perform his / her official duties for two years after leaving the public service
timely procurement of government goods, works and services, allocation of state and local resources,
Percentage and assets of the business entity that has made decisions on issues such as management, control and liability
The contract, contract, entered into if the owner or partner, transferred funds from the business entity
A permit shall be revoked and a person shall be fined in the amount of one thousand units.
4. A conflict of interest may arise within two years after the dismissal
If the activity is prohibited by law, the contract, agreement and permission obtained shall be invalid
A person shall be fined in the amount of one thousand units.
Article 15.31. Violation of the Law on the Government of Mongolia
/ This article was added by the law in 5 May 2020 /
1. If the official name and symbol of the Government of Mongolia is used, a person shall be equal to twenty units
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of two hundred units togrogs.
2. A person shall be liable for disseminating false information using the official name and symbol of the Government of Mongolia
in togrogs equal to fifty units, in legal entities in togrogs equal to five hundred units
fine.
Article 15.32. Obstruction of a judge's disciplinary proceedings
/ This article was added by the law in January 15, 2021 and March 3, 2021
Effective from January 1.
1. A member of the Judicial Disciplinary Committee who has violated the rules and regulations of the Judicial Disciplinary Committee
to respect the information and evidence that was deliberately avoided or required to appear when summoned
If it is not submitted, submitted or given false testimony without a valid reason, it shall be equal to four hundred units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to four thousand units.

2. A member of the Judicial Disciplinary Committee interfered with or influenced the exercise of his / her powers,
in case of giving instructions or obstructing their activities, in the amount of four hundred units togrogs,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of four thousand units togrogs.
3. Destroying or altering information and evidence in a disciplinary case is a criminal offense
If not, a person shall be fined four hundred units and a legal entity four thousand togrogs
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
Page 11

CHAPTER SIXTEEN
BORDER SECURITY OF MONGOLIA AND FOREIGN CITIZENS AND STATEless persons
CONFLICT AGAINST HUMAN TRAFFIC RULES IN MONGOLIA
Article 16.1. Violation of the Law on Borders of Mongolia
1. Mongolia:
1.1. Border and border regime;
1.2. In case of violation of the rules to be followed at the border crossing point, the illegally acquired property and income shall be confiscated and one person shall be fined
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, in togrogs equal to one thousand units in legal entities
fine.
2. Fifty units per person in case of violation of the established order of inspection at the border crossing
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of five hundred units togrogs.
3. One person shall be detained if he / she operates in the border checkpoint without permission
in togrogs equal to one hundred units, in togrogs equal to one thousand units in legal entities
fine.
Article 16.2. Violation of the Law on the Legal Status of Foreign Citizens
1. Foreign citizens and stateless persons of Mongolia:
1.1. Violation of the established rules on registration;
1.2. Violation of the procedure for possession, use and storage of a residence permit in the territory;
Carry a passport, passport replacement document or residence permit in the territory.
violation of regulations;
1.4. Violation of employment regulations in the territory;
1.5. Carried out activities other than the intended purpose;
/ This provision was added by the law in December 31, 2020 /
1.6. To travel in the border area specified in international treaties and agreements concluded with neighboring countries
in the amount of one hundred units for a person traveling in a territory other than those permitted by documents
will be fined in togrogs.
/ This part was amended according to the law dated December 31, 2020 /
2. If a foreign citizen is not registered with the relevant authority within the period specified by law, the person shall be deemed to have died
in togrogs equal to two hundred and fifty units, for legal entities in the amount of two thousand five hundred units
will be fined in togrogs.
3. Foreign citizens and stateless persons in Mongolia:
Has not obtained a residence permit within the period specified by law;
3.2. The period of residence has been exceeded;
3.3. If the visa is overdue, in togrogs equal to ten units for each overdue day
fine.
Note: The maximum fine specified in paragraph 3 of this Article shall be two thousand units
does not exceed the amount of MNT.
4. An inviter is a foreign citizen or stateless person in Mongolia:
4.1. Has not obtained a residence permit within the period specified by law;
4.2. The residence permit has expired;
4.3. If the visa period has been exceeded, the number of days exceeded shall be considered as a violation for each foreign citizen
shall be fined in the amount of ten units per togrog.
Article 16.3. Violation of the law on travel and immigration of a citizen of Mongolia abroad for private purposes
1. A citizen of Mongolia abroad for personal reasons:
To issue a travel and immigration permit;
1.2. In case of violation of the procedure for suspension of the right to travel and immigrate, a person shall be equal to three hundred units
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to three thousand units.
Article 16.4. Violation of the law on free zones
1. In case of violation of the special regime in the free zone, the registration of activities in the free zone
revoke the certificate in the amount of two hundred units for a person and two for a legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN
CONFLICT AGAINST POLITICAL RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS
/ This chapter was added by the law in December 20, 2019 /
Article 17.1. Violation of the election law
/ This article was amended according to the law dated January 30, 2020 /
1. Preliminary results of voting reported by an election committee shall be disclosed to individuals and legal entities
in case of misrepresentation, misrepresentation or making a statement, a person shall be fined ten thousand units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one hundred thousand units togrogs.
2. Assistance in election work or price of election committee office and polling station
in case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to provide free of charge, a person in the amount of four thousand units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of forty thousand units togrogs.
3. A cultural center and a physical center owned by him / her for holding election meetings, conferences and gatherings
a person who has not fulfilled his / her obligation to use gymnasiums and conference halls, other premises and halls free of charge
two thousand units in togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of twenty thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
4. Voter lists have been duplicated or distributed, except as provided by law
a person in the amount of ten thousand units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of one hundred thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
5. A person registered as a candidate shall not run for office after the decision to register as a candidate has been made
Refusal shall be punishable by a fine of ten thousand togrogs.
6. If an independent candidate joins and establishes an election administration, the number of persons shall be five thousand
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
7. Dissemination of false information that discredits a candidate's honor and reputation
If a person is not subject to criminal liability, he / she shall be fined in the amount of five thousand units
A person shall be fined in togrogs equal to fifty thousand units.
8. The media organization that conducted the election campaign has completed the election campaign
did not fulfill its obligation to make public the report on the advertisement within 10 days from the date of publication
a legal entity shall be fined in the amount of twenty thousand units togrogs.
9. One hundred units per person for violation of the rules for using vehicles in election campaigns
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one thousand units.
10. When placing the leaflets, use glue and glue to mark the streets and squares
In case of pollution, compensation for damages shall be equal to two thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to twenty thousand units togrogs.
11. If a party flag, slogan or insignia is placed in a place where it is prohibited to place it, two persons shall be detained
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to twenty thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
12. Violation of the rules established by law on the use of radio and television in election campaigns
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one hundred thousand units togrogs.
13. A website that is not registered in accordance with the law is used in the election campaign, or
if a person's name or fake e-mail address is used, a person shall be fined in the amount of five thousand units,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of fifty thousand units togrogs.
14. Mobile and internet service providers are specified in the decision of the competent authority
If the infringing website and the information are not blocked on your network, five people will be arrested
in togrogs equal to one thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to fifty thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
15. To conduct election campaign using the electronic environment approved by the competent authority
In case of violation of the control procedure, a person shall be fined in the amount of five thousand units and a legal entity
shall be fined in the amount of fifty thousand units.
16. A person or legal entity shall reimburse or reimburse from the beginning of the regular election year until the end of the polling day
and voters until the end of polling day after the decision to call an extraordinary election has been made
In order to attract offers:
16.1. Goods and items are sold at a discounted price, any services are discounted or free of charge
shown;
Public sports competitions, contests, festivals, art performances, receptions,
organized and sponsored banquets, banquets and lotteries;
16.3. Voters were involved in organizing trips abroad and domestically, resting at sanatoriums,
nursed;
16.4. Has entered into an agreement or transaction to provide money or goods with his / her own or other people's funds in the future;
16.5. Advantages to others by giving endowment, share, shares, job placement, employment
issued and promised;
16.6. The content calling for refusal to participate in the election and violation of the election legislation
advertised with;
16.7. To establish political rankings through communication, mass media and electronic environment
It is a criminal offense to conduct any form of purposeful selection or poll
If not expected, a person shall be fined twenty thousand units and a legal entity two hundred
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
17. Except for the person authorized to conduct the election campaign, the election campaign was conducted by a person
a person has ten thousand units of togrogs and a legal entity has one hundred thousand units
shall be fined in togrogs equal to.
18. During the election campaign, the person authorized to conduct the election campaign shall:
18.1. Conducted election campaign in methods and forms other than those provided by law;
18.2. Conducted an election campaign during a period other than that permitted;
18.3. A commitment to implement any objectives and measures not reflected in the election platform
any actions of this nature used in the election campaign;
18.4. A candidate of a party or coalition shall submit a platform separate from the platform of the party or coalition
used;
18.5. In cases other than those provided by law, state and local self-governing bodies, state and
transportation of locally owned legal entities and state and locally owned legal entities
tools and other property were used in any form during the election campaign;
18.6. Election using loudspeakers from 22:00 pm to 08:00 pm
propaganda and disturbing the peace of others;
18.7. Used, organized, participated in, sponsored, or practiced any religious practice
In case of distribution of related items, a person shall be fined in the amount of twenty thousand units
A person shall be fined in the amount of two hundred thousand units togrogs.
19. During the election campaign, the media shall cover any party, coalition or candidate
a person who has made a promise to not release information or information, or has entered into a contract
in togrogs equal to twenty thousand units, for legal entities in the amount of two hundred thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
20. The chairman of a party or coalition, as well as a candidate shall receive votes from the day of the start of the election campaign
Participated in non-election independent programs, programs, and interviews until the end of the campaign, or
any program, program, audio, video or interview made before the start of the election campaign
If it is introduced or published, a person shall be fined twenty thousand units and a legal entity shall be paid two
shall be fined in the amount of one hundred thousand togrogs.
21. To register the election expense account, to accumulate and spend money in the expense account
In case of violation of the rules set forth in the law, a person shall be fined in the amount of ten thousand units
A person shall be fined in the amount of one hundred thousand units.
22. Donations to parties, coalitions or candidates in excess of the amount specified in the law, or
If a person makes a double donation to a coalition that has joined a party, the illegally earned property and income shall be confiscated
in togrogs equal to ten thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to one hundred thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
23. Donations made by a person prohibited from making donations have been obtained illegally if they have not been returned
confiscation of property and income in the amount of ten thousand units for a person and one hundred for a legal entity
A fine equal to one thousand units shall be imposed.
24. Illegally earned assets in case of violation of the law on non-monetary donations,
confiscated income in the amount of ten thousand units for a person and one hundred thousand for a legal entity
shall be fined in togrogs equal to units.
25. Parties, coalitions and candidates shall submit their election expense reports to the state audit within the period specified by law
in case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to deliver to the organization, a person in the amount of ten thousand units togrogs,
A legal entity shall be fined in the amount of one hundred thousand units togrogs.
26. The bank that deposited the election expense account shall withdraw from the polling station 30
Within a day, the account information of the party, coalition or candidate shall be submitted to the supreme state audit body
In case of non-fulfillment of the obligation to deliver, the person shall be fined in the amount of four thousand units
A person shall be fined in the amount of forty thousand units togrogs.
27. To receive reports on the progress of candidates, parties, coalitions, donations and election expenses
failed to fulfill its obligation to disclose to the public and submit to the state audit organization 3 days prior to the date
is equal to twenty thousand units for a person and two hundred thousand units for a legal entity
will be fined in togrogs.
28. If an authorized citizen specified in the election law has provided assistance to more than two voters, a person shall be considered a person
shall be fined in the amount of two thousand units togrogs.
29. If a candidate, observer or political official has performed the duties of a trusted citizen
A person shall be fined in the amount of five thousand units.
30. The voter is:
30.1. Ballot papers were taken from the polling station;
30.2. Documenting the votes marked on the ballot paper and the votes recorded by other voters
photographed, videotaped, transmitted live, shown to others;
30.3. The ballot paper was marked with a non-designated pen;
30.4. Demanded or demanded money or property to vote for or not to vote for any candidate
A person shall be fined in the amount of ten thousand units.
31. Failure to fulfill his / her obligation to provide a working voter with an opportunity to vote on the polling day
a person in the amount of ten thousand units togrogs and a legal entity in the amount of one hundred thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
32. The person authorized to conduct the election campaign and the observer shall work for the election committee
the person who conducted the election campaign and related activities at the premises and at the polling station
in togrogs equal to five thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to fifty thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
33. Observers are required to exercise rights not provided by law, to use force, to intimidate, and to lie
The use of illegal means, such as the dissemination of information, is not criminally punishable
in togrogs equal to five thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to fifty thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
34. Voting day:
34.1. Served or sold alcohol;
34.2. Organized public events;
34.3. If a trade and service center is operated outdoors or indoors, ten thousand people
in togrogs equal to one unit, in togrogs equal to one hundred thousand units for a legal entity
fine.
35. Delivery of voting results and election documents to the competent authority
The obstruction is not subject to criminal liability in the amount of ten thousand units per person
A legal entity shall be fined in togrogs equal to one hundred thousand units.
36. Rights by law to information activities conducted using automated election systems
if the interference of a person or legal entity that has not been granted is not subject to criminal liability
in togrogs equal to ten thousand units, for legal entities in the amount equal to one hundred thousand units
will be fined in togrogs.
Note: The Electoral Law referred to in this article refers to the Automated Electoral System,
On Elections to the State Great Hural of Mongolia, Aimag, Capital City, Soum and District Citizens 'Representatives' Khurals
understand the Law on Elections and the Law on Presidential Elections of Mongolia.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN
OTHER THINGS
/ This chapter was amended according to the law dated December 20, 2019 /
Article 18.1 Entry into force of the law
/ This article was amended according to the law dated December 20, 2019 /
1. This law shall come into force on July 1, 2017.

DEPUTY CHAIRMAN OF THE PARLIAMENT OF MONGOLIA

Ц.НЯМДОРЖ

