I. BASIC PROVISIONS
Member 1


Pension and disability insurance in Montenegro:


1) mandatory pension and disability insurance based on current funding,


2) mandatory pension insurance based on individual capitalized savings;


3) voluntary pension insurance based on individual capitalized savings.


Member 2


This Law regulates mandatory pension and disability insurance based on current funding.


Member 3


Mandatory pension insurance based on individual capitalized savings and voluntary pension insurance based on individual capitalized savings are regulated by a special law.


Member 4


Compulsory pension and disability insurance based on current financing (hereinafter referred to as pension and disability insurance), work-based policyholders, depending on the duration of the investment and the height of the base on which the pension and disability insurance contribution is paid, are granted rights in the event of old age, disability and physical damage, and their family members are entitled to the death of the insured person, that is, the user of the right.


Member 5


The rights to pension and disability insurance are personal rights and cannot be transferred to other persons.


The rights to pension and disability insurance may not be obsolete, with the exception of the rights to receivables and unpaid amounts in the cases established by this Law.


Member 6


Pension and disability insurance funds are provided from contributions paid by the insured and employers.


In special cases and in accordance with the conditions established by law, funds for pension and disability insurance are provided by the State, that is, by other payers.


Member 7


Funds for pension and disability insurance are provided in the budget of Montenegro.


The rights to pension and disability insurance are carried out in the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund of Montenegro (hereinafter referred to as the fund).


Member 8


The rights to pension and disability insurance are granted, implemented and used only in accordance with the conditions and in accordance with the procedure established by this law, and cannot be regulated by other rules.


Acquired rights to pension and disability insurance may be revoked only in the cases defined by this Law.


II POLICYHOLDERS
Member 9


Policyholders, from the point of view of this law, are:


1) employees (hereinafter: insured employee);


2) persons engaged in independent activities (hereinafter: insured independent business);


3) farmers (hereinafter: insured-farmer).


If a person simultaneously fulfills the conditions of insurance on several grounds from position 1 of this member, the basis of insurance is determined in such a way that the existence of insurance grounds under the previous paragraph excludes the basis of insurance from the next paragraph.


The obligations to pay contributions to the insurance base are determined in accordance with this Law, that is, the law regulating the payment of contributions to compulsory social insurance.


Member 10


Insured persons are hired:


1) persons employed by an economic company, another legal entity, a state body, a local government body, or an individual (hereinafter referred to as an employer);


2) professional military personnel and civilians serving in the army of Montenegro;


3) selected or named persons, if they receive a profit for performing the function;


4) members of the board of directors in a business company and other legal entity and members of the board of directors in state institutions and institutions who receive compensation for their work, if they are not insured on another basis;


5) a person of an employee assigned to work abroad, or working in a business company, or another legal entity carrying out activities or services abroad, if it is not provided for in accordance with the provisions of this country or if an international agreement is not otherwise provided for;


6) citizens of Montenegro who, on the territory of Montenegro, work in foreign or international organizations and institutions, foreign diplomatic and consular missions, or in foreign legal entities or individuals, unless otherwise defined by an international treaty;


7) citizens of Montenegro working abroad, if during this time they are not required to insure themselves with a foreign insurance carrier, or if the rights to pension and disability insurance, according to the rules of this state, cannot be realized or used outside its territory, and shortly before leaving abroad they were insured in Montenegro, that is, if before leaving abroad they had permanent residence in Montenegro;


8) foreign citizens and stateless persons who are located on the territory of Montenegro, work with foreign legal entities and individuals, unless an international agreement is otherwise defined, that is, if it is not insured in accordance with the rules of another state;


9) foreign citizens and stateless persons who are located on the territory of Montenegro, work in international organizations and institutions and foreign diplomatic and consular missions, if such insurance is provided for by an international agreement;


10) persons whose work has ceased to be needed, i.e. who have ceased to engage in entrepreneurial activity, while receiving monetary compensation in accordance with labor legislation and employment.


Persons from position 1 of point 7 of this member are provided upon personal request from the day of employment, but not earlier than 1. januara of the year in which the insurance application was submitted.


Member 11


The insured independent operations are:


1) persons who, in accordance with the law, independently carry out economic or other activities, if they are not necessarily insured on the basis of employment;


2) persons who perform operations under a work contract, as well as obligations based on the author's contract, as well as obligations based on other contracts, in which they receive compensation for the work performed (hereinafter: contractual compensation), and not insured on another basis;


3) priests, religious officials, monks and nuns, if they are not necessarily insured on another basis.


Member 12


Insured farmers are persons engaged in agricultural activities (farmers, members of a farmer's household, and members of a mixed household) as the sole or primary occupation, who are not insured workers, insured for self-employment, beneficiaries of pensions and training, and who have a general capacity for health.


A household, in terms of the ratio of 1 of this member, is considered a community of life, economy, and expenditure on the income earned through the work of its members, regardless of kinship.


The public administration body responsible for work in agriculture, forestry and water supply in general prescribes what is considered agricultural activity as the sole or main profession, and maintains a personal register from position 1 of this member.


The act from position 3 of this member is given according to the previously received opinion of the state administration bodies responsible for the work on pension and disability insurance.


Member 13


The property of the insured is acquired on the day of the beginning and is terminated on the day of the termination of employment or independent, that is, entrepreneurial activity, that is, the performance of contractual work.


The property of the insured farmer is acquired from the date of registration in the register of 12 paragraph 3 of this Code.


The property of the insured person is determined on the basis of an insurance application, or an insurance statement, in accordance with this Law.


The property of the insured may not be acquired before the age of 15.
III persons providing rights in the event of disability and physical injury
Member 14


The rights in the event of disability and physical injury caused by a violation of work or occupational disease are exercised by the person:


1) who are in vocational training, pre-qualification or retraining, who are assigned to the Employment Office of Montenegro (hereinafter: the employment office);


2) students and students when, in accordance with the law, they are engaged in compulsory industrial work, professional practice or practical training;


3) persons who are on sentencing to prison, while working in a prison sentencing facility (workshop, workplace, etc.).


The personal contribution from position 1 item 1 of this member is paid by the employment bureau.


Funds for the exercise of rights from position 1 of the Tac. 2 and 3 of this member, as well as the rights from member 42 position 2 of this Act on the death of a person from position 1 of the Tac. 2 and 3 members of this committee are provided from the budget of Montenegro (hereinafter referred to as the budget).


Member 15


The rights in the event of disability and physical damage are exercised by insured persons and persons who disrupt work by participating in:


1) in actions to save or protect against natural disasters or accidents;


2) in military exercises or in the performance of other duties in the field of land protection established by law;


3) on other jobs and tasks that, according to the law, were defined as common interests.


Funds for the exercise of rights from position 1 of this member, as well as the rights of member 42 position 2 of this Code in the event of the death of a person from position 1 of this member, are provided from the budget.


IV Pension and disability insurance rights
Member 16


Pension and disability insurance rights:


1) in the case of old age, the right to an old-age pension and early retirement age;


2) in the case of disability, the right to a disability pension;


3) for the case of death:


- the right to a family pension;


- the right to reimbursement of funeral expenses;


4) in the case of physical damage caused by a violation of work or occupational disease, the right to compensation for physical damage.


1. OLD-AGE PENSION


Member 17


The insured person is entitled to an old-age pension when he / she is 66 years old (male), or 64 years old (female) and has at least 15 years of insurance service.


The insured person is entitled to an old-age pension when he / she turns 40 years of insurance service and 61 years of life.


The insured person is entitled to an old-age pension when he or she turns 30 years of insurance service, of which at least 20 years are effectively performed in the workplace,where in the mines the insurance internship is calculated with an extended duration.


The right to an old-age pension, in accordance with the ratio of 3 of this member, can be achieved until 31. December 2021. years.


Member 17a


The insured person is entitled to an early old-age pension when he / she turns 63 and has at least 15 years of insurance service.


Member 18


To the insured, whose insurance internship is calculated with an extended duration, the age limit for obtaining the rights to an old-age pension, established in the 17th century member. 1 and 2 of this Code, this is reduced depending on the degree of increase in the internship for one year, and this is:


1) for every six years spent in the workplace, that is, at a job where 12 months were effectively spent, the insurance internship is calculated as 14 months;


2) for every five years spent in the workplace, that is, at a job where 12 months were effectively spent, an insurance internship for 15 months is calculated;


3) for every four years spent in the workplace, that is, at a job where 12 months were effectively spent, are counted in the insurance internship as 16 months;


4) for every three years spent in the workplace, that is, at a job where 12 months were effectively spent, 18 months are counted in the insurance internship.


Member 19


The age pension is determined by the average income, that is, the basis of insurance received in the period 1. January 1970. age up to 31 years. the December year preceding the year of exercise of rights.


Member 20


The height of the retirement age is calculated by multiplying the insured's personal points by the value of the pension by one personal point on the day of the exercise of the right.


Member 21


The personal points of the insured are established by multiplying the personal coefficient of the insured and his retirement age.


Member 22


The annual personal coefficient is determined on the basis of earnings, that is, the insurance base starts from 1. January 1970. year, since earnings, that is, the insurance base established for each calendar year, is divided by the average annual earnings in Montenegro for the same calendar year.


Earnings, that is, the insurance bases established in the registration records for the period 1. January 1970. age up to 31 years. December 2003. the years are divided with the average net earnings in Montenegro, and the income, i.e. the insurance bases established in the birth certificate 1. januara 2004. the years are divided with the average gross earnings in Montenegro.


Annual personal coefficient in terms of st. 1 and 2 of this term are equal to one when the earnings, i.e. the insurance base in a calendar year is equal to the average earnings of Montenegro's employees in that calendar year.


When determining the annual personal coefficient, the income, salary fees and insurance bases that were used to account for and pay contributions to pension and disability insurance, for which the contribution was paid and which were set out in the birth certificate, except for the year in which the right is exercised, are taken into account.


Data on the average annual earnings in Montenegro from Bauman Street in Kazan From 1 to 4 of this member is published by the body responsible for the work of statistics.


Member 23


The personal coefficient is determined by the fact that the sum of the annual personal coefficients is divided by the period for which they are calculated, with the fact that each year counts as 1, each month is 0.0833, and each day is 0.00274.


Member 24


During the life of the insurance that has reached the 1st age. January 1970. age up to 31 years. December 2003. in the years in which the salary fees were received on the basis of the remaining working capacity, the basis from which these fees are indicated is taken for the calculation of the annual personal coefficient, and in the case of compensation due to lower earnings in another relevant job, the compensation received is also taken for the calculation of the annual personal coefficient.


Member 25


When the insured person has received compensation for wages in accordance with the rules of health insurance during a calendar year, that is, during maternity leave, the received compensation for wages is taken to calculate the annual personal coefficient for this period.


The insured person who received compensation in accordance with the rules of health insurance, that is, during maternity leave in the period 1. January 1970. age up to 31 years. December 2003. years to calculate the annual personal coefficient for this period, the personal coefficient is taken from the period during which the insured received a profit, that is, the basic level of insurance until December 31, 2003. years.


Member 26


An insured person who cannot have annual personal coefficients set for any calendar year, as well as an insured person who does not have any years of insurance, the personal coefficient is equal to one.


If there is no information about the income, compensation for profit, or insurance base for a certain calendar year, the personal coefficient from the period during which the insured received profit, compensation for profit, or the basic level of insurance is taken to calculate the annual personal coefficient for this period.


An insured person who uses the right to refuse to work in accordance with the labor legislation, while the child is three years old, to calculate the annual personal coefficient for this period, the personal coefficient is taken from the period during which the insured person received profit, compensation for earnings, or the basic level of insurance.


Member 27


Pension account for one point for the first half of 2004. the annual fee is 2.97 euros.
Member 27a


Early retirement is defined in the same way as an age pension, and the amount of this pension is reduced for each month of early retirement until the age of 66 years of life (male) or 64 years of life (female) by 0.35%.


The amount of the pension established in accordance with the relationship and this member is maintained even after 66 years of life (male) or 64 years of life (female).


1) the highest pension


Member 28


The highest amount of the retirement age is established in accordance with the procedure established by Article 20 of this Code, while the personal coefficient of the insured person may not exceed 4.


2) the lowest pension


Member 29


The insured person whose pension is determined in accordance with Article 20 of this Code, less than the lowest pension, is determined by the lowest pension.


The lowest retirement age is determined in accordance with the procedure established by Article 20 of this Code, with the fact that the personal coefficient of the insured is 0.5.


The pension from position 2 of this member cannot be less than 45 euros.


This member's regulation 3 applies to both early retirement and retirement.


The amount from position 3 of this member is consistent with how the pensions are equalized.


Provision 3 of this member does not apply to proportional pensions achieved through the use of international treaties.


2. DISABILITY PENSION


Member 30*


Disability exists when the insured person, due to changes in the state of health that cannot be eliminated through treatment or medical rehabilitation, has a complete loss of working capacity.


Disability also exists when the insured employee* has a partial 75% loss of working capacity due to changes in health that cannot be eliminated through treatment or medical rehabilitation.


Disability in terms of st. 1 and 2 of this member may arise due to work disorders, occupational diseases, out-of-work disorders, or illnesses.


The Foundation determines the mandatory control over the rights holders no later than three years from the date of the establishment of disability, with the exception of cases provided for by the general act of the foundation from member 85 of paragraph 1 of this Code.


Member 31


An insured person who suffers a complete disability from a member of the 30 clause 1 of this Code shall be entitled to a full disability benefit.


An insured person who suffers a partial disability from a member of the 30 clause 2 of this Code shall be entitled to a partial disability pension.


Member 32


A disabled person at work, from the point of view of this law, is an insured person who, on the basis of disability, has received the right to a disability pension.


Member 33


An insured person who has been found to have lost the ability to work from a member of 30 paragraph 2 of this Code may be employed for one quarter of the full working time.


Member 34


In connection with this law, the violation of the insured person, which occurs in direct, causal, spatial and temporal connection with the performance of work based on who is insured, is caused by immediate and short-term mechanical, physical or chemical actions, sudden changes in body position, sudden stress on the body or other changes in the physiological state of the body.


A violation of work is also considered a violation caused in accordance with regulation 1 of this member, which the insured suffers in the performance of work to which he does not apply, but which is performed in the interests of the employer for which he works.


A violation of work is also considered a violation caused in accordance with the procedure established by Regulation 1 of this member, which the insured suffers on the regular way from the apartment to the place of work, and vice versa, on the way taken to perform official duties and on the way to the obligation to enter into operation, as well as in other cases established by law.


A violation of work is also considered as an illness of the insured person that occurred immediately or as an exceptional consequence of an accident or force majeure during the performance of work on the basis of who is insured or associated with it.


Member 35


The violation of work is also considered a violation caused by the manner provided for in Article 34 of this Code, incurred by the insured in connection with the use of the rights to health care.


Violation of work is also considered as a violation caused by the manner provided for in Article 34 of this Code, which a person suffers from participation in the activities established in Articles 14 and 15 of the Law.


Member 36


Occupational diseases, from the point of view of this law, are certain diseases that occur in the insurance process, caused by a longer direct impact of the process and working conditions in the workplace, that is, the jobs that the insured performed.


Occupational diseases, workplaces, or workplaces where these diseases occur, and the conditions under which they are considered occupational diseases, from the point of view of relation 1 of this member, are established by the public administration body responsible for work on pension and disability insurance, according to the previously received opinion of the public administration bodies responsible for work in the field of health.


Member 37


The policyholder who has a loss of performance from a member of the 30th century. 1 and 2 of this law are entitled to a disability pension:


1) if the disability is caused by a violation of work or an occupational disease-regardless of the duration of the insurance service;


2) if the disability was caused by a violation outside of work or illness-provided that the loss of working capacity occurred before reaching the years of life provided for obtaining the right to an old-age pension from a member of 17 Paragraph 1 of this Code, and that he had completed an insurance internship covering at least one third of his working life.


An insured person whose disability is caused by an illness or a violation outside of work that occurred before the age of 30 years of life is entitled to a disability pension:


1) when the disability occurred before 20 years of life-regardless of the duration of the insurance service;


2) when the disability has arisen from 20. age under 30 years of life-if there is a total of at least one year of insurance experience before the disability occurs, if this is more beneficial for the insured than the conditions from position 1 of paragraph 2 of this member.


Member 38


Working life is the number of full years from the day when the insured turned 20, or 23 years of life if he received a higher education during regular training, or 26 years of life if he received a higher education on a regular basis, to the Day of disability occurrence.


An insured person who, after completing 20 years of life, was serving a military term, is reduced in service by the same amount of time as he spent serving a military term.


Member 39


Disability pension in the case of disability from a member of the 30 item 1 of this Code, caused by a violation of work or occupational disease, is determined in the amount of the retirement age, which must belong to the policyholder for 40 years of retirement age.


Disability pension in the case of disability from a member of the 30 item 1 of this Code, caused by a violation outside of work or illness, is determined by the application of the provisions of art. From 19 to 27 of this law, with the fact that when determining personal points, the years of retirement experience from the date of disability are added, namely:


1) the policyholder under the age of 55 years is added 2/3 of the retirement age, which is not enough to 55 years of life, and 1/2 of the retirement age, which is absent at the age of 55 years to 60 years;


2) the policyholder who has turned 55 years old is added 1/2 of the retirement age, which is not enough to 60 years of life.


Pension internship from the position of 2 touch. 1 and 2 of this member can be added up to a maximum of 40 years.


When determining the height of the disability pension in the case of disability from a member 30 paragraph 1 of this Code, caused by a violation outside of work or illness, the policyholder who has achieved an internship under insurance with an extended duration, the age limits of 55 or 60 years of life from the ratio of 2. 1 and 2 of this member are reduced, to which, when determining personal points, the years of pension internship are added during the period, depending on the age, the age limit for obtaining rights to an old-age pension is reduced, applying 18 Paragraph 1 of this Code.


An insured person who fulfills the conditions for ensuring the rights to disability of the pension provision in respect of the insurance period in which the disability is caused by a partial violation of work or an occupational disease, as well as a partial illness or a violation of freelance work, a one-time disability benefit is determined, consisting of proportional parts determined on the basis of a violation of work or an occupational disease, or on the basis of an illness or a violation of freelance work in accordance with their impact on the general disability, and the calculated pension may not exceed the internship.


An insured person whose disability is caused by a partial violation of work activity or occupational disease, as well as a partial violation of work or illness and compliance with the conditions for obtaining the right to a disability pension only on the basis of a disability caused by a violation of work activity or occupational disease, the disability pension is determined in the percentage with which the general disability affects the work or occupational disease.


Member 40


Disability pension in the event of disability from a member of 30 paragraph 2 of this Code is determined, depending on the cause of the disability, in the amount of 75% of the disability pension from a member of 39 of this Code.


Member 41


The provisions of CL. 28 and 29 of this Law are also applied in determining both the maximum and the lowest full disability pension.
3. FAMILY PENSION


Member 42


The right to a family pension can be achieved by family members:


1) a deceased insured person who has completed at least five years of insurance service, or has fulfilled the conditions for an old-age or disability pension;


2) a deceased user of retirement age or disability.


If the death of an insured person, that is, a person from CL. 14 and 15 of this Law, occurred as a result of a violation of work activity or an occupational disease, his family members are entitled to a family pension regardless of the length of service of the insurance policy or the person.


Member 43


The family members of the deceased insured person, that is, the right holder from member 42 of this Code, are considered to be:


1) spouse;


2) children (born in or out of wedlock or adopted and stepchildren, insured, i.e. the rights holders bear).


The right to a family pension can also be achieved by a divorced spouse, in accordance with the terms of CL. 44 and 45 of this Code, if its legal decision has been rendered the right to take out.


Member 43a


In accordance with the conditions applicable to the spouse, the right to a family pension may be achieved by the life partner of the deceased insured person, i.e., the user of the right from a member of 42 of this law who has entered into a life partnership with a person of the same sex in accordance with the law governing the life partnership of a person of the same sex.


In accordance with the conditions applicable to persons from the member 43 Paragraph 1 paragraph 2 of this Code, the right to a family pension may be exercised by the child of the partner from the provision 1 of this member, the deceased insured, or the right holder."


Member 43b


In accordance with the conditions applicable to the spouse, the right to a family pension can be achieved both by the extramarital spouse of the deceased insured person, and by the user of rights from member 42 of this Code, in accordance with the law governing family relations:


- if the extramarital community lasted for at least the last three years before the death of the insured or the copyright holder, or


- if the period of validity of an extramarital community from its foundation to the death of the insured, that is, the copyright holder, was less than three years, then a common child was born in this extramarital community.


The existence of an extramarital community is determined in court proceedings.


Member 44


A widower or widow is entitled to a family pension if:


1) before the death of the spouse was 52 years old or older;


2) before the death of the spouse or within one year from the date of the death of the spouse became completely incompetent, that is, unable to work;


3) after the death of the spouse, there remains one child or several children who are entitled to a family pension for this spouse, and the widower, that is, the widow, performs parental duties in relation to these children. A widower, or widow, who, during the term of the right to this basis, performs a complete inability to work, reserves the right to a family pension as long as this disability exists.


A widower, that is, a widow who, during the term of the right to a family pension, acquired under the 1 Tac ratio. 2 and 3 of this member, who is 52 years old, permanently reserves the right to a family pension.


Member 45


The right to a family pension is also granted to a widow who is pregnant, as well as to a widow who is the child of a deceased insured person, that is, the right holder, born after his death, and this right belongs to her from the date of the death of the insured person, that is, the right holder.


If the child is dead or dies before the child is six months old, the widow is entitled to a family pension until six months after the birth.


Member 46


The child is entitled to a family pension, and it belongs to him until the age of 19.


After 19 years of life, the child is entitled to a family pension, and it belongs to him until the end of school, but not later than 25 years of life, if he is studying.


Studying, from the point of view of the ratio 2 of this term, is considered the attendance of the main, that is, master's studies.


If a child attending secondary school is 19 years old before the end of the school year, the right to a family pension belongs to him until the day when the length of the school year is taken into account in this calendar year in accordance with the law governing education and upbringing.


A student whose studies have lasted for more than five years, who has not completed his studies until the day when he turned 25, is entitled to a family pension on the day when, in the calendar year when he turned 25, the length of the academic year is taken into account in accordance with the law governing higher education.


The child is entitled to a family pension, and it belongs to him, since he accepts the inability to live and work independently, born before the age to which the children are entitled to a family pension.


The child is entitled to a family pension, and it belongs to him, since he accepts the inability to live and work independently, which arose after the age at which the children are entitled to a family pension, and before the death of the insured, that is, the right holder, in accordance with the condition that the insured or the human rights defender survived him before his death.


A child with a developmental disability, in accordance with the provisions on the upbringing and education of children with special needs, is entitled to a family pension, and it belongs to him from the termination of work or from independent activity.


A child whose education has been discontinued due to illness is entitled to a family pension, both during the illness and before the age of life from the relation of 2 of this member, as well as during these years, but most of all for as much time as due to illness he has lost from studying.


Member 47


The family pension is determined by the age or disability pension, which must belong to the policyholder at the hour of death, that is, from the moment of retirement, which belonged to the user at the hour of death, as a percentage established in accordance with the number of family members who are entitled to this pension, namely:


- for one member 70%;


- for two members 80%;


- for three members 90%;


- for four or more members, 100%.


If the spouse and the divorced spouse of the deceased insured, i.e. the right holder, are entitled to a family pension, one family pension benefit is determined in the amount belonging to one family member and is divided into equal amounts.


The relation 2 provision of this member also applies if the right to a family pension also has an extramarital partner under the law governing family relations and a life partner under the law governing a partnership in relation to the life of a person of the same sex, if the extramarital community has ceased, that is, the life partnership has been terminated and the sentence of justice has been granted to them.
Member 48


As the smallest basis for determining family retirement, the age pension of the deceased insured person assigned to a 20-year pension internship is taken.


Member 49


Children without both parents, in addition to family retirement by one parent, also have a family pension by the other parent, namely:


for one child 20%,


for two children 40%,


for three children, 60%.


and for four or more children, a 100% age or disability pension from member 47 of paragraph 1 of this Code.


The pension from position 1 of this member is defined as a pension, the amount of which cannot exceed the amount of the age pension itself for an internship at the retirement age of 40 years.


Member 50


When sentencing for the right to a family pension, the insured person is considered deceased, that is, the beneficiary of the right to a pension that was transferred to a family member, if his average monthly income of a family member in the previous year did not exceed the amount of the lowest pension from a member of the 29th century. 3 and 4 of this Code and if with the deceased insured, that is, with the beneficiary before his death, he had the same place of residence.


The income from position 1 of this member does not include: monetary compensation based on social and child protection; monetary compensation for assistance and care; monetary compensation for personal injuries; remuneration-based compensation; retirement severance pay, and income based on student and student level.


Member 51


When school education is a condition for the use of the right to a family pension, the school education that the child continues in a school of the same or lower rank than the one that has already ended is not considered.


4. Monetary compensation for personal injuries


Member 52


Physical damage occurs when, in the insured event, there is a loss, more significant damage or more significant disability of individual organs or parts of the body, which impedes the normal functioning of the body and requires greater efforts to meet the needs of life, regardless of whether it causes disability or not.


Insured or a person from CL. 14 and 15 of this Code, in which the physical damage caused by a violation of work or occupational disease is not less than 50%, which gives the right to monetary compensation.


Member 53


The list of injuries from member 52 of this Code, as well as the assessment of these injuries, is prescribed by the state administration body responsible for the work of pension and disability insurance, according to the previously received opinion of the state administration bodies responsible for health affairs.


Member 54


Physical injuries are classified by weight by six degrees, namely:


1) first staircase
100% physical damage;
2) second stage
90% physical damage;
3) third stage
80% physical damage;
4) Fourth ladder
70% physical damage;
5) fifth stage
60% physical damage;
6) sixth stage
50% physical damage.
Member 55


If the insured person, who has previously suffered physical damage caused by an occupational or occupational disease below 50%, has a deterioration of this physical damage or a new case of physical damage caused by a work disorder or occupational disease, so that the total physical damage is 50% or more, the policyholder is entitled to compensation for bodily damage in the appropriate percentage in accordance with the new degree of physical damage determined on the basis of the new state of the total physical damage.


Member 56


The basis for determining monetary compensation for personal injuries during the first half of 2004. the year is 114.61 euros.


Monetary compensation for physical damage is determined by the basis of position 1 of this member and the amounts:


1) for 100% physical damage
40% of the basics;
2) for 90% physical damage
36% of the basics;
3) for 80% physical damage
32% of the basics;
4) for 70% physical damage
28% of the basics;
5) for 60% physical damage
24% of the basics;
6) for 50% physical damage
20% of the basics.
The base from position 1 of this member is leveled as the pensions are leveled.


5. RIGHT TO COMPENSATION FOR FUNERAL EXPENSES


Member 57


In the event of the death of a pensioner, the person who settled the funeral expenses belongs to the funeral expenses.


The fee for funeral expenses refers to the sum of the three average pensions in Montenegro paid one month before the pensioner's death.


The claim for reimbursement of funeral expenses is submitted within 60 days from the date of the pensioner's death.
V Alignment
Member 58


The value of pensions for one point of a person is equalized with 1. januar of the current year, based on statistical data, with the movement of consumer prices and the average profit of employees in the territory of Montenegro in the previous year compared to the year preceding it, namely:


- in the interest rate representing 75% of the percentage growth, that is, a decrease in consumer prices and 25% of the percentage growth, that is, a decrease in profit, if the rate of change in the consumer price index is higher than the rate of change in the profit index, or equal to this rate;


- in the interest rate representing 25% of the percentage growth, that is, a decrease in consumer prices, and 75% of the percentage growth, that is, a decrease in profit, if the rate of change in the consumer price index is lower than the rate of change in the profit index.


The equalization of pensions is carried out on time and in the order from position 1 of this member.


Exclusively from St. Louis. 1 and 2 of this member, if the percentage representing the aggregate of the percentage growth, that is, the fall in consumer prices and the percentage growth, that is, the decrease in the profit from position 1 of this member will lead to a negative equalization, the value of pensions for one point and pensions does not agree.


The general act on the equalization of pensions and the cost of pensions for one point of a person from st. 1 and 2 of this member brings the Foundation.


Member 59


Monetary compensation for personal injuries is agreed in a way that provides for the equalization of pensions.


YOU ARE INTERNING FOR RETIREMENT
Member 60


Pension internship, in terms of this law, is based on who receives and exercises the rights to pension and disability insurance:


1) The time spent on insurance internship and special internship in accordance with the provisions of this law;


2) The time that, as an insurance internship and a special internship, is calculated for an internship in a Pension Fund in accordance with the rules in force before the application of this law.


Member 61


In the insurance internship, from the point of view of Member 60 of this Code, the time spent by the insured on work, on the basis of which he was insured on a mandatory basis, and for which the contribution for pension and disability insurance was made, is taken into account.


1. Insurance internship, which is calculated with an effective duration


Member 62


In the insurance internship, from the point of view of member 60 of paragraph 1 of this Code, the time spent on work, that is, on insurance in the effective duration, is taken into account.


An employee who, in accordance with the labor legislation, works on a part-time internship insurance is calculated in proportion to the realized working time.


An insurance internship in one calendar year can be no more than 12 months.


Member 63


The insurance internship takes into account the time during which the insured member of the 10 of paragraph 1 of paragraph 10 of this Code receives monetary compensation in accordance with labor and labor legislation.


Member 64


An insured person who uses the right to refuse to work according to labor standards, while the child is three years old, this time is taken into account in the insurance internship.


Funds for obtaining the rights to a pension and disability insurance based on the insurance experience of 1 of this member are provided from the budget.


Member 65


The insurance internship takes into account the time during which the insured person from the member 11 of the wheelbarrow 2 of this Code made the contractual compensation for which the contribution was paid.


The insurance internship from position 1 of this member is proportionally determined in such a way that the amount of the base rate for which the pension and disability insurance contribution is paid is divided with the average earnings received in Montenegro in the previous calendar year.


Member 66


A person who has terminated compulsory insurance in an insurance internship is calculated for the time during which the contribution was paid upon termination of compulsory insurance (extended insurance) and for the time:


1) professional training or specialization;


2) temporary unemployment, if the employment office has been notified during this time, provided that it has applied within the statutory time limit, up to five years for the specific case of insurance interruption;


3) stay abroad as the spouse of the insured person or the life partner of the insured person who has entered into a life partnership with a person of the same sex in accordance with the law governing the life partnership of a person of the same sex, or an extramarital partner in accordance with the law governing family relations who are in the service abroad with our employer or on the basis of an international contract;


4) Care for a child under the age of 15 or older who, as a result of a complete and permanent disability, requires constant care and assistance, but not more than five years for a specific case of insurance interruption;


5) for which employees use unpaid absence in accordance with labor law.


The existence of an extramarital community from position 1, paragraph 3 of this member is approved in accordance with article 43b, paragraph 2 of this Law.


The duration of the extension of insurance is taken into account for obtaining rights to pension and disability insurance and for determining the height of retirement, but no more than how long the internship period for insurance achieved on the basis of compulsory insurance is.


The claim for extended insurance is submitted no later than six months from the date of termination of compulsory insurance.


Member 67


The premium for extended insurance is paid by the insured participant 66 of item 1 of this Code at the rate of 20.5% on the basis of the earnings received, that is, the insurance basis received for the last month preceding the month of termination of compulsory insurance.


The base position 1 of this member may not be less than the minimum monthly contribution base in accordance with the law governing contributions for compulsory social insurance.


The method of leveling the bases from st. 1 and 2 of this member, as well as the terms and method of payment of contributions for extended insurance, are prescribed by the Fund.


Member 68


The right to extended insurance is terminated if the corresponding contributions are not paid within six months from the date of repayment.


2. Insurance internship, which is calculated with an extended duration


Member 69


An insured person who works in particularly difficult, dangerous and health-threatening workplaces, namely in workplaces and an insured person who works in workplaces, or in workplaces where, after reaching certain years of life, he or she cannot successfully perform his or her professional activity, the insurance internship in the effective duration is calculated with an extended duration, in accordance with the conditions established by this legislation.


The degree of extension of the insurance period depends on the weight, danger and harmfulness of the work, that is, on the nature of the work, and can be no more than 50%.
Member 70


A workplace, that is, a job in which the insurance internship is calculated with an extended duration, because the work is particularly difficult, dangerous and harmful to health , is a workplace, that is, a job in which, and in addition to the fact that all the general and special guarantees established by the rules apply, there are significant adverse consequences for the health and working capacity of the policyholder who, during full-time work, work directly next to the source of the adverse impact,


Full - time from position 1 of this member, it is also understood that working hours of less than 40 hours are seventh assigned to individual jobs due to special working conditions.


A workplace, that is, a job in which the insurance internship is calculated with an extended duration, because the performance of a professional activity is limited to the achievement of certain years of life , is a workplace, that is, a job in which, due to the nature and weight of the work, the physiological functions of the insured person are reduced to the extent that they prevent its further successful performance.


Member 71


An insurance internship is calculated with an extended duration for an insured person under Article 69 of paragraph 1 of this Code of Ukraine, provided that at the workplaces, that is, at the workplaces that are part of Article 70 of this Code, it is effectively carried out for a total of at least 10 years, that is, for a total of at least five years, if on the basis of work at these workplaces, that is, at the workplaces,


The insurance internship increases only during effective work.


When exercising the rights to a pension and disability insurance, an insurance internship with an extended duration performed at the workplace, that is, jobs from member 70 of this Code, is taken cumulatively.


Member 72


Jobs, or jobs where the insurance internship is calculated with an increased duration, the procedure and method of determining them, as well as the degree of increase in the insurance length of service, are determined by the state administration body responsible for the work of pension and disability insurance.


Jobs, that is, jobs where insurance internships are held, are calculated with an increased duration, procedure and method of their establishment, as well as the degree of increase in insurance experience in public administration bodies, determined by the Government of Montenegro (hereinafter referred to as the Government), in accordance with the law, according to the previously received opinion of the public administration bodies responsible for the work of pension and disability insurance.


The duties, that is, the duties for which the insurance internship is calculated with an increased duration, the procedure and method of determining them, as well as the degree of increase in the insurance experience of professional military personnel, are established by the Government in accordance with the law, according to the previously received opinion of the state administration bodies responsible for the work of pension and disability insurance.


Vacancies, as well as jobs, as well as the degree of extension of the service life of insurance from St. 1, 2 and 3 of this member are subject to review, no later than five years from the date of their establishment.


Member 73


The audit of workplaces, i.e. workplaces where the insurance internship is calculated with an increased duration and the degree of increase in the length of insurance experience, from the point of view of this law, is considered a re-rating of the existence of conditions from Member 70 of this Code, based on which workplaces, that is, workplaces, the calculation of the length of insurance experience with an increased duration, that is, with a change in the degree of increase in length of service, as well as at which workplaces or workplaces is introduced.


The audit of vacancies, that is, tasks from position 1 of this member, is carried out in the order and in accordance with the procedure by which they are established.


Member 74


The extended duration of the insurance internship is also taken into account by the insured, who works on the basis of who was insured, was conducted from the point of view of member 62 of this Law: insured persons with physical injuries of at least 70%; military invalids from the first to the sixth group; civil war invalids from the first to the sixth group; blind persons, persons suffering from dystrophy or related muscular and neuromuscular diseases, paraplegia and cerebral and infantile paralysis and multiple sclerosis.


Insured persons from position 1 of this member are effectively employed every 12 months, based on who they are insured to, calculated in accordance with the conditions set out in Article 71 of this Code, as 15 months of insurance service.


Funds for the rights to pension and disability insurance received on the basis of insurance experience with an extended duration from st. 1 and 2 of this member are provided from the budget.


Member 74a


For the children she has given birth to, a special internship for six months per child is taken into account for the insured woman.


VII exercise and exercise of pension and disability insurance rights
1. Exercise of rights


Member 75


The rights to pension and disability insurance are exercised from the date of application and not earlier than six months before that date.


Member 76


Pension internships, income, income allowances, or insurance bases, as well as other facts related to the receipt and establishment of rights, are taken into account when exercising pension rights on the basis of the data established in the registration records.


Facts that, in accordance with the law, are not established in the registration records and that are important for the exercise of rights are established in the process of settling these rights.


The pension internship, the property of the insured person, the basis of insurance, profit, compensation for earnings, or the basis of insurance and the amount of the contribution paid cannot be established on the basis of the statements of the witness.


Member 77


(deleted)


Member 78


The property of the insured person for whom the insurance application was submitted is determined by entering into the registration and issuing a certificate of receipt of the insurance application without issuing a written decision.


When receiving an insurance claim, the data contained in the application is checked and the evidence on which this data is based is required.


Provisions of st. 1 and 2 of this member also apply when applying for insurance.


The applicant must provide the person for whom he / she has applied for insurance, i.e. cancellation of insurance, with a certified photocopy of the receipt of receipt of this application, i.e. an extract, within eight days from the date of its issuance.


If, on the basis of insurance applications, it is established that the conditions for recognizing the property of the insured are not met and for entering it into the registration register, a written decision is issued on this.


Member 79


A person for whom an insurance claim has not been submitted may apply to establish the properties of the insured person if they believe that they are entitled to pension and disability insurance.


The Fund initiates a procedure for determining the properties of the insured person and when, under control or otherwise, it determines that an insurance application has not been submitted for a person who is entitled to pension and disability insurance.


In the cases of st. 1. and 2 of this member of the fund, a written decision is made to determine the properties of the insured person.


The payer submitting the application is obliged, based on the decision set out in relation to 3 of this participant, who has established the property of the insured, to submit an application for insurance.


Provisions of st. From 1 to 4 of this term apply if the payer applying for an insurance discharge has not submitted an application for a pledge.


Member 80


A person in which the property of the insured person is not established within the time limits set for filing an application for insurance this property can be determined no earlier than 1. januara 1965. years, in accordance with the procedure established by this law.


Member 81


The right to an old-age pension is exercised after the termination of the insurance, with the fact that a claim for the RIGHT can be filed before the termination of the insurance, as well as with the provision of appropriate evidence of confidence in its termination.
Member 82


The procedure for obtaining the rights to an old-age pension begins at the request of the insured.


The procedure for obtaining the right to a family pension is carried out at the request of a family member of the deceased insured person or the user of the rights.


The procedure for exercising rights based on disability is initiated at the request of the insured person, that is, the employer for whom the insured person works, as well as at the suggestion of the selected primary health care doctor.


The procedure for obtaining the right to compensation for physical damage is carried out at the request of the insured person, that is, the user of the rights, on the basis of medical documentation.


The procedure for obtaining the right to compensation for physical damage is also carried out under an official obligation, based on the opinion of the expert bodies provided in the conduct of the disability case, in accordance with the general act of the Fund.


With a request or suggestion from St. 3 and 4 of this member, medical documents are submitted.


The scope and content of the medical documentation under regulation 6 of this member are prescribed by the state administration body responsible for pension and disability insurance affairs, according to the previously received opinion of the state administration bodies responsible for health affairs.


Member 83


The procedure for setting the retirement age is initiated at the request of the insured person, that is, the user of the rights, as well as a family member of the deceased insured person, that is, the user of the rights.


Member 84


The insured, who is himself a payer of contributions, exercises the rights on the basis of the insurance experience for which he did not make an extraordinary payment of the contribution not earlier than on the day of payment.


Member 85


When it is necessary to establish the existence of disability, physical damage, causes of disability and physical damage in order to resolve the issue of the right to a pension and disability insurance, the foundation establishes these facts on the basis of the results, assessments and opinions of the witchcraft authorities, whose education and working methods are regulated by the general act of the Foundation.


According to the general act set out in item 1 of this member, consent is provided by the state administration body responsible for the operation of pension and disability insurance.


The conclusions, assessment and opinion from position 1 of this member are subject to the previous control carried out by the body established by the general act of the Fund.


The case management body 1 of this member is obliged to act according to the instructions specified in the preliminary control process.


Member 86


On the day of the family member's disability or physical injury, it is accepted on the day when the conclusion, assessment and opinion of the examination bodies are given on the basis of the examination, that is, on an earlier day for which the relevant medical documentation is available.


The exclusive relation 1 of this member, the inability to live and work independently, can be determined both before the date for which medical documentation exists in cases of congenital conditions and diseases that occur in early childhood.


Member 87


Find, estimate, and opinion from CL. 85 and 91a of this Code, which establishes disability from member 30 of this Code, provide that the control inspection must be carried out no later than three years from the date of the established disability, except for the cases provided for by the general act from member 85 of paragraph 1 of this Code.


Monthly disability pension amounts, i.e. monetary personal injury fees, are not paid to a user who, for good reasons, does not respond to a control examination for a certain period of time in order to restore the state of disability or the degree of physical damage during the entire time until a response is received.


The monthly amounts suspended under relation 2 of this member are then paid to the user who answers the call within 30 days from the date specified for the check-up, if the check-up determines that there is a disability, i.e. a physical injury, on the basis of which the right was achieved.


The user who does not answer the call from position 3 of this participant, the suspended monthly income amounts are not paid, and the payment of income is set from the first day of the next month after answering the call, if the control examination determines that there is a disability, that is, a physical injury, on the basis of which the right was achieved.


Member 88


Changes in the state of disability that affect the right to a disability pension recognized by a legal decision are established in a process initiated at the request of the insured person, or by an official obligation.


Member 89


The decision taken in the process of exercising the right to a disability pension is also provided to the employer for whom the insured person works.


Member 90


In relation to the first step of the decision, a complaint may be filed with the state administration body responsible for the work on pension and disability insurance, within 15 days from the date of receipt of the decision.


An appeal does not grant enforcement of a decision unless it is challenged by a decision established by a disability.


Member 91


The initial decision is subject to an audit conducted by the public administration body responsible for the work on pension and disability insurance.


In the course of the audit, a mandatory review of the results, assessments and opinions of the expert bodies from member 85 of paragraph 1 of this Code is carried out.


The audit does not delay the execution of the decision.


If a complaint has been filed against the decision of the first body, the same decision is considered for review and appeal.


Member 91a


In the process of appeal, that is, the review of the facts from Article 85, paragraph 1 of this Code, are determined on the basis of the results, assessments and opinions of the examination bodies, the formation and method of work of which are regulated by the general act of the state administration bodies responsible for the work of pension and disability insurance.


Member 92


When conducting an audit, consent may be given at the first stage of the decision, or the first decision may be changed, reversed, or reversed.


Member 93


If the complaint was not announced against the first person, and the audit is not performed within three months from the expiration of the appeal period, it is considered that the audit was performed, and the data is consistent with this decision.


Member 93a


(deleted)


Member 94


An administrative dispute may be initiated in the competent court against the decision taken on appeal, i.e. when conducting an audit of the rights to pension and disability insurance, as well as on the data established in the registration records.


2. Use of rights


Member 95


The old-age and family pension is paid from the date of fulfillment of the conditions, but not earlier than on the first following day from the date of termination of the insurance, if the request is submitted within six months from the date of fulfillment of the conditions provided for ensuring the right.


If the request for an age benefit or family pension must be submitted after the expiration of a period of six months from the position 1 of this member, the age or family pension is paid from the date of filing the application and within six months ago, but not earlier than on the first following day from the date of termination of insurance.


Member 96


The insured person who receives the right to a disability pension in a process initiated during the insurance period, the disability pension is paid from the date of the court decision on disability, that is, from the date of the disability, if the policyholder is more favorable for this.


When the right to a disability pension is exercised after the termination of insurance, and the disability existed before the application was submitted, the disability pension is paid from the date of occurrence of the disability, but not more than six months ago from the date of application.


Disability pension from St. Louis. 1 and 2 of this member are paid not earlier than on the first following day from the date of termination of insurance, that is, from the day when the user of the disability pension from the member 30 of paragraph 2 of this Code began working with the working time established in Article 33 of this Code.
Member 97


Monetary compensation for personal injuries is paid from the date of the physical damage, but not more than six months ago from the date of filing the application, that is, from the date of the beginning of the process for official duty.


Member 98


The insured, that is, the user entitled to compensation for physical damage, who, in accordance with specific rules, is entitled to monetary compensation on the basis of the same physical damage, may choose to use only one of these rights, unless special rules are defined.


Member 99


If there are changes in the state of disability or the degree of physical damage that affect the established rights, these rights are terminated, changed or new rights are acquired, namely:


1) If the change is established at the request of the policyholder-from the first day of the next month when submitting the application;


2) If the change was established at the request of the insured person after the application was submitted-from the first day of the next month after the changes were made;


3) If the change was established by an official obligation-from the first day of the following month, having made the first decision on the determination of rights on the basis of the established change.


Member 100


The pension and monetary fees for personal injuries are set at a monthly amount and paid in reverse.


The Fund is obliged to pay the user a pension, that is, monetary compensation for injuries at the place of his stay in Montenegro.


The payment of pensions and monetary benefits for physical damage abroad is made in accordance with the conditions provided for by an international treaty, that is, in accordance with the condition of reciprocity.


The funeral fee is paid abroad if it is stipulated by an international treaty, that is, in accordance with the conditions of reciprocity.


Member 100a


Monthly pension contributions and monetary fees for physical damage that cannot be paid because the user has not done so: provided a life receipt, school certificate, reported a change of address, or provided other proof necessary for payment, will subsequently be paid for a maximum of 12 months ago, counting from the day when, having provided the necessary proof for payment of pensions and monetary fees, the user applied for payment."


Member 101**


- )


Member 102


The beneficiary of a pension, or monetary compensation for personal injury, may authorize another person to receive a pension on his behalf or monetary compensation for personal injury.


The authorization from position 1 of this member is valid for 12 months, after which it can be renewed.


Member 103


A partial disability benefit terminates the right to a partial disability pension when he or she becomes eligible for an old-age benefit or a full disability pension.


Member 104


A family pension is paid as a single pension contribution and when defined for multiple users, unless users require their pension to be paid separately.


Member 105


If a family pension is used by two or more family members, so some of them terminate their right to a pension, the other members who are eligible for a family pension again determine the retirement height. Thus, a certain retirement height belongs from the day when the user terminated the right to retire.


If the payment of the family pension is terminated or if the right belonging to an individual family member is at rest, the family pension is not determined again.


If the beneficiary of a family pension, in connection with employment or self-employment or the use of an old-age or disability pension, is not paid a family pension belonging to him, other family members are paid during this time a family pension in the amount determined as if the pension user was not entitled to a family pension.


Member 106


A family member is not entitled to a family pension if, according to the law, he or she has been convicted of a criminal offence resulting in the death of a person who is entitled to a family pension.


The person from position 1 of this member's achieved right terminates on the day of the justice verdict.


Member 107


The right to a family pension is terminated by a family member, which, as a result of the changes made, no longer meets the conditions for achieving and using this right.


Member 108


(deleted)


Member 109


If an insured or retired user is entitled to two or more pensions, they can only use one of these pensions of their choice.


Exclusively from position 1 of this member, children whose parents have died may exercise the right to a family pension on the basis of both parents, up to the height established by law.


Member 110


The rights to a pension and disability insurance are terminated when the conditions for the achievement and exercise of these rights cease in the course of their use.


Member 111


The copyright holder is obliged to inform about any changes affecting the right or the scope of use of this right within 15 days from the date of making the changes.


Member 112


A beneficiary of retirement age who works or performs an independent activity has the right to terminate this work, that is, to perform this activity, to re-determine the pension, if he has been insured under this law for at least a year.


Provision 1 of this member also applies to the beneficiary of early retirement age who, after the termination of the reorganization or the implementation of independent activities, is entitled to an early or early retirement benefit.


The re-determination of the retirement from position 1 of this member is carried out using the provisions of CL. From 19 to 29 of this Code, while the personal coefficient is taken into account on the basis of earnings, compensation for earnings, that is, the basic insurance period for which the personal coefficient of the pension already achieved was established, and from the total insurance period after receiving the pension right, except for the year in which the pension is again determined.


The beneficiary of a family pension who works or carries out independent activities on the territory of Montenegro or abroad, the payment of pensions is terminated.


Regulation 3 of this member does not apply to users of a family pension from a member of the 46th century.From 1 to 5 of this Code and the beneficiary of a family pension who performs work on behalf of member 11 of paragraph 2 of this Code.


Member 112a


The provisions of this Law on the exercise and Use of the rights to an old-age pension, respectively, apply to the exercise and use of the rights to an early old-age pension, unless otherwise provided for in this legislation.


VIII FOUNDATION
Member 113


The Foundation is an organization that exercises state powers in the settlement of rights and obligations for pension and disability insurance.


The Foundation has the right of a legal entity with the rights, obligations and obligations established by this law and the charter of the foundation.


The fund of its work corresponds to the government.
Article 114


The fund has a Statute which regulates:


1) organization of the Fund;


2) the rights, obligations and responsibility of a managing body;


3) other issues of importance for the work of the Fund.


The statute is made by the Managing board of the Fund.


The consent to the Statute gives the Government.


The statute was published in the "Official gazette Of Montenegro".


Article 115


The work of the Fund is open to the public.


The fund at least once a year, shall submit to the Government a report on its work which contains a depiction of the execution of laws and other regulations, the data on the implementation of the objectives of the programme of work of the Fund, the assessment of the situation and the measures that are being taken to improve the situation and the financial report.


Article 116


The fund performs the following tasks:


1) to ensure the efficient, rational and lawful exercise of the right to pension and disability insurance, and provides technical assistance in exercising rights;


2) brings the annual programme of work that contains information about the objectives, indicators of success, the activities that are necessary for the realization of the goals and persons responsible for the implementation and financial plan;


3) keep records of the insured and beneficiaries, in accordance with this law and the Statute;


4) keep records of earnings, i.e. osnovicama insurance on that statement, about the amount of paid contributions for the insured, as well as to pensions;


5) (stopped valid)


6) submits to the authority of the state administration responsible for the affairs of public revenues (hereinafter: tax authority) monthly reports about paid contributions;


7) provides for the implementation of international agreements on pensions and disability insurance;


8) take measures for the regular collection of revenues of the Fund;


9) organize the affairs for the implementation of the pension and disability insurance and to that end, providing information technology;


10) brings the general acts in accordance with this law and the Statute;


11) performs other tasks related to the implementation and realization of the rights of the pension and disability insurance in accordance with this law and the Statute.


Article 117


Bodies of the Fund are: the Governing board and the director.


The fund is managed by a board of trustees, in accordance with the law, the Statute and other general acts of the Fund.


The management board of the Fund has a president and six members who are appointed and dismissed by the Government, and that:


1) one member on the proposal of the representative trade union organizations;


2) one member on the proposal of the representative of the association of employers;


3) one member on the proposal of the association of pensioners of the republic Of Montenegro;


4) four members on the proposal of the authorities of the state administration responsible for the affairs of the pension and disability insurance.


If he is on the board of directors scheduled a smaller number of representative representative trade unions in relation to the number of representative trade union at an appropriate level, shall apply the principle of rotation, in accordance with their specific agreement.


If there is more representative of the employers 'association, a member of the board of directors referred to in paragraph 3, item 2 of this article proposes representative employers' association, which has a higher percentage of employed in the economy of the republic Of Montenegro.


Article 118


The president and the members of the Managing board of the Fund shall be appointed for a period of four years.


Article 119


Persons who are appointed to the board must be persons with professional knowledge and experience in the field of pension and disability insurance, finance, investments, or insurance.


At least four of the total number of members of the board of directors must have at least five years of experience in activities referred to in paragraph 1 of this article.


A member of the board of directors may not be:


1) a person who is osuivano for criminal acts that makes him unworthy to perform these functions, and the responsible person in the company over which was initiated bankruptcy proceedings;


2) a person who has lost the right to perform the function of a member bodies financial institutions by domestic or foreign legislation;


3) a person who provides services and sells products Fund, and the face whose actions could lead to a conflict of interest;


4) the director of the Fund.


A member of the Governing board shall dismiss the case:


1) the occurrence of the circumstances referred to in paragraph 3 of this article;


2) loss of business skills;


3) unwarranted absences from at least three sessions of the board.


A member of the board of directors may not receive gifts or use any other benefits based on the performance of these functions. This prohibition also applies to members of his immediate family.


Article 120


The management board of the Fund:


1) brings the Statute and general acts in accordance with this law;


2) appoint and dismiss the director of the Fund;


3) brings the annual work program of the Fund;


4) brings financial plan;


5) shall submit a report of activities and financial report;


6) decide on the operations of the Fund;


7) brings acts on adjustment of the pension and the value of retirement for one's personal point, in accordance with this law; and


8) decide on other issues, and performs other tasks in accordance with the law and Statute.


Article 121


Decision-making and the way of work, as well as other issues of importance for the work of the Managing board of the Fund shall be governed by the Statute of the Fund.


Article 122


Director General:


1) organizes the work and operations of the Fund;


2) represents the Fund and is responsible for the legality and quality of work;


3) the proposed Statute, the programme of work and financial plan;


4) suggests a report of activities and financial report;


5) proposes and other decisions of the board;


6) carry out the decisions of the Managing board;


7) determines the internal organization and systematization of jobs in the Fund;


8) manage the human and financial resources;


9) care of the provision to the public of the work of the Fund;


10) shall manage the work of the technical service of the Fund; and


11) performs other tasks in accordance with the law and Statute.


Article 122a


For the director general may be appointed a person who has VII1 level qualifications education and at least five years of work experience in managerial positions or nine years of work experience in other jobs.


After the closing of the proceedings of the public competition for the director of the Fund, in accordance with the regulations on civil servants and state employees, the list for the selection of candidates is submitted to the board for appointment.


Director of the Fund shall be appointed by the board, for five years, on the basis of public competition.


Article 123


Perform professional, administrative, legal, economic and other affairs, the Fund has a unique professional service.


Professional service Fund is organized in a way that provides effective performance of the Fund and the exercise of the right to pension and disability insurance.


The rights, obligations and responsibility of employees in the Fund shall apply to the regulations on civil servants and state employees.


Article 124


Supervision of the legality and cjelishodnou work of the Fund exercises the authority of the state administration responsible for the affairs of the pension and disability insurance, in accordance with the law.


IX HOME RECORDS
Article 125


The fund take home record of the insured, taxpayers contributions and users rights from pension and disability insurance.


Notwithstanding paragraph 1 of this article, the records for the employees in the authority of the state administration responsible for the affairs of the police department and the Agency for national security water bodies in the manner determined by this law.


The fund carries out the control of keeping the records referred to in paragraph 2 of this article.
Article 126


Parent records it leads to a unique methodological principles.


The data entered in the records according to the uniform code of codes.


Data entered into the records on the basis of applications submitted on the prescribed forms which can deliver and the way of funds for electronic data processing.


In the case when the applications are delivered via the funds for the electronic data processing applicant's application shall, at the request of the Fund, and applications file on the prescribed forms.


Acts or patterns from the century. 1 to 3 of this article prescribes the authority of the state administration responsible for the affairs of the pension and disability insurance.


Article 127


The host records ustrojava is the subject of the data about osiguraniku based on the application for insurance.


Article 128


In the records of input data on:


1) insured;


2) users rights from pension and disability insurance;


3) taxpayers paying contributions for pension and disability insurance.


Article 129


In the record store the next data about insured:


1) surname and name;


2) the unique identification number of the citizens and tax identification number;


3) paul;


4) the day, month and year of birth;


5) occupation;


6) school is getting ready;


7) the basis of insurance;


8) the date of acquisition and the termination of the properties insured;


9) internship insurance, wages, allowances, earnings, i.e., the base security which are used for calculation of pensions;


10) the number of months or days at work and the number of months or days for which they paid fees;


11) amount of paid-in contributions;


12) if an insured person in the user pensions;


13) obvezniku contributions;


14) pension residency by types of;


15) insured with the physical damage of at least 70% military disabled from the first to the sixth group, the civilian invalids of war, from the first to the sixth group, blind persons and persons ill of muscular dystrophy or related miinih and neuromiinih diseases, paraplegije, cerebral and infantile paralysis and the multiplex skleroze.


For the individuals who work at jobs, or jobs for which the insurance periods of care with increased by duration, in the master record are recorded data on the residency of insurance, or of the time spent on these jobs, i.e., jobs and the level of zoom of service.


Insured who don't have the social security number of the citizens of the Fund defines personal number.


Article 130


In the original record, in addition to the data referred to in article 129 paragraph 1 items. 1 to 4 of this law, the entries and the following data about the users rights from pension and disability insurance, and it's about:


1) the type of pension;


2) the legal basis for establishing pensions;


3) the date of acquiring the rights to a pension and date of the payment, suspension and re-payment of pensions, as well as the legal basis for the suspension, i.e. the re-payment of pensions;


4) the disability, the cause of disability and diagnosis;


5) personal points and personal koeficijentu;


6) the amount of pension on the day of exercising the right.


The registry records the entries and information about related users survivor pensions from the dead osiguranikom, i.e. the user pensions on the basis of who were entitled to family pension.


Article 131


Taxpayers submission of data for the parent records are:


1) employer:


- apply data on obvezniku payment of contributions which include the application start and application of the termination of operations;


- apply for the insurance and check out insurance for the insured referred to in article 10 paragraph 1 items. 1 to 6 and items. 8 and 9 and article 11, item 2 of this law;


- application data for determining of contributions, earnings and compensation earnings that are used for determining the annual personal coefficient and height of paid contributions for the insured referred to in article 10 paragraph 1 items. 1 to 6 and items. 8 and 9 of this law;


- the application changes the data from the al. 1 to 3 of this item;


2) an insured person who is the obligor paying contributions:


- apply for the insurance and check out insurance, as well as the application changes the data for the insured referred to in article 10, paragraph 1, item 7, article 11, item 1 and article 66 of this law;


- application data for determining seniority, security, base security which are used for determining the annual personal coefficient and the amount of paid contributions for the insured referred to in article 10 paragraph 1 point 7 of this law, as well as the application changes the data;


3) a religious community for the insured referred to in article 11, item 3 of this law - report to the insurance company and check out insurance, as well as the application changes the data;


4) body of the state administration responsible for the affairs of agriculture, forestry and water management for the insured referred to in article 12 of this law - report to the insurance company and check out insurance, as well as the application changes the data;


5) the Tax authority - report data for determining seniority, security, base security which are used for determining the annual personal coefficient and the amount of paid contributions for the persons referred to in article 11 point 1 - 3 and article 12 of this law, as well as the application changes the data;


6) zavod za zapoljavanje:


- apply for the insurance and check out insurance for the insured referred to in article 10, paragraph 1, item 10 of this law, as well as the application changes the data;


- application data for determining of contributions, fees earnings and the amount of paid contributions for the persons as mentioned in line 1 of this item, as well as the application changes the data;


7) Fund - entries in the registry records data on the established pension residency, earn, compensation earnings, osnovicama insurance which are used for determining the annual personal coefficient for the insured referred to in article 66 of this law and the height of paid contributions;


8) the competent registry officer - reports of the death of a beneficiary rights from a pension and disability insurance.


Article 132


In the application data for the parent record data entries only on the basis of the public documents and records as prescribed by law.


Article 133


For accuracy of data implemented in the application data for the parent record is responsible applicant's application.


The fund is obliged to verify the accuracy of the data implemented in the application data for the parent record, that requires evidence, and performs the inspection of the records and documents on which are based the data entered in the application.


The application is required to osiguraniku, user rights and Fund gives the correct information, or data of importance to establish the facts relevant to the acquisition and exercise of rights from pension and disability insurance, as well as to Fund provide evidence and provide insight into the records and documentation.


Article 134


Application data for the parent records submitted to the Fund, or its organizational unit, and that for:


1) the insured employees referred to in article 10 paragraph 1 items. 1 to 6 and items. 8 and 9 of the law - according to the seat of the employer or its organizational units (branches, branches, branches, branches, representation, representation, and other business and work units);


2) the insured employees referred to in article 10 paragraph 1 point 7 of this law - according to the place in which they were insured, or have a residence before going abroad;


3) the insured referred to in article 10, paragraph 1, item 10 of this law - to the headquarters of the organizational unit of the Institute for employment;


4) the insured independent activities referred to in article 11, item 1 of this law - according to the place in which an insured person registered to perform activities on the basis of which is secured;


5) the insured independent activities referred to in article 11 items. 2 and 3 of the law - according to the residence or whereabouts of the insured;


6) the insured farmers referred to in article 12 of this law - to the headquarters of the organizational units of the tax authorities.


Article 135


Property insured, seniority insurance, earnings, allowances, earnings, i.e., the base security which are taken for the adjustment of the rights determined by the Fund, on the basis of the data referred to in article 131 of this law, the subject of the data in the parent record.


The data referred to in article 129, paragraph 2 of this law defines the subject in a home record in fulfilling the conditions referred to in article 71 of this law.


Article 136


Data on pension residency who is an insured person turned to 31. December 1969. year, and about a special internship navrenom later that day, as well as data about the changes of those data entries in the records of the insured on the basis of reported data on pensions internship.


Article 137


If the Fund, during checks of the data referred to in article 133 of this law, determine to report on internship insurance, earnings, allowances earnings, i.e. osnovicama insurance which are taken for the adjustment of rights, as well as data on the amount of paid contributions are not properly filled out or if the data are not entered in accordance with the regulations on pensions and disability insurance naloie person who placed the order to apply them correct within who can't be longer than 30 days.


Article 138


The fund is obliged to osiguraniku, at his request, issue a certificate of data unesenim in the original records of the insured.


Certificate referred to in paragraph 1 of this article has the character of a public document.


An insured person has the right to require that the Fund issues a decision on data on the insurance, pension residency, earnings, allowances earnings, i.e. osnovicama insurance and the amount paid contributions unijetim in the parent record.


The fund is obliged to the decision referred to in paragraph 3 of this article brings within 15 days of receipt of the request.


A member of 139


Data entered into the registry record, in the manner determined by this law, can be subsequently changed in the following cases:


1) if the competent authority subsequently, in the prescribed procedure, determine the change data;


2) if the data on the insurance, pension internship, residency insurance, earnings, allowances earnings, i.e. osnovicama insurance which serve for the adjustment of rights, as well as data on the amount of paid contributions include in the record on the basis of false documents;


3) if subsequently, the data, or in some other way, found in the original records enter incorrect or incomplete data.


Change data unijetih in the records is done on the basis of the appropriate application of the change of data, according to the procedure established by this law.


Article 140
Payers from Member 131 of this Code are obliged to provide the data registration fund within the following terms:


1) Registration of information about the payer of payment contributions - within eight days from the date of starting the business, that is, from the date of termination of activity, that is, from the date of making changes to the operations of the payer of payment contributions;


2) application for insurance, termination of insurance the application for changing the insurance flow itself - within eight days from the date of employment, that is, from the date of conclusion of the contract, performance of work or start of activity, that is, from the date of termination of work, performance of work or performance of activity, that is, from the date of making changes to the insurance;


3) registration data for establishing the length of insurance, earnings, compensation of earnings or insurance grounds that serve to establish the height of the right to the height of the paid contributions-no later than 30. aprila of the current year for the previous calendar year, according to the tax authorities-30. Yuna of the current year;


4) an application for changing the data from paragraph 3 of this regulation - within eight days from the date of the established change, that is, from the date of acceptance of the legal decision in which the data change is established;


5) a statement of the death of the copyright holder-within three days from the date of issuing an extract from the mother's book of the deceased.


Voluptuous 141


Drag is obliged to enter data from the received applications in the parent record in the following terms:


1) login data from the 140 touch member. 1 and 2 of this Code-within 30 days from the date of receipt of the application;


2) data from the application from the member 140 touch. 3 i 4 of this Code-within 60 days from the date of acceptance of the application, no later than at the end of the current year for the previous year;


3) data from the application from a member of the 140 wheelbarrow 5 of this Code - within one day from the date of receipt of the application.


Voluptuous 142


Registration data for the accounting of the parent accounting itself is stored for at least 30 years from the date of obtaining the rights established on the basis of this data, but not less than 10 years from the date of termination of the rights.


Registration data for insured persons who have not received the right to disability insurance for retirement are stored for at least 40 years, counting from the date of the last data entry in the maternal records.


Voluptuous 143


Instead of the initial data records, records recorded on microfilm can be stored, as well as electronic data processing facilities (magnetic media I sl.).


Drag issues the insured certified photo a copy of the application from position 1 of this member.


Voluptuous 144


The destruction of the original applications, on the basis of which the data is entered in the registration document, is carried out by an expert commission, which is trained by Drag.


Voluptuous 145


The data contained in the registration records can be used separately for statistical research.


Data protection from parental records is provided in accordance with the law.


X Funding
Voluptuous 146


Pension I disability insurance is funded from:


1) contributions;


2) (no longer valid)


3) other sources, in accordance with the law.


For the obligations of the fund to exercise the rights to a pension, I guarantee Montenegro under disability insurance.


Fbl. 147-164


- )


Voluptuous 165


The basis for the payment of personal contributions from a member 14 paragraph 1 paragraph 1 of this Code is the lowest monthly base of contributions in accordance with the law governing contributions for compulsory social insurance.


Voluptuous 166


The rate of contributions for a person from a member of 14 paragraph 1 paragraph 1 of this Code is 4% at the expense of the employment bureau.


Fbl. 167-173


- )


Voluptuous 174


The contribution for a person from a member of 14 paragraph 1 paragraph 1 of this Law is calculated by the Employment Agency itself when applying to this person for vocational training, retraining or pre-qualification.


Voluptuous 174a


For insured employees who earn income independently on the basis of additional work in accordance with labor law, contributions to the disability insurance pension are paid independently on the basis of additional work, I at the rate of how the contribution is paid on the salary received from employment on the basis of oromo are mandatory insured, while the total amount for which the contribution is paid on all bases cannot be an excuse exceeding the maximum annual base for payment of contributions


The amount from item 1 of this member for which the disability insurance contribution is paid is taken to calculate the annual personal coefficient when determining the age, early age or disability pension.


For insured persons who receive income independently from an insurance position, I am this member, that is, another income for which, in accordance with the law on contributions to compulsory social insurance, the paid contribution for pension insurance, the payer applying for the amount of these incomes (income statement, compensation, or insurance base, which serves to determine the annual personal coefficient I of the amount of the contribution paid), is:


- employer-for income based on earnings, that is, compensation from paragraph 10 of paragraph 1 of paragraph 4 of this Code;


- tax authority-for persons who receive income from member 11 of this Code, to which a contribution to a disability insurance pension is paid in accordance with the law on mandatory social insurance contributions.


Applications from position 3 of this member shall be submitted in the order, within the time limits I of the procedure provided for the submission of applications from a member 140 paragraph 3 of this Code.


Voluptuous 175


- )


2) Budzet Crene Up


Voluptuous 176


- )


3) lzvori companion


Voluptuous 177


Medicines sources of funds from which the disabled person's pension fund is funded:


1) income from assets held by the fund;


2) income from pension organizations for disability insurance, in which part of the insurance experience was achieved;


3) Income from subsidies and grants;


4) income from financial investments, dividends and interest;


5) other sources.


Voluptuous 178


Fund expenses:


1) pensions;


2) monetary fees for physical damage;


3) funeral expenses;


4) supplements to assist I care implemented in accordance with the rules prior to the application of this law;


5) rights based on the remaining working capacity realized for the performance of 31. December 2003. years;


6) to the director of the agency on the basis of contributions to the health insurance of users of the pension;


7) waxes related to disability;


8) pension expenses and pension benefits;


9) troikovich glazing insurance and Fund expenses.


XI FUND ASSETS
Member 179


The assets of the fund, from the point of view of this law, are things, rights, actions and shares, money and other securities acquired by the fund and managed in the interests of the rights of users established by this Law.


The fund's assets consist of both shares and shares that were attracted to the fund in the process of a peculiar and managerial transformation of the economy.


Member 180


The Fund is obliged to manage the assets in good faith and responsibly in the interests of the rights holders, thus, in addition to transactions from Member 116 of this Code:


1) maintains records and generates financial certificates of assets, including an annual market valuation of assets;


2) registers all income from assets in a dedicated account;


3) inform the state administration body authorized for finance on the adopted annual report containing the plan for the sale, that is, the privatization of property from Member 179 of this Code.


Member 181


The property of member 179 of paragraph 1 of this Code, which is not valid for the performance of the main activities of the fund, will be sold according to the procedure and in accordance with the procedure provided for by a special law.


The fund may use the proceeds from the sale of assets from position 1 of this participant, as well as the dividend income, for:


1) investments that are directly in the interests of the fund, and which are aimed at improving the effective functioning of the Fund. This coverage is, but is also not limited to, information technology, employee training, employee technology surplus compensation, Fund deficit coverage, and the transition costs that will result from the introduction of mandatory pension and disability insurance based on individual capitalized savings;


2) payment of pensions to the insured and rights holders in accordance with this law, if the income provided for by this law is not provided for;


3) investing in other properties that are already owned by the Fund, which require additional funds for privatization or sale in more favorable conditions.


The use of funds from sales or dividends should be indicated in the Fund's budget.


Expenses incurred by the sale of assets from item 179 of this Code will be reimbursed from funds representing income from the sale of actions and shares from item 179 of item 2 of this Code.


Funds from the sale of assets the fund cannot be used for the purchase of real estate or activities.


Member 182


The assets of the fund from member 179 of paragraph 2 of this Code are privatized in accordance with the procedure and in accordance with the procedure provided for in the rules of privatization.


The proceeds received in the process of privatization from position 1 of this member, including the funds of dividends, can be used by the fund as a means of securing the rights to pension and disability insurance.


Member 183


In order to ensure the conditions for providing services to policyholders, the fund may purchase real estate and equipment only if these properties and equipment are in a state of exercising rights to pension and disability insurance.


XII COMPENSATION FOR DAMAGES
Member 184


Compensation for losses incurred by the fund, or for the vomiting of illegal and improper payments of pensions and other monetary benefits for pension and disability insurance, is made in accordance with the provisions of the legislation governing formal relations, unless this legislation is otherwise regulated.


The Fund has the right to claim damages from the employer if the physical injury, disability or death of the insured person was caused by unforeseen circumstances provided for by the current measures for labor protection or environmental protection, and on this basis the right to pension and disability insurance was obtained.


The Fund has the right to claim compensation for losses incurred by a person who, intentionally or through extreme negligence, caused physical damage, disability or death of the insured person, if on this basis the right to pension and disability insurance was obtained.


When determining the height of the damage, the amount of the contribution paid for this insurance, as well as the length of the modified pension experience, are not taken into account.


Member 185


The claim for damages may include the total amount of the damage or the amount of part of the damage.


The amount from position 1 of this member is calculated based on the amount of the recognized pension or monetary compensation for physical injury, as well as in accordance with the expected average period of use of this right.


Member 186


The Fund has the right to claim damages directly from the insurance company, if the damage was caused using a motor vehicle.


XIII OBSERVATION
Member 187


Supervision of the implementation of this law is carried out by the State administration body responsible for the operation of pension and disability insurance, in accordance with a specific law.


XIV CRIMINAL PROVISIONS
Member 188


A fine of between 2,500 euros and 11,000 euros is penalized for violating a legal entity if:


1) not to report on the beginning or termination of the business or changes in the business, or to do so after the expiration of the specified period (paragraph 140 paragraph 1);


2) prevent the understanding of records and documentation and not provide adequate evidence on which the data entered in the applications are based (paragraph 133 3);


3) not to register or sign the insurance or changes in the insurance flow, or to do so after the expiration of the prescribed period (paragraph 140 paragraph 2);


4) do not submit registration data for determining the term of insurance, earnings, remuneration for profit or insurance grounds that serve to determine the height of the right and the height of the contribution paid or do so after the expiration of the established period (member 140 paragraph 3);


5) do not apply for information about income, compensation or insurance base that serves to determine the annual personal coefficient and the amount of the contribution paid, or does so after the deadline (member 168 of the century). 4 and 5);


6) (no longer valid)


7) enters inaccurate information in the data registration for system records (point 133 point 1);


8) within the period specified by the fund, does not correct violations in applications (member 137).


For violation of the provision 1 of this member, the employer will be punished by an individual with a fine in the amount of 250 euros to 1100 euros.


A fine of between 2,500 euros and 11,000 euros is penalized for violating the tax authority if:


1) do not submit registration data for determining the term of insurance, earnings, remuneration for profit or insurance grounds that serve to determine the height of the right and the height of the contribution paid or do so after the expiration of the established period (member 140 paragraph 3);


2) do not apply for information about income, compensation or insurance base that serves to determine the annual personal coefficient and the amount of the contribution paid, or does so after the deadline (member 168 of the century). 4 and 5).


A fine of between 2,500 euros and 11,000 euros will be penalized for violating the employment office if:


1) do not apply for insurance or refuse insurance or change in the insurance flow, or do so after the deadline (member 140 paragraph 2);


2) do not submit registration data for determining the term of insurance, earnings, compensation for earnings, or insurance grounds that serve to determine the height of the right and the height of the contribution paid or do so after the expiration of the established period (member 140 paragraph 3).


For violation of cells 1, 3 and 4 of this member will be punished and responsibly transferred with a fine of 250 euros to 1100 euros.


Member 189


A fine of 250 euros to 1100 euros is penalized for violating the rights of a user from pension and incapacitated insurance who does not register, that is, does not promptly report a change affecting the right, that is, the amount of use of this right (member 111).


Member 190


The insured, who is a payer himself, pays contributions for pension and disability insurance, is punished for the violation with a fine of 250 euros to 1100 euros, if:


1) not to report on the beginning or termination of the activity or changes in the course of the performance of the activity or to do so after the expiration of the established period (paragraph 140.1);


2) do not register or sign the insurance or make changes during the insurance period or do so after the expiration of the established period (paragraph 140 paragraph 2).


Chl. 191-192


- )


TRANSITION AND END CONDITIONS XV
Member 193


For users who are entitled to an old-age pension, a disability pension, a family pension, the lowest pension, the highest pension, monetary compensation for injuries, monetary compensation based on the remaining working capacity, namely, assistance and assistance benefits, who have made this right in accordance with the pension and disability insurance rules applicable at the beginning of the application of this law, these rights are granted after this date to the same extent.


Monetary compensation for part-time work of disabled persons who have exercised these rights in accordance with the rules applicable to 31. December 1996. for many years, it is implemented in the volume and in accordance with the conditions established by these rules.


The payment of compensation from position 2 of this member is made by the employer, and the funds paid are refunded from the fund on a quarterly basis.


Member 193a


The rights of Member 193 Item 1 of this Code are agreed upon in accordance with Member 58 of this Code.


For the year 2002. the year is December 2003. year approval of rights from Member 193 Position 1 of this Act will be carried out in accordance with the rules applicable to 31. December 2003. years.


Exclusive relation 1 of this member and member 58 of this Code, pension, pension value for one personal item and rights from member 193 item 1 of this Code 1. januara 2011. The years coincide, based on statistical data, with the movement of consumer prices and the average profit of employees in Montenegro in the second half of 2010. the year versus the half-year preceding it, in an interest rate representing 75% growth, i.e. a decline in consumer prices, and 25% percentage growth, i.e. a decline in profits.


The exclusive relationship 1 of this member and member 58 of this Code, the pension, the value of the pension for one personal item and the rights from member 193 of paragraph 1 of this Code, will not correspond in 2013. and 2014.


Pension, the cost of a pension for one personal item and rights from a member 193 item 1 of this Code 1. Yula 2016. years are issued for 3%.


Exclusively from position 5 of this member, the lowest pension from a member of the 29th century. 3 and 4 of this Code 1. Yula 2016.year is issued for 20%.


The General Act of Harmonization, in accordance with st. 5 and 6 of this member, brings the Fund.


The lowest pension from a member of the 29th century. 3 and 4 of this Code 1. januara 2020. the year outside is flattened by 13.16%.


The General Act of Harmonization, in accordance with the relation 8 of this member, brings the Fund.
A member of the 193b


The user rights to monetary compensation based on the remaining work ability, i.e. the user the rights to monetary compensation for his work with part-time work who is employed ceases the right day of the termination of employment, i.e. the fulfillment of the conditions for old-age or disability pension, or the day of exercising the right to family pension in accordance with this law.


User temporary fee on the records of the Institute for employment that the right ends on the day of employment, or to perform independent activities on the basis of which is compulsory insured under this law, as well as the day of fulfillment of the conditions for old-age or disability pension, or the day of exercising the right to family pension in accordance with this law.


Except in the cases referred to in paragraph 2 of this article, the woman the user temporary benefits that the right ends on the day of exercising the rights to life a monthly fee based on the birth of three or more children in accordance with the law regulating social and child protection.


A member of the 193v


The user fees for the work with part-time work, time spent in security with part-time work from 1 to. January 2004. year of accounts in the internship insurance as he worked full-time.


User temporary fee on the records of the Institute for employment as an internship insurance accounts the time of receiving you a fee of 1. January 2004. year.


Access to old-age or disability pension for calculation the annual personal coefficient of the faces of the century. 1 and 2 of this article takes the personal coefficient of the period in which an insured person has made a profit, fee income, i.e., the base security.


The fund entries in registry records information about the internship insurance from the century. 1 and 2 of this article.


Resources for rights on the basis of contributions from the century. 1 and 2 of this article are provided from the budget of Montenegro.


A member of 193g


User pensions who's the period to be implemented in insurance to part-time work, navren of 1. January 2009. year-to-date of entry into force of this law, defined in the effective period, an, at his request, the new amount of pension uraunavanjem this period in internship insurance as he worked full-time.


User pensions which the period of use of interim compensation while he was on the records of the Institute for employment, navren of 1. January 2007. year-to-date of entry into force of this law, is not included as periods of insurance, at his request, you will be assigned a new amount of pensions with uraunavanje this period in internship insurance.


The new amount of pension from the century. 1 and 2 of this article belongs to from the day this law enters into force.


Art. 194-196


(ceased to be valid)


Article 195


User disability pension referred to in article 194, paragraph 1 of this law that the right ends on the day of exercising the right to age, or the family pension, i.e. the day of fulfillment of the requirements for disability retirement under article 31 of this law.


User disability pension referred to in article 194, paragraph 1, item 1 of this law, when you get a job, or starts to perform independent activity on the basis of which is compulsory insured by the provisions of this law, instead of you disability pension is determined disability pension referred to in article 194, paragraph 1, item 2, i.e., article 194, paragraph 1, item 3 of this law.


Article 196


As the internship insurance accounts the time for which the beneficiary of disability pension referred to in article 194, paragraph 1, item 1 of this law had been receiving the pension in the period from 1. January 2004. year to 31. December 2005. year.


Notwithstanding the provisions of article 62 of this law, the user disability pension referred to in article 194, paragraph 1, item 2 of this law, the period spent in insurance to part-time work from 1 to. January 2004. year to 31. December 2005. year of accounts in the internship insurance as he worked full-time.


Access to old-age or disability pension referred to in article 31 of this law, for the calculation of the annual personal coefficient of the faces of the century. 1 and 2 of this article takes the personal coefficient of the period in which an insured person has made a profit, fee income, i.e., the base security.


The fund entries in registry records information about the internship insurance from the century. 1 and 2 of this article.


Resources for rights on the basis of contributions from the century. 1 and 2 of this article provide from the budget.


Article 197


Notwithstanding the provisions of article 17 paragraph 1 of this law, the right to old-age pension, an insured person acquires when he turns:


1) in 2004. year 60 years and 6 months (men) or 55 years and 6 months of life (women) and 19 years and 6 months of the pension insurance contributions;


2) in 2005. year 61 year of my life (man), or 56 years (women) and 19 years of retirement;


3) in 2006. age 61 years and 6 months of life (man), or 56 years and 6 months of life (women) and 18 years and 6 months of the pension insurance contributions;


4) in 2007. age 62 years (male) or 57 years (women) and 18 years of pension service;


5) in 2008. age 62 years and 6 months of life (male) or 57 years and 6 months of life (woman) and is 17 years and 6 months of the pension insurance contributions;


6) in 2009. age 63 years (male) or 58 years of my life (woman) and 17 years of retirement;


7) in 2010. age 63 years and 6 months of life (male), i.e. 58 years and 6 months of life (women) and 16 years and 6 months of the pension insurance contributions;


8) in 2011. age 64 years (male) and 59 years (women) and 16 years of retirement;


9) in 2012. age 64 years old and 6 months of life (man), or 59 years and 6 months of life (woman) and 15 years and 6 months of the years of retirement.


Osiguraniku who seniority insurance account with the increased by duration, the age limit for acquiring the rights to the age pension referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, lowers in accordance with article 18 of this law.


Years of life referred to in paragraph 1 items. 1 to 9 of this article, whose navrenjem in the period from 1. January 2004. until 31. December 2012. the year is entitled to the age pension are years of life to which, in that period, according to the provisions of article 37, paragraph 1, item 2 of this law, is entitled to disability pension.


If an insured person who has a disability caused by the injury out of work or illness occurred after navrenja years of life prescribed for the acquisition of rights on the age pension referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, does not meet the requirements in terms of pension contributions for the acquisition of rights on the age pension, is entitled to disability pension, provided that the loss of performance incurred by the navrenja years of my life in article 17 paragraph 1 of this law and has navren pension internship that covers at least 1/3 of the working of the century.


Article 197a


Extremely of art. 17, 197 and 198 of this act, entitled to the age pension can achieve patients -employees who work on jobs in which seniority insurance account with the increased by duration, and that:


1) the authorized officers in terms of the regulations on the exercise of the interior and police affairs;


2) authorized officers of the national security Agency;


3) professional military personnel for service in the Army Of Montenegro;


4) employees of the bodies and organizations that, in terms of regulations on defense, they work on jobs in which seniority insurance account with the increased by duration;


5) the authorized official persons in terms of regulations on execution of criminal sanctions.


Member 197b


An insured person referred to in article 197a of the law is entitled to old-age pension if he was at least 50 years of life and 20 years of contributions, of which at least 10 years effectively presented on jobs on which the insurance periods of care with increased by duration.


In a period of 10 years effective at the working places where seniority insurance account with the increased by duration, as referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, the cumulative counts the time spent on jobs, i.e., jobs referred to in article 197a section. 1 to 5 of the law on which the insurance periods of care with increased by duration.


Patients referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, the right to a pension they can achieve if they have the status of authorized official persons, or professional military officers, or employees in the organs and organizations, which in terms of the regulations on the defense work on jobs in which seniority insurance account with the increased by duration, if they're in those jobs spent at least 20 years.


A member of the 197v


Osiguraniku from the article 197b this law, the age pension or disability pension is determined in accordance with the provisions of art. 19 to 27, i.e., art. 37 to 40 and article 202 of this code.


In determining pension referred to in paragraph 1 of this article, the personal coefficient of the insured is determined in accordance with article 200 of this code.


Notwithstanding paragraph 2 of this article, if it's for insured favorable, personal coefficient is determined on the basis of income, i.e., compensation income earned in the calendar year that precedes the year of realization of rights.


This year that precedes the year of exercising the rights referred to in paragraph 3 of this article is the last one this year in which an insured person in the entire year he was in insurance at the business from the article 197a section. 1 to 5 of this law and made a profit, i.e., compensation income for all 12 months of contributions.


Osiguraniku from the article 197b paragraph 3 of this law this year that precedes the year of exercising the rights referred to in paragraph 3 of this article is the last one this year in which an insured person in the entire year he was in insurance at the business from the article 197a section. 1 to 5 of this law and made a profit, i.e., compensation income for all 12 months of contributions.


The amount of the pension determined by applying the provisions of paragraphs. 1 to 5 of this article shall be increased by 20%.


The amount of the pension referred to in paragraph 6 of this article cannot be greater than the highest amount of old-age or disability pension established provisions of art. 28 and 41 of this law.


The amount of the pension referred to in paragraph 6 of this article can not be less than the lowest old-age or disability pension established provisions of art. 29 and 41 of this law.
A member of 197g


The difference between the pension determined by applying the provisions of art. 197b and 197v of this law and pensions that an insured person has made application of the provisions of art. 17, 197 and 198 of this code as well as the whole amount of the pension of a certain osiguraniku who do not meet the conditions for the realization of the right to a pension as defined in art. 17, 197 and 198 of this code is provided in the budget Of Montenegro.


The provision of paragraph 1 of this article also applies to family pension certain of the age, or disability pension, art. 197b and 197v of this law.


A member of the 197d


The right to a pension application of the provisions of art. 197a, 197b and 197v this law can be achieved by 31. December 2012. year.


A member of the 197


Notwithstanding the provisions of article 17 paragraph 1 of this law, the right to old-age pension, an insured person acquires when he turns 15 years of retirement and:


1) in 2010, 2011, 2012. and 2013. age 65 years (men) or 60 years (women);


2) in 2014. age 65 years old and two months of life (male), i.e. 60 years and three months of life (women);


3) in 2015. age 65 years old and four months of life (male), i.e. 60 years and six months of life (women);


4) in 2016. age 65 years and six months of life (male), i.e. 60 years and nine months of life (women);


5) in 2017. age 65 years and eight months of life (man), or 61 years of my life(woman);


6) in 2018. age 65 years and ten months of life (man), or 61 years and three months of life (women);


7) in 2019. age 66 years (male), or 61 years and six months of life (women);


section - 8) - 28) (brisano).


Notwithstanding the provisions of article 17 paragraph 1 of this law, the right to old-age pension, an insured person a woman acquires when he turns 15 years of contributions and:


1) in 2020. age 61 years and nine months of my life;


2) in 2021. age 62 years old;


3) in 2022. age 62 years and three months life;


4) in 2023. age 62 years and six months to live;


5) in 2024. age 62 years and nine months of my life;


6) in 2025. age 63 years old;


7) in 2026. age 63 years and three months life;


8) in 2027. age 63 years and six months to live;


9) in 2028. age 63 years and nine months of my life.


Osiguraniku who seniority insurance account with the increased by duration, the age limit for acquiring the rights to the age pension referred to in paragraph 1 of this article during the period from 2013. by 2019. year lowers in accordance with article 18 of this law.


Years of life referred to in paragraph 1 items. 1 to 7 of this article, whose navrenjem, in the period from 1. January 2013. year to 31. December 2019. year, is entitled to the age pension are years of life to which in that period pursuant to the provisions of article 37, paragraph 1, item 2 of this law, is entitled to disability pension.


Osiguraniku who seniority insurance account with the increased by duration, the age limit for acquiring the rights to the age pension referred to in paragraph 2 of this article, in the period from 2020. by 2028. year lowers in accordance with article 18 of this law.


Years of life referred to in paragraph 2 items. 1 to 9 of this article, whose navravanjem, in the period from 1. January 2020. year to 31. December 2028. year, is entitled to the age pension are years of life to which in that period, according to the provisions of article 37, paragraph 1, item 2 of this law, is entitled to disability pension


A member of the 197e


Article 17a of this law shall apply to the insured woman out of 1. January 2026. year.


Notwithstanding article 27a of the law, in the period from 2026. year to 2028. year, osiguraniku wife early age pension is determined on the way to determine the age pension, with the amount of that pension reduced by 0,35% for each month of early retirement before the age of:


1) in 2026. age 63 years and three months life;


2) in 2027. age 63 years and six months; and


3) in 2028. age 63 years and nine months of my life.


The amount of the early old-age pension established in accordance with paragraph 2 of this article retains and after the age of years alive referred to in paragraph 2 of this article.


A member of the 197


Notwithstanding article 27a of the law, in the period from 2011. by 2019. year osiguraniku a man early age pensions determines the way how to determine the age pension, with the amount of that pension reduced by 0,35% for each month of early retirement before the age of:


1) in 2011. age 64 years old;


2) in 2012. age 64 years and six months to live;


3) in 2013. the year of the 65 years of his life;


4) in 2014. age 65 years old and two months of life;


5) in 2015. age 65 years old and four months of life;


6) in 2016. age 65 years and six months to live life;


7) in 2017. age 65 years and eight months of my life;


8) in 2018. age 65 years and ten months of life;


9) in 2019. age 66 years life;


items. 10) - 14) (brisano)


The amount of the early old-age pension established in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article retains and after the age of years of life referred to in paragraph 1 of this article.


A member of the 197z


Notwithstanding the provisions of article 17 of this law, an insured person is entitled to the age pension when he turns 30 years of contributions, of which at least 20 years, effectively presented on jobs on which the insurance periods of care with increased by duration.


Right on the age pension in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article can be achieved by 31. December 2011. year.


A member of the 197i


Entitled to the age pension from the age of 20 years of contributions, no matter the age, has one parent who has the child or a guardian who exercises custody of the child, regardless of the years of life of a child with severe disabilities, which is a user personal disability benefits.


The height of the pension for parents of a child with severe disabilities or guardian who exercises custody of the child, which is a user personal disability benefits, increased by 20% as well as entities referred to in article 197a, in conjunction with article 197v.


The right referred to in paragraph 1 of this article shall not apply to custodian, who ex officio appointed by the authority custody.


A member of the 197j


Notwithstanding article 17 of this law, an insured person who is in aluminijumskoj industry stopped working relationship due to the introduction of bankruptcy is entitled to old-age pension if he has the age of 30 years of contributions.


Right on the age pension in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article can be done up to 30. September 2013. year.


Member 197k


Notwithstanding article 17 of this law, an insured person who is in the sector of metal industry stopped working relationship due to the introduction of bankruptcy, and in the process he has not been paid severance pay, is entitled to the age pension if he has navrnih 30 years of contributions.


Right on the age pension in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article can be done up to 15. march 2015. year.


A member of the 197l


Notwithstanding the provisions of article 17 of this law, an insured person who is in the company, in which the state had a large ownership stake, he stopped working relationship due to the introduction of bankruptcy proceedings, is entitled to the age pension from the age of 30 years of contributions (men) or 25 years of contributions (women).


Right on the age pension in accordance with paragraph 1 of this article can be achieved by 1. July 2015. year.


A member of the 197lj


Notwithstanding the provisions of article 17a of this act, an insured person a man acquires the right to an early old-age pension when he turns 15 years of contributions and:


1) in 2020. age 62 years and two months to live;


2) in 2021. age 62 years and four months of life;


3) in 2022. age 62 years and six months to live;


4) in 2023. age 62 years and eight months; and


5) in 2024. age 62 years and ten months of life.


Member of the 198


Notwithstanding the provisions of article 17 paragraph 2 of this act, an insured person a woman is entitled to the age pension when he turns 35 years of contributions and:


1) in 2004 for 50 years and 6 months of life;


2) in 2005. age 51 years of life;


3) 2006 51 years and 6 months of life;


4) in 2007. age 52 years old;


5) in 2008. age 52 years old and 6 months of life;


6) in 2009. age 53 years old;


7) in 2010. age 53 years and 6 months of life;


8) in 2011. age 54 years old;


9) in 2012. age 54 years and 6 months of life.
Member 198a


Ecstatic by decree of a member of 17 bets 2 of the law, osiguran wife meets law on an old pensione kadraki.:


1) u 2013. godini 55 godina ivota i 35 godina stationation;


2) u 2014. godini 55 godina i three mjeseca ivota i 35 godina i three mjeseca stationation;


3) u 2015. godini 55 godina i six mjeseci ivog I 35 godina i six mjesecustaff;


4) in 2016. godini 55 godina i nine mjeseci ivog I 35 godina i nine mjeseci configuration;


5) in 2017. godini 56 godina ivota i 36 godina stationation;


6) u 2018. godini 56 godina i three mjeseca ivota i 36 godina i three mjeseca stationation;


7) in 2019. godini 56 godina i six mjeseci ivota i 36 godina i six mjesecustair;


8) u 2020. godini 56 godina i nine mjeseci ivota i 36 godina i nine mjeseci configuration;


9) u 2021. godini 57 godina life i 37 godina experience osiguranja;


10) u 2022. godini 57 godina i three mjeseca ivota i 37 godina i three mjeseca stationation;


11) u 2023. godini 57 godina i six mjeseci ivota i 37 godina i six mjeseci stature;


12) u 2024. godini 57 godina i nine mjeseci ivota i 37 godina i nine mjeseci configuration;


13) u 2025. godini 58 godina life i 38 godina experience osiguranja;


14) u 2026. godini 58 godina i three mjeseca ivota i 38 godina i three mjeseca stationation;


15) u 2027. godini 58 godina i six mjeseci ivota i 38 godina i six mjeseci stature;


16) u 2028. godini 58 godina i nine mjeseci ivota i 38 godina i nine mjeseci configuration;


17) u 2029. godini 59 godina ivota i 39 godina stationation;


18) u 2030. godini 59 godina i three mjeseca ivota i 39 godina i three mjeseca stationation;


19) u 2031. godini 59 godina i six mjeseci ivota i 39 godina i six mjesec stature;


20) u 2032. godini 59 godina i nine mjeseci ivota i 39 godina i nine mjeseci stature.


Member 199


Except by decree of a member of 18 bets 2 of the Old House of law on the old pension osiguran the wife of men to snuff the highest:


1) u 2004. godini 50 godina i 6 mjeseci;


2) in 2005. godini 51 godinu;


3) u 2006. godini 51 godinu i 6 mjeseci;


4) u 2007. godini 52 years;


5) u 2008. godini 52 godine i 6 mjeseci;


6) u 2009. godini 53 years;


7) u 2010. godini 53 godine i 6 mjeseci;


8) u 2011. godini 54 godine;


9) u 2012. godini 54 godine and 6 months.


Member 200


On the basis of the church's pustnog of the coefitienta utvenog for the kalendarsk godinu feast Prem the articles. 19 to 27 of the law is being charged to the most pleasurable facialist koji osiguran ostvario u, who was at the same rate.:


1) u 2004. godini 12 godina;


2) in 2005. godini 14 godina;


3) u 2006. godini 16 godina;


4) u 2007. godini 18 godina;


5) u 2008. godini 20 godina;


6) u 2009. godini 22 years;


7) u 2010. godini 24 godine;


8) u 2011. godini 26 godina;


9) u 2012. godini 28 godina;


10) u 2013. godini 30 godina;


11) u 2014. godini 32 years;


12) U 2015. godini 34 godine;


13) in 2016. godini 36 godina;


14) in 2017. godini 38 godina;


15) u 2018. godini 40 godina;


At least ten UST rates from bet 1 toch. 1 to 4 ovog members of the Kalendar God in kojima are osiguran osvario osvario osvario because of, after all, a baseline for at least six mjesspecies of the configuration.


Ukoliko osiguranik deaf for ten uzastopnih godina referred to in the bet is a 2 ovog of a member of the u kojima's ostvario zaradu, naknadu zarade, or other osnovicu osiguranja the najmanje six mjeseci experience osiguranja, for the calculation of the najpovoljnijeg linog koeficijenta out of the betting 1 ovog member of the uzima se onoliko uzastopnih kalendarskih godina u kojima's osiguranik ostvario zaradu, naknadu zarade, or other osnovicu osiguranja the najmanje six mjeseci experience osiguranja, how's osiguranik have it.


The most pleasurable and pleasurable co-finalist is thus gathered from a 1-OVG bet by a member to submit to the times when the horses are accounted for.


This is how the punitive pensioner's seniority is multiplied by the most pleasurable facials of a bet of a 4-fledged member.


Member 200a


By 31. December 2030. godine osiguranu koji the first put shall preserve the law of the pensioner, the code of calculating the pension of the primaries of the decree. 19 to 29, ovog of the act, referred to in the obraunskog period for the calculation of the linog koeficijenta izuzimaju the kalendarske godine u kojima's osiguranik ostvario zaradu, naknadu zarade, or other osnovicu osiguranja on while the plaen contribution to the penzijsko i, disability insurance, koje su-to osiguranika najnepovoljnije, u, for the duration of the jedne etvrtine navrenog efektivnog experience osiguranja, s tim to se svaka godina your account as a 1, a svaki mjesec as 0,0833, a svaki dan kao 0,00274.


U period of one quarter of the alignment bet of 1 OVG member su 1992. 1993. godina, ako is an osiguran in tim Kalendar's godinama.


Kalendarska godina out of the betting 1 ovog of a member of the kalendarska godina u kojoj the osiguranik ostvario zaradu, naknadu zarade, or other bio-osiguran the osnovicu osiguranja on while the plaen contribution to the penzijsko i, disability insurance, bez obzira the duinu experience osiguranja navrenog u toj kalendarskoj godini.


If you would primjenom bet 1 ovog of a member of the bill of linog koeficijenta trebalo iskljuiti dio kalendarske godine, jer mahal period ulazi u jednu etvrtinu experience osiguranja out of the betting 1 ovog members as najnepovoljniji for the purposes of calculating the linog koeficijenta, the kalendarska godina nee se izuzeti of the bill of linog koeficijenta, but if it would, with a staom osiguranja of this kalendarske godine, a collection of experience osiguranja najnepovoljnijih different koeficijenata u is the attitude of the jednu etvrtinu experience osiguranja bio vei for upward of six mjeseci.


St. Louis ordinance. 1 to 4 ovog members shall not be removed from their duties as an osiguran has a minimum of 15 years of training for which they are paid to contribute to the fund.


Osiguran koji is up to a given position on the snago ovog of the law following the first put ostvario law on the boarding house, after zahtjev koji is a subset of 1. January 2020.he has the right to be relegated to the pension of the Prime Minister's order. 1 to 5 ovog members, with a number of sub-classes up to 31. December 2020.godine.


In the case of a bet from a 6-ovig member, a new retirement being denied by dan kada is ostvareous law on a pension after a long run of rust or favorite since 1. January 2020. godine.


Member 201


In period of 1. January 2004. godine to 31. December 2008. godine pensioner from a member of the 21-ovog law, the men take out the highest:


1) u 2004. godini 41 godinu;


2) in 2005. godini 42 years;


3) u 2006. godini 43 years;


4) u 2007. godini 44 godine;


5) u 2008. godini 45 godina.


Member 202


Osiguraniku eni koja ima capture of the 40 godina penzijskog experience for odreivanje visine starosne, or other such penzije u in the case of a disability, prouzrokovane boleu you povredom of love uveava the time professors osiguranja navren-31. December 2003. godine for 15%, with tim no ordered pensioner service, men don't cross 40 Godin.


Member 202a


Osiguraniku koji primjenom member 17 of the bet 2 ovog act, the first to put the ostvaruje the right to starosnu penziju where utvrivanja broja different bodova primjenom a member of the 21 ovog of the law, time professors osiguranja over 40 godina uveava to 40%.


Member 203


Postupak to ostvarivanje of the law of penzijskog i invalidskog osiguranja, ie the utvrivanje penzijskog experience pokrenut to put poetka primjene ovog of the law, okonae the pod uslovima i on the way to predvienim propisima koji su to be the snazi u vrijeme pokretanja postupka, and for the law to nije drukije odreeno.


Osiguran for the chiju radom has endured a need under the Rado's rad relationship, the relationship with the maintenance was over to 30. December 2003. as of the day the joyous relationship remained unaffected, up to five years of training to allow me to obtain a law-bond on an old pension mogu, up to 1. marta 2005. it is clear that the sharkslayer's law on a pensione before the penises went to 31. December 2003. godine.


Osnovicu to the a input after the osnovu experience osiguranja of the bet 2 ovog members, koji nedostaje to ispunjenje uslova to sticanje of the law of the starosnu penziju, ranks the basic cijena I love the odgovarajuu kategoriju strunosti utvrena u-line s-optim a collective plea to the mjesec decembar 2003. godine.


Isplata penzije of the bet 2 ovog member of the running najranije of dana kada su u cjelosti uplaene obaveze by osnovu experience osiguranja koji is on the day of the stops radnog of a relationship, or other osiguranja nedostajao to ispunjenje uslova to sticanje of the law of the starosnu penziju.


Member 203a


Inspection of the condition of disability of the beneficiary of the law on Rada has been repeated, according to the rules of law by 31. December 2003. godine, utena's remaining radna ability, will be executed, according to official duty, by 31. December 2005. godine.


The osiguran referred to in Bet 1 ovog of the obustave member shall be taken out by a month without delay, without being obliged to attend the check.


Under the orders of a member of 30 st. 1 to 3 of the law.


The law according to the osnovu ponovnog utvrivanja the status of a disability from a bet of 1 ovog member of the prestaju, mijenjaju se, ie stiu u-line s-for the law of the prvog dana narednog mjeseca by donoenju prvostepenog rjeenja.
Member 204


The person who owned the property of the insured person in accordance with the rules in force prior to the application of this law, as well as members of the so of his company sem members of the rights user group in accordance with these rules, the rights of iz disability pension are exercised in accordance with the conditions established by this Law.


Clen 205


A widow, so she fulfilled the conditions for retirement in the family in accordance with the rules in force not 31. December 2003. a year, and it is good that the right was not even reached before the application of this law can, at his request, exercise the right to a family pension in accordance with the rules that were not in force on 31 December 2003. years.


Regulation 1 of this member refers to the separation of a widow whose marital drug died before the application of this law, so he ordered the days so his death was 40 years old, so she, according to the rules applicable not 31. December 2003. the years provided the right to a family pension when he turned 45.


Regulation 1 of this member refers to the separation of the widow, therefore, based on the performance of parental duties towards the children, he was entitled to a family pension in accordance with the rules applicable not 31. December 2003. year, and what right to a family pension ended before the application of this law, if on the day when she terminated her right, she turned 40 years old.


Member 206


Exclusive status of a member 44 paragraph 1 paragraph 1 of this law a widow is entitled to a family pension:


1) in 2004. a year, if she was 45 years and 6 months old before her spouse's death;


2) in 2005. year, if she was 46 years old before the death of her spouse;


3) in 2006. a year, if she was 46 years and 6 months old before her spouse's death;


4) in 2007. year, if she was 47 years old before her spouse's death;


5) in 2008. a year, if she was 47 years and 6 months old before her spouse's death;


6) in 2009. year, if she was 48 years old before her spouse's death;


7) in 2010. a year, if she was 48 years and 6 months old before her spouse's death;


8) in 2011. year, if the spouse was 49 years old before his or her death;


9) in 2012. a year, if she was 49 years and 6 months old before her spouse's death.


Member 206a


Only from the provision of the member 44 paragraph 1 paragraph 1 of this Code, the widower, osirom with the widow receives the right to a family pension:


1) in 2013. a year, if she was 50 years old before her spouse's death.;


2) in 2014. a year, if she was 50 years old and six months old before her spouse's death;


3) in 2015. year, if the spouse was 51 years old before his or her death;


4) in 2016. a year, if she was 51 years and six months old before her spouse's death.


Exclusively from the provisions of Member 44, paragraph 1, paragraph 1 of this Code, in 2010, 201 1. and 2012. a widower is entitled to a family pension if the death of the spouse does not exceed 50 years of life.


Member 206b


Exclusive position of a member 44 paragraph 1 paragraph 1 of this Code, if the widower, the osirom with the widow and the death of the spouse have not reached 52 years of life, but they have reached 45 years of age, they are entitled to a family pension when they have reached 52 years of age.


Member 207


The exclusive position of a member 44 paragraph 2 of this Code permanently reserves the right to a widow's family pension, therefore, during the term of the right to a family pension received by a member 44 of paragraph 1 of paragraph. 2 and 3 of this law, have reached the age of:


1) in 2004. year 45 years and 6 months of life;


2) in 2005. year 46 years of life;


3) in 2006. year 46 years and 6 months of life;


4) in 2007. 47 years of life;


5) in 2008. 47 years and 6 months of life;


6) in 2009. 48 years of life;


7) in 2010. 48 years and 6 months of life;


8) in 2011. year 49 years of life;


9) in 2012. a year of 49 years and 6 months of life.


Member 207a


Exclusively from the provisions of the member 44 of paragraph 2 of this Code, he permanently reserves the right to a family pension of a widower, osirom with a widow, therefore, during the term of the right to a family pension acquired by a member 44 of paragraph 1 of the tach. 2 and 3 of this law, have reached the age of:


1) in 2013. year 50 years of life;


2) in 2014. a year 50 years and six months of life;


3) in 2015. year 51 years of life;


4) in 2016. year 51 years and six months of life.


Exclusive status of a member 44 paragraph 2 of this Code, in 2010, 2011. and 2012. a year permanently reserves the right to a family pension for a widower who, during the term of the right to a family pension acquired in accordance with article 44, paragraph 1. 2 and 3 of this Law, has spent 50 years of life.


Member 208


A user who is entitled to assistance and care benefits in accordance with the rules in force prior to the application of this law, who is located in a social security institution for the accommodation of old persons, suspends the payment of assistance and care benefits for housing in this institution.


If the user of the assistance and care application bears, in whole or in part, the living expenses of this member's i stava 1 are not suspended when paying the allowance and care allowance.


The right to assistance and care benefits does not belong to the user who has received the right to such monetary remuneration on the second basis.


Member 209


(remove that vaji)


Member 210


In accordance with the provisions of this law, they are necessarily provided as insured persons to farmers, so they fulfill the conditions of iz member 12 of this Code, so at the time of entry into force that the insurance is fixed at the age of 51 (male), osirom with 49 (female) years of life.


They must be provided as insured persons by sem farmers, so they fulfill the conditions of iz member 12 of this Code, and they have turned 51 (male), osirom with 49 (female) years of life, if before that age these age restrictions were provided on the basis of employment, osirom with independent activity.


Member 211


Persons, therefore, not before the entry into force of this law were mandatory insured, since insured landowners remain mandatory insured as insured farmers if they meet the requirements of the IJ of Member 12 of this Code.


Persons, therefore, not the days of the entry into force of this law were mandatory insured as insured landowners, therefore they do not comply with the conditions of the IJ of Member 12 of this Code to easily remain in the mandatory insurance of farmers, if they apply to the fund within six months from the beginning of the application of this law.


Member 212


Exclusively from the provisions of member 19, member 22 of the century. 1 and 2, member 24 and member 25 paragraph 2 of this Code for the establishment of the annual personal coefficient, income, earnings allowances sem insurance bases iz 1992. Ya. 1993. years are not accepted.


Member 213


Income data for 2003. The year is entered in the registration report based on the income data, net of taxes paid by the sem contributions.


Member 214


A user who has exercised some of the rights of an IZ member 16 of this Code these rights terminate if he exercises the right of iz disability pension insurance in the state insurance of the owner, so he was formed on the territory of the former SFRJ, unless otherwise specified by an international agreement.


Solely from position 1 of this member, a user who fills out the conditions for eligibility for a pension based on the remaining pension that the owner of the insured state, so he formed in the territory of the former SFRJ, did not even take into account to determine the excess in pension, will not stop the right, but rather redefine his pension based on the pension internship sem earnings iz this period.
Chlan 215


The pension Commissioner who fills in the conditions specified in paragraph 112 of this Federal Law on the re-termination of pensions and whose height of the right is determined in accordance with the current legislation before the date of application of this law, in order to redefine the height of pensions, the received nominal amount of pensions in aggregate is reduced to the user's personal points.


The deduction from position 1 of this member is due to the fact that the amount of the pension on the day of application is divided by the agreed pension account for one personal point.


In accordance with the provisions of this law, the personal points indicated in position 1 of this member are adjusted with the subsequent receipt of the insurance experience, earnings, remuneration for profit, as well as the insurance grounds for which the contribution was made.


The personal points established in accordance with regulation 3 of this member are the basis for determining the new amount of pensions in accordance with this Law.


The user of the right from position 1 of this member is determined by a more favorable amount of pensions.


For a user who is entitled to special conditions that are more favorable than the general conditions that were applied before the application of this law, which corresponds to the conditions set out in paragraph 112 of this Code, a pension will be determined in accordance with the conditions and in accordance with the provisions provided for in art. From 17 to 29 hours. 197, 197j, 197e,197j, 197lj, 198, 198a, 199, 200 and 202 of this Code, if it was more favorable for him than the previously defined retirement.


On the basis of earnings, remuneration for earnings, one of the main functions is that the difference between how it relates to the relationship between vision and height, after remaining practice in retirement, is excluded from year to year Koya se again Penza squad.


The provisions of st. 6 and 7 of this member also apply to a user who has fulfilled the conditions specified in paragraph 112 of this Code, who has obtained the right to a pension using the provisions of CL. 197b, 197v, 197z, 197i, 197j and 215v of this law, or under other special conditions more favorable than the general conditions.


Member 215a


The period spent in service in its army of insured persons 1. januara 2004. the years before the date of entry into force of this law are counted in the internship insurance for the exercise of pension rights under this Law.


Funds for swearing in pension and disability rights provided on the basis of the insurance atonement from fasting 1.


Member 215b


Information on the length of service, income and compensation for military insurance received in accordance with the rules applicable to the date of entry into force of this law to the fund provided by the public administration body responsible for defense cases.


Member 215v


Rights to age, disability and family pension benefits, rights to physical injury benefits and rights to assistance and care benefits in residence in Montenegro, who have exercised this right in accordance with the military regulations applicable to 15. August 2007. for many years, they undertake to be entitled to the same amount of 15. August 2007. years, and they will use them in stock with this law.


The amount of the old-age, disability and family pension, the right to compensation for physical losses and the right to assistance and withdrawal from position 1 of this member amount to the amount of the Dinar of these rights taken for the payment of the budget of Montenegro from 1. August 2005. the years agreed with the conformity assessments that belonged to these users in accordance with military regulations (by changing the value of the item used for the payment and calculation of military pensions) to 15. August 2007. the year converted to euros at the official exchange rate on the 15th day. August 2007. years.


The rights from position 1 of this member are consistent with the application of Member 58 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act ("Fig. RCG sheet", no. 54/03, 39/04, 61/04, 79/04, 14/07 and 47/07 and " Sl . Sheet CG", no. 79/08 and 14/10), starting from 1. January 2008. years before the date of entry into force of this law.


The assignment to the ministry of spirituality within 60 days from the date of entry into force of the law, the establishment of the rishenem konachni trosheniya rights from the fast of 1 Eva chlana and vvrshiti niihovo assigned to the warehouse with the ratio of 3 Eva chlana.


The user he calculates the difference between the amount of the pension, the monetary compensation for personal injuries, refers to the benefit and the care allowance belonging in terms of the relation 4 of this member and the amount paid in accordance with the previous decision.


The decision from position 4 of this member of the Fund replaces the earlier decision.


The difference owned by the user in terms of the 5 ratio of this member of the fund will be paid in two equal rates with the corresponding 2% annualized interest rate, namely: half of the amount within 30 days of the decision from position 4 of this member, and the second half of the amount within six months after the flax decision from position 4 of this member.


Funds for the right from the insured dehbijej clan are taken from budjeta krne gory.


Member 215g


In addition, 100 percent of the 3 days of the law, the Fund peaks the payment of the most sensations, benefits and fines during the period of use with pleasure in the Serbian Republic, which was entitled to implement before the beginning of the force of the agreement between Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia on social work insurance ("official RCG list", Broi 17/07).


Chlan 216


The exercise of rights on the basis of the retirement age achieved in the Republika Srpska, from the date of the beginning of the application of this law, is regulated by an Agreement between Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia.


The issue of compensation based on the rights achieved on the basis of the retirement age reached in the Republika Srpska before the application of this law is regulated by an Agreement between Montenegro and the Republic of Serbia.


Chlan 217


Data records from 131 points 1 of alineya 3 for the year 2005. each year and in the future, it provides the fund with a tax authority.


Member 217a


Exclusively from the provision of member 67 paragraph 1 of this Code, the rate of contributions for extended insurance until 1. December 2004. the year is 22.8%.


Member 217b


Exclusively from the provision of member 166, paragraph 1 of this Code, the contribution rates for which the contribution is paid to the established base before 1. December 2004. annual amounts:


1) for the policyholder from chlan 10 Post 1 Tach. From 1 to 6 and touch. 8 and 9 evaluation of the law:


- 10,8.%;


- on the charge of the insured 12%;


2) for insured persons from member 10 item 1 item 7 and Articles 11 and 12 of this Code of encumbrances of the insured 22.8%;


3) for insured persons from Member 10, item 1, item 10 and Articles 150 and 151 of this Code are burdened with compensation payments of 22.8%.


Chlan 218


The Steering Committee appoints this foundation CE within 60 days from the date of the honor of the primienne Act.


Prie appoints the head of the Council's Committee for the Assignment of mentors to perform proverbs out of his hard work and after pochchchki pomienskogo OBG law.


Khlanov's appointment of the head of the fund's management board is in accordance with this law and will be carried out within 60 days from the date of entry into force of the law.


The day of the appointment of the chlan steering committee in terms of position 1 of the chlan bid, staye with the job is bothering the management committee.


Chlan 218a


Khlanov's appointment of the head of the fund's management board is in accordance with this law and will be carried out within 60 days from the date of entry into force of the law.


The day of the appointment of the chlan steering committee in terms of position 1 of the chlan bid, staye with the job is bothering the management committee.


Member 218b


The choice of the director of the foundation, in the warehouse with this law, I will play after the sixth month from the day of the nega step on the tree.


Chlan 219


The by-laws and other acts that were beaten by the vision Priye will honor the pomien OBG law pomienovache CE and gave the brought new, poor downstream in contradiction to this law.


Chlan 220


By-laws and other acts to comply with the law of voga will be adopted within six mieseci from the day there will be a tribute to the pomiena of the law.


Chlan 221


The day of the beginning of the application of this law ceases to apply:


1) The Law on the Basics of Pension and Disability Support ("official list of SRJ", no. 30/96, 70/2001, 3/2002 and 39/2002);


2) The Law on the Basics of Pension and Disability Support ("official list of SRJ", no. 5/2003);


3) The Law on Pension and Disability Insurance ("Servbeny list SRKG", no. 14/83, 12/85, 14/89 and "Service List PKG", no. 28/91, 2/92, 18/92 and 20/93);


4) Provisions of the Social Security Contributions Act ("RCG Official Document", no. 39/93, 3/94, 17/94, 42/94, 1/95, 13/96 I 45/98) relating to payers, bases and contribution rates for pension and disability insurance;


5) Regulation of Member 50 of the Internal Affairs Act ("RCG Official Document" no. 24/94 and 29/94).


Chlan 222


This law comes into force on the eighth day from the date of publication in the "Official Journal of the Republic of Montenegro" and will be applied from 1 year. januara 2004. years.






Independent chlan of the Treachery and Supplements Act
Pension and Disability Insurance Act


("Sl. sheet RCG", no. 39/2004)


Chlan 12


This law comes into force on the eighth day from the date of publication in the "Official Journal of the Republic of Montenegro".






Autonomous law on the addition of chlan
Pension and Disability Insurance Act


("Sl. CG sheet", no. 14/2010)


Chlan 2


This law comes into force on the day of publication in the "Official Journal of Montenegro".






Independent chlan of the Treachery and Supplements Act
Pension and Disability Insurance Act


("Sl. CG sheet", no. 78/2010)


Chlan 34


This law comes into force on the eighth day from the date of publication in the "Official Journal of Montenegro".






Autonomous law on the addition of chlan
The law on Pension and Disability is more protected


("Sl. CG sheet", no. 66/2012)


Chlan 2


This law comes into force on the day of publication in the "Official Journal of Montenegro"."






Autonomous law on the addition of chlan
Pension and Disability Insurance Act


("Sl. CG sheet", no. 38/2013)


Chlan 2


This law comes into force on the eighth day from the date of publication in the "Official Journal of Montenegro".






Autonomous law on the addition of chlan
Pension and Disability Insurance Act


("Sl. CG sheet", no. 61/2013)


Chlan 2


This law comes into force on the day of publication in the "Official Journal of Montenegro".






Independent chlan of the Treachery and Supplements Act
Pension and Disability Insurance Act


("Sl. CG sheet", no. 60/2014)
Member 5


This law comes into force on the day of publication in the "Official Journal of Montenegro".






Independent Member of the Amendment Act
Pension and Disability Insurance Act


("Sl. CG sheet", no. 55/2016)


Member 6


This law enters into force on the eighth day from the date of publication in the "Official Journal of Montenegro" and will apply from the date of the beginning of the application of the Law on administrative proceedings ("official list of the CG", no. 56/14, 20/15 and 40/16), with the exception of the provisions of Article 206b of this Code, which will apply from 1. januara 2017. years.






Independent Member of the Amendment Act
Pension and Disability Insurance Act


("Sl. CG sheet", no. 80/2020)


Member 40


This law comes into force on the eighth day from the date of publication in the "Official Journal of Montenegro".
