Page 1

video surveillance
-in workplaces-

A CCTV system uses a set of cameras allowing the collection, viewing and
possibly the recording of images, likely to identify individuals. These images are, therefore,
personal data, the processing of which is subject to the provisions of Law 09-08.
Aware of the importance of video surveillance systems in the protection of property and persons and of the
violation that they may bring to the right to privacy of individuals, the CNDP has defined certain rules that must be
respect organizations operating such systems.

01
Camera location

02

Cameras can be installed in
any location allowing the safety of
goods and / or people but never in
a life-threatening place
deprived of these.

Purpose of processing
The video surveillance system can
be used to ensure the safety of
goods and people.

Thus, the cameras can be installed at
entrances and exits of buildings; on the
traffic lanes, in warehouses
goods, in parking lots, in front of
safes, at the entrance and inside the
technical rooms, etc.
They should not, in this case, be
used to monitor one or more
employees, places of worship, premises
unions, toilets, meeting rooms
or break areas, etc.

03

Duration
conservation

The retention period of the images
should not exceed three months.

Page 2
Rights of data subjects

04

The organization is required to inform the persons concerned, by means of a poster
or a pictogram, placed at the entrance of supervised establishments.
The poster or pictogram must indicate, in a clear and visible manner, the information
the following:
The name of the organization.
The fact that the establishment is placed under video surveillance.
The purpose of this device (the safety of goods and people).
The contact details for the exercise, by the persons concerned, of
rights of access, rectification and opposition.
The receipt number of the declaration filed with the CNDP.

05

06

Data security
The body must take all
useful precautions to maintain safety
and the confidentiality of the processed images and,
in particular to prevent them from being
destroyed, deformed, damaged or that
unauthorized third parties can take it
knowledge.

Data transfer to
the foreigner

Formality of
notification of
treatment at the CNDP

07

The installation of a
video surveillance in places of
work must be notified to the CNDP
through a prior declaration
(Model F-114, available at

Any data transfer abroad
must be notified in advance to the
National Commission for the Control of
protection of personal data
Staff using the appropriate regime.

08

www.cndp.ma).
The aforementioned declaration must
be accompanied by the model
of the information pictogram
comprising the elements described
in (04) and a document
attesting to the signing authority.

Subcontracting
The performance of this subcontracting treatment must be framed by an act
legal or contract that guarantees the confidentiality and security of data as well
as the rules relating to the protection of personal data.

Remedies
If a device does not respect these rules, you can enter the CNDP by:
Mail: Angle Boulevard and Annakhil Avenue Mehdi Ben Barka Building Les Patios, 3 rd floor Hay Riad - Rabat
Morocco
Tel: 05 37 57 11 24 - Fax: 05 37 57 21 41 - Email: complaint@cndp.ma - Online: http://www.cndp.ma/plainte

facebook.com/CNDP.Maroc/

twitter.com/CNDP_Maroc

Address: Angle Boulevard Annakhil and Avenue Mehdi ben Barka, Les Patios Building,
3 floor Hay Riad - Rabat Morocco - Tel: 05 37 57 November 24 - Fax 05 37 57 21 41
Website: http://www.cndp.ma
rd

