Page 1

REPUBLIQUE DU NIGER

LOI N ° 2019-71

------------------------------------Fraternité-Travail-Progrès

du 24 December 2019
modifier la loi n ° 2017-28 du 03 mai
2017 is relative to protection
données à character characters.

See the Constitution of 25 November 2010;
Vu la loi n ° 2017- 28 du 03 May 2017, relative à la protection des données à character
personnel;

LE CONSEIL DES MINISTRES ENTENDU,
LASSEMBLEE NATIONALE A DELIBERE ET ADOPTE,
THE PRESIDENT OF LA REPUBLIQUE PROMULGUE LA LOI
DONT LA TENEUR SUIT:

First article : Chapter VII de la loi n ° 2017-28 du 03 May 2017 relative à la
Character protection of donors is modified as suit:

CHAPITER VII (nouveau): DE LA CREATION, DES MISSIONS, DE

LOARGANIZATION ET DU FONCTIONNEMENT
DE LA HAUTE AUTORITE DE PROTECTION
DES DONNEES A CARACTERE PERSONNEL

Section 1: De la Création et des missions
Article 43: (new) Il est created a Haute Authority for Données à
Personnel en abrege caractere « HAPDP».

The HAPDP is an administrative authority independent of Veiller
conform to the treatment of donations ara character characters with text displays
vigure et des conventions international auxquelles le Niger a adhéré.
Elle est dotée de la personnalité morale et de l'autonomie financière.
1

Page 2

The HAPDP provides an interviewer who wants to process, notify, relatives
auxiliaries, instructions and presentation of dossiers.

The solution of HAPDP is to fix Niamey.

Article 43-1 : The HAPDP says that the treatment and use of donuts is characteristic
Personnel do not have access to public libraries or do not have access to menus
vie privée des citoyens, en particulier dans l l utilisation des l'nn et et
de la communication.
A titre elle est chargée , notamment:
- Inform the person concerned and the responsibilities of the donor
ara Character personnel of lets droits et obligations;
- to respond to all demands of donors on a donut treat
character personnel;
- Explain a code of bonnet conduit relatif au treatment et à la protection des
données à character characters;
- receive receipts and declarations from the authorities for more information

des treats donations to character personnel, or retirees at the casino
preview the texts and content;
- receive receipts and declarations from relatives and friends around the world
Treats donations of character and inform the aunts of the suite
accordion celles-ci ;
- The informant sans dalais, the competent jurisdiction component of the infant dont e a
connaissance dans le cadre de ses missions;
- Determining the appropriate measures and guarantees for it
protection of donations to character personnel;
- de-procurement, and beso on par biais d'agent assermentés, à des verifications
portant all treats données à character personnel;
- The administration of administrative sanctions and investigations will meet
Responsiveness to the treatment of donations to character personnel
conforming to text displays in the viewer;
- de mettre à jour et à la disposition du public, pour consultation, un repertoire de
treatment of donkey characters;
2

Page 3

- Donors give advice to individuals and organizations that are active
Treatments of donors personnel Character personnel or who procure essays or
experiences in the field;
- Donor son avis sur tout projeet de text en rapport avec la protection des
données à character characters;
- Participates in scientific research, formation and study activities
Report with the protection of donors of character personnel and, one of the managers
General, with public liberties and private life;
- d'autouriser, dans les conditions fixes par décret pris en Conseil de Ministres, les
transplant transferees des données à character characters;
- Make all proposition susceptible de simplifier and démanager the cadre
Legitimate and regulatory relation to the treatment of donkey characters;
- Metrics in place of co-operation mechanisms with treatment authorities
de données à character personnel of others pays;
- participant aux négociations international donors in the field of donations
character personnel;
- Establishment and maintenance of a report on the activities of the President
Republic, President of the National Assembly and Prime Minister.

Section 2: De l'Organisation
Article 43-2: The HAPDP is composing the new (09) membered choices, in the resin
leur computance juridique et / ou technique, ainsi qu'il suit:
1. a (1) personal designation by the President of the Republic;
2. a (1) Deputy Representative of the National Assembly;
3. a (1) representative of the Premier Ministries;
4. A (1) magistrate has joined the Cassation design on its proposition
Premier President of the Cassation Course;
5. A (1) magistrate member of the State Council design on the proposition of the Premier
President of the State Council;
6. a (1) design from the first of the Nigerians;
3

Page 4

7. A medical design by order of medicine;
8. a (1) representative of the defense organizations of the droits of l'homme élu par
the collectives;
9. An expert in Information Technology and Communication (TIC)
Signed by the National Agency for Information Society.

Article 43- 3: The members of the HAPDP are named after the letter in the council
des Ministries pour un mandat de cinq (5) ans renouvelable une fois, dans les mêmes
conditions.

The quality of the HAPDP membrane is incompatible with the function of the membrane
Governance, the study of the functions of the enterprise sector
Information on telecommunications.

The members of the HAPDP are in love with each other. Il ne
But you have to find the functions of the members of HAPDP, which is the case of,
demission or impeachment definition constatas par ladite authority.

Article 44 (new): The HAPDP is named after a President
Members of the Council on the Council of Ministers.

The president of HAPDP is second only to a vice-president.
The members of HAPDP.
The president is the head of the HAPDP administration. At the same time, it displays one
cabinet composé de:
- un cabinet de;
- a secret particle;
- a protocol agent;
- Two or three counselor techniques to choose from in your company
Jurisdiction, administrative or TIC.
The HAPDP has proposed a general secretariat with a general secretariat.

4

Page 5

The General Secretariat is named after the Secretary of the Council of Ministers
Proposition of the Ministry of Justice. Il est choisi parmi les personnalités reconnues pour
Comprehensive jurisdiction or administration in category A1 and justifiable
Experience professional dix (10) ans au moins.

The treatment of the base and the indefinite all-encompassing General of the HAPDP
They will fix the prisons in the Council of Ministers.

The Secretariat General compares the directions and services of the organization et
These attributes are not specified in the application of the relative relative protection.
des données à character characters.
The HAPDP recruits personnel for direction, encadence and control
The applet candidacy is based on the components and qualification techniques.
It may be your disposition and demand of the functionalities of the state
de datachement ou de mise à disposition.

The staff of HAPDP is now a state and a regulatory interrogator.
on the members of HAPDP.

The base grille of the base, the primes, the indemnities and the other avantages
Accords and administrative personnel and techniques are fixed on the desk pris en desi
Ministries, sur rapport du Ministre chargé de la Justice.

The personnel technique charged the control of the application of the loi
protection of donations to character personnel first serves the app of the app
Niamey.

Article 45: abrogé:

Section 3: Du Functionnement

Article 46 (new): The President's reception, members of the HAPDP
n'exercent pass leur function à titre permanent.
The members of the HAPDP are reunited in a regular session all three of them
President's convocation. Ilm seuvent se réunir en session extraordinaire sur convocation du
President or the demand for the majority of members.
5

Page 6

The HAPDP can make the apple à all the people do not have any complaints
The process is the realization of his missions.

The modifications of the HAPDP process by the regulation
the intruder.

The members of the HAPDP will be able to conform to the secret profession
texts en vigueur.
The members of the HAPDP have given a total immunity to the opinions of lesmises
and do not re-instruct the authority to exercise its functions.

Article 47 (new): Tout members of the HAPDP doit informer celle-ci des intrêts
directs or directs that the dét vnt or the vànt détinir, the functions qu exil exer or the vnt
excerpt and the whole mandate qu'il détient o vient à détinir au sein des enterprises du sect sectur
of information or telecommunications .

However, the HAPDP offers all available utility solutions
The independence and the empire of its members. A code of conduit est élaboré par la
HAPDP à cet effet.
In the mandate courses, the President or one of the members of the HAPDP will learn
Functions, it is proposed to replace the conditions preceded by the present.
The mandate of successeur ainsi design is limited to time rest à courir.

Article 48 (new): Avant to enter the function of HAPDP members
Give the Cassation of the Serment dont the best suit: «je jure solennellement de
bien et fidèlement remplir ma fonction de membre de la Haute Authority de Protection
des Donés à Personal character, in all dependence and impartiality of faon
digne and loyale et de garder le secret des dlibérations .

Article 49 (now): Agents who exert control over control missions
The application on the donkey on the donkey à character personnel present serment devant la Cour
Niamey's app in these terms: «Je jure de bien et loyalement remplir mes fonctions
The Haute Authority for the Protection of Donkeys nel Personal Character in All
Independence and impartiality, and guarding the secret of deliverance .
Article 50 (new): A commissar of the government of the day
HAPDP. It is named after the Council of Ministers on the proposition of the Ministries
of Justice.

6

Page 7

The Government Commissioner is convinced that all HAPDP sessions
In the m conditionsmes conditions that the cell membranes. The HAPDP information on les
Government orientations and the motivations of the administration concerning the misses
Enjoy the treatment of donations of character. Il prend pas part au vote.

The Commission for the Advancement of Government Benefits by Declaration
Council of Ministers .
Article 51: abrogé.

Article 52 (new): The reputation of cryptocurrency service cannot be opposed
HAPDP, the secret professional auquel il est sumis conformément aux dispisitions légales
or conventionnelles.
The responsiveness of the treatment of donors is characteristic of the personnel in the cadre
The accomplishments of these missions cannot be opposed by HAPDP's secret profession
auquel il est assujetti.
Article 53 (now): The HAPDP may have to answer the question of responsibility
Treatment of mesmerizing suits:
- an advertisement à The Guard of Responsible Treatment of Donors
Character personnel who do not respect the obligations explained in the texts
vigueur;
- a miss in the memory of the manicures observed in the dalais
qu'elle fixe.
Article 54 (new): Lorsque la mise en œuvre d'un tritement de données
Character personnel entered a violation of texts in Vigueur, la HAPDP, après une
Contradictory procurement, can be deciphered:
- The interruption of the mouse in the abdomen;
- the verification of certain donations to character traits;
- The interdiction is temporary or definitive of a contraindicated treatment
Presentations from the present.
Article 55 (now): The HAPDP can, however, avoid having to answer responsibly.
Treatment or self-treatment of those who do not conform to the previous provisions
present loi and à la mise en demeure qui lui to été address, pronoun cer son encounter, les
Suivant sanctions:
7

Page 8

- The retreating agreement of the Autorisation;
- The retrospective definition of authorization;
- The sanctions were imposed.

The montant of the sanctioned degree is proportional to the gravitational pull
commissions and auxiliaries are available from this management.

The montage of this sanction could not save hundreds of millions
(100.000.000) de francs CFA.

In the case of the management of the sanctioned sanction, it is not possible to deduct two cents.
millions (200,000,000) of CFA francs or, of course, an enterprise, she could not save
5% du chiffre d'affaires hors taxes du dernier exercice clos dans la limit de cinq cent
millions (500,000,000) of francs CFA.

These administrative administrations and applicants are not considered applications
sanctions panel.

Article 56 (new): The modalities of retrieval and recovery
des montants de la sanction pécuniaire sunt fixées par décret pris en council de ministres.

CHAPTER VII BIS: DESPOSITIONS FINANCIES AND COMPTABLES
Article 56-1: La HAPDP adopts son budget. L'exercice budgétaire court du
1 is January 31. The budget of HAPDP is provided and authorized by the recipients
Depends on the nature of nature and the world. The President of HAPDP is here
lordonnateur.

Article 56-2: The HAPDP deals with regulatory resources and resources
exceptnelles.
Coordinating HAPDP resources resources:
- The subvention of the state;
- The redevelopments annually and the fraction versions of the titular operators
Authorization tel que dterminés par la loi ou l'autorisation;
- The products and services and rendering services.

8

Page 9

HAPDP component resource exceptions:
- The products of the authoritative Empire of the State;
- financiers products;
- The subventions of public or private national organizations
internationaux;
- The dons and legs regulate the authorities.

Article 56-3: The Deliverance of Authorities for the Loss of Treatment
des données à character personnel donne lieu à la perception des frais au profit de la
HAPDP dont le taux est fixé par décret pris en Council de Ministries.
Article 56-4: Ordinary Resources Provided by Article 56-1 of the Present Law
Mice in recuperation and recuperation by HAPDP. Les paiements correspondants sont
versions on the counts of the HAPDP name.
The HAPDP assures the recovery of the crises that lui sont dues.

Article 56-5: The resources available to the HAPDP or its members are disposed of
Utilization for financing the concurrent activities is the realization of its mission.

Article 56-6: The HAPDP applies to the issues of public compliance.
Elle est soumise au Code des marchés publics et des délégations de service public en
This is about the regulation of passage, execution and control of marches.
Article 56-7: The HAPDP declares an administrative procurement manual,
Finances, techniques and compables.
Article 56-8: The HAPDP Funds, Provenance of Conventions and Accords
The international community is very interested in the modalities that precede these conventions and these accords.
Article 56-9: The budget of the HAPDP is approved by the Ministry of Justice
Transmit the President of Comptes for notification.
The Ministry of Justice disposes of a couple of delays (2) semesters to make concessions
ses observations; As a result of this reaction, the budget is considered as étant
approve .

9

Page 10

Article 56-10: Annual Financial Certificates Sont Transmitted to the Course
Comptes six (6) mois après la fin de l'exercice.

Article 56-11: The HAPDP complies with the course of the course
Comptes, of the General Inspection of Finances and others who are in charge of the General Inspection
d'Etat.

Article 56-12: The President of the HAPDP pays a visit without the montage
This fixes the prisons in the Council of Ministers.
The members of the HAPDP reunion des indemnit dos dont montant est fixé par
Decide on the Council of Ministers.
Article 2: The present tense, which contains all dispositions of contraceptives, is published
and the Official Journal of the Republic of Niger and executed as of the State.
Fait à Niamey, on 24 December 2019

Sign: The President of the Republic
ISSOUFOU MAHAMADOU
The Premier Ministries
BRIGI RAFINI
The Ministry of Justice,
Garde des sceaux
MAROU AMADOU

Pour ampliation:
The General Secretariat
du Gouvernement

ABDOU DANGALADIMA

10

