Page 1

GOVERNMENT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION

POSTANOVLENIE

dated July 6, 2008 N 512
Moscow

On approval of requirements for material carriers of biometric
personal data and technologies
storing such data outside information systems
personal data

(As amended by the Resolution of the Government of the Russian Federation
dated 27.12.2012 N 1404 )

The Government of the Russian Federation maintains:
1. Approve the attached requirements for tangible media
biometric personal data and storage technologies for such
data outside personal data information systems.
2. This Resolution shall enter into force upon expiry of
6 months from the date of its official publication.

Prime Minister
Russian Federation

V. Putin

__________________________

Page 2

APPROVED BY
government decree
Russian Federation
of July 6, 2008
N 512

TREBOVANIZ
to material carriers of biometric personal data
and technologies for storing such data outside of information systems
personal data

(As amended by the Resolution of the Government of the Russian Federation
dated 27.12.2012 N 1404 )

1. These requirements apply when using
material media on which recording is carried out
biometric personal data, as well as during storage
biometric personal data outside information systems
personal data.
2. In these requirements, under a tangible medium
is understood as a machine-readable medium (including
magnetic and electronic), on which the recording and
storage of information characterizing physiological characteristics
person and on the basis of which it is possible to establish his identity (hereinafter material medium).

Page 3

3. These requirements do not apply to relationships
arising from use:
a) the operator of the personal data information system
(hereinafter - the operator) of material carriers for the organization
the functioning of the personal data information system,
the operator of which he is;
b) paper media for recording and storing biometric
personal data.
4. The material carrier must provide:
a) protection against unauthorized repeated and additional
recording information after retrieving it from the information system
personal data;
b) the ability to access recorded material
biometric personal data carried out by the operator and
persons authorized in accordance with the law
Of the Russian Federation to work with biometric personal
data (hereinafter referred to as authorized persons);
c) the ability to identify the information system
personal data in which the entry was made
biometric personal data, as well as the operator,
who made such a record;
d) impossibility of unauthorized access to biometric
personal data contained on a tangible medium.
5. The operator approves the procedure for the transfer of material
carriers to authorized persons.
6. The material carrier must be used within
the period set by the operator who made the recording
biometric personal data on a tangible medium, but not

Page 4

more than the service life specified by the manufacturer
material carrier.
7. The type of material medium that will be used for
processing of biometric personal data is determined by the operator,
except for cases when regulatory legal acts
The Russian Federation is prescribed the use of material
media of a certain type.
8. The operator is obliged:
a) keep track of the number of copies of material
carriers;
b) carry out the assignment to the material carrier of a unique
identification number that allows you to accurately identify
of the operator who recorded biometric personal
data to a tangible medium.
9. Technologies for storing biometric personal data outside
personal data information systems should provide:
a) access to information contained on the material
carrier, for authorized persons;
b) the use of electronic signatures or other
information technology to maintain the integrity and
immutability of biometric personal data recorded on
material medium; (As amended by the Government Decree
Russian Federation dated 27.12.2012 N 1404 )
c) verification of the subject's written consent
personal data for the processing of his biometric personal
data or the presence of other grounds for the processing of personal data,
established by the legislation of the Russian Federation in the field
relations related to the processing of personal data.

Page 5

10. If the material carrier contains
additional information pertaining to the recorded
biometric personal data, then such information should
be
signed with an enhanced qualified electronic signature and (or)
protected by other information technologies that allow
to keep
the integrity and invariability of information recorded on the material
carrier. (As amended by the Decree of the Government of the Russian
Federation dated 27.12.2012 N 1404)
Use of encryption (cryptographic) means of protection
information is carried out in accordance with the legislation
Russian Federation.
11. When storing biometric personal data outside
personal data information systems should be provided
registration of facts of unauthorized repeated and additional
recording information after retrieving it from the information system
personal data.
12. The operator has the right to establish not contradicting the requirements
legislation of the Russian Federation additional requirements for
technologies for storing biometric personal data outside
personal data information systems depending on the methods
and ways to protect biometric personal data in
information systems of personal data of this operator.

____________

