Page 1

FEDERAL LAW OF 24.04.2020 No. 123-FZ "ON CONDUCTING AN EXPERIMENT TO ESTABLISH A SPECIAL REGULATION IN ORDER TO CREATE THE NECESSARY
CONDITIONS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE TECHNOLOGIES IN THE SUBJECT OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION - THE CITY OF FEDERAL SIGNIFICANCE MOSCOW
AND AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLES 6 AND 10 OF THE FEDERAL LAW "ON PERSONAL DATA"
The text of the document is provided for informational purposes only.

THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION
THE FEDERAL LAW
On conducting an experiment to establish a special
regulation in order to create the necessary conditions for the development
and the introduction of artificial intelligence technologies in the subject
Of the Russian Federation - a city of federal significance Moscow and
amendments to Articles 6 and 10 of the Federal Law
"About personal data"
Adopted by the State Duma

April 14, 2020

Approved by the Federation Council

April 17, 2020

Article 1. General Provisions
1.From July 1, 2020 to conduct in the subject of the Russian Federation - the city
federal significance Moscow experiment to establish a special
regulation in order to create the necessary conditions for the development and implementation
artificial intelligence technologies in a constituent entity of the Russian Federation - a city
federal significance to Moscow, as well as subsequent possible use
the results of the use of artificial intelligence.
2. This Federal Law defines the goals, objectives and basic principles
establishing an experimental legal regime, as well as regulating relations,
arising in connection with the establishment of an experimental legal regime.
3. The experimental legal regime is established for five years from July 1
2020 (the date of the experiment). Adopted in accordance with this
By federal law, normative legal acts of a constituent entity of the Russian Federation cities of federal significance Moscow lose their force upon the expiration of the period
conducting an experiment, with the exception of the regulatory legal acts specified in
Part 6 of Article 4 of this Federal Law.
4. Provisions of regulatory legal acts of the constituent entity of the Russian Federation federal cities of Moscow, establishing the conditions of the experimental
legal regime, cannot exclude, modify or conflict with
the provisions of federal laws and other regulatory legal acts of the Russian
Federation related in accordance with the Constitution of the Russian Federation to
jurisdiction of the Russian Federation or joint jurisdiction of the Russian Federation and
subjects of the Russian Federation.
5. The result of the establishment of an experimental legal regime cannot
there is a restriction on the constitutional rights and freedoms of citizens, an introduction for them
additional responsibilities, violation of the unity of the economic space for
the territory of the Russian Federation or other diminution of guarantees for the protection of the rights of citizens
and legal entities provided for by the Constitution of the Russian Federation,
federal constitutional laws, federal laws, decrees
Of the President of the Russian Federation, decrees of the Government of the Russian
Federation and other regulatory legal
acts of the Russian Federation.
Article 2. Basic concepts used in this Federal
the law
1. For the purposes of this Federal Law, the following are used
basic concepts:
1) experimental legal regime - application during
the period for conducting the experiment provided for by this Federal Law in
relation to participants in the experimental legal regime of special
regulation in order to create the necessary conditions for the development and implementation
artificial intelligence technologies in a constituent entity of the Russian Federation - a city
federal significance to Moscow, as well as subsequent possible use
the results of the use of artificial intelligence;
2) artificial intelligence - a set of technological solutions that allows
simulate human cognitive functions (including self-learning and finding solutions
without a predetermined algorithm) and receive when performing specific tasks
results comparable at least to the results of intellectual
human activities. The complex of technological solutions includes
information and communication infrastructure (including information
systems, information and telecommunication networks, other technical means
information processing), software (including in which
using machine learning methods), data processing processes and services
and finding solutions;
3) artificial intelligence technologies - technologies based on
the use of artificial intelligence (including computer vision, processing
natural language, speech recognition and synthesis, intelligent support
decision making and promising artificial intelligence methods);
4) general regulation - normative legal regulation containing
generally binding prescriptions of a permanent or temporary nature, calculated
for multiple use, and acting on the territory of the subject of the Russian
Federation - federal cities of Moscow;
5) special regulation - normative legal regulation,
established by the adopted in accordance with this Federal Law
regulatory legal acts of the constituent entity of the Russian Federation - the city
federal significance of Moscow, containing different from the general regulation
the procedure for the development and implementation of artificial intelligence technologies in the specified
subject of the Russian Federation, as well as subsequent possible use
the results of the use of artificial intelligence;
6) an authorized body - an executive body of a constituent entity of the Russian
Federation - the city of federal significance Moscow, authorized to coordinate
measures of the experimental legal regime, as well as for the implementation of other
functions in accordance with this Federal Law;
7) a participant in the experimental legal regime - a legal entity or
individual
entrepreneur,
included
in
experimental legal regime in accordance with Article 5 of this
Federal law.

registry

participants

2. Other concepts are used in this Federal Law in the same
meaning as in the Federal Law of July 27, 2006 No.
"On information, information technology and information protection",
Federal Law of July 27, 2006 No. 152-FZ "On Personal Data", if
otherwise is not provided for by this Federal Law.

149-FZ

Article 3. Goals, objectives and basic principles of establishment
experimental legal regime
1. The objectives of establishing an experimental legal regime are:
1) ensuring the improvement of the quality of life of the population;
2) increasing the efficiency of state or municipal administration;
3) improving the efficiency of business entities in the course of
introduction of artificial intelligence technologies;
4) the formation of a comprehensive system of regulation of public relations,
arising in connection with the development and use of artificial
intelligence, based on the results of the establishment of an experimental legal regime.
2. The objectives of establishing an experimental legal regime are:
1) creation of favorable legal conditions for the development of technologies
artificial intelligence;
2) approbation of artificial intelligence technologies and the results of its
application in a constituent entity of the Russian Federation - a city of federal significance Moscow;
3) assessment of the effectiveness and efficiency of the establishment of a special
regulation based on the results of the establishment of an experimental legal regime.
3. The basic principles for establishing an experimental legal regime
are:
1) transparency of the experimental legal regime;
2) protection of human and civil rights and freedoms, security
personality, society and state;
3) non-discriminatory access to the results of the use of artificial
intelligence.
Article 4. Powers of the supreme executive body
state power of a constituent entity of the Russian Federation cities of federal significance Moscow in order to establish
experimental legal regime
1. In order to establish an experimental legal regime, the highest
executive body of state power of a constituent entity of the Russian Federation the city of federal significance Moscow determines on the territory of the subject of the Russian
Federation - cities of federal significance Moscow:
1) conditions and (or) procedure for development, creation, implementation, implementation, circulation
certain technologies of artificial intelligence and (or) production, implementation,
the turnover of individual goods (works, services) based on these technologies, as well as
requirements for the specified technologies and (or) goods (works, services);
2) the cases and procedure for using the results of the use of artificial
intelligence;
3) cases of mandatory application and (or) accounting for the results of application
artificial intelligence in the activities of the executive authorities of the subject
Of the Russian Federation - cities of federal significance Moscow and subordinate
them organizations;
4) the authorized body;
5) the procedure and cases of transfer by the owners of funds and systems of photographic and
video surveillance images obtained in accordance with the conditions,
provided for in subparagraphs 1 and 2 of paragraph 1 of Article 152 1 of the Civil Code
Of the Russian Federation, as well as providing access to such tools and systems
photo and video surveillance to public authorities and organizations,
performing public functions in accordance with the regulatory legal
acts of the Russian Federation. List of organizations carrying out public
functions, established by the highest executive body of state power
a subject of the Russian Federation - a city of federal significance Moscow;
6) in agreement with the authorized federal executive body
authorities performing functions for the development and implementation of state
policy and regulation in the field of information
technologies, the procedure and conditions for the processing of experimental legal
the regime of personal data obtained as a result of anonymization, based on
agreements with the authorized body, as well as requirements for such agreements.
2. The highest executive body of state power of the constituent entity of the Russian
Federation - the city of federal significance Moscow in order to establish
the experimental legal regime is carried out on the territory of the subject
The Russian Federation - the city of federal significance Moscow, other powers,
stipulated by federal laws.
3. Adopted in accordance with this Federal Law, regulatory
legal acts of the supreme executive body of state power of the subject
Of the Russian Federation - the cities of federal significance Moscow are used only in
in relation to participants in the experimental legal regime on the register
participants in the experimental legal regime under Article 5
of this Federal Law.
4. When making transactions, sending legally significant messages and
performing other legally significant actions, a participant in the experimental
legal regime is obliged to notify persons who are not participants
experimental legal regime, about the status of a participant
experimental legal regime and indicate the application in relation to it
acts of the supreme executive body of state power of the constituent entity of the Russian
Federation - cities of federal significance Moscow, adopted in accordance with
by this Federal Law. In the event that the specified in this part
legally significant actions are performed using information
telecommunications network "Internet", a participant in the experimental legal
mode is obliged to inform the user (party to the transaction) about all applicable
the provisions of regulatory legal acts of the supreme executive body
state power of a constituent entity of the Russian Federation - a city of federal
the values ​of Moscow adopted in accordance with this Federal Law.
5. Requirements for agreements between the participants in the experimental legal
regime and the authorized body, provided for in paragraph 6 of part 1 of this
articles should provide for confidentiality mechanisms
transmitted data and the security of their storage.
6. Personal data obtained as a result of depersonalization and
processed in accordance with clause 6 of part 1 of this article cannot be
transferred to persons not participating in the experimental legal regime.
In the event of loss of status as a participant in the experimental legal regime, or
termination of the experiment due to the expiration of the term for its conduct a person,
who was a participant in the experimental legal regime, loses the right to
obtaining personal data obtained as a result of depersonalization, and
personal data stored by such a person obtained as a result of
depersonalization, are subject to destruction in the manner prescribed by the authorized
body in agreement with the authorized federal executive body
authorities performing functions for the development and implementation of state
policy and regulation in the field of information
technologies. To destroy personal data obtained as a result
depersonalization, the assessment procedures that have passed in the prescribed manner are applied
compliance of information security tools, which include the function
destruction of information. Information about the destruction of personal data,
obtained as a result of depersonalization are sent by a person who was a participant
experimental legal regime, to the authorized body. Participants
experimental legal regime are responsible for enforcing the rights
subjects of personal data in accordance with the Federal Law of July 27
2006 No. 152-FZ "On personal data" during the entire period of
experiment and after the termination of their participation in the experiment. Authorized body
and the Coordinating Council of the Experimental Legal Regime
the procedure established by the highest executive body of state power
subject of the Russian Federation - a city of federal significance Moscow
agreement with the Government of the Russian Federation, measures to control
compliance with the obligation to destroy personal data received in
as a result of depersonalization.
7. During the experiment, storage of personal data is not allowed,
received as a result of depersonalization and processed on the basis of an agreement with
by the authorized body specified in clause 6 of part 1 of this article, for
within the constituent entity of the Russian Federation - the federal city of Moscow.
Article 5. Acquisition of the status of a participant in an experimental
legal regime
1. A person acquires the status of a participant in an experimental legal regime with
day of inclusion in the register of participants in the experimental legal regime, which
conducted by the authorized body. The notified body ensures the availability
the register of participants in the experimental legal regime for review
an indefinite circle of persons by publishing the specified register on the website
authorized body in the information and telecommunications network "Internet".
2. The authorized body includes the person in the register of participants
experimental legal regime based on an application containing
the following information:
1) full name of the legal entity or surname, name and (if any)
patronymic of an individual entrepreneur;
2) the type (s) of activity that the applicant plans to carry out within the framework
an experimental legal regime;
3) targets or results that the applicant plans to achieve in
the result of participation in the experiment, and the expected timing of their achievement, which is not
may exceed the period specified in Part 3 of Article 1 of this Federal Law;
4) phone numbers, fax numbers, e-mail address of the applicant;
5) surname, first name and (if any) patronymic of the applicant's representative, his number
phone, fax, e-mail.
3. Based on the results of consideration of the application specified in part 2 of this article
the authorized body within a period of not more than thirty calendar days from the date of receipt
such an application takes one of the following decisions:
1) on the inclusion of the applicant in the register of participants in the experimental legal
mode;
2) on the refusal to include the applicant in the register of participants in the experimental
legal regime.
4. The status of a participant in the experimental legal regime is granted
an applicant who meets the following requirements:
1) the applicant is a legal entity or an individual
an entrepreneur registered in the territory of the subject of the Russian
Federation - cities of federal significance Moscow in accordance with the Federal
Law of August 8, 2001 No. 129-FZ "On State Registration
legal entities and individual entrepreneurs ";
2) the applicant is carrying out or plans to carry out activities on
development, creation, implementation, implementation or circulation of artificial technologies
intelligence and (or) production, sale or circulation of certain goods (works,
services) based on the specified technologies;
3) the applicant is an individual entrepreneur, a person carrying out
functions of the sole executive body, or a member of the collegial
executive body or board of directors (supervisory board)
a legal entity has no unexpunged or outstanding conviction for crimes in
economic sphere, as well as for crimes of average gravity, grave and especially grave
crimes.
5. The application specified in part 2 of this article shall be accompanied by documents,
which confirm the applicant's compliance with the requirements of part 4 of this article and
the list of which is approved by the authorized body.
6. The authorized body refuses the applicant to be included in the register
participants in the experimental legal regime in the case of:
1) non-compliance of the application with the requirements established by this Federal
by law;
2) failure to submit documents that confirm the applicant's compliance
the requirements of part 4 of this article;
3) filing an application by an inappropriate person.
7. In case of refusal to be included in the register of participants in the experimental
legal regime, the authorized body notifies the applicant with
motivated justification for such a refusal.
8. Grounds for exclusion of a participant in the experimental legal regime
from the register of participants in the experimental legal regime is:
1) a statement by a participant in the experimental legal regime for an exclusion from
the register of participants in the experimental legal regime;
2) liquidation or reorganization (with the exception of reorganization in the form
transformation) of a legal entity - a participant in an experimental legal
regime or the termination of an individual's activities as
individual entrepreneur;
3) provision by the participant of the experimental legal regime knowingly
inaccurate information when he acquires the status of a participant in an experimental
legal regime;
4) termination of compliance of the participant of the experimental legal regime
the requirements of paragraph 1 of part 4 of this article;
5) violation by the participant of the experimental legal regime of the requirements
of this Federal Law and other regulatory
legal acts.
9. The authorized body makes an entry on the exclusion of information about the participant
experimental legal regime from the register of participants in the experimental
legal regime within ten working days from the date of registration by the authorized
body received from a participant in the experimental legal regime of the application
to exclude him from the specified register.
10. Procedure for sending and considering an application for inclusion in the register
participants in the experimental legal regime and its form are established
authorized body.
Article 6. Coordination Council of the Experimental Legal
regime
1. In order to form strategic directions for improvement
experimental legal regime mechanisms, including monitoring
experimental legal regime, a coordinating council is formed
experimental legal regime.
2. Regulation on the Coordination Council of the Experimental Legal Regime
and its composition is approved by the highest executive body of state power
subject of the Russian Federation - a city of federal significance Moscow
agreement with the Government of the Russian Federation. By the proposal
The Government of the Russian Federation to the Coordination Council
experimental legal regime includes representatives of federal
executive authorities.
3. The Coordinating Council of the Experimental Legal Regime participates in
discussion of draft regulatory legal acts of a constituent entity of the Russian Federation cities of federal significance Moscow on issues related to the establishment
experimental legal regime, and also makes proposals for
improving the mechanisms of the experimental legal regime in the process and
based on the results of the application of special regulation. Based on the results of the
Experiment Coordination Council of the Experimental Legal Regime
prepares and submits to the Government of the Russian Federation proposals on
expediency or inexpediency of amendments to legislation
Russian Federation.
Article 7. On Amendments to the Federal Law
"About personal data"
Introduce into the Federal Law of July 27, 2006 No. 152-FZ "On personal
data "(Collected Legislation of the Russian Federation, 2006, No. 31, Art. 3451;
2009, no. 48, art. 5716; 2010, no. 31, art. 4173; No. 49, art. 6409; 2011, no. 23, art. 3263; No. 31,
Art. 4701; 2013, No. 14, Art. 1651; No. 30, art. 4038; No. 51, art. 6683; 2014, no. 23, art. 2927; No. 30,
Art. 4217; 2016, no. 27, art. 4164; 2017, no. 27, art. 3945; No. 31, art. 4772) the following
changes:
1) part 1 of article 6 shall be supplemented with clause 9 1 of the following content:
"9 1 ) processing of personal data obtained as a result of depersonalization
personal data is carried out in order to improve efficiency
state or municipal administration, as well as for other purposes,
stipulated by the Federal Law "On Conducting an Experiment on
the establishment of special regulation in order to create the necessary conditions for
development and implementation of artificial intelligence technologies in the subject of the Russian
Federation - a city of federal significance Moscow and amendments to Articles 6 and
10 of the Federal Law "On Personal Data", in the manner and on conditions that
provided for by the specified Federal Law; ";
2) in article 10:
a) in part 1 the words "part 2" shall be replaced by the words "parts 2 and 2 1 ";
b) supplement with part 2 1 as follows:
"2 1. The processing of personal data concerning health conditions,
obtained as a result of anonymization of personal data is allowed for the purpose
improving the efficiency of state or municipal administration, as well as
for other purposes stipulated by the Federal Law "On Conducting an Experiment on
the establishment of special regulation in order to create the necessary conditions for
development and implementation of artificial intelligence technologies in the subject of the Russian
Federation - a city of federal significance Moscow and amendments to Articles 6 and
10 of the Federal Law "On Personal Data", in the manner and on conditions that
provided for by the specified Federal Law. ".
Article 8. Entry into force of this Federal Law
This Federal Law shall enter into force on July 1, 2020.

President of Russian Federation
Moscow Kremlin
April 24, 2020
No. 123-FZ

V. Putin

