Page 1

CODE OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES
THE REPUBLIC OF TAJIKISTAN
(Bulletin of the Majlisi Oli of the Republic of Tajikistan, 2008, №12, part 1, art. 989, art. 990; p. 2009, №5,
mod. 321, №9-10, mod. 543; с. 2010, №1, mod. 2, mod. 5, №3, mod. 153, №7, mod. 547, №12, c. 1, mod. 812; с.
2011, №6, mod. 430, mod. 431, №7-8, mod. 610; №12, mod. 838; с. 2012, №4, mod. 256, №7, mod. 685, mod. 693,
№8, mod. 814, №12, c. 1, mod. 1004; с. 2013, №3, mod. 181, №7, mod. 508; с. 2014, №3, mod. 143, mod. 144,
№7, st. 1, mod. 389, mod. 390; с. 2015, №3, mod. 201, №7-9, mod. 707, mod. 708, №11, mod. 955, №12, c. 1, mod.
1108; с. 2016, №3, mod. 130, mod. 131, mod. 132, №5, mod. 359, mod. 361, №7, mod. 613, mod. 614, №11, mod.
877; с. 2017, №1-2, mod. 5, mod. 6, №5, st. 1, mod. 275, №7-9, mod. 568, mod. 585; с. 2018, № 1, mod. 9) №4 +
mod − 157 + mod − 158: c − 1/08 + №0 + mod − 7 + №5 + mod − 201 + mod − 202 + №6 + mod − 353: c− 1/1 / + №0 + mod - 5 (

(KJT from 19.05.2009, № 513; from 5.10.2009, № 550; from 9.01.2010, № 577; from 12.01.2010, № 580;
11.03.2010, № 598; from 21.07.2010, № 614; from 29.12.2010, № 650; from 28.06.2011, № 717–718; from
02.08.2011, № 756 ;, from 26.12.2011, № 774; from 16.04.2012, № 806; dated 03.07.2012, № 835; from 03.07.2012,
№ 843; from 01.08.2012, № 877; dated 28.12.2012, № 910; dated 19.03.2013, № 938; dated 22.07.2013, № 980; from
14.03.2014, № 1068; from 14.03.2014, № 1069; dated 26.07.2014, № 1092; dated 26.07.2014, № 1093; from
18.03.2015, № 1179; from 08.08.2015, № 1219; from 08.08.2015, № 1220; dated 23.11.2015, № 1234; from
25.12.2015, № 1262; from 15.03.2016, № 1277; dated 15.03.2016, № 1278; dated 15.03.2016, № 1279; from
14.05.2016, № 1308; dated 14.05.2016, № 1310; dated 23.07.2016, № 1335; dated 23.07.2016, № 1336; from
14.11.2016, № 1361; from 24.02.2017, № 1382; from 24.02.2017, № 1383; from 30.05.2017, № 1418; from
18.07.2017, № 1445; from 28.08.2017, № 1466; 02.01.2018, № 1477; from 17.05.2018, № 1517, 1518; from
02.01.2019, № 1561; from 20.06.2019, №1610; from 20.06.2019, №1611; dated 19.07.2019, №1631; from 1− / 0−1 / 1 / №
0548 (+ from 04.07.2020, №1698 : from / 3− / 6−1 / 1 / № 06 //: from / 6− / 7−1 / 1 / - + № 0604: from 06−01− 1/1 / с− + аз 06−01−1 / 1 / №
0615+ № 0616 (

SECTION I. GENERAL SECTION
CHAPTER 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
Article 1. Legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on administrative offenses
1. The legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on administrative offenses
The Constitution of the Republic of Tajikistan is based on this Code and other normative acts
legal acts of the Republic of Tajikistan, as well as international legal acts to which Tajikistan is a party
recognized. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 24.02.17, №1383)
2. In case of compliance with international legal acts recognized by Tajikistan
non-compliance with the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on administrative offenses
norms of international legal acts apply.
Article 2. Duties of the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on offenses
administrative
Duties of the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on administrative offenses
protection of human and civil rights and freedoms, protection of health , ensuring sanitary security
epidemiology of the population, protection of public morals, improvement of the environment, protection of public order
established for the exercise of state power, public order and security, property,
protection of the legitimate interests of individuals and legal entities, society and the state from crime
administrative, as well as ensuring timely and proper review of offense cases
administrative and prevention of administrative offenses.
Article 3. Relations in accordance with the Code of Administrative Offenses of the Republic of Tajikistan
Tajikistan regulates
Code of Administrative Offenses of the Republic of Tajikistan (hereinafter - this Code)
regulates the following relations:
- general rules and principles of the legislation on administrative offenses;
- action (action or inaction) recognized as an administrative offense;

Page 2

- administrative responsibility of individuals, officials and legal entities for non-compliance
provided by this Code;
- types of administrative penalties and rules of their application.
Article 4 was deleted by the Criminal Code on 22.07.13, № 980
Article 5. Validity of this Code in time and place
1. A person who has committed an administrative offense in accordance with the law, at the time and place
committing an administrative offense, bringing to administrative responsibility
will be.
2. A law that mitigates or eliminates liability for administrative offenses or to
otherwise improves the situation of the person who committed the administrative offense, force
has a retroactive effect, ie it applies to the person who has such a law until it comes into force
has committed an administrative offense or has not yet been sentenced
administrative action was not taken.
3. A law establishing liability for an administrative offense or
intensifies or otherwise aggravates the situation of the person who has committed an administrative offense
heavy, has no back force.
Article 6

Principles of the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on

administrative offense
Legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on administrative offenses is based on the principles
legitimacy, equality before the law, inevitability of punishment, responsibility and individual guilt,
based on justice, humanity.
Article 7. The principle of legality
1. Recognition of an act (action or omission) as an administrative offense, liability
and punishment for its commission, as well as the legal consequences of committing the offense
administrative shall be established only in accordance with this Code.
2. No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honor and reputation
be held administratively liable for violation of the procedure and grounds established by this Code
does not consider anyone subject to administrative penalties or measures
administrative case does not apply.
3. Application of the provisions of this Code by analogy is prohibited.
4. Administrative penalties and measures to ensure the review of the case
administrative offense for committing an administrative offense by a judge, the competent authority
state (official) within their competence in accordance with this Code
are.
5. Compliance with the requirements of the legislation in the proceedings on administrative offenses and
application of administrative sanctions for committing administrative offenses
through regular supervision of the authorized state bodies, authorized officials
upper and prosecutorial oversight is provided.
6. The content of the provisions of this Code shall be understood in strict accordance with its text.
7. For non-compliance with the relevant articles of the Special Part of this Code
rules, standards, instructions , regulations and other norms subject to administrative liability
it is provided that such a provision is in accordance with the normative legal acts of the Republic
Tajikistan ratified or adopted. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of January 2, 18, №1477)
Article 8. The principle of equality before the law
1. Persons who have committed administrative offenses are equal before the law.
2. An individual, regardless of citizenship, nationality, race, sex, language, religion, position
political, educational, social and property status for committing an administrative offense
will be held administratively liable.

Page 3

3. An official and a person equal to him, regardless of the exercise of his powers
official and position occupied for the commission of an administrative offense
will be held administratively liable. (KJT dated 28.06.11, № 718)
4. Legal entity, regardless of the form of ownership, location, organizational forms
legal, subordination and other circumstances for committing an administrative offense
administratively drawn.
5. Members of the Majlisi Milli and deputies of the Majlisi Namoyandagon with the permission of the relevant Majlisi
administrative liability imposed by a court may be waived.
6. Persons in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Tajikistan and the laws of the Republic of Tajikistan
have the right to inviolability without the permission of the relevant authorities.
arrest, forcible return, personal search shall not be permitted. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of February 24, 2017,
№1383)
Article 9. The principle of inevitability of punishment
Any natural, official or legal person who has committed an administrative offense
bears administrative responsibility, deserves administrative punishment and measures against him
Provider of consideration of the case on administrative offense in this Code
established.
Article 10. The principle of individual responsibility and guilt
1. An individual, official or legal entity shall be liable for an act (action or omission)
administrative offender who is found guilty of committing an administrative offense
has been.
2. For the harm caused through no fault of the person can be brought to administrative responsibility
no.
Article 11. The principle of justice
1. Administrative penalties and measures to ensure the proceedings of the offense
administrative law applied to an individual or legal entity who has committed an administrative offense
should be fair, ie due to the nature of the administrative offense, the circumstances of the offense
and the consequences, the identity of the offender and the business reputation of the legal entity
be appropriate.
2. No person shall be held administratively liable twice for the same administrative offense
cannot be drawn.
Article 12. The principle of humanity
1. In relation to an individual, official or legal entity who has committed an administrative offense
shall be subject to such administrative penalties and measures providing for the production of the case
administrative offenses are assigned and enforced to correct him and prevent him from committing
commission of other administrative offenses by the same person or other persons and
enough.
2. When imposing administrative penalties and measures ensuring the proceedings
administrative offense to an individual, official or legal entity who committed the offense
administrative harassment, intimidation, any form of discrimination or insult;
damage to the reputation of an individual or damage to the business reputation of a legal entity is prohibited.

Page 4

Article 13 was deleted by the Criminal Code on 22.07.13, № 980
Article 14 was deleted by the Criminal Code on 22.07.13, № 980
Article 15 was deleted by the Criminal Code on 22.07.13, № 980
Article 16. Procedure for interpretation of this Code
1. If the provisions of this Code have two or more meanings or any interpretation of them
If possible, in that case the criteria may be in the best interest of the offender
committed administrative offenses.
2. The terms or concepts used in the Code shall have the same meaning as in
laws and other relevant regulatory legal acts, provided that the Code
Unless otherwise provided.
3. Under this Code, different interpretations of the same concepts are prohibited
provided that there is no special indication in the Code itself.
CHAPTER 2. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES
Article 17. The concept of administrative offense
1. Administrative offense is an unlawful and culpable act (action or omission) of a person
is real, official or legal, committed in the prescribed manner
This Code entails administrative liability. An administrative offense is intentional or unintentional
negligence is committed.
2. Failure to do so shall be considered an administrative offense under the law or otherwise
normative legal acts of the Republic of Tajikistan on the obligations of a person with respect to his actions
to eliminate the occurrence of this or that consequence.
3. Convicted person for committing an administrative offense
it is not possible that his wrongful act (action or omission) was committed in error and he began
could not have predicted this error.
4. A legal entity shall be liable for committing an administrative offense on condition of liability
administrative offenders for compliance with the norms and rules provided for them in accordance with this Code
administrative liability is provided, the possibility of which is established, but he for
their observance has not taken all measures.
5. Imposition of an administrative penalty on a legal entity by an individual guilty of a crime
this offense is not exempt from administrative liability and at the same time to liability
administrative or criminal withdrawal of an individual from legal responsibility
the reason for this offense is not exempt.
Article 18. Intentional commission of an administrative offense
If the person committing an administrative offense is of an illegal nature
Know your actions (actions or inactions), anticipate their harmful consequences, and anticipate such consequences.
will or willfully committed an administrative offense intentionally
committed.
Article 19. Committing an administrative offense through negligence
An administrative offense shall be deemed to have been committed if the person was negligent
the perpetrator knows in advance the probable consequences of his actions (actions or omissions), but
without sufficient grounds, negligence or self-confidence to hope for the possibility of such consequences or the possibility of
the occurrence of such a consequence was not foreseen, though it should and could have been
he should also have known that his actions were illegal.

Page 5

Article 20. Ultimate necessity
1. A person's actions are not recognized on the condition that they are an administrative offense
inevitably committed.
2. Ultimate necessity, harm to eliminate risk that is directly in the interest
legally protected state, society and the individual, ie in this case in another way
the means of eliminating that risk become impossible and the harm inflicted is greater than the harm inflicted
be less.
3. If the damage is caused by a person in a state of extreme necessity or necessity or in a state of emergency
Anxiety, panic committed may have caused equal or greater harm, such as
the movements are not considered illegal.
Article 21. Reasonable risk
1. In case of reasonable risk of harm to interests in accordance with this Code
protected in order to achieve the purpose of community benefit offense
is not considered administrative.
2. A risk is recognized when it is justified to achieve that goal by action
(inaction) unrelated to the risk is impossible and the person who took the risk must
to take all measures to prevent harm to the interests protected in accordance with this Code
have taken the necessary measures.
3. Risk to life and health of people is prohibited. If the risk is obvious with a disaster
environmental or public disaster related is not justified.
CHAPTER 3. ADMINISTRATIVE RESPONSIBILITY
Article 22. The concept of administrative responsibility
1. Administrative liability is a type of legal liability for the commission of an offense
administrative offenses against individuals, sole proprietors, officials and
The law is applied by a judge, authorized state body (official).
2. Different types of administrative offenses lead to the imposition of different types of penalties
become administrative.
3. An administrative offense is considered to be committed on a regular basis
committed by an individual or legal entity twice or more during the year.
Article 23. Basis of administrative responsibility
The basis of administrative liability is committed by an individual, official or legal entity
an act that contains all the elements of an administrative offense provided by the Code
include this.
Article 23 1 . Partnership in administrative offenses
1. Intentional joint participation of two or more individuals or officials in the commission of an offense
Intentional administrative offense is recognized as complicity in an administrative offense.
2. The organizer and the assistant along with the executor are partners in the offense
administratively recognized.
3. The executor is recognized as the person who directly committed an administrative offense
or together with other persons (accomplices) directly involved in its commission
has also a person through the use of other persons in accordance with this Code
are not held administratively liable for committing an administrative offense.
4. The organizer is recognized as a person who organized or committed an administrative offense
led its execution.
5. An assistant is a person who provides advice, guidance, information, tools or equipment.
committing an administrative offense or removing obstacles to the commission of an offense
administrative assistance, as well as the person who concealed the offender, tool or instrument

Page 6

committing an administrative offense, traces of an administrative offense or objects by way of
the administrative offense obtained was promised in advance, as well as the person concerned
promised to possess or transfer such property to another person in advance.
6. Responsibilities of the organizer and the assistant with reference to this article
An article of a special part of this Code shall be established, except in cases when they are
be accomplices of an administrative offense at the same time.
7. When imposing an administrative penalty for an administrative offense in a partnership
the nature and extent of the actual participation of each partner in the administrative offense committed
will be taken into account. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of March 14, 2014,) 1068)
Article 24. The age at which an individual is subject to administrative liability
Administrative liability is imposed on an individual who commits an offense
administrative offense he has reached the age of sixteen.
Article 25. Possibility of release from administrative responsibility
1. If the administrative offense is insignificant, judge, authorized state body
(official) consider a case of administrative offense, may be a person
released the administrative offender from administrative responsibility and with the appointment
verbal warnings are limited.
2. In accordance with this Code, the same administrative offense is considered insignificant.
as a result to an individual in the amount of up to one index for calculations and to a legal entity
material damage in the amount of up to ten times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 26. Incompetence
An individual who is in a position to commit an administrative offense
was mentally ill, that is, due to a permanent mental illness, temporary mental distress,
mental illness or other state of mental illness is the real and illegal nature of the action (action or
inaction) cannot realize itself or manage it, is not subject to administrative liability.
Article 27. Administrative responsibility of an individual
1. To commit an administrative offense by an individual in accordance with the procedure
provided for by this Code, shall be subject to administrative liability, provided that in
This Code and other normative legal acts of the Republic of Tajikistan shall establish otherwise
has not been.
2. By physical person means a citizen of the Republic of Tajikistan, a foreign citizen and a person
stateless is understood.
Article 28. Administrative responsibility of minors
1. Minors shall be held administratively liable in accordance with the procedure established by this Code
are.
2. A judge, authorized state body (official) may specify the circumstances
administrative offense case and information related to the juvenile who committed the offense
committed administratively between the ages of sixteen and eighteen, considering it a minor
release from administrative liability.
3. Upon admission by a judge, an authorized state body or an authorized official
the decision to release the juvenile from administrative liability of the case against him for enforcement
remedial action will be forwarded to the Commission on the Protection of the Rights of the Child. (KJT from
28.06.11, 17717)
Article 29. Administrative responsibility of an official, a person equal to him and
individual entrepreneur
1. An official for committing an administrative offense due to execution
failure to perform or improper performance of his / her official duties shall be subject to administrative liability

Page 7

will be. In the absence of these circumstances the official in the commission
the administrative offender is guilty, will be prosecuted on general grounds.
2. An official is defined in this Code as an appointed or elected person
understood to be a permanent, temporary or with special authority the function of a representative
exercises state power, ie in the manner prescribed by law
The Republic of Tajikistan has the authority to issue orders to subordinates
his official position, as well as a person who performs organizational, commanding, administrative functions
farming in public authorities, public institutions, self-government bodies
towns and villages, as well as in state economic entities and other economic entities,
in which the share of the state is not less than half, performed on a paid or unpaid basis
and persons equated to them. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of February 24, 2017, №1382)
3. Managers and employees of organizations regardless of the form of ownership in relation to
performance of organizational-commanding and administrative-economic functions committed administrative offenses
have been held administratively liable as officials, if in accordance with
otherwise established by the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of February 24, 2017,
№1382)
4. Individual entrepreneurs for committing administrative offenses due to
non-fulfillment or improper fulfillment of obligations stipulated by the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan
determined to be held administratively liable.
5. By individual entrepreneur in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan is an individual
It is understood that a business can be conducted without the establishment of a legal entity under a patent or
certificate. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 28.12.12, 10910
Article 30. Administrative liability of servicemen and other persons entitled to
they are subject to disciplinary regulations
1. For servicemen and other citizens invited to military meetings
administrative offenses in accordance with disciplinary regulations or special rules
administratively drawn.
2. Employees of internal affairs bodies, bodies of the Drug Control Agency
under the President of the Republic of Tajikistan, law enforcement units of the Agency for Supervision
Public Finance and Anti-Corruption of the Republic of Tajikistan, executive bodies
Criminal punishment of the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Tajikistan, customs authorities and other bodies
of the Republic of Tajikistan for administrative offenses while performing duties
service in accordance with the regulatory legal acts that specify the procedure for service in the said bodies
are subject to administrative liability.
3. Persons against whom disciplinary regulations or special rules of discipline apply
apply for non-compliance with the legislation on elections and referenda
Sanitary and epidemiological safety of the population, about natural monopolies, traffic rules,
fire safety requirements outside the workplace, environmental legislation,
customs rules and rules of the established regime of the State Border of the Republic of Tajikistan;
border system, system of checkpoints of the State Border of the Republic of Tajikistan, as well as for
administrative offenses in the field of taxes, duties and other state and local financial payments;
related to corruption, non-compliance with legal requirements of court, prosecutor, investigator, individual
the investigator or the authorized official reviewing the case
administrative offenses on general grounds. In relation to persons
the application of administrative penalties through administrative detention and in respect of employees
conscripts (soldiers and sergeants), as well as the imposition of administrative penalties
administrative fines are not allowed. (KJT from 24.02.17, №1382; from 20.06.19, №1610)
Article 31. Administrative responsibility of a legal entity
1. A legal entity for an administrative offense only in cases directly related to
Relevant articles of the Special Part of this Code provide for administrative responsibility
is drawn. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of January 2, 18, №1477)

Page 8

2. A legal entity may also be liable for the actions (actions or omissions) of an individual
found guilty of committing an administrative offense, subject to administrative liability
to impose administrative penalties on them, provided that
this individual as a representative (member, leader) of a legal entity to commit an illegal act
committed in their interest.
3. Unless otherwise indicated in the relevant articles of the general and special parts of this Code
be that the norms established by these articles apply only to an individual or only to
legal entity, in which case these criteria apply to both individuals and
shall apply to a legal entity, except in cases where these norms are substantive
may apply only to an individual or only to a legal entity.
4. In case of merger of several legal entities to administrative liability for the commission
an administrative offense is committed by a newly established legal entity.
5. When a legal entity joins another legal entity
administrative offense the legal entity that has attached it to administrative liability
is drawn.
6. In case of separation of a legal entity or withdrawal of one or more persons from the legal entity
legal for committing administrative offenses according to the distribution balance
a newly established legal entity or any legal entity that has left the legal entity
will be held administratively liable.
7. When converting a legal entity of one type to a legal entity of another type for
committing an administrative offense of a reorganized legal entity
administratively drawn.
8. In the cases provided for in parts four - seven
This article stipulates administrative liability for administrative offenses against that person
the law also applies when he re-informs about the reality of the administrative offense
was aware or not to organize.
9. Administrative penalties in accordance with the second, third, fourth, sixth, seventh and eighth paragraphs
the first part
Article 36 of this Code for committing administrative offenses against
a legal entity shall be appointed prior to the completion of the reorganization of the legal entity in accordance with its provisions
the second - seventh parts of the present article are applied.
Article 32. Administrative liability of a foreign citizen, stateless person and individual
foreign law
1. Foreign citizen, stateless person and foreign legal entity (representative offices and branches)
they, etc.) located on the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan, with the exception of foreign legal citizens
have diplomatic immunity for committing administrative offenses
are held administratively liable on general grounds.
2. Administrative liability in respect of a foreign citizen of diplomatic immunity
shall be applied in accordance with international legal instruments recognized by Tajikistan.
Article 33. Term of bringing to administrative responsibility
1. Except if three months have passed since the day of committing the administrative offense
administrative offenses provided by part 2 of the present article, the person is liable
administrative is not charged. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of June 28, 2017, 17717)
2. If six months have passed since the day of committing the following administrative offenses
the person is not brought to administrative responsibility:
- health care, sanitary and epidemiological situation of the population;
- in the field of labor protection and social protection;
- in the field of land use;
- in the field of environment protection and use of natural resources;

Page 9

- in connection with traffic safety rules (administrative offenses committed through
Special technical means of automated control system in the field of transport are recorded or triggered
causing minor damage to the victim's health); (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of December 25, 2015, №1262)
- in the field of intellectual property;
- in the field of energy and use of energy resources;
- in the field of safety of hydraulic structures (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 17.05.2018,, 1517);
- in the field of industry, architectural and town-planning activity and construction;
- in the field of banking legislation;
- in the field of antitrust law;
- in the field of customs legislation;
- in the field of tax legislation;
- due to corruption . (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of June 28, 2017, 17717)
3. In case of continuation of administrative offense, calculation of terms
provided by parts 1 and 2 of this article from the date of discovery of an administrative offense
begins.
4. In case of refusal to initiate criminal proceedings or termination of criminal proceedings, if in
the actions of the person have signs of an administrative offense, in this case the calculation of the term
provided for in the first part of this article from the date of the decision to refuse to start
criminal proceedings or termination of the criminal case shall be instituted.
5. In case of satisfaction of the request of the person, the case on administrative offense
will be considered in respect of the consideration of the case at his place of residence for the duration of the claim
administrative liability of a person from the moment of satisfaction of the request to the moment of receipt
the case file to a judge, public authority or official for consideration of the case
the place of residence of the person authorized is suspended.
CHAPTER 4. DEFINITIONS AND TYPES OF ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES
Article 34. The concept of administrative penalty
An administrative penalty is a measure of state coercion imposed by a judge in accordance with this Code.
authorized state body (official) in relation to an individual, individual entrepreneur,
persons, officials and legal entities committed to commit administrative offenses
will be.
Article 35. Purpose of administrative penalty
1. Administrative punishment for the purpose of educating a person in the spirit of unconditional observance of the law
the perpetrator of an administrative offense, as well as the prevention of a new offense
administratively imposed both by the offender himself and by others
will be.
2. An administrative penalty may not be imposed for the purpose of insulting the honor and dignity of the person who committed it
administrative offenses, physical or mental harassment, intimidation, any discrimination
or insulting the human dignity of an individual or damaging the business reputation;
legal entity that has committed an administrative offense.
Article 36. Types of administrative penalties
1. For committing administrative offenses the following administrative penalties are established and
are applied:
- warning;
- administrative fines;
- administrative suspension of a license to engage in certain types of activity;
- deprivation of a license to engage in certain activities;
- deprivation of an individual of special rights;
- administrative suspension of a certain type of activity;
- recovery of things that are an instrument of committing an administrative offense or object
is direct;

Page 10

- confiscation of things that are an instrument of committing an administrative offense or a direct object
it is;
- administrative expulsion of a foreign citizen from the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan;
a stateless person; (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 30.05.17, №1418)
- administrative detention.
2. A legal entity shall be subject to administrative penalties specified in the second, third paragraphs,
the fourth, sixth, seventh and eighth parts of the first part of this article.
3. Administrative penalties provided by part one of the present article only in accordance with the standing Code
are set.
Article 37. Basic and additional administrative penalties
1. Warning, administrative fine, administrative detention, administrative suspension of the license, deprivation
of a license, administrative suspension of a certain type of activity only as a penalty
basic administration are established and implemented. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 28.08.17, №1466)
2. Deprivation of an individual of special rights, with compensation and confiscation
items that are an instrument of committing or a direct object of an administrative offense, as well
administrative expulsion of a foreign citizen or a stateless person from the territory of the Republic
In Tajikistan, both the main and additional punishments are established and applied. (KJT from
30.05.17 s., №1418; KJT from 28.08.17, №1466)
3. For an administrative offense the main penalty or the main and additional administrative penalty from
the sentence provided by the articles of the Special Part of the standing Code.
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of January 2, 18, №1477)
Article 38. Warning
Warning is a type of administrative penalty in writing and in the prescribed manner
the relevant articles of the Special Part of this Code to the person who committed the offense
administrative is given.
Article 39. Administrative fine
1. Administrative fine is a type of administrative penalty in the form of recovery of money in favor of the state
and by a judge, the authorized state body (official) in relation to a person
committed an administrative offense in the manner prescribed by this Code
will be done.
2. The size of the administrative penalty is established as a percentage or carat depending on it
will be:
- an indicator for calculations on the day of termination or prevention of offenses
administrative offense, established for a continuous administrative offense from the date of its discovery
has been;
- the value of the object of the administrative offense at the time of its termination or prevention
an administrative offense is established for a continuous administrative offense from
the date of its discovery;
- from the unpaid amount of taxes and other obligatory payments or foreign exchange transactions
illegal, which must be paid on the day of termination or prevention of the offense
administrative, for continuous administrative offenses set on the day of its discovery
have been;
- the cost of work performed.
3. The minimum size of an administrative fine imposed on an individual or individual entrepreneur in
The basis of the operating patent is charged, must be an indicator for the calculations, the person
an official of the three indicators for accounts, an individual entrepreneur based on a certificate
operates and the legal entity is not less than ten indicators for calculations.
4. The maximum amount of administrative fines imposed on an individual or individual entrepreneur
The basis of the operating patent shall not exceed one hundred marks for calculations, from the official
two hundred indicators for accounts, an individual entrepreneur operating on the basis of a certificate

Page 11

from three hundred points for calculations and from a legal entity of one thousand points for
accounts or more than two hundred percent of the amount of taxes and other mandatory unpaid payments
unless otherwise provided by the Special Part of this Code.
5. A case of an administrative offense in which the amount of the fine is more than three hundred times the minimum monthly wage
for calculations, except for cases of administrative offenses in the field of taxation and
antitrust law is reviewed by a judge. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 28.12.12 to 910; from 8.08.15
№ 1220)
6. The amount of the administrative fine is transferred to the republican budget.
Article 40. Administrative suspension of a license to engage in a certain type
activity
1. Administrative suspension of a license to engage in a certain type of activity
authorized body to an individual or legal entity when observed by a licensee
failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the license only in cases provided for in the relevant articles
A special part of this Code shall apply.
2. Term of administrative suspension of the license to engage in a certain type
activity should not exceed six months.
3. The administrative penalty is imposed by the licensing authority in the form of administrative suspension
a license to engage in a certain type of activity.
Article 41. Deprivation of a license to engage in a certain type of activity
1. Deprivation of a license to engage in a certain type of activity
issued by an authorized state body to an individual or legal entity for a regular basis
non-compliance by the licensee with the terms and conditions of the license only on the basis of circumstances and
the procedure provided by the relevant articles of the Special Part of this Code
will be.
2. Administrative penalty in the form of deprivation of a license to engage in such activities
certain activities are appointed by a judge.
Article 42. Deprivation of an individual of special rights
1. An individual has a special right (the right to drive, hunt, maintain
possession of a firearm, use of electronic means or
high-frequency devices, use of land, etc.) given to him for export
committing an administrative offense in cases stipulated by the Special Part of the Code
deprived of this due to rude or systematic non-compliance with the rules of its use
will be. Deprivation of the exclusive right is established for the term from two months to ten years .
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 28.08.17, №1466)
2. Decision on imposing an administrative penalty in the form of deprivation of the right
a special judge receives. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 28.08.17, №1466)
3. Deprivation of the exclusive right in the form of the right to drive a vehicle
cannot be applied to a person who uses a vehicle due to his disability
Uses or is the vehicle's main source of income, except in exceptional cases
driving under the influence of alcohol, disobeying the lawful demands of the employee
police and arbitrarily leaving the scene of the accident in which he is a participant.
Article 43. Administrative suspension of a certain type of activity
1. Administrative suspension of a certain type of activity from temporary cessation of personal activity
an individual who carries out business activity without establishing a legal entity, from the activity of an individual
legal, branches, representative offices, structural subdivisions and production areas, as well as the use of
equipment, facilities, buildings and structures, the implementation of certain activities, works and
service.
2. Administrative suspension of certain types of activities in life-threatening situations
people, epidemics, epizootics, poisoning (contamination) of quarantine objects

Page 12

through quarantine facilities, the occurrence of radiation accidents or disasters
man-made, causing serious damage to the condition and nature of the environment or at the time of commission
administrative offenses in the field of drug trafficking, psychotropic substances and
their precursors, production and circulation of ethyl alcohol, alcohol, alcohol products, as well as
tobacco products and other cases directly provided by the relevant articles of the Special Part
This Code shall apply.
3. Administrative suspension of a certain type of activity for a period of up to three months
by the authorized body only on the basis of the circumstances and in the manner prescribed by Article
the relevant part of the Special Part of this Code.
4. Authorized bodies shall execute a sentence at the request of an individual, official or legal entity
administrative termination in the form of administrative suspension of a certain type of activity ahead of time
provided, provided that the circumstances provided for in the first and second parts have been remedied
the same article which is the basis for the imposition of this administrative penalty.

Article 44. Recovery of items that are instruments of committing an offense
administrative or its direct object
1. Recovery of items that are an instrument of committing an administrative offense or object
it is direct, from forcibly taking and selling it and giving it to the previous owner
the cost of the same thing is calculated by deducting the cost of selling the received thing.
2. The procedure for recovery of things and the list of things received in accordance with the Code
These and other normative legal acts of the Republic of Tajikistan. With
the reward for the collection of things shall be determined only by a judge.
3. Recovery of property shall be subject to the nature of an administrative offense
to conform.
4. The property of a third party that does not belong to the offender, only in the case of
compensation is charged for the purpose of the offender at the time of its receipt
prove the knowledge of a third party.
Article 45. Confiscation of things that are an instrument of committing an administrative offense or
has become its direct object
1. Confiscation of things that are an instrument of committing an administrative offense or a direct object
it consists of the forcible and free transfer of these things to the state.
Confiscation of these items shall be ordered only by a judge. Only items should be confiscated
the property of the offender is subject to the provisions of the legislation of the Republic
Tajikistan, unless otherwise provided.
2. Confiscation must be commensurate with the nature of the administrative offense.
3. Forcible expropriation of a person who has committed an administrative offense
confiscation of an instrument of export or a direct object of an administrative offense
not provided that:
- must be returned to its rightful owner in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan
to be;
- withdrawn from civil circulation or for other reasons under the illegal possession of a person
committed an administrative offense, on this basis should be the property of the state
be carried out or destroyed.
4. Items that have become an instrument of export or a direct object of an administrative offense
does not belong to the offender, but is the property of a third party, except
administrative offenses in the field of customs legislation, subject to confiscation only
becomes aware of the purpose of the offender when obtaining it in advance
to prove a third party. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 24.02.17, №1383)
5. The procedure for application of confiscation and the list of items that cannot be confiscated shall be in accordance with the Code.
These and other normative legal acts of the Republic of Tajikistan.

Page 13

Article 46. Administrative expulsion of a citizen from the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan
foreigner and stateless person
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 30.05.17, №1418)
1. Administrative expulsion of a foreign citizen from the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan;
stateless person as an administrative penalty for forcible expulsion of a foreign citizen and a person
stateless person consists of the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan and applies in the following cases:
provided that: (KJT of 30.05.17, №1418)
- their actions (actions or inactions) contrary to the interests of public and state security
or is contrary to the interests of maintaining public order;
- This measure is aimed at protecting the health and morals of the population, protection of their legitimate rights and interests
citizens of the Republic of Tajikistan and other persons if necessary;
- they have not complied with the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan.
2. Administrative expulsion of a foreign citizen from the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan;
stateless person by force and under control across the State Border of the Republic
Tajikistan deportation of the mentioned persons from the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan when
non-compliance by them with the order of stay in the Republic of Tajikistan, but in other cases
directly provided by the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan, in a controlled manner
independent departure of a foreign citizen or stateless person from the Republic of Tajikistan
is implemented. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 30.05.17, №1418)
3. Administrative expulsion of a foreign citizen from the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan;
a stateless person as an administrative sanction imposed on these persons by a judge and when
committed an offense by them while entering the Republic of Tajikistan
administratively, by an authorized state body or an authorized official
is assigned. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 30.05.17, №1418)
Article 47. Administrative detention
1. Administrative detention as an administrative penalty of temporary deprivation of liberty for
committing an administrative offense and forcing him to work
Public benefit in accordance with the conditions and in the manner determined by the Government of the Republic of Tajikistan
consists of.
2. Administrative detention is the isolation of an offender from society for a period of one year
up to fifteen days and for non-compliance with the state of emergency up to thirty days
and shall be appointed by a judge.
3. Administrative detention only in exceptional cases for certain types of offenses
directly established by the administrative provisions of the articles of the special part of this Code
In relation to a pregnant woman, a woman who has a child under the age of fourteen,
under the age of eighteen, persons with disabilities of groups 1 and 2, as well as in respect of a person of retirement age
has not been applied.
4. The term of administrative detention is included in the term of administrative detention. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 29.12.10
s., № 650)
CHAPTER 5. APPOINTMENT OF AN ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY
Article 48. General rules for imposing administrative penalties
1. Administrative penalty for committing an administrative offense within the provisions
This Code shall apply.
2. When imposing an administrative penalty on an individual, the nature of the offense
the administrative offense committed by him, the identity of the offender, his property status, mitigating circumstances and
aggravating circumstances of administrative liability are taken into account.
3. The nature of the offense when imposing an administrative penalty on an official
administrative offense, identity of the offender, property status and official position, circumstances
mitigating, aggravating administrative liability are taken into account.

Page 14

4. The nature of the offense when imposing an administrative penalty on a legal entity
administrative offenses committed by him, the property and financial situation of the legal entity, mitigating circumstances and
aggravating circumstances of administrative liability are taken into account.
5. In the presence of exceptions, depending on the purpose and reasons of the action, with
taking into account the information about the guilty person, as well as his property and financial situation
administrative offense cases pending in court
the judge may impose an administrative penalty of the cap provided for in the relevant articles of Part
specifically the lower of this Code.

This rate is relative to

administrative offenses in articles 328 part 1, 332, 333 parts 1 and 3, 334, 339
part 2, 497-499, 577, 578 parts 1 and 2, 579, 585 part 1, 592, 593 part 1, 594 part 1, 595 part 1,
596 and 597 of this Code shall not apply. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of January 2, 18, №1477)
Article 49. Circumstances mitigating administrative liability
1. The following circumstances mitigate the administrative responsibility:
- sincere remorse of the person who has committed an administrative offense;
- voluntary reporting of an offense by a person
administrative;
- elimination of harmful consequences of administrative offenses by the guilty person;
Voluntary compensation or reparation of the caused damage;
- commission of an administrative offense in a state of severe emotional distress or
due to difficult circumstances of personal, family or other circumstances;
- commission of an administrative offense by a minor;
- commission of an administrative offense by a pregnant woman or a woman with a minor child
or a person who is raising a child under the age of eighteen alone;
- commission of an administrative offense under the influence of threat, coercion or dependence
official, material or other dependence;
- committing a minor administrative offense for the first time;
- commission of an administrative offense in excess of the minimum necessity ;
reasonable risk. ( KJT, 28.06.11, ,717)
2. Judge, authorized state body (official) in case of violation
considers administrative, may consider other cases as a mitigating circumstance
to recognize that it is not provided by the present Code.
Article 50. Circumstances aggravating the administrative responsibility
1. The following circumstances aggravate the administrative responsibility:
- continuation of illegal actions, despite the request of authorized persons
stop it;
- commission of an administrative offense by a group of persons;
- Involvement of a minor for committing an administrative offense;
- commission of administrative offenses in case of natural disasters or other circumstances
emergency;
- repeated commission of one type of administrative offense within one year, provided that
that a person is subject to an administrative penalty for the first administrative offense
taken, but in relation to the prescribed period
Article 53 of this Code has not been applied;
- commission of an administrative offense in a state of intoxication due to consumption
alcohol, drugs, psychotropic or other narcotics.
A judge, authorized state body (official) shall impose an administrative penalty;
depending on the nature of the administrative offense may aggravate these circumstances
do not count.
2. The circumstances provided for in Part 1 of this Article shall be deemed to be aggravating circumstances
not provided that these cases are in accordance with the provisions of the relevant articles of the General Part of the Code
This is intended as a sign of arrest of an administrative offense.

Page 15

3. The list of cases that aggravate the administrative responsibility is complete, and other cases
aggravating circumstances shall be established only by this Code.
Article 51. Imposition of administrative penalties for several offenses
administrative
1. Punishment in case of committing two or more administrative offenses by a person
appointed separately for each type of administrative offense committed
will be.
2. If a person has committed several administrative offenses and cases against
to be considered at the same time by one authorized state body or authorized official;
the final sentence to be imposed on this person shall be determined by only one article;
which provides for a more severe administrative penalty.
If the administrative penalty is calculated as a percentage of the amount of unfulfilled tax liability or liability
a tax imposed in violation of the tax legislation, an administrative fine
charged separately for each administrative offense.
3. If a person has committed an act (action or omission) for which he is administratively liable
according to several
Article of the Special Part of this Code provides for such cases
administrative offenses by authorized state bodies or officials
Different commissioners will consider administrative penalties for each offense
the scope of the norms of these articles shall apply separately.
4. In the cases provided for by part one and paragraph 1 of part two of this article
the main penalty may be one of the additional penalties provided
Article 37 to be added to this Code.
Article 52. Calculation of the term of administrative detention and deprivation of special rights
Term of administrative detention in hours, days, period of deprivation of special rights with
day, month and year are calculated. (KJT dated 29.12.10, №650).
Article 53. The term during which a person is considered to be subject to administrative penalty
A person against whom an administrative penalty is imposed for an administrative offense
appointed within one year from the date of the decision to impose an administrative penalty on the penalty
is considered administratively charged.
Article 54. Compensation for property damage and moral damage from the offense
administratively reached
1. Disputes over the recovery of property damage by the court in accordance with the procedure of court proceedings
civil are resolved. Judge when considering a case of administrative offense in the case
absence of dispute over compensation for property damage with the imposition of administrative penalties
to resolve the issue of compensation for property damage.
2. In the case of another authorized state body or an authorized official
consideration of the case on administrative offense, dispute over compensation of property damage from
by the court in the order of civil proceedings.
3. Disputes over compensation for moral damage caused by an administrative offense in court in accordance with
the procedure of civil proceedings.
Article 55. Fulfillment of obligations as a result of committing an offense
administratively
Imposition of an administrative penalty on a person for the performance of an obligation resulting from the commission
an administrative offense has not arisen.
Article 56. Term of application of administrative penalty
Administrative penalty after the expiration of the term

Page 16

Article 33 of this Code shall not apply.
SECTION II. SPECIAL PART
CHAPTER 6. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES RELATED TO HUMAN RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS
AND A CITIZEN
Article 57. Violation of the citizen's right to get acquainted with the list
voters and participants of the referendum
For violation of the right of the responsible person to get acquainted with
list of voters and referendum participants or within the time limits established by law
failure to consider the invalid application of the list of voters, participants of the referendum or
refusal to give a reasoned written answer to the citizen about the reason for refusal
an application for correction to the list of voters, participants of the referendum or in
non-compliance with the court decision on amending the list
voters, referendum participants,
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of one to three times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 58. Interference in the work of election commissions and referendum commissions
To use the official position to interfere in the work of the election commission or
referendum commissions to exercise their powers in accordance with the legislation on elections
and the referendum established, in order to influence its decision, i.e. demand or
instruction of an official on issues of registration of candidates, counting of votes
voters and other issues that fall within the exclusive competence of the election commission or
belong to the referendum commission;
- a fine in the amount of ten to fifteen times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 59. Non-execution of decisions of election commissions and referendum commissions
For non-compliance with the decision or request of the election commission or referendum commission, in
the scope of their competence is accepted,
- to individuals in the amount of one to three, to officials from ten to fifteen, to individuals
the legal shall impose a fine of seventy to one hundred marks for calculations.
Article 60. Non-observance of the procedure for submitting voter lists and
referendum participants or information about voters and participants
referendum
For non-compliance with the procedure for submitting the list of voters and participants
referendum or information on voters and referendum participants by an individual
the official to whom this responsibility has been assigned
- a fine in the amount of ten to fifteen times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 61. Non-compliance with the established procedure for printing documents related to preparation
and conducting elections and referendums
For non-compliance with the established procedure for the publication of documents related to the preparation and
conducting elections and referenda,
- to officials in the amount of ten to fifteen and to legal entities from seventy to one hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.

Page 17

Article 62. Violation of the rights of members of election commissions, referendum commissions,
national and international observers, candidate proxies or media representatives
mass media
For violation of the rights of a member of the election commission, referendum commission, observers
national and international, proxies of candidates or media representatives, from
including the right to timely information provided by law;
- to individuals in the amount of five to ten and to officials from fifteen to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 63. Rejection of the proposal to temporarily dismiss a candidate to deputy or
other electoral positions related to participation in elections and referenda
1. Rejection by the employer of the offer on temporary dismissal of the candidate
to a deputy or other electoral position provided by law for propaganda or activity
other provided by law that facilitates the selection of a candidate, as well as by
the employer refuses the offer to temporarily dismiss a member of the election commission or
Referendum commission to participate in the preparation and conduct of elections and referenda in accordance with
the procedure established by law;
- to an official in the amount of fifteen to twenty times the minimum monthly wage
is assigned.
2. For dismissal or transfer to another job (position)
a candidate for deputy during the pre-election campaign, as well as dismissed from his / her position
transfer or transfer to other elective positions of a member of an election commission or commission
referendum without his consent during the preparation and conduct of elections and referenda;
- to impose fines on officials in the amount of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
Article 64. Non-compliance with the terms of the election campaign and campaigning
referendum
For non-compliance with the terms of the election campaign and campaigning during the referendum
through television, radio and other media programs as required by law
elections and referendums are planned;
- to officials in the amount of ten to twenty and to legal entities from one hundred to one hundred and fifty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 65. Non-compliance with the terms of advertising of business and other activities
activities during election campaigns
For non-compliance with the terms of the election and referendum legislation
provided for advertising of business and other activities of candidates, other persons and
organizations to which the requirements and restrictions provided by the electoral legislation apply
and a referendum is held,
- to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to
legal entities shall be fined from seventy to one hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 66. Pre-election campaign and referendum campaign at the time or place
it is forbidden
For pre-election campaigning and campaigning during a referendum at any time or place
Such campaigning is prohibited by election and referendum legislation.
- to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to
legal entities shall be fined from seventy to one hundred times the minimum monthly wage.

Page 18

Article 67. Pre-election campaigning and referendum campaigning by persons
their participation is prohibited by law
For pre-election campaigning and referendum campaigning by persons participating
they are forbidden by law
- to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to
legal entities shall be fined from seventy to one hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 68. Activity of foreign citizens, stateless persons, legal entities
foreign and international organizations involved in the nomination or election of candidates;
the political parties that have submitted the list of candidates for deputies to win
impede or promote certain election results
For the activities of foreign citizens, stateless persons, foreign legal entities and
international organizations that nominate or elect candidates, political parties that
have submitted a list of candidates to the deputies to achieve certain results in
obstructs or facilitates elections;
- to individuals in the amount of twenty to fifty, with administrative deportation from the territory of the Republic
Tajikistan imposes fines on legal entities from 200 to 300 somoni
will be. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 30.05.17, №1418)
Article 69. Development and distribution of anonymous propaganda materials
To develop and distribute anonymous print and audiovisual promotional materials during the period
preparation and conduct of elections and referenda in accordance with the established procedure
the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on the number, time of publication, name and address of the organization or
name, place of residence of the person who developed this printed and audiovisual propaganda material,
as well as the name of the organization or the name of the person who commissioned this printed promotional material
and audiovisual information is not available, as well as the development of printed and promotional materials
audiovisual, in which the above information is incorrectly stated,
- to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to
legal entities from one hundred and fifty to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage
will be.
Article 70. Failure to provide access to information to the public
denial or other explanation of the protection of the honor or business reputation of the candidate
In order not to create opportunities for public information in any way
denial or other explanation of the protection of the honor or reputation of the candidate until the end
the term of the election campaign in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on
Elections are mandatory.
- to officials in the amount of twenty to thirty and to legal entities from seventy to one hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 71. Intentional destruction or damage to printed propaganda materials
related to elections and referendums
To intentionally destroy or damage the data or promotional publications contained in
based on the requirements of the legislation on buildings, structures or other objects with the consent of the owner or owner
election campaigns, preparation or conduct of referendums, as well as inclusion
writing or photographing in printed information and propaganda materials,
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of ten to twenty times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 72. Violation of the right to use premises during the election campaign
preparation and conduct of a referendum
For non-compliance with the rights of candidates, initiative groups on the conduct
referendum on equal use of state or communal property buildings for

Page 19

meetings with voters, participants of the referendum, the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan
on elections and referenda;
- to impose fines on officials in the amount of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
Article 73. Involvement of voters and participants in support of a candidate
referendum by bribery
To give to voters, participants of the referendum money, gifts, other valuables
material, holding preferential sales or free provision of preferential goods or services with
in order to attract them to support the candidate, as well as to carry out charitable activities
contrary to the requirements of the law on elections and referenda,
- to individuals in the amount of twenty to thirty, to officials from seventy to one hundred and to
legal entities shall be fined from three hundred to five hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 74. Submission or non-publication of the report, information on the funds
imported and spent for the preparation and conduct of elections and referenda
have been
1. To be nominated by a candidate for deputy, deputy, political party, credit institution
failure to submit a report, information on the source and within the period prescribed by law
the amount of funds allocated to the election fund, their expenditures, as well as the proposal
incomplete or incorrect reports and information,
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of thirty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage.
2. To be nominated by the chairman of the election commission or the chairman of the referendum commission
media for publication, non-submission or incomplete submission or timely submission
failure to provide information on funds received and spent on the election fund, as well
on financial statements of candidates to deputies,
- a fine in the amount of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
3. For non-publication of information by the chairman of the election and referendum commission
on the expenditure of budget funds allocated for the preparation and conduct of elections and referenda
has been
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of ten to twenty times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 75. Illegal use of funds by a candidate for deputy or party
political
To use other funds, in addition to the amount of your election fund or from
exceeding the established rate of use of the amount of the election fund, as well as for
Unforeseen purposes of spending these funds by a candidate to a deputy or a political party;
- a fine in the amount of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 76. By a candidate to a deputy or a political party in the course of preparation and
conduct of elections, use of illegal financial aid
To be prepared and conducted by a candidate for deputy or political party
use of illegal financial aid;
- a fine in the amount of seventy to one hundred times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 77. Illegal financing of election and referendum campaigns without
election funds, funds for referendums and other deliveries
material assistance
For illegally providing financial or material assistance to a candidate's election campaign
deputies, political parties without their electoral funds free or at unreasonably low prices
performance of works, services or sale of goods by individuals and legal entities
conducting elections and referenda,

Page 20

- to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from thirty to fifty, to
legal entities from three hundred to five hundred times the rate for accounts with confiscation of property
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.
Article 78. Untimely transfer of funds to election commissions, political parties and
candidates for deputies
For appointment by relevant bodies, credit organization, communication, election commission,
Referendum commissions are accounted for by election commissions, referendum commissions, political parties.
non-transfer, incomplete transfer or non-compliance with the deadlines.
transfer of funds established by law;
- to impose fines on officials in the amount of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
Article 79. Illegal issuance of ballot papers and ballots to citizens
voting in a referendum
To be issued to a citizen by a member of an election commission or a referendum commission
ballot or ballot paper in a referendum for the purpose of voting for someone
another or more than once during the voting or giving the ballot to the citizen
filled out ballot papers or filled out ballot papers in referendum;
- a fine in the amount of three to seven times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 80. Preparation of unaccounted number of ballots or
hiding the remaining ballots
To prepare the number of ballots or ballot papers for a referendum
unregistered or hidden ballot papers and ballot papers
referendum,
- to individuals in the amount of forty to fifty, to officials from seventy to one hundred and to
legal entities from three hundred to four hundred times the rate for accounts with confiscation of property
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.
Article 81. Non-observance of the legal order of counting of votes
For non-compliance by the chairman or member of the election commission or referendum commission
the procedure for counting votes determined by law;
- a fine in the amount of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 82. Providing or not publishing information on the results of voting or
election results
1. To be nominated by the chairman of the polling station commission or referendum commission
acquaintance with voters, referendum participants, candidates, national observers and
international, non-submission or untimely publication by media representatives
information on voting results,
- a fine in the amount of five to ten times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. To be nominated by the chairman of the district election commission or the chairman of the district commission
referendum on committing an offense provided for in part one of this article.
as well as non-compliance by them with the deadlines submitted to the representatives of the media
or incomplete provision of information on the results of voting in elections and referenda,
- a fine in the amount of ten to fifteen times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
3. When committed by the Chairman of the Central Commission for Elections and Referenda
the offense provided for in the first part of this article, as well as his observance
failure to submit a deadline to media representatives for publication
information on voting results in elections and referenda
- a fine in the amount of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.

Page 21

Article 83. Dissemination of false information about a candidate
Dissemination of false information in order to influence the election results
about a candidate to deputy or other elected position by publication or other means;
- to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from thirty to fifty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 84. Obstruction of pre-election campaign
To prevent pre-election campaigning,
- to individuals in the amount of seven to ten and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 85. Coercion to religiosity or atheism, atheism or atheism and execution
religious ceremonies
1. To coerce into religiosity or atheism, godliness or atheism, and to perform rituals
religious, payment for the benefit of mosques, churches, synagogues, religious communities, associations,
religious centers, groups and organizations or individual believers or obstruct their implementation
human and civil rights and freedoms under the pretext of belonging to a particular religion or denomination (doctrine)
religious,
- a fine in the amount of fifteen to twenty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article,
- a fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 86. Obstruction of the exercise of the right to freedom of religion
1. To impede the exercise of the right to freedom of religion, including acceptance
of a religion or religious beliefs or other beliefs or refusal to accept them, to join
religious associations or withdrawal from membership,
- to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials in the amount of thirty to thirty
fifty indicators are assigned for fine calculations.
2. To insult the religious feelings of citizens or to destroy objects, signs and symbols
symbols that are believed to be revered in the absence of evidence of a crime;
- to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from forty to fifty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 87. Non-compliance with the procedure and time limits for consideration of appeals of individuals and
legal
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of January 2, 18, №1477)
For unlawful refusal to consider appeals, comply without good reason
failure to comply with the terms and conditions of their consideration, making an unreasonable decision that led to the violation
legal rights and interests of individuals and legal entities in the absence of signs
crime. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 23, 2016, №1335) ,
- a fine in the amount of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 88. Refusal to provide information to a citizen
To refuse to provide information to the citizen, which is collected in the prescribed manner
and directly affects the rights and freedoms of a citizen or failure to provide such information in a timely manner;
as well as failure to provide other information in cases provided by law or to the citizen
incomplete or incorrect information by an official in the absence of evidence of a crime,
- a fine in the amount of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.

Page 22

Article 89. Non-compliance with the requirements of the Law of the Republic of Tajikistan “On language
Government of the Republic of Tajikistan »
For non-compliance with the requirements of the Law of the Republic of Tajikistan "On the state language
The Republic of Tajikistan ”, (KJT from 21.07.10, №614).
- to individuals in the amount of fifteen to twenty, to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 90. Executed by parents or other legal representatives of minors
failure to take care of and care for minors
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of March 18, 2015, №1179)
To be supervised by a parent or other legal representative of a minor, teacher or other
an employee of an educational or training institution, as well as a person who raises a child on a contract basis
does not fulfill the obligations of guardianship, upbringing, education, protection of rights and interests
juveniles in the absence of evidence of a crime, (Criminal Code of 18.03.15, №1179)
- a warning or a fine in the amount of three to five times the minimum monthly wage
will be done. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of March 18, 2015, №1179)
Article 91. Abuse of the rights of a guardian or trustee
For selfish use of guardianship or custody, to the detriment of the ward and
placing him in custody or without supervision or without financial assistance in the absence of a sign
crime,
- a fine in the amount of fifteen to twenty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 92. Non-compliance with the procedure or deadline for submission of information on
minors for inclusion in family upbringing, guardianship or in a children's institution
orphans or homeless needy
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 23, 2016, №1335)
For by the head of the institution where the orphans are staying or by
an official of a local executive body of state power or self-government body
towns and villages non-compliance with the procedure and deadlines for submission of information on
children for foster care or foster care;
an institution for orphaned or homeless children in need, as well as intentional submissions
inaccurate information about such children, (KJT of 23.07.16, №1335; (KJT of 02.01.18, №1477)
- a fine in the amount of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 93. Unlawful acts during adoption, guardianship or
transfer of the child to the foster family (tutor)
For committing illegal acts during adoption, under guardianship
(guardianship) or transfer of a child to a foster family (tutor), (CJP of 23.07.16, №1335)
- to individuals in the amount of fifteen to twenty and to officials from forty to fifty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 93 1 . Non-compliance with the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on
prevention of domestic violence
For non-compliance with the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on prevention
domestic violence, i.e. the commission of an intentional act of a physical, mental or other nature
economic or threat of committing them in a family relationship if the act resulted in a violation
the rights and freedoms of family members, in the absence of signs of crime,
- to fine individuals in the amount of two to five times the minimum monthly wage
will be done. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of March 19, 2013, 8938)

Page 23

Article 93 2 . Failure to comply with the requirements of the protection order
For non-compliance with the requirements of the protection order,
- to individuals in the amount of five to ten times the minimum monthly wage or imprisonment
administrative is appointed for a period from five to fifteen days. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of March 19, 2013, 8938)
Article 94. Non-compliance with labor legislation
1. For non-compliance with labor legislation, including:
- unreasonable termination of the contract with the employee;
- hiring or non-observance of age without concluding an employment agreement
the established year of employment;
- unilateral refusal of the employer to negotiate collectively;
- unreasonable denial of leave to employees, as well as failure to provide other
guarantees provided by the labor legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan;
- to impose fines on officials in the amount of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
2. For repeated commission within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
administrative offenses mentioned in part one of the article,
- A fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage for officials
is assigned.
Article 95. Unreasonable refusal to hire
1. In order not to unreasonably hire a person who is employed by an official,
institution and organization, regardless of the form of ownership and organizational and legal manner, by
employment services at the expense of quotas in accordance with normative legal acts of the Republic of Tajikistan
in the absence of evidence of a crime,
- a fine in the amount of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. For unjustified refusal to hire a person who is out of the competition
vacancies have passed in the absence of a crime scene,
- a fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 96. Deliberate employment of citizens by the authorities
law enforcement is wanted
To deliberately hire citizens by law enforcement
are wanted
- A fine in the amount of thirty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage for officials
is assigned.

Article 97. Recruitment of convicted persons to positions
prohibited by law
To hire convicted persons to positions prohibited by law
has done
- A fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage for officials
is assigned.
Article 98. Illegal dismissal of an employee
For unlawful dismissal of an employee by an official,
- a fine in the amount of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 99. Refusal to participate in the negotiations leading to the conclusion of the contract
(collective agreement) or non-compliance with the deadline for its conclusion
To refuse the employer or his representative to participate in the closing negotiations
a collective agreement (contract), amending or supplementing it, provided that

Page 24

its obligatory closing is provided by the law or non-observance of the established term
the law on negotiations, as well as failure to ensure the work of the commission on the conclusion of the contract
(collective agreement) within the time limits set by the parties;
- a fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 100. Failure to provide information necessary for conducting
Collective bargaining and control over compliance with the contract
collective
To be submitted by the employer or his representative in the manner prescribed by law
failure to provide the information necessary to conduct collective bargaining and implement
control over observance of the collective agreement,
- a fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 101. Unjustified refusal to conclude a collective agreement
For unreasonable refusal of the employer or his / her representative to conclude a contract (agreement)
collective established by law,
- a fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 102. Observance or non-fulfillment of obligations of the collective agreement (contract)
For non-compliance or non-fulfillment of contractual obligations by the employer or his representative
(collective agreement),
- a fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 103. Refusal to accept the demands of employees and to refrain from participating in
reconciliation agreements
For refusing to accept the requirements of the employer or his representative from the employees and from participating
in conciliation agreements, failure to provide premises for holding staff meetings (conferences) with
for the purpose of making demands or preventing the holding of such a meeting (conference);
- a fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 104. Non-performance of the agreement
For non-performance by the employer or his representative of the obligations under the agreement
result of reconciliation agreement,
- a fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 105. Dismissal of employees due to collective labor dispute or
announcing a strike
To dismiss an employee by the employer due to a collective dispute
employment or announcement of a strike,
- a fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 106. Non-observance of the legislation on meetings, rallies,
peaceful demonstrations and marches
To prevent the organization and holding of meetings, rallies, demonstrations and
peaceful marches conducted in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan
- to individuals in the amount of five to ten and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 107. Forcing to participate or not to participate in a strike
To be forced to participate or not to participate in a strike by
coercion or threat of use of force or with the use of a person's state of dependence,
- to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from forty to fifty
the index is set for fine calculations.

Page 25

Article 108. Violation of the rights of persons with disabilities when hiring
1. For non-employment within the quota set by the employer
disabled people of the second and third groups,
- A fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage for officials
is assigned.
2. For unreasonable non-registration of a disabled person as an unemployed person;
- A fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage for officials
is assigned.
Article 109. Concealment of insurance status
In order for the insurer to conceal the insured condition during compulsory insurance
social (public or private) from accidents at work and occupational diseases;
- to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from thirty to forty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
CHAPTER 7. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES RELATED TO HEALTH, SITUATION
SANITARY AND EPIDEMIOLOGICAL POPULATION AND SOCIETY MORALS
Article 110. Non-compliance with the legislation on protection of public health
For non-compliance by an official with the norms and rules of public health,
established in accordance with the normative legal acts of the Republic of Tajikistan on health care
have been a fine of ten to twenty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.

Article 111. Non-observance of the rules of storage and effective use of donated blood
its components and medicines prepared from it
For non-compliance with the rules of storage and effective use of donated blood, its components
and medicines made from it, to assign officials in the amount of ten to twenty indicators for fine calculations
will be done.
Article 112. Non-observance of sanitary-hygienic and sanitary rules and norms
epidemiological
1. For non-compliance with sanitary-hygienic and sanitary-epidemiological rules and norms,
as well as non-compliance with sanitary and anti-epidemic measures (except for the rules and regulations)
standards related to the protection of atmospheric air), to individuals in the amount of two to five, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a patent
operate, from five to ten, to officials from fifteen to twenty, to entrepreneurs
individuals operating on the basis of a certificate, from twenty to twenty-five and to persons
legal shall be imposed a fine of fifty to one hundred marks for calculations. (KJT from
19.07.19, №1631)
2. The same actions, if in the context of the origin and spread of the disease, for humans
is dangerous, or when carrying out restrictive quarantine measures in the territory
relevant, or failure to comply with the order (decision) or the requirements of the authority within the prescribed period
(officials) involved in the conduct of state sanitary and epidemiological control
carries out sanitary and anti-epidemic (preventive) measures;
to individuals in the amount of seven to twelve, to individual entrepreneurs based on
patents operate, from twenty to thirty, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a certificate
to forty to sixty, to officials from sixty to eighty and to legal entities
a fine of one hundred and fifty to two hundred marks shall be imposed for the calculations. (KJT from
04.07.20 p., №1698)

Page 26

3. For repeated commission within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
actions stipulated by parts 1 or 2 of the present article, to individuals ranging in size from fifteen to twenty, to individual entrepreneurs
patents operate, from thirty to forty, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a certificate
from sixty to eighty, to officials from eighty to one hundred and to persons
legal from two hundred to two hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage. (KJT
from 04.07.20, №1698)
Article 113. Non-compliance with the rules of combating epidemics and other diseases
infectious
(KJT from 04.07.20, №1698)
1. To be in the context of the origin and spread of a disease that is dangerous to humans, or
when carrying out restrictive quarantine measures in public places, contrary
special requirements of the authorized state body in the field of health without a mask, a fine of two to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed. (KJT from
04.07.20 p., №1698)
2. For non-compliance with mandatory rules in order to prevent the occurrence or spread
establishment of quarantine diseases and other infectious diseases dangerous to humans
has been voqe b amount from five to ten, to individual entrepreneurs, based on a patent
activities, from ten to fifteen, ma n saʙdor b friend to thirty, businessmen
inf rodie J operate on the basis of the certificate, b and up to forty persons apt uquqī
panço NINE hundred designated for calculations . (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 19.07.19, ,1631)
Article 114. Non-observance of sanitary and epidemiological requirements during use
residential and public buildings, buildings and structures
For non-compliance with sanitary and epidemiological requirements when using the premises
residential and public buildings and structures, voqe b amount from five to ten, to individual entrepreneurs, based on a patent
activities, from ten to fifteen, ma n saʙdor b friend to thirty, businessmen
inf rodie J operate on the basis of the certificate, b and up to forty persons apt uquqī
panço NINE hundred designated for calculations . (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 19.07.19, ,1631)
Article 115. Non-observance of sanitary-hygienic and sanitary-epidemiological rules
in transport
1. For non-compliance with the established sanitary-epidemiological rules and norms
Sanitary and hygienic conditions in automobile, railway and water transport, to individuals in the amount of three to five, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a patent
operate, from ten to fifteen, to officials from twenty to thirty , to entrepreneurs
Sole, which operate on the basis of a certificate, from thirty to forty persons, and attacks part of agri- b
a fine of fifty to one hundred marks shall be imposed for the calculations . (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 19.07.19, ,1631)
2. For non-compliance with the established sanitary and epidemiological rules and norms
Sanitation and hygiene on the plane, (KJT, 28.06.11, №718)
to individuals ranging in size from ten to fifteen, to individual entrepreneurs
patents operate, from twenty to thirty, to officials from thirty to forty, to entrepreneurs
Sole, which operate on the basis of a certificate from forty to sixty, and attacks part of creation
A fine of one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 19.07.19, ,1631)

Article 116. Non-observance of sanitary and epidemiological requirements to drinking water
For non-compliance with sanitary and epidemiological requirements for drinking water and supply
population with drinking water, -

Page 27

to individuals ranging in size from fifteen to twenty, to individual entrepreneurs
patents, from thirty to forty, to officials from forty to fifty, to entrepreneurs
individuals operating on the basis of a certificate, from sixty to one hundred and to legal entities from
A fine of 200 to 300 times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed . (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 19.07.19, ,1631)
Article 117. Non-observance of sanitary and epidemiological requirements in food enterprises
general
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 19.07.19, ,1631)
For non-compliance with sanitary and epidemiological requirements in public catering establishments, from
including in the preparation of food and beverages, the procedure for their storage and sale to the public, (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 19.07.19, ,1631)
to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a patent
operate, from ten to fifteen, to officials from twenty to thirty, to entrepreneurs
individuals operating on the basis of a certificate, from thirty to forty and to legal entities from
one hundred to two hundred marks shall be imposed for fine calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 19.07.19, ,1631)
Article 118. Non-observance of sanitary and epidemiological requirements to conditions
education
For non-compliance with sanitary and epidemiological requirements to the conditions of education,
technical means, including audiovisual, information technology (computer), educational furniture,
as well as textbooks and other printed materials, to individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent, in the amount of five to
ten, to officials from twenty to thirty, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a certificate
operate from forty to fifty and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred points
fines are imposed. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 19.07.19, ,1631)
Article 119. Refusal of obligatory medical examination and prophylactic treatment
persons with infectious diseases, human immunodeficiency virus
To avoid mandatory medical examination and prophylactic treatment of the virus
human immunodeficiency and other infectious diseases despite organ awareness
medical, a fine of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed. (KJT from
19.07.19, №1631)
Article 120. Concealment of the source of human immunodeficiency virus infection
infectious diseases and contacts that increase the risk of infection
By a person infected with human immunodeficiency virus, diseases
The infectious agent, as well as persons associated with him, have a hidden source of infection, which poses a risk to this
disease causes infection, a fine of ten to twenty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 121. Non-observance of rules of treatment with medicines and food additives
1. Illegal import of medicines and supplements into the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan
food, production, circulation, use of medicines and
poor quality, counterfeit (counterfeit) food additives or to the requirements of established standards
inconsistency, as well as expired in the absence of evidence of a crime, to individuals in the amount of fifty to one hundred, to officials from one hundred and fifty to two hundred
and to legal entities from five hundred to seven hundred marks for accounts with confiscation of property
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine ( Criminal Code of 02.01.2019, № 1561) .
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first part of this article, -

Page 28

to individuals in the amount of one hundred to two hundred, to officials from three hundred to five hundred and to
legal entities from seven hundred to a thousand times the minimum monthly wage
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine ( Criminal Code of 02.01.2019, № 1561) .
Note: Drugs and medical goods smuggled into the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan
are imported and meet the established standards, subject only to a court decision
are used. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 19.07.19, ,1631)
Article 122. Illegal involvement in pharmaceutical and folk medicine activities
1. To engage in private pharmaceutical activity by a person for such
type of activity does not have a license shall be imposed a fine in the amount of ten to fifteen times the minimum monthly wage.
2. For practicing folk medicine and violating the procedure established by law
in this activity, shall be imposed a fine in the amount of ten to fifteen times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 123. Nonobservance of the established order of paid medical services
in public medical institutions
For non-compliance with the established procedure for paid medical services in
public medical institutions, intentional increase in the price of paid medical services or sightings
knowingly providing paid medical care to a person entitled to free medical services
has, to the responsible person in the amount of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage
will be.
Article 124. Non-observance of rules, norms and instructions on radiation safety
For non-compliance with established safety rules, regulations and guidelines
radiation, a fine in the amount of twenty to forty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 125. Non-compliance with electromagnetic safety rules, norms and instructions
For non-compliance with the rules, regulations and guidelines for electromagnetic safety, a fine of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 126. Sale of low-quality food products
To sell low-quality food products that contain them
contain large amounts of chemicals, poisons , carcinogens and biological compounds, including
home-made products that have expired to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a patent
from twenty to thirty, to officials from thirty to forty, to individual entrepreneurs,
operating on the basis of a certificate, from forty to sixty and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred
imposed a fine for confiscation of property with an administrative offense
will be. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 19.07.19, ,1631)
Article 127. Illegal cultivation and cultivation of narcotic plants
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 19.07.19, ,1631)
For the cultivation and illicit cultivation of narcotic plants, i.e. cultivation or care
Illegal planting of plants in the absence of evidence of a crime, - ( Criminal Code of the Republic of Tajikistan)
19.07.19, №1631)
in the amount of ten to twenty indices for calculations with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.

Page 29

Article 128. Illegal production and preparation, processing, possession, storage
possession, transfer or delivery of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances or precursors
them
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 19.07.19, ,1631)
1. For illegal production and preparation, processing, possession, storage, transportation
or sending drugs, psychotropic substances or their precursors without purpose
sale in the absence of evidence of a crime, - (Criminal Code of 19.07.19, №1631)
to individuals in the amount of twenty to thirty, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a patent
operate, from thirty to forty, to officials from forty to fifty, to entrepreneurs
individuals operating on the basis of a certificate, from fifty to seventy indicators
a fine shall be imposed for calculations with confiscation of objects of administrative offense. (KJT
from 19.07.19, №1631)
2. To commit an act for the purpose of sale in part 1
This article also provides for their illegal sale in the absence
sign of a crime, - (Criminal Code of 19.07.19, №1631)
in the amount of forty to fifty indexes for calculations with confiscation of items
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.
Article 129. Involvement of minors in consumption of tobacco products, alcohol or substances
intoxicating
1. To involve minors in the consumption of tobacco products or substances
narcotics, including narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances or their precursors when
lack of evidence of a crime, (Criminal Code of 19.07.19, №1631)
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of ten to twenty times the minimum monthly wage. (KJT
from 28.06.11, 17717; from 19.07.19, №1631)
2. To commit the same acts by a parent or other representative
the legal status of minors, as well as persons responsible for their education and treatment
assigned,
- a fine in the amount of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed. (KJT from
19.07.19, №1631)
Article 130. Engaging in prostitution
1. To engage in prostitution,
- a fine in the amount of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed. (KJT
from 19.07.19, №1631)
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in part 1 of this article,
- in the amount of thirty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage or administrative detention
the term is set from ten to fifteen days. (KJTaz 23.11.15, №1234; from 19.07.19,
№1631)
Article 131. Promotion of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances or their precursors
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 19.07.19, ,1631)
For the promotion of narcotic drugs, psychotropic substances or their precursors, (Article
19.07.19, №1631)
- to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty. to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a patent
operate, from twenty to forty, to officials from forty to fifty, to entrepreneurs
individuals operating on the basis of a certificate, from fifty to seventy and to persons
legal from one thousand to two thousand index for accounts with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 19.07.19, ,1631)

Page 30

Article 132. Production or circulation of ethyl alcohol, alcoholic products or their content
alcohol that does not meet the requirements of the state standard
For the production or circulation of ethyl alcohol, alcoholic beverages or products containing alcohol,
which does not meet the requirements of the state standard, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a patent
operate, from twenty to forty, to officials from forty to sixty, to entrepreneurs
individuals operating on the basis of a certificate, from sixty to one hundred and to legal entities from
one thousand to two thousand indices for calculations with confiscation of items of administrative offenses
a fine is imposed. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 19.07.19, ,1631)
CHAPTER 8. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE FIELD OF LABOR PROTECTION AND PROTECTION
SOCIAL POPULATION
Article 133. Non-observance of rules of labor protection and safety
For non-compliance with the rules of labor protection and safety in the absence
sign of crime, to assign officials in the amount of twenty to thirty times the fine for the calculations
will be done.
Article 134. Untimely payment of wages, pensions, stipends, allowances,
compensation and other social payments
1. For late payment of wages, pensions, stipends , allowances, compensation and
other social payments in the absence of evidence of a crime, to fine persons in the amount of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage
will be.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty.
provided for in the first part of this article, to assign to persons responsible in the amount of fifty to one hundred indicators for fine calculations
will be done.
Article 135. Non-observance by the employer of the legislation on labor protection
For non-compliance by the employer with the legislation on labor protection, ie enforcement
failure to or improper performance of an obligation to create favorable conditions
safety of work, introduction of means and technologies providing sanitary and hygienic standards
and the requirements of occupational safety standards in the absence of evidence of a crime, a fine of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 136. Non-payment of insurance premiums or allowances to persons in production
the victim
For non-payment by the employer of the prescribed amount of insurance or benefits
victims of industrial accidents a fine of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed
Article 137. Loss, untimely registration or failure to re-register
refugee identity card
1. For the loss of a refugee certificate, to individuals in the amount of one to three and to officials from twenty to thirty indicators
a fine will be imposed for the calculations.
2. For untimely registration or re-registration of an identity card
refugee, to assign officials in the amount of ten to twenty indicators for fine calculations
will be done.

Page 31

Article 138. Illegal recruitment and employment of citizens
The Republic of Tajikistan abroad or foreign citizens and stateless persons in
Republic of Tajikistan
1. For illegal recruitment or employment of citizens of the Republic
Tajikistan abroad, to individuals in the amount of thirty to fifty, to officials from seventy to one hundred and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
2. For illegal recruitment or employment of foreign citizens and
stateless persons in the Republic of Tajikistan, to individuals in the amount of thirty to fifty, to officials from seventy to one hundred and to
legal entities imposed fines of two hundred fifty to three hundred minimum monthly wages
will be.
3. To engage in labor activity on the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan without special permission
of foreign citizens and stateless persons, a fine of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 139. Non-execution of orders of state bodies on control of observance
labor legislation
For non-compliance with the order and instruction by the employer within the established time
public authorities to monitor compliance with labor legislation in accordance with the legislation
Republic of Tajikistan, to officials in the amount of twenty to thirty and to legal entities from seventy to one hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 140. Deliberately giving incorrect information when making an appointment
state social benefits
1. For the deliberate transfer of information to citizens by an authorized person
false, which led to the misallocation of state social benefits
lack of evidence of crime, a fine of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. For knowingly providing false information by a citizen
apply for a state social benefit in the absence of a sign
crime, a fine of ten to twenty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
CHAPTER 9. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN LAND USE
Article 141. Violation of state property rights to land
To arbitrarily use or own plots of land that are subject to this right
the state interferes with the land in the absence of signs of crime, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from thirty to forty and to persons
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 142. Nonobservance of the order of protection and use of land
For non-compliance with the rules of protection and use of land, ie non-implementation of measures
Mandatory in connection with the improvement of land and its protection from wind and water pollution, land degradation
planting, destroying the fertile layer of soil or avoiding other factors that affect soil composition
as well as the use of land in a way that leads to soil degradation and deterioration
ecology of the land, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from thirty to forty and to persons
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.

Page 32

Article 143. Misuse of land
For misuse of land, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
the legal shall impose a fine of seventy to one hundred marks for calculations.
Article 144. Non-compliance with the requirements of the land use system
For non-compliance with the requirements of the system of land use for nature protection,
sanatorium, nature reserve and other lands of special purpose use;
lands that have been exposed to radioactive contamination, as well as degradation
the ecological condition of the land plot that has been put into operation and is located within certain limits.
to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from thirty to forty and to persons
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 145. Design, placement, construction and commissioning of objects
the condition of the land is negatively affected
For the design, placement, construction and commissioning of land-based facilities
have a negative impact to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 146. Nonpayment of land tax
For non-payment of land tax, to individuals in the amount of three to seven, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
the legal shall impose a fine of seventy to one hundred marks for calculations.
Article 147. Pollution of land
For contact with chemicals and radioactive substances, industrial waste and wastewater, organisms
bacteriological and parasitic and pest pollution of land in the absence of signs of crime, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from thirty to forty and to persons
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 148. Use of land without documents confirming the right to use it
For land use without a document confirming the right to use it, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
the legal shall impose a fine of seventy to one hundred marks for calculations.
Article 149. Nonobservance of the procedure for land use
For non-compliance with the procedure for land use, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
the legal shall impose a fine of seventy to one hundred marks for calculations.
Article 150. Concealment of information on the availability of special land resources
To conceal information about the availability of special land resources, to officials in the amount of forty to fifty times the fine for the calculations
is assigned.
Article 151. Arbitrary change of land plots
For arbitrary change of land plots, to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen, to officials from thirty to forty and to
legal entities from one hundred and fifty to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage
will be.

Page 33

Article 152. Failure to comply with the established procedure from one species to another
land transfer
For non-compliance with the established procedure of transfer from one species to another
land, to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen, to officials from twenty to thirty and to
legal entities shall be fined from seventy to one hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 153. Making an illegal decision on allocating a plot of land
land and its use
To make an illegal decision on the allocation of land and
its use in the absence of evidence of a crime, to officials in the amount of forty to fifty times the fine for the calculations
is assigned.
Article 154. Distortion of land cadastre information
For distortion of land cadastre data, including registration, accounting and valuation
land by officials or officials in the absence of evidence of a crime, a fine of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 155. Failure to provide or provide false information about the situation and
land use
For failure to provide or provide false information about the condition and use
land by land users, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from thirty to forty and to persons
the legal shall impose a fine of seventy to one hundred marks for calculations.
Article 156. Failure to use the land plot without valid reasons
1. To not use the land plot for two years without good reason
use of agriculture and forestry, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. To not use the land plot for three years without good reason
non-agricultural and non-forest use to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
3. To not use the land plot for gardening and gardening for one year
collective gardening, to individuals imposed fines in the amount of two to four indicators for calculations
will be.
Article 157. Non-observance of terms of transfer of uncultivated lands and
redeveloped lands in exchange for allotted lands
For non-compliance with the deadline for transfer of uncultivated lands
and reclaimed land in exchange for allotted land.
to individuals in the amount of five to ten and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 158. Failure to comply with the deadline for the return of temporarily occupied land or
not preparing it for use as intended
For non-compliance with the deadline for the return of temporarily occupied land, execute
failure to comply with the obligation to prepare land for use in accordance with the purpose and non-compliance
term of cultivation of the land plot, -

Page 34

to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 159. Destruction of established boundary markers and other signs
informing or harming them
To destroy land boundary markers and other established signs
border information on land use or damage to them, to individuals in the amount of three to five, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
the legal shall impose a fine of seventy to one hundred marks for calculations.
Article 160. Obstruction of registration of separation documents
plot of land and its use
To prevent the issuance of documents for the allocation of land and
use it to fine officials in the amount of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
Article 161. Obstruction of the census of the land plot
To prevent the census, to individuals in the amount of three to five, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
the legal shall impose a fine of seventy to one hundred marks for calculations.
Article 162. Refusal to execute instructions
To refuse to execute the instruction, not to execute it or other related act in time
Elimination of shortcomings related to land use;
to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
the legal shall impose a fine of seventy to one hundred marks for calculations.
Article 163. Refusal to register a land plot
To refuse registration of land in the period established by law to individuals in the amount of seven to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to persons
the legal shall impose a fine of seventy to one hundred marks for calculations.
Article 164. Non-compensation of losses of land users and losses
agricultural products
To compensate for damage to land users and product losses
agriculture, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from thirty to forty and to persons
a fine of one hundred to one hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
CHAPTER 10. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE FIELD OF USE OF RESOURCES
UNDERGROUNDӢ
Article 165. Violation of state property rights to subsoil
To arbitrarily exploit the underground treasures, openly or secretly make a deal with that
infringes or infringes the right of the state to subsoil in the absence of a sign
crime, to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen, to officials from thirty to forty and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to one hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 166. Non-observance of the order of protection and use of mineral resources
1. For the unauthorized construction of buildings on plots containing minerals, processing
mineral deposits without the consent of nature protection authorities, non-compliance with the rules

Page 35

protection of subsoil and natural environment, buildings and structures from the harmful effects of works;

using subsoil, destroying or destroying wells under the observation system
groundwater, as well as surveying and geodetic signs.
lack of evidence of crime, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
Legally from two hundred to three hundred marks are imposed for fine calculations or activity
the use of subsoil is suspended for up to three months.
2. For non-compliance with the rules of selective use of mineral deposits
leading to wasteful losses of thematic mineral resources, excessive losses
and excessive mixing of minerals during mining, mining and
other cases of non-compliance with the rules of rational use of their resources
lack of evidence of crime, to officials in the amount of forty to fifty and to legal entities from three hundred to five hundred
an indicator is assigned for fine calculations or activities of the use of wealth
underground is suspended for up to three months.
3. Failure to comply with supplier requirements for loss of surveying documents
safety of the population from the use of decommissioned mines and boreholes and temporary
closure, as well as non-compliance with the requirements of protection of mines and boreholes drilled in time
their temporary closure, to officials in the amount of thirty to forty and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 167. Non-observance of groundwater storage during use
subsoil resources
For non-compliance with the requirements for unreasonable storage of groundwater during use
groundwater resources, ie the reduction or pollution of groundwater, including hot mineral water
and therapeutic, misuse of water, destruction, damage or while
the use of subsoil does not provide protection for hydrogeological wells intended for
are suitable for further use.
to individuals in the amount of five to ten and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 168. Non-compliance with the rules and requirements for the performance of work on geological study
subsoil resources
1. For non-compliance with the rules and requirements for the performance of work on the geological study of resources
underground, which leads to incorrect determination of the amount of discovered mineral resources
useful or conditions of construction and operation of mining enterprises and underground facilities
extraction of unrelated minerals, loss of geological documents, copies
samples of minerals for further geological study of the ore and to work
it is necessary to put mines to assign officials in the amount of twenty to thirty times the fine for the calculations
will be done.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty,
indicated in the first part of this article, a fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 169. Non-compliance with the technology of extraction and processing of mineral raw materials
1. To extract more or less than the technological norm of mineral resources
useful, storage of mined ore in the well itself, use of mining method
minerals that reduce their properties and natural quality to officials in the amount of thirty to forty and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.

Page 36

2. Temporary layoffs and liquidation of the mining enterprise for non-implementation of projects
minerals, do not take measures to soften the upper part of the soil as a result
geological and mining works destroyed, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
3. For non-compliance with mining and processing technology to natural conditions
the location of resources in the subsoil and the qualitative characteristics of the minerals match
does not
to officials in the amount of forty to fifty and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 170. Non-compliance with the rules of calculation and geological surveying
during the development of subsoil resources
1. For non-compliance with the rules of hydrogeological, geological and surveying
development of mineral deposits, groundwater and subsoil use
for other purposes, destruction or violation of surveying and geodetic markings, to individuals in the amount of one to five, to officials from ten to twenty and to individuals
a fine of one hundred to one hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. For non-compliance with the rules of calculation and geological surveying
subsoil use, condition and movement of resources, losses and depletion, rules
conducting calculations and determining the quality of wastewater and surface water, to the authorities
authorized geologist and mineral resources for failure to submit a report on the resources
discovered minerals and extracted resources, to assign officials in the amount of ten to twenty indicators for fine calculations
will be done.
Article 171. Arbitrary collection or sale of mummies and minerals
mummified
1. For unauthorized collection of mummies, as well as mummified minerals, in the amount of three to five indices for calculations with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.
2. For the sale of mummies and mummified minerals in case of non-compliance with the rules
established, in the amount of seven to ten indices for calculations with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.
Article 172. Refusal to execute orders of state control bodies
safety of work in industry and mining
To evade the order of the state control over the safety of work in
industry and mining, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
a legal penalty of four hundred to five hundred marks shall be imposed for the calculations or
their activities are suspended for up to three months.
CHAPTER 11. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE FIELD OF USE OF WATER RESOURCES
Article 173. Violation of state property rights to water resources
Arbitrary use for unauthorized disposal of water bodies and water facilities
and distribution of water, transfer of water use rights, as well as committing
other transactions violating the right of state ownership to water resources;
to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
the legal shall impose a fine of seventy to one hundred marks for calculations.

Page 37

Article 174. Non-observance of water use rules
Arbitrary use of water and for excessive consumption of water
arbitrary performance of hydraulic works, improper use of water, compliance
non-compliance with the rules for calculating the amount of water taken from water bodies and water bodies
non-compliance with wastewater quality control, discharge of pollutants into water,
as well as construction of water intake facilities at surface water sources without protection facilities and equipment
fish, refusing to provide accurate and timely information or providing information
incorrect information on the use of water resources, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
legal shall be imposed a fine of fifty to one hundred marks for calculations.
Article 175. Infliction of damage to water economy constructions and facilities, non-compliance
rules of their use
1. To cause damage to water economy facilities and equipment, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
2. For non-compliance with the rules of use of water economy facilities and facilities, to officials in the amount of twenty to thirty and to legal entities from seventy to one hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 176. Illegal use of lands of state water reserve and
areas of their protection
For illegal use of lands of state water resources and protection zones
they are, in addition to natural water bodies, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
the legal shall impose a fine of seventy to one hundred marks for calculations.
Article 177. Contamination of springs and other water sources with domestic wastes
the lands of the state water reserve are real
To pollute springs and other water sources with debris and household waste
in the lands of the state water reserve, to individuals in the amount of one to five, to officials from ten to twenty and to individuals
legal shall be imposed a fine of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 178. Non-observance of rules and norms of water resources protection
1. For non-compliance with the established rules and norms for the protection of water resources, the procedure
accounting for the quantity and quality of distribution, as well as the distribution of water without following the rules and norms
established, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
legal shall be imposed a fine of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage.
2. For the commissioning of enterprises, utilities, etc. without the construction of facilities
water pollution prevention equipment or their negative impact or with treatment facilities
unsuitable without fish protection facilities and equipment, as well as committing other acts
are against water legislation, to officials in the amount of thirty to forty and to legal entities from fifty to one hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 179. Use of water objects and performance of construction works in them without permission
special
1. For the use of water bodies without special permission, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.

Page 38

2. Execution of construction, hydraulic, shore protection, drilling works without permission
vertical irrigation wells and drinking water wells, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities shall be fined from two hundred to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
CHAPTER 12. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE FIELD OF FOREST USE
Article 180. Violation of state property rights to forests
To arbitrarily transfer forest use rights to others, as well as to conclude other deals,
that violate state property rights to forests, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to forty and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 181. Illegal use of lands of the state forest reserve
For illegal use of the land plot of the state forest reserve, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 182. Non-observance of the established procedure for use of deforestation resources
preparation and transportation of timber, collection of tree sap, shrubs and plants
perfect sap
1. Prepare for non-compliance with the established procedure for the use of deforestation resources
making and transporting wood, to individuals in the amount of three to five, to officials from ten to twenty and to individuals
legal from fifty to one hundred marks for accounts with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.
2. For non-observance of the established procedure for receiving sap of trees, shrubs and plants, to individuals in the amount of two to five, to officials from five to ten and to individuals
legal from twenty to thirty indicators for calculations with confiscation of objects of administrative offense
a fine is imposed.
3. For illegal collection, processing, production of medicines, storage, transportation
or the transfer of adult milk to another person in the absence of evidence of a crime, to individuals in the amount of ten to thirty, to officials from fifty to one hundred and to individuals
legal from three hundred to five hundred rupees for calculations with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.
Article 183. Illegal felling of trees and shrubs, destruction of crops
forests and plantations and causing damage to them
1. For illegal felling of trees and shrubs, destruction of forest crops,
forest seedlings, seedlings and cuttings of nurseries and plantations or damage to them,
as well as damage to wild and transplanted plants in areas to be rehabilitated
in the absence of signs of crime, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to forty and to
legal entities from one hundred to two hundred marks for accounts with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.
2. For the repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of fifteen to twenty, to officials from fifty to sixty and to
legal entities from two hundred fifty to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.

Page 39

Article 184. Non-observance of forest use rules
For purposes contrary to the requirements of the license (order) for deforestation or licensing
Forest use Forest use, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from thirty to forty and to persons
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 185. Non-compliance with the rules of reforestation and sanitation
use of resources of felled trees
To not follow the rules of recovery, to improve the condition and sex
forest trees, increase their productivity, as well as non-compliance with the rules of use
stocks of felled trees, to officials in the amount of thirty to forty and to legal entities from two hundred to three hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 186. Damage to hayfields and pastures of state reserve lands
forest
To damage grasslands and pastures of the State Forest Reserve, to individuals in the amount of three to seven, to officials from ten to twenty and to individuals
the legal shall impose a fine of seventy to one hundred marks for calculations.
Article 187. Arbitrary cultivation, mowing and grazing of livestock
harvesting wild fruits, nuts, mushrooms and berries on reserve lands
forest state
For arbitrary cultivation in forests and treeless lands of the state forest reserve
mowing, mowing and grazing, harvesting wild fruits and nuts, mushrooms
and berries, to individuals in the amount of three to five, to officials from ten to twenty and to individuals
legal from seventy to one hundred marks for accounts with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.
Article 188. Failure to comply with the deadlines for harvesting fruits
wild nuts and berries
For non-compliance with the deadlines for harvesting wild fruits and nuts,
berries, etc. to individuals in the amount of one to three, to officials from five to ten and to individuals
the legal shall impose a fine of seventy to one hundred marks for calculations.
Article 189. Illegal collection or destruction of plants to the Book
Red included
For illegal collection, destruction or destruction without special permission of the competent authorities
cutting roots, picking flowers and fruits of plants listed in the Red Book of the Republic of Tajikistan
are included to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from fifteen to twenty and to
legal entities from one hundred to two hundred marks for accounts with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.
Article 190. Commissioning of production facilities with equipment
prevention of harmful effects on forests is not provided
For the commissioning of enterprises, shops, units, roads, production facilities,
provided with equipment to prevent harmful effects on the condition and growth of the forest
have not

Page 40

to officials in the amount of five to ten and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 191. Damage to forests or pollution of state reserve lands
forest with wastewater, chemicals and wastes and residues
To cause damage to the forest or to pollute the lands of the state forest reserve with
waste water, chemicals, industrial and municipal wastes, as well as industrial wastes
causing drying and disease of forest trees in the absence of
sign of crime, to individuals in the amount of five to eight, to officials from ten to twenty and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 192. Destruction of forest drains, drainage systems
drainage and roads of state forest reserve lands or damage to them
To destroy ditches that drain forest water, drainage systems and
roads of state forest reserve lands or damage to them, to individuals in the amount of two to five, to officials from ten to fifteen and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 193. Destruction of forest-restricting signs or delivery
harm to them
To destroy the restrictive signs of the forest and other related symptoms
it or harm to them, to individuals in the amount of two to five and to officials from ten to fifteen
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 194. Destruction of animals useful for forests
To destroy animals useful for forests on state reserve lands
forest,
- to individuals in the amount of two to five and to officials from ten to fifteen
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 195. Non-compliance with the rules of forest fire protection
1. For non-compliance with the rules of forest fire protection, to individuals in the amount of two to five, to officials from ten to fifteen and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
2. To destroy as a result of fire or careless handling of fire
forest or damage to the forest, as well as non-compliance with the requirements of fire safety regulations
in the forest, which causes forest fires or the spread of fires, in the absence of
sign of crime, to individuals in the amount of fifteen to twenty, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities shall be fined from two hundred to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 196. Damage, destruction or unauthorized felling of forest trees
adjacent to highways and railways, rivers, reservoirs, canals, borders
the area under seed
To cause damage, destroy or arbitrarily cut down forest trees
Adjacent to highways and railways, rivers, reservoirs, canals, area boundaries
are engaged in seed production to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.

Page 41

Article 197. Poisoning of forests by radioactive substances, pests,
bacteriological, parasitic and quarantine, causing dehydration or destruction
To contaminate forests with radioactive substances, pests,
bacteriological, parasitic and quarantine, which caused its drying or destruction, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from thirty to forty and to persons
the legal shall impose a fine of two hundred to three hundred marks for calculations.
Article 198. Non-observance of rules and terms of hunting in the territory of reserve lands
state forests and hunting areas
1. For non-compliance with the rules of hunting on the territory of the State Forest Reserve and
hunting areas without a hunting permit (hunting permit, permit, etc.),
as well as hunting in prohibited cases or by prohibited methods in the territory of the lands
state forest reserves and areas designated for hunting or hunting of prohibited species
wildlife, to impose fines on individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty,
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of thirty to forty times the minimum wage for calculations with confiscation of property
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.
Article 199. Non-compliance with the rules of protection of habitats and growing conditions
wildlife and birds within the boundaries of state forest reserves and areas
for forest allotment hunting
For non-compliance with the rules of protection of habitats and conditions of growth of animals
wild and birds (nests) on the territory of the state forest reserve lands and areas for
isolated forest hunting, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 200. Disobedience to lawful demands of law enforcement officers
forestry and hunting control
For non-compliance with the legal requirements of forest protection officials and
hunting control, while preventing the timely, complete and objective identification
status of the case, enforcement of the decision, to individuals in the amount of three to eight and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 201. Unauthorized removal of topsoil, loam and
grassland state forest reserve lands
There is no simultaneous removal of the topsoil, chymtol, to arbitrarily carve
weeding of lands of the state forest reserve, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 202. Distortion of Forest Resource Accounting and Evaluation Data
For distortion of forest inventory data and assessment, to assign officials a fine in the amount of five to ten times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.

Page 42

CHAPTER 13. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE FIELD OF PROTECTION OF WILDLIFE
AND HERBS
Article 203. Violation of the State Property Rights to Fauna and Flora
To arbitrarily transfer the right to use objects of flora and fauna,
as well as the commission of other acts that infringe the right of state property to the fauna and
destroys plants to individuals in the amount of five to ten and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 204. Non-observance of the rules of protection of the environment of animals
the organization of zoological collections and their sale, as well as the arbitrary transfer to new habitats
relocation, adaptation to the environment and crossbreeding of animals
For non-compliance with the rules of the environment and methods of relocation of animals, the rules
organization, replenishment, maintenance, use and accounting of the zoological collection,
as well as rules for the export and transfer of objects of the animal kingdom and collections
zoological, arbitrary relocation to new habitats, adaptation to the environment and crossbreeding
animals, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 205. Deportation or entry into the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan without permission
Import of flora and fauna of the Republic of Tajikistan
1. For removal from the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan without permission or on the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan
Tajikistan imports objects of flora and fauna and their products, provided that
obtaining such permission is stipulated by normative legal acts of the Republic of Tajikistan
be to individuals in the amount of five to ten and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index for fines with the confiscation of the object of an administrative offense is imposed a fine
will be.
2. For actions provided for in the first part of this article, in respect of rare animals
and declining plants are listed in the Red Book or in a special list
international conventions, as well as on the place of spawning, eggs, fruit and others
their components are exported, to individuals in the amount of twenty to thirty and to officials from forty to fifty
the index for fines with the confiscation of the object of an administrative offense is imposed a fine
will be.
Article 206. Non-observance of the order of use of fauna and flora
For non-compliance with the rules of use of wildlife and territories
specially protected animals, as well as for smuggling animals into the Republic of Tajikistan
plants for the conservation of animal species and plants to the Red Book of the Republic
Tajikistan, which is in danger of extinction, will suffer.
to individuals in the amount of five to ten and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 207. Destruction of rare animals and plants
For the destruction of rare animals and plants in the Red Book of the Republic of Tajikistan
included, which are in danger of extinction or destruction of spawning grounds, eggs, nests and
other facilities or the commission of other acts that may result in destruction, destruction,
degradation or disruption of the flora and fauna, or actions related to
the reasons for non-compliance with the conditions of hunting and use of such animals and plants;

Page 43

to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from thirty to forty
the index for fines with the confiscation of the object of an administrative offense is imposed a fine
will be.
Article 208. Non-observance of the rules of hunting and fishing
1. For non-compliance with the rules of hunting, fishing and protection of resources
fish, as well as other rules of use of fauna, to individuals in the amount of two to five and to officials from ten to twenty
the index for fines with the confiscation of the object of an administrative offense is imposed a fine
will be.
2. For gross violation of hunting rules (unauthorized hunting or hunting in places or in
prohibited cases or by prohibited methods) or regular non-compliance with other rules
hunting, as well as within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty for the repeated commission of such
action, to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen and to officials from thirty to forty
the index for fines with the confiscation of the object of an administrative offense is imposed a fine
will be.
3. For actions provided for in the second part of this Article, individuals and
arbitrary officials for the purpose of hunting and fishing, having birds and animals with
use of vehicles to individuals in the amount of thirty to forty and to officials from fifty to sixty
index for deprivation of the right to hunt for a period of up to two years with confiscation
the object of the administrative offense is imposed a fine.
Article 209. Destruction of wild plants, trampling of grass and
crop or cause damage to them
1. For poisoning and exposure to wastewater, chemicals and radioactive substances,
petroleum products, industrial wastes and other wastes destroying wild plants or
harm to them, to individuals in the amount of five to ten and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. To trample the grass and cultivate the plots with the vehicles
traffic and parking are not provided, shall be imposed a fine in the amount of ten to fifteen times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 210. Non-observance of the established procedure for collection, purchase, transfer,
acceptance and sale of objects of flora and fauna and their products
For non-compliance with the established procedures of collection, purchase, transfer, receipt and
sale of objects of flora and fauna and their products, fruits, parts and their products,
storage and use of plant protection products, their growing substances, fertilizers
minerals and other substances that cause damage to flora and fauna, to individuals in the amount of five to ten and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index for fines with the confiscation of the object of an administrative offense is imposed a fine
will be.
Article 211. Purchase and processing of tanned and non-tanned leather
fur-bearing animals
For sale and processing of tanned and non-tanned animal skins
wild fur, which is the object of hunting and does not have a special mark, as well as products made of leather
made of such animals, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from thirty to forty
the index for fines with the confiscation of the object of an administrative offense is imposed a fine
will be.

Page 44

Article 212. Non-observance of the established procedure for collection of expensive leather
fur-bearing animals and their products
For non-compliance with the established procedure of collection, purchase, acquisition, replacement
processing, storage, sale, export and import of expensive fur of fur-bearing animals,
sewing and selling their leather products, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from forty to fifty
the index for fines with the confiscation of the object of an administrative offense is imposed a fine
will be.
Article 213. Illegal use of objects of fauna and arbitrariness
preparation and collection of parts and products of wild animals
For the illegal use of wildlife objects and arbitrarily prepared
collection of parts and products of wild animals, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from thirty to forty
the index for fines with the confiscation of the object of an administrative offense is imposed a fine
will be.
Article 214. Failure to follow the established procedure for the creation of a special breed
animals
For non-compliance with the established procedure for the creation of special breeds of animals,
selling, maintaining, increasing the population, using and releasing them into the environment
nature, to individuals in the amount of five to ten and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index for fines with the confiscation of the object of an administrative offense is imposed a fine
will be.
CHAPTER 14. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE FIELD OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
USE OF NATURAL RESOURCES
Article 215. Non-compliance with the rules for maintaining the cadastre of natural resources
For non-compliance with the rules for maintaining cadastres of natural resources (land, water cadastres,
forests, mines, wildlife, objects of nature reserves), to assign officials in the amount of three to seven indicators for fine calculations
will be done.
Article 216. Obstruction of state control in the field of environment protection and use
natural resources
To impede state control over the environment and the use of resources
natural, to individuals in the amount of five to ten and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 217. Non-compliance with the rules of protection of natural objects, system
state reserves and national parks, sanitary protection zones of resorts
For non-compliance with the rules for the protection of rare objects and obsolete objects
living and non-living nature (perennial trees, rocks, etc.), which, from a scientific, historical,
Cultural and recreational activities are of great importance, as well as non-compliance with the reserve system
state and national parks, sanitary protection zones of resorts, to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.

Page 45

Article 218. Non-submission, concealment or distortion of related information
to the state of the environment and the use of natural resources
In order not to present, conceal or distort the information depending on the situation
the environment and the use of natural resources, as well as the sources and extent of poisoning,
concealment of cases of burial of waste, excessive discharge of substances into the air
poisoning or distortion of data related to accidents with negative environmental consequences
and the degree of environmental pollution, to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen, to officials from thirty to fifty and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 219. Refusal or execution of the state ecological expert examination
failure to comply with its requirements
To avoid passing the state ecological expertise, compliance or non-compliance with the conditions and
requirements of the state ecological expertise, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 220. Non-execution of orders and decisions of environmental protection bodies
habitat and use of the natural environment
For non-compliance with orders and decisions of environmental control authorities and
use of the natural environment, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 221. Failure to take measures to restore the natural environment
In order not to take measures to restore the natural environment, rehabilitate
- depletion of natural resources and elimination of the consequences of harmful effects on the environment, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 222. Postponement of construction of protection facilities and objects
nature
To delay the construction of nature protection facilities and objects
for a period of more than six months, to officials in the amount of thirty to forty and to legal entities from two hundred to three hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 223. Non-compliance with standards, rules, norms, instructions and others
environmental requirements for environmental protection and efficient use of natural resources
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of January 2, 18, №1477)
For non-compliance with standards, rules, norms, instructions and other requirements
ecological protection of environment and effective use of natural resources, - (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 02.01.18, 71477)
to individuals in the amount of two to five and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 224. Excessive or unauthorized discharge of pollutants into the environment
environment, burial of waste in the environment, exposure to natural hazards and
any other damage to it
For exceeding the maximum permissible limit or in excess of the amount agreed upon in the interim agreement
emission of pollutants into the environment in excess of the permissible level
causing harmful natural effects, without the permission of the specially authorized state bodies
discharge of pollutants into the environment, burial of wastes in the environment, without

Page 46

Permission of specially authorized state bodies to have harmful impact on the environment
natural and other harmful effects, as well as incomplete implementation of conservation measures
the environment and measures to reduce pollutant emissions in adverse conditions
meteorological pollution will increase, to individuals in the amount of three to seven, to officials from ten to fifteen and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 225. Commissioning of enterprises without complying with the requirements of air protection
For the commissioning of enterprises, facilities and other newly renovated facilities to
do not meet the requirements of air protection to officials in the amount of ten to fifteen and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 226. Non-fulfillment of the obligation to register transactions with substances and mixtures
harmful in ship documents
To be supervised by the ship's captain or other members of the crew or other means
floating non-fulfillment of obligations provided by law for registration of transactions with
substances harmful to human health or living creatures and harmful water objects or operations with
mixtures containing more than the prescribed amount of such substances by the persons mentioned, in
the ship's documents refuse to record incorrect information about such an operation or illegal
to submit such documents to the relevant officials;
to fine officials in the amount of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
Article 227. Non-observance of the rules of protection of flora and fauna
For non-compliance with the rules of transportation, storage and use of objects of the universe
Arbitrary destruction of flora and fauna, means of protection and development of flora, mineral fertilizers and

other drugs that cause environmental pollution (surface and groundwater, air
atmosphere) or the extinction of any species of flora, fauna and other aquatic organisms
have become or may become, or have caused damage to flora and fauna, to individuals in the amount of three to five, to officials from ten to fifteen and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 228. Failure to comply with the rules of use or non-use of the facility
devices and equipment for nature protection purposes
For non-compliance with the rules of use, as well as non-use of the facility,
devices and other nature protection equipment designed for waste disposal and control
intended to cause harm, unsatisfactory performance and other harmful consequences
has been to officials in the amount of thirty to forty and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 229. Putting into operation of vehicles and other moving vehicles,
which contain excessive amounts of pollutants
For the use of vehicles and other moving vehicles in
the content of pollutants exceeds the norm and the noise level exceeds the norm
set is high to officials in the amount of ten to fifteen and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.

Page 47

Article 230. The Use of Vehicles and Other Motor Vehicles,
which contain excessive amounts of pollutants
For use by vehicles and other vehicles by individuals
Excessive amount of pollutants in the smoke a warning is issued or a fine of one index is imposed for the calculations
will be.
Article 231. Non-compliance with the requirements of air protection during storage
industrial and domestic waste
For non-compliance with the rules of collection of industrial and domestic waste, non-compliance
requirements for environmental protection during the collection and incineration of these industrial and domestic wastes;
as well as outdoor burning of combustible materials and construction materials during the performance of works
construction and other works, to individuals in the amount of one to three, to officials from thirty to forty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 232. Non-compliance with the requirements of environmental protection during transportation
disposal, use, disposal (burial) of industrial and household waste and other
waste
For non-compliance with the requirements of environmental protection during transportation, accommodation,
use, disposal (burial) of industrial and other wastes, to individuals in the amount of one to three, to officials from ten to fifteen and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 233. Sale of combustible materials that meet the requirements of standards and technical conditions
does not meet
To sell and use flammable materials that meet the requirements of the standards and conditions
technical irresponsibility leads to excessive emissions of harmful gases, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 234. When planning, designing, approving and locating, construction,
renovation, commissioning, use or liquidation of enterprises, facilities, facilities
moving and other objects, import and export of environmentally hazardous products
non-compliance with environmental requirements
For when planning, designing, approving and locating, constructing, renovating, to
the use, operation or liquidation of enterprises, facilities, vehicles and
other objects that directly or indirectly affect the state of the environment, as well as when
import and export of environmentally hazardous products; non-compliance with environmental requirements;
to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from thirty to forty and to persons
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 235. Unauthorized performance of construction, blasting and drilling works, opening
mines (quarries) and the implementation of other economic activities that affect the environment and resources
naturally have a detrimental effect
To carry out construction, blasting and drilling works without permission, to open mines
(quarries) and the implementation of other economic activities that affect the environment and natural resources
harmful, provided that obtaining permission to perform such work in
provided by the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities shall be fined from two hundred to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage.

Page 48

Article 236. Liquidation of nature protection facilities by equipment and facilities
technological practitioner
To eliminate nature protection facilities in existing equipment and facilities
living without the permission of state environmental protection bodies, to officials in the amount of forty to fifty and to legal entities from two hundred to three hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 237. Destruction and damage to objects and territories
specially protected
To destroy and damage damage to objects and territories in a special way
Protected natural complexes of state reserves, national parks, areas
medical and recreational and health resorts, landscapes and monuments
normal and rare of nature, which are under the protection of the state, in the absence of a sign
crime, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 238. Use of natural resources without special permission
To use natural resources without special permission, in cases of withdrawal
permission for such action is required in accordance with the laws of the Republic of Tajikistan, as well as location
waste disposal, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 239. Non-observance of ecological requirements during storage, transportation,
use, neutralization and disposal of toxic industrial wastes and
industrial and consumer waste
For non-compliance with environmental requirements during storage (disposal), transportation,
use, neutralization and disposal of toxic industrial wastes and wastes
production and consumption, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from thirty to forty and to persons
the legal shall impose a fine of two hundred to three hundred marks for calculations.
Article 240. Non-compliance with environmental requirements when used in the national economy
transportation of radioactive materials and their burial
For non-compliance with environmental requirements during storage (disposal) in the national economy,
use of radioactive materials, chemical toxins and their burial, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from thirty to forty and to persons
the legal shall impose a fine of two hundred to three hundred marks for calculations.
Article 241. Pollution of the environment and resulting damage to
human health, flora and fauna and national economy
To pollute the environment and result in harm to health
man, flora and fauna, to individuals in the amount of fifteen to twenty, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities shall be fined from two hundred to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 242. Arbitrary felling of trees and shrubs for landscaping
cities and other settlements or causing damage to them
For unauthorized felling of trees and shrubs in gardens, sanctuaries, green areas
cities and other settlements, protected plantations, wooded areas
adjacent to highways and railways, prohibited tree-lined areas adjacent to rivers and streams

Page 49

streams, around lakes and other reservoirs or causing damage to them in the absence of a sign
crime, to individuals in the amount of five to ten and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 243. Non-observance of the established system of land use
the environment
Non-compliance with the established system of land use for the environment,
health, recreation, historical and cultural, nature reserves, other lands in accordance with the terms
specially used, as well as lands with radioactive and chemical substances
bacteriologically contaminated, to individuals in the amount of three to seven and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 244. Damage to crops and other lands by poisoning
them
To damage crops and other lands or destroy their fertile layer
by contaminating the soil with chemicals and radioactive substances, bacteriological insects or
with sick animals, industrial waste, other wastes and waste water, to individuals in the amount of three to seven and to officials from ten to fifteen
the index is set for fine calculations.
CHAPTER 15. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE FIELD OF PROTECTION AND USE
HISTORICAL AND CULTURAL HERITAGE OBJECTS
Article 245. Non-observance of the rules of protection and use of inherited objects
historical and cultural
For non-compliance with the rules of protection and use of objects of historical heritage
cultural, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from ten to fifteen and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 246. Destruction and destruction of historical and cultural heritage
To destroy and destroy the historical and cultural heritage, to individuals in the amount of twenty to thirty and to officials from fifty to seventy
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 247. Unjustified breaking, relocation or change of inheritance
historical and cultural
For unjustified breakage, relocation, repair without the permission of the competent authorities
repair, illegal sale or alteration of historical and cultural heritage, as well
monuments, to individuals in the amount of thirty to fifty, to officials from seventy to one hundred and to
legal entities shall be fined from two hundred to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 248. Illegal appropriation of territories of objects of historical heritage
cultural
For illegal seizure of the territory of objects of historical and cultural heritage, to individuals in the amount of forty to fifty, to officials from seventy to one hundred and to
legal entities shall be fined from two hundred to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage.

Page 50

CHAPTER 16. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN AGRICULTURE
Article 249. Violation of crops, destruction of harvest or
collected, damaging the plant
1. To trample the field, destroy the harvested or harvested crop
crops, mulberry damage, crop protection plantings, fruit trees and
other trees, to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from seven to ten
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. To cross a field or plantation on horseback, a fine of two to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
3. To cross the area with a car, tractor, combine and other vehicles
crops and plantations, a fine of five to seven times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
4. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
in the second and third parts of this article, to individuals in the amount of seven to ten and to officials from fifteen to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 250. Damage to natural pastures and orchard grasses, regardless of
land users of this area
1. To cause damage to natural pastures and orchard grass, regardless of
land users of the area, by grazing animals in natural pastures
in accordance with the rules of pasture use for rest, as well as driving
animals through natural pastures and orchard grass without proper permission, to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. To cross the territory by car, tractor, combine and other vehicles
natural pastures and orchards, regardless of land users,, shall be imposed a fine in the amount of five to eight times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 251. Transfer of materials from foreign countries from border checkpoints
imported that have not passed quarantine and appropriate testing
For border crossings, railway stations, bus stations, airports and other places
border crossing of materials imported from foreign countries, subject to quarantine inspection and
have not passed the relevant tests, to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen and to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 252. Non-compliance with the rules of phytosanitary control and plant quarantine
For non-compliance with phytosanitary control and plant quarantine rules as well
quarantined objects to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 253. Obstruction of implementation of measures on ensuring plant quarantine
To prevent officials from exercising state phytosanitary control
have or otherwise influence their activities in order to change their decisions
they accept
to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from forty to fifty
the index is set for fine calculations.

Page 51

Article 254. Non-compliance with the rules of plant quarantine during production, storage,
storage, processing, use and sale
For non-compliance with the rules of plant quarantine during production, storage, storage,
processing, use and sale of quarantined products to individuals in the amount of fifteen to twenty and to officials from forty to fifty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 255. Non-observance of the rules of opening vehicles and containers
contains quarantined products imported into the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan
have been.
For non-compliance with the rules of opening vehicles and containers containing
washing and quarantineable products imported into the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan
cleaning of vehicles containing quarantined products during transportation
they, as well as in places not designated for this work, - (KJT from 30.05.17, №1418)
to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 256. Import and export of quarantined products
phytosanitary certificate and quarantine permit
For non-compliance with the rules of import and export of quarantined products
without a phytosanitary certificate and quarantine permit issued by a specially authorized body
issued by the state to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 257. Failure to comply with the rules of safety and operation of vehicles
agricultural, road and reclamation purposes
For non-observance of safety rules, traffic, agro-technological requirements,
technical use of tractors, trailers, combines, road construction and reclamation machines, equipment,
weights, fuels, lubricants and other materials that can cause damage
delivery, breakdown of equipment, reduction of its maintenance and quality of materials and products,
increase crop yields, as well as soil degradation and environmental pollution;
to individuals in the amount of two to five and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 258. Non-execution of orders of authorized state control bodies
technical and operational use of agricultural, road and reclamation machines
For non-compliance with the order of the state control of technical condition and engineering State Technical Inspector for Safety and Use of Agricultural Machinery, Road Construction and
reclamation, to individuals in the amount of two to five and to officials from seven to ten
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 259. Failure to take measures to control weeds
1. To prevent countermeasures by land users
weeds, be warned.
2. To fail to take countermeasures within one year after the notification
weeds, to individuals in the amount of two to five and to officials from seven to ten
the index is set for fine calculations.

Page 52

Article 260. Failure to take measures to destroy wild narcotic plants
To avoid taking measures to eradicate wild hemp and poppy in the fields
cultivation of crops, orchards, vineyards, nurseries, along highways and railways,
irrigation and drainage networks, residences of legal entities, regardless of form
property, forest enterprises, land plots of residents of cities, towns and other places
population, as well as in the lands of the state forest and water reserve, the lands of the state reserve
Dependent farms, other organizations, institutions and enterprises, to individuals in the amount of three to seven and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 261. Illegal cultivation of narcotic crops
For cultivation, i.e. planting or illegal care of crops that contain material
drugs, in the absence of evidence of a crime, shall be imposed a fine in the amount of five to ten times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 262. Non-compliance with the rules of technical operation of agricultural machinery and
safety precautions by mechanics
For gross non-compliance with the rules of technical use of tractors, combines, etc.
self-propelled agricultural machinery and non-compliance with safety regulations by
mechanics, shall be imposed a fine in the amount of five to ten times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 263. Non-observance of the rules of maintenance of agricultural machinery
For non-compliance with the rules of maintenance of agricultural machinery (tractors, combines, etc.)
equipment), as well as their dismantling in organizations and farms, to individuals in the amount of five to ten and to officials from fifteen to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 264. Non-observance of norms of conducting pedigree work
For non-compliance with the norms of breeding, ie:
- non-compliance with the procedure for sale, transfer to another person, as well as use
offspring of pedigree animals that do not have a breed certificate or certificate;
- use of original male animals for reproduction of pedigree animals
indefinite, leading to loss of value of the breed;
- non-compliance with the rules established by regulatory legal acts of use
males of unknown origin, sale, transfer, disposal and
use of pedigree animals, as well as incorrect determination of the value of their breed;
- failure to take timely preventive and curative measures, as well as other measures
prescribed by laws and other normative legal acts of the Republic of Tajikistan
infectious diseases of breeding animals, reduction or loss of their value, death or
loss of offspring of pedigree animals;
- non-compliance with the rules of keeping statistics on the breeding of pedigree animals or non-submission
information to be recorded in the state register of pedigree animals, to individuals in the amount of twenty to forty and to officials from seventy to one hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 265. Nonobservance of the Rules of Production and Sale of Seed Materials
For non-compliance with the rules of production and sale of seed material (sown seeds)
crops and ornamental plants, to individuals in the amount of three to seven and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.

Page 53

Article 265 (1) . Obstruction of the State Seed Inspection
To prevent the activities of the State Seed Inspection,
- to individuals in the amount of three to five, to officials from seven to ten and to
legal entities from twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage. (KJT from
28.06.11, №717).
Article 265 2 . Non-compliance with the rules of sowing, storage and storage of seed material
For non-compliance with the rules of sowing, storage and storage of seeds,
- to individuals in the amount of five to seven, to officials in the amount of ten to twenty
and legal entities shall be fined from thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage.
(KJT dated 28.06.11, 17717).
Article 265 3 . Non-compliance with the rules of targeted use of seed groups and
seed processing
For non-compliance with the rules of targeted use of seed groups and seed processing,
- to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen, to officials in the amount of up to twenty
Thirty and forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage for legal entities;
will be. (KJT dated 28.06.11, 17717).
Article 265 4 . Failure to follow the rules of growing seedlings on farms
planting and sale of seedlings that do not meet the requirements of state standards
For non-compliance with the rules of growing seedlings in nurseries and sales
seedlings that do not meet state standards;
- to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
legal shall be imposed a fine of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage. (KJTaz
28.06.11, №717).
Article 265 5 . Non-compliance with the order and instructions of the State Seed Inspection
For non-compliance with the order and instructions of the State Seed Inspection,
- to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
legal shall be imposed a fine of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage. (KJTaz
28.06.11, №717).
Article 266. Non-observance of rules of use of pastures and hayfields
For non-compliance with the rules of use of pastures and hayfields, to individuals in the amount of two to five and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 267. Non-compliance with the rules of the special phytosanitary quarantine system
declared phytosanitary quarantine zone
For non-compliance with the rules of a special phytosanitary quarantine system in the area
declared phytosanitary quarantine, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from forty to fifty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 268. Import and Export of Quarantineed Goods
their transit from quarantine zones to the territory of the republic and beyond
he
For the import and export of quarantined goods and from the regions
quarantine their transit into the territory of the republic and beyond
phytosanitary certificate issued by the state authorities of the exporting country on quarantine
and without import quarantine permission, -

Page 54

to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from forty to fifty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 269. Use of contaminated lands
1. Use of chemical lands for agricultural production.
pesticides, industrial wastes and contaminated waste water, to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen and to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from fifty to seventy
the index is set for fine calculations.
CHAPTER 17. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES REGARDING NORMS AND RULES
VETERINARY AND SANITARY
Article 270. Non-observance of quarantine conditions of animals and birds
For non-compliance with the conditions of quarantine of animals and birds, to individuals in the amount of one to three and to officials from twenty to thirty indicators
a fine will be imposed for the calculations.
Article 271. Non-observance of veterinary and sanitary rules of keeping animals and
productive birds
For non-compliance with veterinary and sanitary rules for the care of animals and birds
productive, to individuals in the amount of one to three and to officials from twenty to thirty indicators
a fine will be imposed for the calculations.
Article 272. Non-observance of veterinary and sanitary rules of import and export
animals, poultry and other goods and products under the control of veterinary services
agreed
For non-compliance with veterinary and sanitary rules of import and export of animals,
poultry and other goods and products under the control of veterinary services;
to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 273. Non-observance of veterinary and sanitary rules of transportation of animals
birds and their products
For non-compliance with veterinary and sanitary rules of transportation of animals, poultry and
their products, to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 274. Violation of veterinary and sanitary rules of livestock stocking
its products, poultry and its processing
For non-compliance with veterinary and sanitary rules of storage of livestock, livestock products,
poultry and its processing, to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.

Page 55

Article 275. Failure to submit compulsory veterinary measures
(hiding) of livestock, birds and other animals
Do not submit (conceal) to carry out mandatory veterinary measures
livestock, poultry and other animals, to individuals in the amount of two to five and to officials from fifteen to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 276. Non-observance of the rules of keeping unproductive animals and birds
1. For non-compliance with the rules of keeping dogs, cats and other animals and birds
unproductive in cities and other settlements, to individuals in the amount of one to three, to officials from five to ten points
a fine will be imposed for the calculations.
2. If this act caused harm to the health or property of citizens
be to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 277. Cruel treatment of animals and birds
For cruelty to animals that result in their death or disability
torture of animals and birds;
individuals are notified or in the amount of three to five times the minimum wage
a fine is imposed.
Article 278. Slaughter of animals and birds in undesignated places
To slaughter animals and birds in unspecified places, to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen and to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 279. Sale of Meat, Meat Products, and Other Animal and Poultry Products
without the permission of the veterinary control authorities
To sell meat, meat products, other animal and poultry products without permission
veterinary control bodies, to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from ten to fifteen
the index is set for fine calculations.
CHAPTER 18. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES RELATED TO CHEMICAL RULES
PLANT PROTECTION
Article 280. Non-observance of the rules of pest control
quarantine
1. For non-compliance with the rules of quarantine pest control, to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from ten to fifteen
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of five to seven and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 281. Non-observance of the rules of storage, transportation and use of agrochemicals
and pesticides
1. For non-compliance with the rules of storage, transportation and use of agrochemicals and
pesticides, -

Page 56

to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from ten to fifteen
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of five to seven and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 282. Illegal manufacture and sale of chemicals
(in the field of agrochemistry)
1. For the illegal manufacture and sale of chemicals (in the field
agrochemistry), to individuals in the amount of three to seven and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of seven to ten and to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 283. Non-fulfillment of orders of state phytosanitary and quarantine bodies
plant
For non-compliance with the order of the state bodies of phytosanitary and plant quarantine , to individuals in the amount of two to five and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 284. Obstruction of the activity of officials of state control
conducting chemical and plant protection activities
To impede the activities of officials of state control
chemical and plant protection measures, to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
CHAPTER 19. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES RELATED TO SAFETY RULES
ROAD TRAFFIC AND USE OF VEHICLES
Article 285. Non-observance of the rules of traffic safety on railway transport
1. To place objects on the railway that may impede the movement of the train.
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of ten to twenty times the minimum monthly wage.
2. To stop the train arbitrarily and unnecessarily, in the absence of signs of a crime,
- a fine in the amount of two to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
3. For non-compliance with the rules of transportation by cart and the movement of livestock by rail,
grazing by rail,
- to individuals in the amount of one to two and to officials in the amount of three to five
a fine will be imposed for the calculations.
4. To cause damage to the railway, protective trees, protective barriers from
snow, other objects, constructions and the equipment of the signaling system of the road,
- to individuals in the amount of two to five and to officials from seven to ten
the index is set for fine calculations.
5. For non-compliance with the established freight rate during loading and unloading
railway transport,
- A fine in the amount of five to seven times the minimum monthly wage for officials
is assigned.
6. To cross the forbidden places of the railway,
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of one index for calculations.

Page 57

Article 286. Nonobservance of the Rules of Operation of Railway Vehicles
1. To board a freight train arbitrarily, while boarding a train and
get out of it, walk on the stairs and the roof of the car,
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of one to two times the minimum monthly wage.
2. To equip the interior of passenger trains, locomotive windows and
damage wagons,
- a fine in the amount of three to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
3. To throw rubbish, debris and other objects out of windows and doors of train cars,
- a fine in the amount of half to two times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
4. For smoking and consumption of alcohol on trains, except for places for this
set goals,
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of half to one index for calculations.
Article 287. Non-observance of the rules of fire protection in railway transport
air, water, road and technical transport
1. For non-compliance with the established rules of fire protection in vehicles
motor vehicles and technical transport,
- to individuals in the amount of one to three and to officials from ten to fifteen
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For non-compliance with the established rules of fire protection in road transport
railway and water transport,
- to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
3. To comply with the rules established to protect from fire in the air , (PFA
from 28.06.11, 18718)
- to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen and to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 288. Non-observance of the rules of transportation of dangerous goods by means of transport
rail, water, road and electricity
1. For non-compliance with the rules of transportation of dangerous goods by rail,
water, automobile and electric,
- to individuals in the amount of one to three and to officials from five to ten
the index for fines with the confiscation of the object of an administrative offense is imposed a fine
will be.
2. To carry explosives in trolleybuses, buses, taxis,
flammable, toxic and toxic, as well as to travel or storage
delivery of such materials by motor vehicles,
- in the amount of one to three indicators for calculations with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.
Article 289. Non-observance of the rules for ensuring the protection of vehicles and cargo
rail, water and road transport
1. To cause damage to railway vehicles, containers, vehicles
floats and other vehicles intended for transportation, as well as for
damage to vehicles;
- a fine in the amount of three to seven times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. For breaking seals and locking devices of freight cars, cars,
car trailers, containers, ship's basement and other vehicle storage rooms
floating, from them breaking seals, causing damage to certain places of loading and
packaging materials, walls of loading yards, railway stations, parking lots
trucks, container points, ports, stations and warehouses for

Page 58

operations related to the transportation of goods are used, as well as for unnecessary
Territories of warehouses, container points, places of transportation, ports
(stations), gateways and warehouses mentioned above,
- to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from twelve to fifteen
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 290. Damage to roads, railway crossings, other road structures or
technical means of regulating traffic on the road
1. To cause damage to roads, railway crossings, other road structures or vehicles
technical traffic regulator,
- to individuals in the amount of five to seven and to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. To take measures to prevent pollution of streets and roads
non-compliance with the rules of recovery of the intended traffic of vehicles and pedestrians
parts damaged as a result of repair and construction work on roads and streets, to safety
traffic threatens,
- to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 291. Non-observance of the rules of protection of the territories and highways
1. To plow the plot, mow the grass, cut and break the plants and shrubs,
cutting of grass and soil, drainage facilities and road reserve areas
introduction of sewage, industrial water, water without the consent of the road authorities
reclamation and running water, as well as for road areas and at a distance of up to 200 meters from the bridges
wooden bonfires, smoking on wooden bridges and wooden bridges,
- to individuals in the amount of two to three and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. To dig a road, to carry out any communication from the road, to pollute the road, to
creating a natural barrier on the road, building and arranging kitchens, points along the road
service and trade without coordination with the State Automobile Inspectorate, the State Service for Supervision and
regulation in the field of transport, regional road organizations and local authorities
state, (KJT from 14.03.14, № 1069)
- to individuals in the amount of five to seven and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 292. Non-observance of the rules of protection of the roads and facilities
way by land users
For land users by plots near highways, areas
the population located on the side of national and local roads is not performing its duties
improvement, repair and regular cleaning of sidewalks and pedestrian bridges
they are deployed as well as for failure to perform obligations in proper technical condition and
keeping the exits of the plots clean to the highways by public road
connectivity, including bridges,
- to individuals in the amount of three to five, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 293. Non-observance of the rules of maintenance of roads, railway crossings and
other road facilities
1. For non-compliance with the rules of maintenance of roads, railway crossings and other structures
way or failure to take timely measures to implement the orders and instructions of the authorities
the state commissioner on the issue of elimination of shortcomings, as well as failure to take action
Measures on prohibition or restriction of the traffic on certain sections of the road
it is dangerous

Page 59

- to officials in the amount of fifteen to twenty and to legal entities from two hundred to three hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. The offense provided for in the first part of this article, causing damage
vehicles, cargo, roads and road constructions, other constructions and property;
- to officials in the amount of thirty to fifty and to legal entities from three hundred to four hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 294

Rioja

failure to

rules

maintenance

wells

examination,

underground communications on highways
1. For non-compliance with the rules of maintenance of inspection wells, communications
underground on highways,
- to officials in the amount of twenty to thirty and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. To receive information within a period of more than one day from the date of receipt
failure to take measures to eliminate the problem of underground communications
The impact of water, technical liquids, steam emission caused the destruction of the road surface, ice,
restricting the visibility of the road or causing other obstacles, threatening the traffic safety;
- to officials in the amount of fifty to seventy and to legal entities from two hundred to three hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
3. For committing an offense provided for in this Article, causing harm
inspection of vehicles, cargo, roads, their facilities, other facilities and property;
- to officials in the amount of seventy to one hundred and to legal entities from three hundred to four hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 295. Travel without transportation, carrying a child, luggage
and load
(KZT from 17.12.2020, 1727)
To be carried by passengers without paying for travel
children over the age of five, excess baggage and baggage (CGC from 17.12.2020 № 1727),
on local tour trains ranging from one to two, on international tour trains from three to
five, on domestic passenger planes from five to seven, on passenger planes
international from fifteen to twenty, in watercraft from one to two, in taxis from one to two,
in long-distance municipal passenger transport from two to three indicators for calculations
a fine will be imposed (CC from 28.06.2011 № 718, from 17.12.2020 № 1727).
(KZT from 17.12.2020, 1727)
Article 295 (1). Free of charge in urban public transport
and district travel, carrying a child, luggage and luggage, as well as the use of a card
privilege of another person
For free of charge in urban and district public transport
travel by passengers, carrying children over the age of five, baggage and excess baggage,
as well as the use of another person's privileged card,
to be a quarter of a fine for accounts (Article
17.12.2020 № 1727).
Article 296. Non-observance of flight safety rules
1. To place at the aerodrome any signs and devices specific to the signs and instruments of the airport,
accepted for identification of aerodromes, similarly or without permission of the airport administration,
aerodrome lighting of pyrotechnics or construction of objects that can cause mudslides
birds promote the flight of unsafe aircraft;
- to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.

Page 60

2. For non-compliance with the rules of installation of signs on buildings and structures or
night and day differential instruments,
- to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
3. To cause damage to the equipment of the airport, aerodrome, signs of the airport, aerodrome,
aircraft and their equipment,
- a fine in the amount of two to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
4. For non-compliance with the permit or in-house system at airports,
aerodromes, radio and lighting facilities,
- to individuals in the amount of one to two and to officials from five to seven
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 297. Non-compliance with the rules of air transportation of materials
dangerous
For non-compliance with the rules of air transportation of hazardous materials,
- to individuals in the amount of two to five and to officials from five to ten
the index for fines with the confiscation of the object of an administrative offense is imposed a fine
will be. (KJT from 28.06.11, 6718)
Article 298. Non-observance of rules of conduct on aircrafts
For inside the aircraft to comply with rules of photography, festival
use of radio communication means and other established rules;
- a fine in the amount of two to three times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed. (KJT from
28.06.11, 18718)
Article 299. Failure to Follow the Commander's Order
To disobey the order of the commander of the aircraft by the persons inside the ship
situated, (PFA 28.06.11s., №718)
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of one to two times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 300. Nonobservance of the rules of carriage of passengers and cargo by air
For non-compliance with the rules of carriage, carriage of goods on board,
- to individuals in the amount of one to two and to officials from five to ten
the index is set for fine calculations. (KJT from 28.06.11, 6718)
Article 301. Refusal of personal visit, luggage and hand luggage
To avoid personal visits, luggage and hand luggage in order to secure
flight safety, as well as preventing attempts to carry materials and objects through the aircraft
their transportation is prohibited, takes place,
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of one to two times the minimum monthly wage.
(KJT, 28.06.11s, №718).
Article 302. Non-observance of rules by drivers
movement at airports
To be observed by drivers of special vehicles at airports, organizations and enterprises
non-compliance with the established speed limits at airports, specially designated places, from
including stops and accommodation, as well as non-compliance with the rules of approach to the aircraft,
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of one to three times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 303. Non-observance of traffic safety rules on water transport
1. For non-compliance with the rules of entry of ships into the port and their departure from
port, movement and berth of ships in seaports, rules of safety of passengers
while boarding and disembarking, -

Page 61

to individuals in the amount of two to three and to officials from seven to ten indicators
a fine will be imposed for the calculations.
2. Damage, breakage, displacement of swimming and beach signs
indication of the position of the ship or non-compliance with the established order of warning lights,
giving each other alarms and night and day vision signals or for fishing in the direction
the movement of the ship, the installation of nets and other instruments, to individuals in the amount of one to two and to officials from five to ten indicators
a fine will be imposed for the calculations.
3. For unauthorized diversing in the waters near the port, non-compliance
the order of signaling when performing such works, to assign officials in the amount of five to seven indicators for fine calculations
will be done.
Article 304. Damage to the internal equipment of watercraft
To cause damage to the internal equipment of watercraft, a fine of two to three times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 305. Non-observance of the rules of loading on vehicles
unloading and placement of cargo at loading and unloading points and ports
For non-compliance with the rules of loading, unloading and placement of vehicles
loading at loading and unloading points and ports, to assign officials in the amount of five to seven indicators for fine calculations
will be done.
Article 306. Failure to comply with the rules of accounting for small vessels, as well as the rules
use of such vessels and berths
For non-compliance with the rules of calculation of small vessels, as well as the rules of use
such ships and berths, to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from ten to fifteen
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 307. Non-observance of the rules of construction and commissioning of small vessels
as well as the management of the vessel by a person who does not have the right to operate it
1. To build and operate a small vessel that is properly registered
has not been taken or has not passed the technical inspection, has no number and mark and is not renewed without permission
is equipped, has technical shortcomings and with such shortcomings its use
is prohibited or the rules of loading, the capacity of passengers, the conditions and restrictions of swimming in
does not comply with the zone to individuals in the amount of two to three and to officials from seven to ten indicators
a fine will be imposed for the calculations.
2. To operate a small vessel by a person who has the right to operate such
does not have a ship or its management is entrusted to a person who does not have the right to steer
to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from fifteen to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 308. Non-observance of the rules of movement of small vessels
To increase the speed set by the drivers of small boats
failure to comply with the requirements of traffic signs, deliberately prohibiting or placing the ship in places
Prohibition, damage to hydraulic structures or technical means, signs of navigation
navigation, non-compliance with the rules of maneuvering, sound signals, placement rules
traffic lights and signs, -

Page 62

in the amount of two to three times the fine for the calculations or deprivation of the right to manage
The construction of the ship is scheduled for a period of three to six months.
Article 309. Driving under the influence of alcohol by drivers or other persons
small ship
1. To operate a small vessel while intoxicated, in the amount of seven to ten times the fine for the calculations or deprivation of the right
the management of the ship is appointed for a period of one to two years.
2. To allow a person in a state of intoxication to operate a small vessel;
to persons responsible for the use of the vessel in the amount of thirty to forty points for calculations
a fine is imposed.
Article 310. Failure to comply with the rules of use of vehicles by
drivers
1. To drive vehicles with technical defects
in braking systems (other than manual brakes), steering or trailer coupling equipment
(half) of a road train, non-compliance with the established procedure for state registration of vehicles
mechanical vehicles and trailers, a fine of one to two points is imposed for calculations.
2. To drive a vehicle with liquefied petroleum gas or without permission by drivers
naturally moving, as well as driving vehicles that are subject to technical inspection
their gas storage tank has passed, a fine of two to three times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
3. To be used by drivers while driving
cell phones that do not have hands-free handset, as well
use the display screen equipment in the front part of the interior (interior) of the vehicle
transport, a fine of two to three times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 311. Violation of the rules of transportation of dangerous, bulky, heavy and
seasonal weight and load restrictions with motor vehicles
1. For non-observance of the rules of transportation of dangerous goods by the drivers,
bulky, heavy and seasonal restrictions of weight and load on the axis of the vehicle
while driving on public roads, - (CCI from 15.03.16,
№1279)
shall be imposed a fine in the amount of fifty to seventy times the minimum monthly wage.
2. To allow drivers to drive without proper permits and conditional signs
vehicles carrying dangerous, bulky and heavy goods, to officials in the amount of one hundred and twenty to one hundred and fifty and to legal entities from
a fine of three hundred to four hundred rupees shall be imposed for the calculations.
3. For the carriage of large and heavy goods without a shipping certificate
vehicles,
- to individuals in the amount of fifty to seventy, to officials from one hundred and twenty to
one hundred and fifty and to legal entities from four hundred to five hundred times the minimum monthly wage
is assigned. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 28.12.12, 10910
Article 312. Driving a vehicle without a state registration number
anonymous or a number not registered in the prescribed manner
1. To drive a vehicle without a state registration number and with an anonymous number, in the amount of one to three indicators for fines or deprivation of the right to manage
of vehicles for a period of three to six months.

Page 63

2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, in the amount of three to five times the fine for the calculations imposed or from the right of administration
the deprivation of a vehicle is punishable by imprisonment for a period of six months to one year.
Article 313. Driving a vehicle with a foreign state registration number or
a fake number, as well as for the transfer of such a vehicle to another person for management
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 23, 2016, №1336)
To drive a vehicle with a foreign state registration number or number
counterfeit, as well as for the transfer of such a vehicle to another person for management, in the amount of ten to fifteen times the fine for the calculations or deprivation of
the right to drive a vehicle for a period of six months to one year
will be. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 23, 2016, №1336)
Article 314. Driving a vehicle with a state registration number, for example
does not comply with the established state standard
To drive a vehicle with a state registration number, follow the standard model
does not comply with state regulations, a fine of two to three times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.

Article 315. Driving a vehicle without the obligatory state technical inspection and
compulsory insurance
1. To be operated by the driver within the specified time
has not passed the mandatory state technical inspection,
- a fine in the amount of three times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. To be driven by the driver when there is no document in
on compulsory insurance,
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of one index for calculations. (KJT from
25.12.15, №1262)
Article 316. Non-compliance with the rules of installation of special sound equipment or
additional outdoor lighting fixtures to the vehicle
For non-compliance with the rules of installation of special sound equipment or instruments
additional external lighting to vehicles belonging to the emergency and special services
do not have in the amount of three to five indices for calculations with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.
Article 317. Failure of drivers and passengers to follow the rules of use
motorcycle helmets
1. For non-compliance with the rules of use by drivers and passengers
motorcycle helmets, be warned.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty,
indicated in the first part of this article, a fine of one to two points is imposed for calculations.
Article 318 Disobedience of drivers to traffic lights or
regulator reference
To disobey drivers of traffic lights or signal
regulator, not allowing vehicles to pass for priority,
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of three to five times the minimum monthly wage.

Page 64

(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of December 25, 2015, №1262)
Article 319. Management of funds without permission of authorized state bodies
a truck that is engaged in transporting people
To drive a truck without the permission of the authorized state body,
who is engaged in the transportation of people, as well as the management of other vehicles for
Unforeseen passenger traffic, a fine of two to three times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 320. Non-observance of the rules of passenger transportation
1. To accommodate more than the equipped seat or the prescribed rate
passengers in cars, buses and minibuses, a fine of one to two points is imposed for calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty,
provided for in the first part of this article, a fine of three to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
3. For committing other illegal passenger movements, a fine of half to two times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 321. Without the consent of the State Automobile Inspectorate by drivers
buses and minibuses carrying passengers on roads with heavy traffic
passenger is prohibited
For without the consent of the State Automobile Inspectorate by bus drivers and
minibuses for transporting passengers on roads where the movement of passengers is prohibited shall be imposed a fine in the amount of one to three indicators for calculations.
Article 322. Non-observance of the rules of carriage and transportation of means
mechanical transport
For transporting bulky cargo with protective curtains
does not ensure the strength of the board and reinforcement tools, as well as compliance
failure to follow the established procedure for transportation of motor vehicles, a fine of two to three times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 323. Arbitrary departure of drivers from the directions
established motion
1. For unauthorized departure of drivers from the established directions
to move or not to go to the end, as well as to drive trucks or buses;
without tachograph (control device) or with tachograph off to international transportation
to not fill in the schedule or record of the work schedule,
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of one to two times the minimum monthly wage.
2. For repeated commission within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
actions provided for in part 1 of this article;
- a fine in the amount of two to three times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed. (KJT from
25.12.15, №1262)
3. For non-observance of the established work schedule of the drivers
trucks or buses engaged in international transport or handling such a vehicle
vehicle without the state insignia of the registered vehicle;
- a fine in the amount of two to three times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
4. For arbitrary departure of drivers from the directions
established international route or not going to the end of the route (except for the route
delivery of goods under customs control);
in the amount of eighty to one hundred marks for fine calculations
will be. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of March 15, 2016, 1279)

Page 65

Article 324. Non-observance of the requirements of the road signs, road signs and other signs
rules of the road
For non-observance of the road signs by the drivers,
road signs, use of lighting fixtures at night or low light,
public transport station, crossings for pedestrians, movement through trails, roads
pedestrian, lane for vehicles or from the left side of the road when
the presence of an empty lane in the same direction, to keep vehicles on the lane
for motor vehicles, the boundaries of intersections and sidewalks, on lanes in
road, in addition to the first line of movement in the same direction, as well as to create obstacles to movement
vehicles on the road as a result of non-compliance with the rules of parking,
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of one index for calculations. (KJT from
25.12.15, №1262)
Article 325. Non-observance of the set speed on the road, rules of the race
(going forward), maneuvering and crossing intersections
1. For a fixed speed increase from ten to thirty kilometers per hour
of drivers, a fine of one to two points is imposed for calculations.
2. For a fixed speed exceeding thirty kilometers per hour
of drivers, a fine of two to three times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
3. For non-compliance with the rules of the race (overtaking), maneuvering and crossing intersections, a fine of three to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
4. To exit in the opposite direction of the traffic lane, if
traffic jams or in this case to enter the intersection,
- a fine in the amount of five to seven times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 28.12.12, №910)
Article 326. Creation of a condition by drivers of vehicles
accident
For non-compliance with the rules of the road by drivers of vehicles that
other participants in the movement on the road suddenly have to change speed, direction of movement or
take other measures to ensure the safety of yourself or others by forcing them to appear
promotes emergency situations, a fine of three to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 326 (1) . Establishment of informal transport bases and vehicle management
transport in unofficial transport bases
(KJT dated 17.05.2018, № 1518)
1. For the organization of informal transport bases, as well as for the management of vehicles
on unofficial racing or transferring the vehicle to another person's office
participation in such races,
in the amount of two hundred and fifty to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage with deprivation of
the right to drive a vehicle is granted for a period of two years.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in part 1 of this article,
a fine of four hundred times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Note: Informal racing is an illegal racing of vehicles that is carried out arbitrarily.
Public roads are constructed without the consent of the authorized bodies (CCC from 17.05.2018, №

1518).

Page 66

Article 327. Occurred by pedestrians and other road users
bringing an emergency situation
For pedestrians as well as mopeds and bicycles
the driver, driver and other participants moving on the road create a situation
accident, in the absence of evidence of a crime, a fine of one to two points is imposed for calculations.
Article 328. Involvement of drivers of motorcycles and other vehicles in
joint traffic in cities and other populated areas that impede traffic on the road
or threaten traffic safety
1. For the participation of drivers of motorcycles and other vehicles while driving
common in cities and other populated areas that impede movement on the road or to
threaten traffic safety in the amount of three to five times the fine for the calculation or deprivation of the right
the management of vehicles is appointed for a period of three months.
2. To commit an act by a moped or bicycle driver
provided by the first part of this article, a fine of one to two points is imposed for calculations.
Article 329. Legal requirements of a police officer to detain a vehicle
non-performance of drivers drivers
1. For failure to comply with the lawful requirements of a police officer
suspension of the vehicle or refusal to provide the document or vehicle for
inspection, as well as in cases provided by the Traffic Rules on the roads of the Republic
Tajikistan does not allow police officers or other persons to leave their vehicles at their disposal.
- in the amount of three to five times the minimum monthly wage or deprivation of the right to pay
Vehicle management is assigned for a period of six months to one year. (KJT from
18.03.15, №1179)
2. To be re-imposed by drivers within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
failure to comply with a lawful request of a police officer to stop a vehicle;
- in the amount of five to seven times the minimum monthly wage or fine
the management of vehicles is appointed for a period of one year. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of March 18, 2015, №1179)
3. To commit actions stipulated in parts one and two of this article
by a person without a driver's license
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of seven to ten times the minimum monthly wage. (KJT
from 18.03.15, №1179)
Article 330. Management of vehicles with side curtains and rear curtains
mirrored glasses, tinted windows or a set of controls on the right
1. To operate the vehicle with the side curtains and rear axles in place
The structure of the vehicle is not provided by the manufacturer, as well as managed
glazing of vehicles;
- a fine in the amount of one hundred and twenty-five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. To drive a vehicle with tinted black glass that illuminates the
does not comply with the established standards of state standards (GOST), without permission
special authorized state bodies,
- a fine in the amount of one hundred and twenty-five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
3. To drive a vehicle with a right-hand drive;
- a fine in the amount of ten times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed. (KJT from
9.01.10, № 577)

Page 67

Article 331. Non-observance of the rules of crossing railway and other crossings
road facilities
For non-compliance by drivers with passing rules
railway crossings (when the barrier is closed to the crossing)
to enter or bypass it, to cross unmarked places of the railway, and so on
actions that contradict the rules of crossing the railway crossings), a fine of three to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 332. Driving under the influence of alcohol
To drive while intoxicated, as well as to leave the office
vehicles to a person intoxicated in the amount of three hundred index for fine calculations or administrative detention for a term
fifteen days with deprivation of the right to drive a vehicle for a period of five
year is assigned. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 28.08.17, №1466)
Article 333. Violation of the traffic rules that caused the damage
1. For non-observance of the traffic rules by the drivers,
causing damage to a vehicle, cargo, road, road structure, structure or other property;
- in the amount of three to five times the minimum monthly wage or deprivation of the right to pay
vehicle management is appointed for a period of three to six months.
2. For non-observance of other traffic rules by drivers
on the way
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of half to one index for calculations.
3. For non-observance of the traffic rules by the drivers,
causing minor damage to human health,
- a fine or deprivation of the right to ten to fifteen times the minimum monthly wage;
vehicle management is appointed for a period of up to six months. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of March 18, 2015, №1179)
Article 334. Leaving the place of a traffic accident
To be left by drivers in violation of the established procedure
of the place of the accident involving the participants in the amount of five to seven times the fine for the calculations or deprivation of the right
Vehicle management is assigned for a period of six months to one year.
Article 335. Rehabilitation of the Damaged Vehicle
To restore the vehicle without the permission of the State Automobile Inspectorate
as a result of the accident, to individuals in the amount of two to three and to officials from ten to fifteen
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 336. Driving a vehicle by a person who does not have a driver's license
a vehicle or to a person without a driver's license to drive a vehicle
1. To drive a vehicle without a driver's license
shall be imposed a fine in the amount of two hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage.
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 28.08.17, №1466)
2. To entrust the driving of a vehicle to a person who does not have a driver's license.
in the amount of two hundred points for fine calculations with deprivation of the right
the management of vehicles is appointed for a period of five years. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 28.08.17,
№1466)
3. To commit an act provided for in the first part of this Article and
causing damage to vehicles, freight, roads, road structures and other structures or other property
has become a property,

Page 68

a fine of three hundred times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed. (KJT from
28.08.17, №1466)
Article 337. Driving a vehicle by a person who has the right to drive
does not and is in a state of intoxication
To drive a vehicle by a person who does not have a driver's license and in
is in a state of intoxication, as well as by this person to drive the vehicle
a person who does not have a driver’s license and is in a state of intoxication, as well as as a result
damage to vehicles, cargo, roads, road structures and other structures or property;
in the amount of four hundred points for fine calculations with deprivation of the right
the management of vehicles is appointed for a period of ten years. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 28.08.17,
№1466)
Article 338. Driving a vehicle without documents in the Rules of the Road
the intended road or with the document of the right of management of the vehicle, the term of which is valid
the past
(KJT dated 17.05.2018, № 1518)
1. To drive the vehicle by the driver with his documents
There are no set rules of the road, including if these documents are lost or stolen
or with a vehicle management license that has expired
(KJT from 17.05.2018, № 1518), be warned.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty,
provided for in the first part of this article,
a fine of one to two points is imposed for calculations.
Article 339. Refusal of drivers to pass inspection
a state of intoxication
1. To refuse to pass a drunken examination in accordance with the established procedure
drivers of vehicles, a fine of three to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty,
provided for in the first part of this article, in the amount of five to seven times the fine for the calculations or deprivation of the right
driving for a period of one to two years or for a period of up to fifteen days
administrative detention is imposed. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of April 16, 2012, №806)
Article 340. Non-observance of the rules of the road by pedestrians and others
road users
1. For non-compliance with the rules of the road on the sidewalk or from places
their unmarked passage, a warning is issued or a fine of one-eighth of the index is imposed for the calculations
will be.
2. To obey the traffic light sign or the signals of the traffic controller on the road
failure of moped and bicycle drivers, cart drivers and other users
roads, as well as non-compliance with the requirements of road signs, a fine of half to one index is imposed for calculations.
3. To not follow the rules while intoxicated
This article also provides for the management of mopeds, bicycles and transport vehicles
talk to a cart in a drunken state, a fine of two to three times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.

Page 69

Article 341. Driving or using damaged vehicles
1. To drive a damaged vehicle, use in such a case
they are prohibited either without a state number or without the appropriate permit as well as vehicles
freight forwarding or transportation of dangerous and bulky goods without permission
The State Automobile Inspectorate is either not registered in accordance with the established procedure or from
failed state technical inspection, to assign officials a fine in the amount of seven to ten times the minimum wage
will be done.
2. For repeated commission within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
the actions provided for in the first part of this article, to officials in the amount of ten to fifteen times the fine for the calculations
is assigned.
Article 342. Allowing drivers to drive vehicles in the condition
are intoxicated or persons who do not have the right to drive a vehicle

To allow drivers to drive while intoxicated
or persons who do not have the right to drive a vehicle.
to fine officials in the amount of three hundred times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 28.08.17, №1466)
Article 343. Misuse of a vehicle, car or other
mechanisms and their storage in unspecified places
For the purposeless use of vehicles, cars or other mechanisms that
government agencies, town and village self-government bodies , enterprises, institutions and
state organizations, as well as their storage in undesignated places, (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of January 2, 18, №1477)
to individuals in the amount of two to three, to officials from five to seven times
a fine will be imposed for the calculations.
Article 344. Non-execution of the order of the authorized state body
elimination of deficiencies
1. For non-compliance with the order of the authorized state body on liquidation
of the shortcomings related to the road maintenance and technical means of the traffic regulation;
as well as non-compliance with the rules, norms, standards that affect the organization of road safety
belong to to individuals in the amount of two to three, to officials from five to ten and to individuals
legal shall be imposed a fine of fifty to one hundred marks for calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty,
that is
This article provides to individuals in the amount of three to five, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 345. Arbitrary re-numbering, alteration or deletion of part numbers
main units of vehicles
To arbitrarily rename, change or delete the parts of the main unit
vehicles and the use of such vehicles, in the amount of five to seven indices for calculations with confiscation of property
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.

Page 70

Article 346. Parking and stopping of vehicles in the regions
residential
For parking and stopping of vehicles in residential areas, at
tunnels that impede the movement of other vehicles and pedestrians, as well
uncontrolled parking of vehicles, a fine of one to two points is imposed for calculations.
CHAPTER 20. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE FIELD OF COMMUNICATION AND USE
TELECOMMUNICATION NETWORKS
Article 347. Non-compliance with the rules of acceptance and commissioning of communication facilities
For non-compliance with the rules of acceptance and commissioning of communication facilities, regardless of
form of ownership, to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from ten to fifteen
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 348. Nonobservance of the Rules of Installation, Planning, Placement, Construction, Reconstruction
and the use of networks, lines, and communication facilities
For non-compliance with the rules of installation, planning, placement, construction, renovation and
use of networks, lines and communication facilities, to fine officials in the amount of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
Article 349. Non-observance of the procedure for placement of technical means of communication
For non-compliance with the order of placement of technical means of communication, to assign officials in the amount of twenty to thirty times the fine for the calculations
will be done.
Article 350. Non-compliance with the requirements of state standards, norms and rules when
use of communication facilities and communication services
For non-compliance with the requirements of state standards, norms, rules and other requirements
Documents regulating the use of communication facilities and communication services, to individuals in the amount of three to five, to officials from thirty to forty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 350 (1) . Non-compliance with the requirements of regulatory legal acts of the Republic
Tajikistan on connecting a SIM card to the telecommunications network
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 20.06.19, №1611)
For non-compliance with the requirements of regulatory legal acts of the Republic of Tajikistan on
connecting a SIM card to the telecommunication network in the absence of a crime signal, to individuals in the amount of one hundred to two hundred, to officials from four hundred to six hundred and to
legal entities shall be fined from eight hundred to one thousand times the minimum monthly wage.
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 20.06.19, №1611)
Article 351. Carrying out activities in the field of communications without a certificate of conformity
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of March 15, 2016, 1277)
To carry out activities in the field of communications without a certificate of conformity (CCC from 15.03.16
s., №1277) , to individuals in the amount of five to seven, to officials from thirty to forty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred indicators for the calculation of fines or penalties for suspension of activity
the term is set to three months.

Page 71

Article 352. Non-observance of the rules of processing, production, design, construction
), acquisition, use in the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan and abroad
import of electronic means and high-frequency devices without proper permission
1. For non-compliance with the rules of processing, production, design, construction (installation)
import, use in the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan and import of funds from abroad
radio-electronic and high-frequency devices without proper permission, to individuals in the amount of three to five, to officials from thirty to forty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred indicators for calculations and confiscation of objects of administrative offenses
a fine is imposed.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of five to seven, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities from three hundred to four hundred points for calculations and confiscation of property
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.
Article 353. Preparation or use of electrical equipment that meets the requirements
do not meet state standards or acceptable standards for radio communication
For the manufacture or use of electrical tools that meet the requirements of the standard
do not meet government standards or acceptable standards for radio communication;
to individuals in the amount of three to five, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities from two hundred to three hundred times the rate for accounts with confiscation of property
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.
Article 354. Non-observance of the rules of protection of communication facilities
For non-compliance with the rules of protection of communication facilities, to individuals in the amount of five to seven and to officials from seventy to one hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 355. Non-observance of the rules of protection of the communication line
For non-compliance with the rules of protection of the line, to individuals in the amount of five to seven and to officials from seventy to one hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 356. Non-compliance with the rules of interconnection of networks
telecommunications
1. For non-compliance with the rules of interconnection of telecommunication networks, to officials in the amount of thirty to fifty and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred
the index is set for fine calculations. (KJT dated 15.03.16, №1277) .
2. To operate without registration of interconnection agreements
telecommunication networks, to officials in the amount of thirty to fifty and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred
the index is set for fine calculations. (KJT dated 15.03.16, №1277).
Article 357. Unauthorized connection of the final equipment to the telecommunication networks
For arbitrary connection of the final equipment to the telecommunication networks, to individuals in the amount of seven to ten and to officials from seventy to one hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 358. Transfer and Sale of Means of Communication
For the transfer and sale of means of communication in accordance with state standards and technical specifications
do not match -

Page 72

to individuals in the amount of five to seven, to officials from thirty to forty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred indicators for calculations with confiscation of objects of administrative offense
a fine is imposed.
Article 359. Damage to communication networks
To damage the communication networks (air, cable) during the work, to individuals in the amount of five to seven and to officials from fifty to seventy
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 360. Providing false information about the object of communication or
communication services
To provide false information about a contact object or service
communication sphere, to assign officials in the amount of ten to twenty indicators for fine calculations
will be done.
Article 361. Use of a communication object by a customer without permission
authorized bodies
To be used by the customer after the new construction, renovation and
major repairs without the permission of the authorized body, to assign officials in the amount of twenty to forty times the fine for the calculations
will be done.
Article 362. Damage to telephones (payphones)
To cause damage to payphones, shall be imposed a fine in the amount of seven to ten times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 363. Arbitrary connection to the telephone network
To connect to the telephone network arbitrarily, shall be imposed a fine in the amount of seven to ten times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 364. Refusal of the transport enterprises to conclude the contract
on the carriage of postal items on regular long-distance and international routes
To prevent the transport enterprises from concluding a contract on transportation
delivery of mail by regular long-distance and international routes, to assign officials in the amount of twenty to thirty times the fine for the calculations
will be done.
Article 364 (1) . Counterfeiting of state symbols of payment for postal services or their use
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of March 15, 2016, 1277)
For forgery of state symbols of payment for postal services or their use,
in the absence of evidence of a crime, to individuals in the amount of five to eight, to officials from ten to twenty and to
legal entities from twenty to forty times the minimum monthly wage
(KJT dated 15.03.16, №1277).
Article 365. Non-execution of the order or decision of the authorized state control body
and regulation of the communications and information sector
For non-compliance with the order or decision of the authorized state body of control and regulation
communication and information sphere, to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.

Page 73

Article 366. Unauthorized use of frequencies (channels) or non-observance of rules
use of radio communication (frequencies)
For unauthorized use of frequencies (channels) or non-compliance with the rules of use
radio communication (frequencies), to individuals in the amount of seven to ten, to officials from thirty to fifty and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 367. Import, preparation, distribution and use of various types
hardware and software used to modify the identification information of tools
mobile telecommunications are used and (or) the use of mobile telecommunications facilities
electricity whose identification information has been altered
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 24.02.17, №1383)
To enter the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan and on the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan
Tajikistan prepares, distributes and uses a variety of equipment and applications
to change the identification data of mobile telecommunications devices
used and (or) the use of mobile telecommunications data
their ID has been changed.
to individuals in the amount of three to five, to officials from thirty to forty and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 24.02.17, №1383)
Article 368. Obstruction of performance of official duties by authorized persons
authorized state body in the field of communication and information
To impede the performance of official duties by authorized persons
State Commissioner for Communications and Information, to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from thirty to forty indicators
a fine will be imposed for the calculations.
Article 368 (1) . Illegal use of telecommunication numbering of the Republic
Tajikistan or transfer to other persons for use
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of March 15, 2016, 1277)
For illegal use of telecommunication numbering of the Republic of Tajikistan and
or transfer it to others for use. to officials in the amount of fifty to one hundred and to legal entities from two hundred to
two hundred and fifty marks shall be imposed for fine calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of March 15, 2016,
№1277)
CHAPTER 21. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE FIELD OF TELEVISION,
RADIO AND OTHER MEDIA
Article 369. Non-observance of the procedure for using TV channels and
radio broadcasting
1. To other persons for non-compliance with the rules of use of the broadcasting network
issuance of unlicensed programs (hardware, studios), as well
obstruction of other broadcasting organizations, a fine in the amount of thirty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. To commit an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first part of this article, a fine in the amount of fifty to one hundred times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.

Page 74

Article 370. Non-observance of the order of use of programs and materials of organizations
other
1. To include the materials of other organizations in television and radio programs
external producers of audiovisual materials that are not licensed as well as arbitrary
broadcasting of foreign TV and radio programs and speeches, to officials in the amount of twenty-five to thirty-five cents for calculations
a fine is imposed.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, imposed fines on officials of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage
will be.
Article 371. Non-observance of rules of installation, construction of studios and use of means
television and radio broadcasting
For non-compliance with installation rules, construction of studios and use of television equipment
radio broadcasting, deviation of qualitative parameters from norms, standards,
certificates, international standards, rules of use of TV and radio channels,
technical interruptions not provided for in the broadcast plan and without information
broadcasting, to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen and to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 372. Non-execution of orders of state control bodies in the field of television
and radio broadcasting
For non-compliance with the order of the state control bodies in the field of television and
radio broadcasting, to individuals in the amount of seven to ten, to officials from thirty to forty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 373. Non-compliance with the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on means
mass media
1. To disseminate media products, as well as information and materials
news agencies without registration or after a decision to suspend is terminated
their publication (broadcasting) or invalidation of the registration certificate,
to officials in the amount of thirty to forty and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred
the index for fines with the confiscation of the object of an administrative offense is imposed a fine
will be.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to officials in the amount of forty-five to fifty and to legal entities from three hundred to
four hundred points for calculations with confiscation of the object of administrative offense fine
is assigned.
3. To publish and distribute periodicals, books and other printed materials in
they are the provisions of the legislation and other normative acts of the Republic of Tajikistan (including
book standard, IBC, ISBN, publication information, publishing code, law enforcement mark
author, etc.) is not observed, to officials in the amount of forty to fifty and to legal entities from one hundred to one hundred and forty
the index for fines with the confiscation of the object of an administrative offense is imposed a fine
will be.

Page 75

Article 374. Preparation, storage, import, transportation and distribution
prohibited media products, other prohibited printed products within the territory
Republic of Tajikistan
1. For preparation, storage, import, transportation on the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan
distribution and distribution of media products, other printed materials containing information
and propaganda materials forcibly changing the constitutional order, disrupting it.
the integrity and independence of the state, the weakening of state security, war, incitement to hostility
social, racist, national and religious, propaganda of cruelty, violence and immorality, protection
terrorism and extremism, dissemination of information containing state secrets, as well as display
video and film products in which pornography is promoted, as well as other products
Prohibited printing, in the absence of evidence of a crime, to individuals in the amount of seven to ten, to officials from thirty-five to forty
fine for administrative offenses or administrative detention for a period of five to ten days and up to
legal entities from three hundred fifty to four hundred times the minimum monthly wage
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of ten to twelve, to officials from forty-five to fifty
fine or administrative detention for a period of ten to fifteen days;
legal entities imposed fines ranging from four hundred and fifty to five hundred times the minimum monthly wage
will be.
Article 374 (1) . Dissemination of false information through the media,
internet or other telecommunications networks
To spread using the media, the Internet or other telecommunications networks
of obviously false information in terms of the origin and spread of the disease
the person is at risk, either during quarantine or in the implementation of restrictive measures
on methods of protection and other measures taken to ensure the safety of the population;
where the information is far from the truth to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty times the fine for calculations or arrest
administrative offenses for the period from ten to fifteen days and for legal entities from one hundred fifty to two hundred days.
the index is set for fine calculations . (KJT from 04.07.20, №1698)
CHAPTER 22. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE FIELD OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
Article 375. Violation of the exclusive rights of a patent owner
1. To illegally prepare, apply, import, store, sell
to offer, sell or otherwise enter into economic transactions
patent invention, utility type or industrial design of a selection achievement, as well as to work
the application of a method protected by a small patent or patent for an invention or entering into economic circulation
or for this purpose to maintain the product directly by way of a small patent or patent
made inventions, to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from twenty to thirty, to individuals
legal from one hundred and fifty to two hundred marks for accounts with confiscation of property
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of five to seven and to officials from forty to fifty, to
legal entities from two hundred twenty to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.

Page 76

Article 376. Illegal manufacture, import, sale, rental and
otherwise use copies of works and phonograms
1. To illegally manufacture, import, sell, rent or otherwise
other illegal use of copies of works and phonograms for commercial purposes;
in the absence of evidence of a crime, if, - copies of works or phonograms are counterfeit;
- in copies of works or phonograms about the producers and the place of their production
incorrect information, as well as other information that could mislead the consumer
be found;
- In the copy of works or phonograms the mark of copyright protection or the mark of protection of rights
deleted or modified depending on the author to individuals in the amount of seven to ten, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities from two hundred to three hundred times the rate for accounts with confiscation of property
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
in the first, second and third paragraphs of the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen, to officials from sixty to one hundred and to
legal entities from three hundred to four hundred times the rate for accounts with confiscation of property
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.
Article 377. Illegal use of a trademark, service mark, name
place of production and brand name
1. For illegal use of a foreign trademark, service mark, name
place of origin and brand name, to individuals in the amount of seven to ten, to officials from fifty to seventy and to
legal entities from one hundred to one hundred and fifty indicators for accounts with confiscation of property
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.
2. For illegal use of spare labeling of a trademark, trademark
- services and place of origin of goods not registered in the Republic of Tajikistan to individuals in the amount of seven to ten, to officials from thirty to fifty and to
legal entities imposed fines of two hundred to two hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage
will be.
Article 378. Refusal to provide necessary information on income as well as
providing incorrect information about the income resulting from the use of the facility
copyright and related rights acquired
1. To refuse to provide the necessary information on income to the relevant authorities,
as well as from providing incorrect information about the income resulting from the use
object of copyright and related rights acquired to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from forty to fifty
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of ten to twelve and to officials in the amount of fifty to seventy
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 379. Non-fulfillment of the obligation to register the contract of use
objects of copyright and related rights and obtaining a sample certificate
appropriate
1. For users of the object of copyright and related rights
non-fulfillment of obligations under the legislation on registration of contracts for

Page 77

the proper use of copyright and related rights and
Obtaining a certificate of the appropriate sample, to individuals in the amount of seven to ten and to officials from thirty to fifty
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen and to officials from seventy to one hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 380. Observance or non-fulfillment of the established requirements when concluding the contract
to perform in concert and theatrical performances
1. For by the owners of institutions performing concert and theatrical performances
observance or non-fulfillment of the established requirements when concluding a contract to perform
in concert and theatrical performances with creative groups and concert organizers, to individuals in the amount of seven to ten and to officials from forty to fifty
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen and to officials from seventy to one hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 381. Violation of the Copyright for a Fee
1. To evade the user of copyright and related rights
to it from the payment of royalties for the actual use or non-observance of the work
the term of payment of the fee established by the contract or the law, to individuals in the amount of seven to ten and to officials from fifty to seventy
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen and to officials from seventy to one hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
CHAPTER 23. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE FIELD OF ENERGY AND
USE OF ENERGY RESOURCES
Article 382. Nonobservance of the rules for the use of electricity and heat
1. For unauthorized connection (installation) to networks and power supply devices
electricity, use of electricity and heat without a contract with the power supply organization, without
necessary control and accounting tools, breaking and breaking established seals
measuring instruments, to individuals in the amount of three to five, to officials from fifteen to twenty and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities shall be fined from two hundred to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 383. Non-observance of the system of restrictions on the use of electricity and its capacity
1. For non-compliance with the system of restrictions on the use of electricity and its capacity
the basis of the decision of the authorized state body in the event of a shortage of capacity and power by
power supply company is established, to fine officials in the amount of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.

Page 78

2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to officials in the amount of fifty to sixty times the fine for the calculations
is assigned.
Article 384. Obstruction of the activities of the officials of the supply enterprise
electricity, state inspectors of energy control bodies and other bodies
authorized to approach electrical devices or measuring and accounting instruments
users of energy resources
In order to prevent the activities of officials of the power supply company,
state inspectors of energy control bodies and other authorized bodies, for close
becoming an electrical device or measuring instrument and accounting for resource users
energy, to individuals in the amount of one to three and to officials from twenty to thirty indicators
a fine will be imposed for the calculations.
Article 385. Non-observance of the rules of protection of electric networks of voltage up to
1000 volts
For non-compliance with the rules of protection of electrical networks up to 1000 volts
(overhead, underground and underground transmission lines, transmission and distribution equipment),
caused power outages or caused other damage to the national economy
or becomes to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 386. Non-observance of the rules of protection of electric networks of high voltage
more than 1000 volts
For non-compliance with the rules of protection of electrical networks with a voltage of more than 1000
volts, which can lead to power outages, damage to the power grid, or damage to the economy.
has caused or will cause other damage.
to individuals in the amount of five to seven and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 387. Non-observance of the rules of gas use
For non-compliance with the rules of use of gas, ie:
- release of gas to newly installed devices without the permission of the authorized state body;
- use of gas in excess of the allocated limits or non-compliance with the established regime
its use;
- use of gas by gas appliances without the approved rate of gas consumption, to individuals in the amount of five to seven and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 388. The Use of Gas Appliances Without Gas Metering Instruments
For without instruments to calculate gas consumption or heat power and products with
use of gas, use of gas appliances or non-use (damage)
) automatic means of regulating the process of gas combustion or technical thermal control devices or
waste treatment equipment that ensures economical and efficient use of gas;
provided in the manual of the gas appliance, to individuals in the amount of one to three and to officials from ten to twenty indicators
a fine will be imposed for the calculations.

Page 79

Article 389. Unpreparedness of fuel storage tanks
In order not to prepare storage tanks, oil and gas products, facilities and equipment
acceptance of coal in the enterprise, association, institution and user organization
or unprepared equipment for use of reserve fuel, to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 390. Damage to the Gas Pipelines during the Performance of Works
To cause damage to gas pipelines (except pipelines) and their equipment
while performing works, to individuals in the amount of seven to ten and to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 391. Non-observance of the system of using electricity and heat
1. For non-compliance with the established system of use of electricity and heat (volume,
pressure, circulating water temperature in the network, etc.), to individuals in the amount of one to two and to officials from five to ten indicators
a fine will be imposed for the calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 392. Non-observance of safety rules during use
electrical appliances
To avoid failure by manufacturers to comply with the rules
technical use of electrical appliances, as well as non-compliance with the orders of state control bodies
power outages, damage to equipment, appliances, power lines, heating, pipelines
gas, to assign officials in the amount of twenty to thirty times the fine for the calculations
will be done.
Article 393. Inefficient use of energy resources
For inefficient use of energy resources by non-compliance
established by state standard or other normative acts, technological instructions and specifications
the need for equipment, as well as the excess of the established level and volume of losses
energy resources, to officials in the amount of ten to twenty and to legal entities from fifty to one hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 394. Non-compliance with the rules of use of energy resources
1. For untimely installation of energy metering devices, perform
failure to instruct and remove seals installed by state control inspectors
energy and energy supply organizations, to individuals in the amount of one to three and to officials in the amount of twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials in the amount of thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
3. To be performed by producers and consumers of energy resources
failure to comply with its obligations and requirements established by the rules for the use of energy resources;

Page 80

as well as arbitrary planting and use of non-standard equipment, by
consumers for arbitrary purposes without following the established rules
their use in the production of each unit of product, volume of work and
services, to individuals in the amount of five to seven and to officials in the amount of twenty-five
up to thirty-five indicators will be imposed for fine calculations.
4. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the third part of this article, to individuals in the amount of seven to ten and to officials in the amount of up to forty
fifty indicators are assigned for fine calculations.
Article 395. Failure to comply with the rules of use of user devices and
power and heat generator
For non-compliance with the rules and other regulatory documents on use
user and generator devices without setting up an account
energy consumption, as well as without the instrument (or instrumentation) regulating the power indicators
heat, which can lead to inefficient use of energy resources to individuals in the amount of three to five, to officials from five to ten and to individuals
legal from twenty to thirty times the fine for the calculations.
Article 396. Non-observance of rules of protection of gas and heating networks
For non-compliance with the rules of protection of gas and heat networks (air, ground), which
may cause interruption or possibly interruption of heat supply to customers and
damage to heating facilities or to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 397. Non-compliance with the rules and other regulatory documents on
use of electrical and heating equipment, tools and devices
For non-compliance with the rules of commissioning and further use of the equipment,
electrical and heating appliances that may cause damage or use
become or become inefficient in energy resources to individuals in the amount of two to three and to officials from five to ten indicators
a fine will be imposed for the calculations.
Article 398. Non-observance of the rules of ensuring the sustainability of certain groups
users with electricity, heat and gas
For non-compliance with rules and other regulatory documents ensure the sustainability of groups
individual consumers with electricity, heat and gas, which leads to power outages
heat and gas may or may not cause or cause damage to equipment, buildings, structures or
human health has been, or may be,
to individuals in the amount of three to five, to officials from ten to twenty and to individuals

to individuals in the amount of three to five, to officials from ten to twenty and to individuals
legal from fifty to seventy marks for fines shall be imposed.
Article 399. Damage to the heating network while performing works
To prevent damage to heating networks (other than steam pipes), equipment
them and the thermal insulation layer during the work, to individuals in the amount of one to three and to officials from five to ten indicators
a fine will be imposed for the calculations.
Article 400. Damage to electric networks (overhead, ground) while performing works
To cause damage to electrical networks (overhead, ground) and their equipment during performance
works,

Page 81

- to individuals in the amount of one to three and to officials from five to ten
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 401. Non-compliance with the power supply quality requirements by the organization
power supply
For non-compliance with the power supply quality requirements by the organization
power supply
- A fine in the amount of five to seven times the minimum monthly wage for officials
is assigned.
Article 402. Interruption of power supply through the fault of the power supply organization
bark
To cut off the power supply, which is the fault of the power supply organization
acted,
- to impose fines on officials in the amount of ten to twenty times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
Article 403. Failure to provide information or provide false information
by the enterprises of the energy and fuel complex
Not to be provided by the enterprises of the energy and fuel complex
information or providing false information to carry out the activities of the authorities
state energy commissioner of the Republic of Tajikistan is needed, to assign officials a fine in the amount of seven to ten times the minimum wage
will be done.
Article 404. Non-observance of the rules of protection of the pipelines
For non-compliance with the established rules and norms for the protection of the pipelines, to individuals in the amount of five to ten and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
CHAPTER 23 1 . ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE FIELD OF SECURITY OF FACILITIES
HYDRAULIC ENGINEERING
(KJT from 17.05.2018, № 1517)
Article 404 (1) . Non-compliance with the norms and rules of safety of hydraulic structures
(KJT from 17.05.2018, № 1517)
1. For non-compliance with the norms and rules of safety of hydraulic structures during the period
design, construction, acceptance and commissioning, operation, repair, renovation, storage
possession and decommissioning,
to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to forty and to
legal entities shall be fined from fifty to one hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article,
to individuals in the amount of fifteen to thirty, to officials from fifty to eighty and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to one hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage
(KJT dated 17.05.2018, № 1517).
Article 404 2 . Prevent the entry of control officials
state of safety of hydraulic structures to hydraulic structures
(KJT from 17.05.2018, № 1517)
To prevent the entry of officials of state control bodies
safety of hydraulic structures to hydraulic structures, familiarity with related materials
safety of hydraulic structures and organization of technical control,

Page 82

to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to forty and to
legal entities from fifty to one hundred times be fined for wage (PFA
from 17.05.2018, № 1517).
Article 404 3 . Within the time limits set by the owner or users
hydraulic structures do not provide a safety declaration of structures
hydraulic engineering to the bodies of state control over the safety of hydraulic structures
(KJT from 17.05.2018, № 1517)
For within the time limits set by the owner or users of the facility
hydraulic failure to submit a declaration of safety of hydraulic structures to the authorities
state control over the safety of hydraulic structures,
to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to forty and to
legal entities from fifty to one hundred times be fined for wage (PFA
from 17.05.2018, № 1517).
Article 404 4 . Failure to provide information to state security control authorities
hydraulic structures
(KJT from 17.05.2018, № 1517)
Not to be offered by the owner or users of hydraulic structures
information on the threat of an accident at hydraulic structures or the concealment of such information or
providing false information to the state control over the safety of hydraulic structures;
public authorities, town and village self-government bodies or in case of threat
direct breach of flooded areas without informing staff
hydraulic structures in emergency condition, the population and organizations in the regions
possible flooding,
to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from forty to eighty and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to one hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage
(KJT dated 17.05.2018, № 1517).
CHAPTER 24. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN INDUSTRY, ACTIVITIES
ARCHITECTURE, URBAN PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION
Article 405. Non-observance of rules, norms and instructions related to work safety
at facilities under the control of state control over the safety of works in industry and
mining industry
For non-compliance with the rules, norms and instructions related to the safety of work at facilities
which is under the control of the bodies of state control over the safety of works in industry and mining
have to individuals in the amount of seven to ten, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 406. Non-observance of rules, norms and instructions related to storage
use and accounting of explosive and radioactive materials (sources) in industry and
objects
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of January 2, 18, №1477)
For non-compliance with the rules, norms and instructions related to storage, use and
accounting for explosive and radioactive materials (sources) in industry and facilities, in the absence of
sign of a crime, - (Criminal Code of 02.01.18, №1477)
to individuals in the amount of seven to ten, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage.

Page 83

Article 407. Non-compliance with the rules of acceptance and commissioning of facilities
industrial technological equipment
For non-compliance with the rules of acceptance and commissioning of facilities with equipment
industrial technology, to individuals in the amount of seven to ten and to officials from fifty to seventy
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 408. Non-compliance with the requirements of the state standard and technical conditions
production, delivery and storage of construction products, structures and other construction materials
(KJT from 17.12.2020 № 1727).
1. For non-compliance with the requirements of state standards and technical conditions during production,
delivery and storage of construction products, structures and other construction materials,
to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from one hundred to two hundred and to
legal entities shall be fined from two hundred to four hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by part 1 of this article,
to individuals in the amount of twenty to forty, to officials from two hundred to four hundred and to
legal entities imposed fines ranging from four hundred to eight hundred times the minimum monthly wage
(Republic of 17.12.2020 No. 1727).
Article 409. Non-observance of the rules of architectural, town-planning and construction activity
1. For placement, construction and commissioning of facilities without project documentation
approved, positive expert opinion, decision of local executive body of state power,
Document confirming the right to use the land without the permission of the state control bodies
construction to perform construction and installation work, as well as non-compliance with other rules
construction of facilities,
to individuals and individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent
size from ten to twenty, to officials from fifty to one hundred, to individual entrepreneurs in
operate on the basis of a certificate, in the amount of one hundred to two hundred and for legal entities from two hundred to
four hundred marks will be imposed for the fine calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by part 1 of this article,
to individuals and individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent
size from thirty to forty, to officials from one hundred to two hundred, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of
Certificates operate in the amount of one hundred and fifty to two hundred and fifty and to persons
Legal shall be punished by imprisonment from four hundred to eight hundred indicators for accounts (Article
17.12.2020 № 1727).
Article 410. Construction, reconstruction and major overhaul of facilities with the use of materials
poor quality construction, which leads to a decrease in the seismicity of buildings and
becomes a structure
1. For construction, reconstruction and overhaul of facilities using construction materials
poor quality of construction, which leads to a decrease in the seismicity of buildings and structures.
to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from one hundred to two hundred and to
legal entities shall be fined from two hundred to four hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by part 1 of this article,
to individuals in the amount of twenty to forty, to officials from two hundred to four hundred and to
legal entities from four hundred to eight hundred times the minimum monthly wage
(KJT from 17.12.2020 № 1727).

Page 84

Article 411. Non-compliance with the rules of use of buildings, structures, including houses
residential and arbitrarily change their structure
1. For non-compliance with the rules of use of buildings, structures, including residential houses
and arbitrarily altering their structure,
to individuals in the amount of fifteen to thirty, to officials from eighty to one hundred and sixty
and to impose fines on legal entities from one hundred sixty to three hundred and twenty indicators for calculations
will be done (KJT from 17.12.2020 № 1727).
2. To commit actions provided for in the first part of this Article
non-compliance with norms, rules and standards of architecture and urban planning,
to individuals in the amount of thirty to sixty, to officials from one hundred sixty to three hundred
twenty and to legal entities from three hundred twenty to six hundred forty indicators for calculations;
is appointed (KJT from 17.12.2020 № 1727).
Article 412. Providing false information about an architectural object and
urban planning
To provide false information about the object of architecture and urban planning, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from fifty to one hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 413. Refusal to provide relevant information related to the activity
architecture and urban planning
To refuse to provide relevant information related to architectural activities
urban planning,
- to individuals in the amount of two to three and to officials from twenty five to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 414. Non-compliance with the legislation on the use of territories, land,
subsoil, vegetation, environment, water level during repair works
construction
For non-compliance with the legislation on the use of territory, land, resources
groundwater, vegetation, environment, water level during repair and construction works, to individuals in the amount of two to five and to officials from seven to ten
the indicator is calculated for fines or suspension of activity.
Article 415. Non-execution by local executive bodies of state power
obligations related to the prevention and mitigation of the consequences of natural disasters
(earthquakes, landslides, mudflows, etc.)
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of January 2, 18, №1477)
1. For non-execution by local executive bodies of state power
obligations related to the prevention and mitigation of the consequences of natural disasters (earthquakes,
landslides, mudflows, etc.) in the absence of signs of crime, a fine of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, a fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 416. Destruction of integrity of historical, cultural, architectural monuments and
urban planning during use and renovation
To destroy the integrity of historical, cultural, architectural and urban monuments
when using and renovating them, a fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.

Page 85

Article 417. Non-compliance with the approved master plan, draft detailed planning,
ancillary buildings, architectural ensembles, complexes, buildings and structures
For non-compliance with the approved master plan, detailed planning project, construction
additional, architectural ensembles, complexes, buildings and structures, to individuals in the amount of seven to ten and to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 418. The Failure to Ensure the Established Strength, Security, and Stability
seismicity of buildings, renovated, refurbished structures and scales
their use
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 17.12.2020 № 1727)
1. To ensure a certain level of strength, security, stability,
seismicity of buildings, reconstructed, reconstructed and operational standards
they,
to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from eighty to one hundred and twenty and
to impose fines on legal entities from two hundred forty to four hundred eighty times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by part 1 of this article,
to individuals in the amount of twenty to forty, to officials from one hundred and twenty to two hundred and forty
and fines of four hundred and eighty to nine hundred and sixty times the minimum monthly wage for legal entities
will be appointed (the Law of 17.12.2020 No. 1727).
Article 419. Publication and use of an architectural project without the consent of the author of the project
To publish and use the architectural project without the consent of the author of the project, as well as without
author's consent to make changes to the project,
to individuals in the amount of seven to ten and to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 420. Arbitrary Renovation and Change of the Purpose of a Building
objects and their parts, as well as modification of components, constructions, decorative elements and
appearance patterns
To arbitrarily renovate and change the designation of buildings, structures and
their parts, as well as changing components, constructions, decorative elements and patterns
appearance,
to individuals in the amount of seven to ten and to officials from fifty to one hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 421. Non-observance of the rules of periodic acceptance of objects
built
For non-compliance with the rules of periodic acceptance of objects (objects)
built,
to assign officials a fine in the amount of five to ten times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
Article 422. Nonobservance of the procedure for allocating land plots for construction
1. For non-compliance with the procedure for allocating land plots for construction,
to fine officials in the amount of thirty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage
be (Law 2.01.2018 # 1477).
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article,

Page 86

a fine of sixty to one hundred times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 2.01.2018 № 1477).
Article 423. Unauthorized expansion of the land plot allocated for construction or
dependent
To arbitrarily expand a plot of land allocated for construction or dependent,
to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 424. Non-observance of rules of coordination of architectural and town-planning documentation
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 17.12.2020 № 1727)
1. For non-observance of rules of coordination of architectural and town-planning documentation,
assigned officials in the amount of one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations
will be done.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by part 1 of this article,
to officials in the amount of two hundred to four hundred times the fine for the calculations
will be appointed (the Law of 17.12.2020 No. 1727).
Article 425. Implementation of construction, reconstruction, major overhaul of buildings and structures
public, administrative, household, industrial and production without approval of design and cost documentation or
relevant technical conclusion
1. For the implementation of construction, reconstruction, overhaul of public buildings and structures,
administrative, household, industrial and production without approval of design and cost documentation or relevant conclusion
technical,
to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from fifty to one hundred and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
2. For repeated commission within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
actions specified in part 1 of this article,
to individuals in the amount of twenty to forty, to officials from one hundred to two hundred and to
legal entities shall be fined from two hundred to four hundred times the minimum monthly wage
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 17.12.2020 № 1727).
Article 426. Giving a positive expert opinion to projects submitted without observance of norms and rules
construction design has been completed
To give a positive diagnostic conclusion to projects that do not comply with the rules and regulations
construction design is completed,
a fine of ten to twenty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 427. Arbitrary construction of objects of various purposes, including construction of houses
private residence
For the arbitrary construction of objects of various purposes, including the construction of an apartment house
personal,
to individuals in the amount of fifty to one hundred and to officials from two hundred to four hundred
an index is imposed for the calculations (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 17.12.2020 № 1727).
Article 428. Approval of project and expenditure documentation without expert opinion
state
To approve the project documentation and costs without the conclusion of the state examination or without
observance of rules of coordination of project documents,
to officials in the amount of thirty to forty and to legal entities from fifty to one hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.

Page 87

Article 429. Non-observance of the rules of construction and installation works
poor quality construction work
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 17.12.2020 № 1727)
1. For non-compliance with the rules of construction and installation works
poor quality construction,
to individuals in the amount of twenty to forty, to officials from one hundred to two hundred and to
legal entities shall be fined from two hundred to four hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
2. For repeated commission within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
actions specified in part 1 of this article,
to individuals in the amount of forty to eighty, to officials from two hundred to four hundred and to
legal entities from four hundred to eight hundred times the minimum monthly wage
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 17.12.2020 № 1727).
Article 430. Non-compliance with the rules of acceptance and commissioning of objects, constructions
completed, renovated, remodeled and overhauled
For non-compliance with the rules of acceptance and commissioning of facilities, constructions
completed, renovated, reassigned buildings and overhauled,
to individuals in the amount of twenty to forty, to officials from one hundred and fifty to three hundred and
legal entities shall be fined from three hundred to six hundred times the minimum monthly wage
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 17.12.2020 № 1727).
Article 431. Commissioning by a customer of a new construction object, reconstruction
and overhauled, which was not accepted by the state admissions commission
To put into operation by the customer a new construction object, renovated and radically
repaired, which was not accepted by the state admission commission;
a fine in the amount of fifty to one hundred times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 432. Evasion of orders of state bodies on architectural works
construction
In order to evade the order of the state bodies on architectural and construction works,
to individuals in the amount of twenty to forty, to officials from one hundred to two hundred and to
legal entities shall be fined from two hundred to four hundred times the minimum monthly wage
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 17.12.2020 № 1727).
Article 433. Timely non-fulfillment of orders of state bodies on affairs
architecture and construction
For untimely execution of the order of state bodies on architectural works
construction,
to individuals in the amount of twenty to forty, to officials from one hundred to two hundred and to
legal entities shall be fined from two hundred to four hundred times the minimum monthly wage
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 17.12.2020 № 1727).
Article 434. Use of uncertified products in architectural and town-planning activity and
construction
For the use of uncertified products in architectural, urban planning and construction activities,
to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from one hundred and fifty to three hundred and
legal entities shall be fined from three hundred to six hundred times the minimum monthly wage
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 17.12.2020 № 1727).
Article 435. Import and sale of substandard construction materials, products and parts
For the import and sale of substandard construction materials, products and parts that meet the standard
do not meet government and technical standards,

Page 88

to individuals in the amount of five to seven and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 436. Improper use of the territory of construction objects
notamom
To misuse the territory of their construction objects without proper permission
notamom,
to individuals in the amount of five to ten and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 437. Non-observance of the order of carrying out administrative procedures depending on practice
construction activities
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 12.01.2010 № 580)
1. For non-observance of the order and terms of carrying out administrative procedures depending on practice
construction activities,
to assign officials in the amount of twenty to thirty times the fine for the calculations
will be done.
2. To make an unreasonable decision not to issue the permit documents
to carry out construction activities,
to fine officials in the amount of thirty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage
be (Law 12.01.2010№ 580).
Article 437 (1). Failure to provide specifications on the possibility of connection
facilities designed for engineering and technical networks
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 12.01.2010 № 580)
To be appointed in due time by the responsible persons of the relevant organization
engineering and technical failure to provide technical conditions on the possibility of connection
designed facilities for engineering and technical networks,
to assign officials in the amount of ten to twenty indicators for fine calculations
be (the Law of 12.01.2010 No. 580).
Article 438. Non-fulfillment of rules by user organizations
maintenance and control of objects and territories subject to them
For non-compliance with maintenance rules by user organizations
control of objects and territories subordinated to them,
to assign officials in the amount of ten to twenty indicators for fine calculations
will be done.
Article 439. Contrary to the established procedure and without the consent of users
transfer of land to another person for the right to use the land plot allocated for construction
To violate the established procedure and without the consent of land users to anyone
transfer of the right to use the land plot allocated for construction;
to fine officials in the amount of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
Article 440. Use of objects without legal documents when passing
the right to land plots and their care
To use objects without a title document when transferring the right to
plots of land and their care,
to individuals in the amount of five to seven and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.

Page 89

Article 441. Non-observance of terms of use of land plots for construction
detachment and commissioning of the facility
For non-compliance with the terms of use of parts by the customer organization
land allocated for construction and commissioning of the facility,
a fine of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 442. Non-observance of obligatory requirements of regulatory legal acts in the field of construction
For non-compliance with mandatory requirements of regulatory documents in the field of construction during execution
design, survey, construction, installation and commissioning works during production
building materials, structures and products, if this violation leads to loss of stability,
strength, reliability of buildings, structures, structures, parts or components of construction
they have been
to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from fifty to one hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 443. Non-observance of the technology of construction objects
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 17.12.2020 № 1727)
1. For non-compliance with production technology, if this action leads to a decrease in quality
the use of the object under construction.
to individuals in the amount of twenty to forty, to officials from one hundred to one hundred and fifty and
to impose fines on legal entities from one hundred fifty to three hundred minimum monthly wages
will be.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by part 1 of this article,
to individuals in the amount of forty to eighty, to officials from one hundred and fifty to three hundred
and imposed fines on legal entities of three to six hundred times the minimum monthly wage
(Law of 17.12.2020 No. 1727).
Article 444. Infliction of damage to the territory while performing repair and construction works
To take measures without permission to dig the boundaries of buildings, streets and squares
acceptable condition of excavated areas, as well as construction sites after completion
construction and repair work,
to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen and to legal entities from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 445. Non-compliance with the rules of construction of suburbs, as well as the organization and
promotion of collective gardening and horticulture
1. To build suburbs without an agreed project, or not to comply with the norm
legislation at the beginning of their construction,
imposed on individuals in the amount of three to five times the fine for the calculations
will be.
2. For non-compliance with the rules of organization and promotion of collective horticulture,
to assign officials in the amount of twenty to thirty times the fine for the calculations
will be done.
Article 446. Making a decision without observing the approved master plan of architecture
urban planning
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 17.12.2020 № 1727)
1. To make a decision without observance of the approved master plan of architecture and town-planning,
to officials in the amount of fifty to one hundred marks for fine calculations
is assigned.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by part 1 of this article,

Page 90

to officials in the amount of two hundred to four hundred times the fine for the calculations
will be appointed (the Law of 17.12.2020 No. 1727).
Article 447. Non-compliance with the procedure for issuing licenses and certificates in the field
architectural, urban planning and construction activities
1. For non-compliance with the procedure for issuing licenses and certificates in the field of activity
architecture, urban planning and construction,
to officials in the amount of fifty to one hundred marks for fine calculations
is assigned.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by part 1 of this article,
to officials in the amount of two hundred to four hundred times the fine for the calculations
will be appointed (the Law of 17.12.2020 No. 1727).
CHAPTER 25. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE FIELD OF PROTECTION OF RIGHTS
CITIZENS TO HOUSING, COMMUNAL SERVICES, PROSPERITY
Article 448. Failure to comply with the order of queuing of citizens
housing and improve their living conditions
For non-compliance with the order of queuing citizens for housing
housing and improve their living conditions need to register, comply
non-compliance with the terms of residence of citizens in buildings and dwellings;
to assign officials in the amount of ten to twenty indicators for fine calculations
will be done.
Article 449. Nonobservance of the Rules of Use of Residential Buildings and Housing
For non-compliance with the rules of use of residential premises, care
they, engineering equipment, maintenance, misuse or damage
construction of residential buildings and houses, damage to equipment and facilities of the fund
housing, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 450. Non-observance of rules of maintenance of a sanitary condition of places of use
in general
For non-compliance with the rules of maintenance of sanitary condition of public places, from
including stairs, elevators, entrances, underpasses and yard areas, to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 451. Non-observance of the rules of beautification of the territory of the city and other places
population
1. For non-observance of rules of accomplishment of the territory of the city and other settlements,
as well as non-compliance with the rules of cleanliness and order in cities and settlements, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
legal shall be imposed a fine of fifty to one hundred marks for calculations.
2. To graze or leave unattended in the city and other settlements
livestock and other species, as well as their care in public places, to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen and to officials from twenty five to thirty
five indicators are set for fine calculations.
Article 452. Disposal and incineration of wastes and objects in undesignated places
For disposal and incineration of wastes and objects in unspecified places, -

Page 91

to individuals in the amount of three to five, to officials from ten to twenty and to individuals
legal from fifty to seventy marks for fines shall be imposed.
Article 453. Violation of the integrity of engineering networks and pipelines
water supply, sewerage and central heating system
To violate the integrity of engineering networks and without the permission of the relevant services
water supply, sewerage and central heating systems inside buildings and houses
There are apartments to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
legal from fifty to seventy marks for fines shall be imposed.
Article 454. Flooding of houses, basements and office rooms
To submerge houses, basements and service rooms as a result of demolition
technical condition of sanitary facilities, sewerage and heating networks, facilities and equipment
they are done to individuals in the amount of three to seven, to officials from ten to twenty and to individuals
legal from fifty to seventy marks for fines shall be imposed.
Article 455. Unauthorized opening of water mains, sewers and heating pipes
wells, adjustment of distribution devices and damage to seals
For unauthorized opening of water supply lines, sewerage and heating pipes, wells,
adjusting the switchgear and causing damage to the seals, provided it works as a result
normal operation of water and heat supply lines has been disrupted;
to individuals in the amount of two to five, to officials from ten to twenty and to individuals
legal from fifty to seventy marks for fines shall be imposed.
Article 456. Non-fulfillment of orders of water and heat supply enterprises
For non-fulfillment of orders of water supply and heating companies, to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 457. Unauthorized connection to the hot water system, as well as discharge of water from
heating system
To arbitrarily connect to the hot water system, as well as pour hot water in order
raising the temperature in central heating devices, to individuals in the amount of five to ten and to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 458. Unauthorized connection to water supply, sewerage and heating systems
For unauthorized connection to water, sewage and heating networks, to individuals in the amount of three to seven and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 459. Non-observance of the rules of using passenger elevators
1. For non-compliance with the rules of using passenger elevators, assigned to individuals in the amount of one to two indicators for fine calculations
will be.
2. To damage the elevator equipment and break it, imposed on individuals in the amount of ten to twenty times the fine for calculations
will be.

Page 92

CHAPTER 26. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES RELATED TO PUBLIC ORDER AND
MORALITY
Article 460. Minority
To insult people in public, to insult people,

as well as the commission of other similar acts of public order and peace
disturbs people, in the amount of seven to ten times the minimum monthly wage or administrative detention;
the punishment is five to fifteen days.
Article 461. Vandalism
Damage to buildings and other structures, damage to transport property
in public and other public places, in the absence of signs of crime, a fine of ten to twenty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 462. Disturbance of peace
1. For use in streets, squares, parks, beaches, transport and other places
public, as well as from 11:00 pm to 6:00 am in dormitories and residences,
whistle, sing out loud, play musical instruments, turn on or off
the use of sound amplification devices, machinery or sound construction and repair equipment that
disrupted public order, (December 25, 2015, №1262)
- notification to individuals or in the amount of two to three, to officials from five
up to seven and legal entities are warned or in the amount of ten to twenty indicators for
fines are imposed. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of December 25, 2015, №1262)
2. To broadcast discs, tapes and other technical means of recording religious extremist nature and
(g) insulting in the streets, squares, markets, shopping malls, parks and beaches
recreation (beach), vehicles and other public places,
- to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from five to eight
will be fined for the calculations. ( CCC from 2.08.11, №756)
3. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first and second parts of this article,
- to individuals in the amount of five to seven and to officials from ten to fifteen and to
legal entities from twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage. (KJT from
25.12.15, №1262)
Article 462 (1). Incitement to hatred or social, racial, national or regional conflict
or religious
Movements aimed at inciting hatred or social, racial, national, or regional conflict.
or religious, degrading, racial, national, religious or local, as well as
advocacy of the identity and privilege of citizens in terms of their attitude to religion (religion), language,
affiliation to race, nationality or place, if these acts are public or with
the use of the media or telecommunications networks, including the Internet
in the absence of evidence of a crime,
to individuals in the amount of fifty to one hundred marks for fine calculations or arrest
administrative is appointed for a period from five to ten days (RT 17.12.2020 № 1726).
Article 463. Drinking alcohol or smoking products in public places
there
1. For on the streets, stadiums, squares, parks, inside all modes of transport
drinking alcohol or appearing in a state of intoxication in public and other public places
in public places that infringe on human dignity and the morals of society;
shall be imposed a fine in the amount of one to three indicators for calculations.

Page 93

2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, a fine of three to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
3. For smoking tobacco products, including nasal spray inside administrative buildings, rooms
work of governmental and non-governmental organizations, health, cultural, religious, sports institutions,
educational, recreation, halls, where public and recreational events are held
conducted, airport halls, railway stations and motor transport, as well
in public transport, with the exception of special places for smoking (Article
28.06.11, 17717)
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of one to two times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 463 (1) . Sale of cigarettes, cigars, cigars and other tobacco products in the territory and
under health, cultural, sports, educational institutions, as well as using
automatic equipment
1. For the sale of cigarettes, cigars, cigars and other tobacco products in and around the territory
health, cultural, sports, educational institutions, as well as at a distance of less than a hundred meters from
boundaries of educational institutions,
- to individuals in the amount of three to five times the minimum monthly wage and to individuals
The fine is set in the amount of one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
2. For the sale of cigarettes, cigars, cigars and other tobacco products using
automatic equipment,
- to individuals in the amount of five to seven times the minimum monthly wage and to individuals
to impose a fine in the amount of one hundred and fifty to two hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage
will be done. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from December 29, 2010, №650)
Article 463 2 . Sale of cigarettes, cigars, cigars and other tobacco products to minors
For the sale of cigarettes, cigars, cigars and other tobacco products to minors, to individuals in the amount of five to seven indicators for calculations and to individuals
legal shall be imposed a fine in the amount of thirty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage. (KJT
from 29.12.10, 50650)
Article 463 3 . Prohibition of production, import, export, wholesale and retail sale of products
tobacco containing more nicotine and tar than approved hygienic standards
There is also a lack of basic warning notes on their package
additional on the harm of smoking
1. For the production, import, export, wholesale and retail sale of tobacco products
its content of nicotine and resin exceeds the hygienic standards established by the authorized body
government in the health sector to individuals in the amount of five to ten times the minimum wage and to legal entities
a fine of two hundred to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. For the absence of warning signs on the large and closed sides of the package
basic and additional information on tobacco damage and information labels on tar rates and
nicotine in it, to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen points for calculations and to individuals
shall impose a fine in the amount of two hundred fifty to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage
will be. (CCT dated 29.12.10, №650).
Article 464. Involvement of minors in anti-social behavior
1. To involve minors in begging, prostitution,
consumption of substances or substances that are not narcotic or psychotropic but may
negatively affect their intellectual activity, in the absence of signs of crime, a fine of two to three times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. For intoxication of minors in the absence of signs of crime, -

Page 94

a fine of five to seven times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
3. To sell alcohol to minors, shall be imposed a fine in the amount of five to ten times the minimum monthly wage. (KJT from
29.12.10p., №650).
Article 464 (1) . Issuance of entry permits to minors by individuals and legal entities
to nightclubs, discos, bookmakers and game centers,
as well as centers offering computer games or Internet services
(KJT dated 17.05.2018, № 1518)
1. To allow minors to enter clubs by individuals and legal entities
nightclubs, discos, bookmakers and gaming centers, as well as malls
providing computer games or Internet services in a timely manner in accordance with the legislation of the Republic
Tajikistan on the responsibility of parents in the education and upbringing of children,
to individuals in the amount of seven to ten and to legal entities from seventeen to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty.
provided for in part 1 of this article,
to individuals from thirteen to fifteen and to legal entities from twenty seven to thirty
the index for the calculations is subject to a fine (CC dated 17.05.2018, № 1518).
Article 465. Gambling
1. To organize gambling (playing cards, etc.) in unspecified places
exchange of money, things and other valuables, (KJT from 28.06.11, №717)
- to individuals in the amount of twelve to fifteen, to officials from thirty to forty and to
legal entities from one hundred to two hundred marks for accounts with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.
2. To participate in gambling in exchange for money, things and other valuables in places
not established, as well as the acceptance of rates (fees) by individuals
sports games and other competitions, in the amount of three to five indices for calculations with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.
3. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty.
provided for in the first and second parts of this article, to individuals in the amount of fifteen to twenty, to officials from forty-five to fifty
and to legal entities from three hundred to four hundred marks for accounts with confiscation of property
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.
Article 466. False summons of special services
For no reason and falsely call the fire department, police, ambulance and
other special services, a fine of three to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 467. Shooting of firearms in populated areas, places
in public and in places not provided for this purpose, as well as illicit trafficking
with explosives (pyrotechnics)
1. For the shooting of weapons, firearms in residential areas, public places and
other places not provided for this purpose, in the amount of three to five indices for calculations with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.
2. Illegal importation into the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan and production on its territory
to make, buy, keep, sell, transfer and use
explosives in the absence of evidence of a crime, -

Page 95

to individuals in the amount of twenty to thirty and to legal entities from fifty to one hundred
the index for fines with the confiscation of the object of an administrative offense is imposed a fine
will be.
Article 468. Non-compliance with accounting rules, norms and instructions
explosives
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of January 2, 18, №1477)
To be observed by entrepreneurs, landlords, officials, responsible employees
non-compliance with rules, norms and guidelines for the accounting of explosives in industry and
in objects under the control of state control bodies, - ( Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 02.01.18, №1477)
a fine in the amount of fifty to one hundred times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 469. Residence without passport or registration
1. To reside without a passport, citizens who must have a passport or with
invalid passport, as well as living without registration, a fine of one to two points is imposed for calculations.
2. To commit an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first part of this article, a fine of two to three times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 470. Observance by officials and citizens of the Republic of Tajikistan
non-compliance with the established procedure for entry of foreign persons and stateless persons
1. For receivers by officials of enterprises, institutions and host organizations
foreign citizens or stateless persons or persons serving them, fulfilling obligations
depending on the conditions of stay in the Republic of Tajikistan or across the border of the Republic of Tajikistan
Tajikistan, their non-compliance with the established procedure for registration
issuance of documents for residence, travel and change of residence in the Republic
Tajikistan in the absence of signs of crime, a fine of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. To commit an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first part of this article, shall be imposed a fine in the amount of fifty to seventy times the minimum monthly wage.
3. To be used by citizens with personal affairs of foreign citizens and persons
stateless persons were invited to the Republic of Tajikistan and provided with accommodation;
failure to take measures to ensure compliance with established rules of stay and registration
their timeliness, a fine in the amount of fifty to sixty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
4. For citizens of the Republic of Tajikistan to foreign citizens and individuals
giving stateless persons housing, vehicles or providing them with other services without
observance of the established rules of entry of foreign persons and stateless persons into the Republic
Tajikistan and their transit through the Republic of Tajikistan, a fine of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
5. To commit an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
the third and fourth parts of the present article, shall be imposed a fine in the amount of seventy to ninety times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 471. Non-observance of established rules in martial law
(CJC dated 26.07.14, № 1092)
For non-compliance with the established rules of martial law, causing disruption
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 26.07.14, № 1092)
- to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty times the fine for calculations or through
administrative detention is punishable by fifteen to thirty days.

Page 96

Article 471 (1) . Failure to comply with the established rules in the circumstances of the situation
emergency
For non-compliance with the established rules in case of emergency
lack of evidence of crime,
- a fine or arrest of an individual in the amount of ten to fifteen times the minimum monthly wage;
is appointed for a period of fifteen to thirty days (CJC from July 26, 14, .07 1092).
Article 472. Illegal transfer of prohibited things to persons in correctional institutions
maintained
1. For illegal transfer of prohibited items to persons in correctional institutions
stored, in the amount of seven to twelve times the rate for calculations with confiscation of items
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine (Criminal Code of 14.05.2016, №1310) .
2. To commit an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first part of this article, in the amount of twenty to thirty indices for calculations with confiscation of the offense
administrative penalty is imposed (CC dated 14.05.2016, №1310) .
Article 473. Observance or non-observance of fire safety rules
1. For non-compliance or non-compliance with the established rules and norms of fire safety,
- to individuals in the amount of five to seven, to officials from twenty to thirty and to
legal entities from fifty to seventy times the minimum monthly wage.
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of March 18, 2015, №1179)
2. To commit an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first part of this article,
- to individuals in the amount of seven to ten, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities shall be fined from fifty to one hundred times the minimum monthly wage. (KJT
from 18.03.15, №1179)
CHAPTER 27. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES REGARDING ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURES
Article 474. Non-observance of the legislation on religious associations
1. For non-compliance with the legislation on religious associations , including:
- activity of associations without state registration or without state re-registration
religious;
- non-compliance with the established rules for the organization and conduct of ceremonies
religious;
- teaching religious sciences without permission;
- obedience, worship, religious rites and ceremonies in undesignated places;
- Committing actions that fall within the scope of goals and objectives set forth in the charter.
certain religious associations do not return;
- to individuals in the amount of seven to ten, to the leaders of religious associations from twenty to thirty
and legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
2. To commit an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of twelve to twenty, to leaders of religious associations from forty to
fifty and to legal entities from three hundred to four hundred indicators for calculations;
will be.
Article 474 (1) . Non-compliance with the legislation on production, export, import, sale and
distribution of religious literature, as well as other objects and materials of religious purpose
1. For the production, export, import, sale and distribution of religious literature, as well as other

Page 97

items and materials of religious purpose without obtaining the conclusion of the state theological examination, to individuals in the amount of thirty to fifty, to officials from fifty to one hundred and to
legal entities from one hundred to two hundred marks for accounts with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of fifty to seventy, to officials from one hundred to one hundred
fifty and to legal entities from two hundred to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage for confiscation of property
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.
3. For the publication or production of religious literature by religious organizations
religious materials without a special mark with his full name, in the amount of fifty to one hundred rupees for calculations with confiscation of property
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.
4. For the establishment of enterprises for the publication of religious literature or enterprises for the production of raw materials
materials for religious purposes, except for their establishment by religious organizations, a fine of two hundred to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed. (KJT
from 29.12.10, №650).
Article 474 2 . Non-compliance with the procedure for receiving religious education of citizens
Republic of Tajikistan abroad
For non-compliance with the procedure for receiving religious education of citizens of the Republic
Tajikistan abroad, a fine in the amount of fifty to one hundred times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 474 3 . Propaganda and educational activities of religious associations
To conduct propaganda and educational activities of religious associations in
Educational institutions preschool, secondary, primary professional, vocational and higher
professional, as well as in the homes of citizens, - (KJT from 19.07.19, №1631)
a fine of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 474 4 . International relations of religious associations
1. To establish international relations by religious communities, incl
international religious relations with foreign organizations,
to the leaders of religious communities in the amount of fifty to one hundred times the fine for the calculations
will be appointed (Law 2.01.2020 # 1659).
2. To be held by religious organizations without the consent of the authorized state body on
religion establishing international relations, including international religious relations with
foreign organizations,
to the heads of religious organizations in the amount of from two hundred to three hundred indexes for calculations
a fine is imposed (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 03.07.2012 № 843, from 2.01.2020 № 1659).
Article 475. Non-compliance with the legislation on public organizations
1. To commit actions beyond the scope of the goals and objectives set forth in the charter
identified public organizations, to individuals in the amount of three to five, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
2. To commit an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of twelve to fifteen, officials from fifty to sixty and
to impose fines on legal entities from three hundred to three hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage
will be.

Page 98

Article 476. Funding of Political Parties by Foreign Individuals and Legal Entities
1. To finance political parties by foreign legal entities and organizations
foreign or international, their representative offices and branches, as well as by legal entities with
participation of foreigners,
to officials in the amount of fifty to one hundred and to legal entities from seven hundred to one
thousand indicators for calculations with confiscation of the object of administrative offense imposed a fine
be (Law 2.01.2020 # 1659).
2. For financing of political parties by foreign citizens and stateless persons,
in the amount of one hundred to two hundred points for calculations and their removal from the limits
The Republic of Tajikistan will impose a fine (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 30.05.2017 № 1418, from 2.01.2020 №
1659).
3. For the acceptance of illegal donations by political parties,
to officials in the amount of one hundred to two hundred and to a political party from eight hundred to one
A fine of one thousand times the minimum monthly wage is imposed (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 2.01.2020 № 1659).
Article 477. Leadership and participation in the activities of associations and organizations
social and religious, in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan
are not registered, as well as their funding
1. To direct the activities of public and religious associations and organizations in accordance with
are not registered in the order established by the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan or
their activities have been suspended or banned (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 03.07.2012 № 843),
a fine in the amount of one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 2.01.2020 № 1659).
2. To participate in the activities of public or religious associations and organizations in accordance with
are not registered in the order established by the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan or
their activities have been suspended or banned (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 03.07.2012 № 843),
a fine of seventy to one hundred times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 2.01.2020 № 1659).
3. To finance the activities of public or religious associations and organizations in accordance with
are not registered in the order established by the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan or
their activities have been suspended or banned (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 03.07.2012 № 843),
to individuals in the amount of forty to fifty, to officials from one hundred to two hundred and to
legal entities shall be fined from eight hundred to one thousand times the minimum monthly wage
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 2.01.2020 № 1659).
Article 478. By foreign religious organizations, foreign persons and persons
statelessness, non-compliance with the law on freedom of conscience and religious association
1. For carrying out religious activity in the Republic of Tajikistan without proper registration
by foreign religious organizations, their representative offices and branches, foreign individuals and entities
stateless
to foreign citizens and stateless persons in the amount of fifty to one hundred times the minimum monthly wage
for fine calculations and their removal from the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan, to the heads
foreign religious organizations, their representative offices and branches from three hundred to five hundred index
for fines and their removal from the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan and to organizations
foreign religions, their representative offices and affiliates range from eight hundred to one thousand marks for accounts
a fine is imposed (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 30.05.2017 № 1418, from 2.01.2020 № 1659).
2. To be observed by foreign religious organizations in carrying out their activities
non-compliance with the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on freedom of conscience and religious associations
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 03.07.2012, 843),
to the heads of foreign religious organizations, their representative offices and branches in the amount of more than two hundred
up to one hundred indexes for fine calculations and their removal from the territory of the Republic

Page 99

Tajikistan and legal entities from one thousand to one thousand five hundred times the minimum monthly wage
a fine is imposed (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 30.05.2017 № 1418, from 2.01.2020 № 1659).
3. To regularly operate organizations in violation of their charters (regulations)
Foreign religions, as well as failure to eliminate the deficiencies within the prescribed period
their activities have been suspended,
to the heads of foreign religious organizations, their representative offices and branches in the amount of up to forty
fifty and to foreign religious organizations, their representative offices and branches from four hundred to five hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 479. Disobedience to the orders and lawful demands of a police officer and a person
another, which performs the function of maintaining public order
1. For disobeying the order and legal requirements of a police officer or other person
performs the function of maintaining public order;
to individuals in the amount of three to five times the fine for the calculations or for a period
from five to fifteen days of administrative detention.
2. To commit an act in part declared at the scene of a state of emergency
provided for in the first part of this article, a fine of ten to fifteen times the minimum monthly wage or a fine of fifteen to fifteen times the minimum monthly wage.
thirty days of administrative detention.
Article 479 (1) . Obstruction of legal activity or non-fulfillment of legal requirements
Founder of peace and national unity - Leader of the Nation
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of November 14, 2016, №1361)
To impede legal activity or non-compliance with legal requirements
Founder of Peace and National Unity - Leader of the Nation, to individuals in the amount of twenty to forty indexes for calculations and to individuals
an official shall be fined from eighty to one hundred marks for calculations. (KJT
from 14.11.16, №1361)
Article 480. Violation of the Procedure for Organizing and Conducting Meetings, Assemblies
demonstrations, pickets and marches
1. For violation of the order of organizing and (or) holding meetings, rallies,
demonstrations, pickets or marches by an organizing person or an active participant
the same events, to individuals in the amount of seven to ten and to officials from ten to thirteen
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. To participate in the activities provided for in part 1 of this article, to individuals in the amount of three to seven and to officials from seven to ten
the index is set for fine calculations.
3. To re-participate within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
measures provided for in part 1 of this article, to individuals in the amount of fifteen to twenty and to officials from forty to fifty
the index is set for fine calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of June 28, 2017, 17717)
Article 480 (1) . Illegal breeding and maintenance of domestic animals and poultry
in the administrative-territorial territory of the capital of the Republic of Tajikistan
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 30.05.17, №1418)
1. For illegal stay in the administrative-territorial territory of the capital of the Republic of Tajikistan, to
except for the areas determined by the resolution of the Assembly of People's Deputies of Dushanbe.
breeding and keeping of cattle, small cattle, as well as horses, donkeys, poultry and others
domestic animals, except for cats, dogs and small non- consumable birds, - (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 30.05.17,
№1418)

Page 100

to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to legal entities from one hundred to three hundred
a fine will be imposed for the calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of twenty to fifty and to legal entities from three hundred to four hundred
the index is set for fine calculations. (KJT from 5.10.09, №550).
Article 481. Non-compliance with the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan
regulation of traditions and ceremonies
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 28.08.17, №1466)
1. For non-compliance with the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on regulation
traditions and ceremonies , - (KJT from 28.08.17, №1466)
to individuals in the amount of one hundred, to officials in the amount of five hundred and to
legal entities imposed a fine of seven hundred times the minimum monthly wage
will be. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 28.08.17, №1466)
2. For non-compliance with the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on
regulation of traditions and ceremonies by individual entrepreneurs, ministers and scholars
religion, - (KJT from 28.08.17, №1466)
a fine of seven hundred times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed. (KJT
from 28.08.17, №1466)
3. For gross or repeated violation of the rules of tradition and celebration
ceremony, - (KJT from 28.08.17, №1466)
to individuals in the amount of six hundred, to officials in the amount of eight hundred and to
legal entities imposed a fine in the amount of one thousand times the minimum monthly wage
will be. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 28.08.17, №1466)
Article 482. Engaging in sorcery and fortune-telling
1. To practice sorcery and divination, to fine individuals in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to fine individuals in the amount of sixty to one hundred marks for calculations
will be.
Article 483. The commission of illegal actions with regard to state awards
1. For the preparation and hanging of orders, medals, badges of honorary titles or
ribbon of orders and medals by a person who does not have such a right shall be imposed a fine in the amount of seven to ten times the minimum monthly wage.
2. For purchase, sale, exchange or other transfer of state award marks, a fine of fifteen to twenty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 483 (1) . Non-compliance with legislative requirements on state symbols
Republic of Tajikistan
For non-compliance with the requirements of the legislation on the state symbols of the Republic
Tajikistan in the absence of signs of crime, to individuals in the amount of two to five, to officials from ten to twenty and to individuals
legal from twenty to thirty times the fine for the calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of June 28, 2011,
№717).
Article 484. Appropriation of the Found Property
To appropriate found or accidentally acquired property, -

Page 101

in the amount of three to five indices for calculations with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.
Article 485. Nonobservance of the rules of administrative control
1. For non-compliance with the rules of administrative control by the person against him
administrative control is established shall be imposed a fine in the amount of one to three indicators for calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, a fine of five to seven times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
3. To be declared in a state of emergency by persons entitled to them
administrative control is established for committing an act specified in the first part of this article
provided, administrative detention shall be imposed for a period of twenty to thirty days.
Article 486. Non-observance of the order of conducting the activity of polygraphic enterprises and
sealing and carving
1. For non-compliance with the procedure for the operation of printing, sealing enterprises
carving, acquisition and sale of printing equipment, copiers, printing machines
typewriter and typewriter, a fine of three to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. For non-compliance with the procedure for use, accounting and storage
printing equipment, copiers, typewriters and calligraphers
by the persons responsible for observance of these rules shall be imposed a fine in the amount of five to eight times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 487. Unlawful Acquisition, Transfer, Sale, Retention,
carrying and carrying a shot
To obtain illegally, to give to others, to sell, to keep, to transfer
and carrying a bullet (other than a shotgun) in the absence of a sign
crime, in the amount of ten to twenty indices for calculations with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.
Article 488. Non-observance by citizens of the rules of detention or confiscation
the rotation of an air pistol, firearms and ammunition
1. For non-compliance with the rules of storage or withdrawal of an air pistol,
hunting firearms or assault rifles and ammunition fired by civilians who
have a license from the relevant authorities to maintain them;
a fine of three to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, shall be imposed a fine in the amount of seven to ten times the minimum monthly wage.
3. For non-compliance with the rules of storage or seizure of an air pistol, a weapon
firearms and ammunition fired by employees of enterprises, institutions and organizations for
their retention is also their responsibility, as opposed to their intended purpose
use of weapons, firearms and bullets shall be imposed a fine in the amount of seven to ten times the minimum monthly wage.
4. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the third part of this article, a fine of ten to twenty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.

Page 102

Article 489. Non-observance of the deadline for registration (re-registration) of a pistol
pneumatic and firearms or the rules for recording them
For non-compliance by citizens with the deadline for registration (from
re-register) of an air pistol and a firearm or the rules in the case
change of residence in the authorized body for their registration, a fine of three to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 490. Refusal to Sell Pneumatic Pistols, Firearms
hunting and their arrows
To avoid the sale of air pistols, shotguns and.
Their bullets are fired by citizens who have a license for them
abolished the possession of such a weapon,
- in the amount of two to three times the fine for the calculation of the fine and the recovery of the weapon
its accessories are assigned.
Article 491. Non-observance of the order of sale of air pistols, weapons
hunting submachine guns and their arrows
For the sale of air pistols by employees of enterprises (organizations),
hunting firearms and ammunition to individuals, businesses, organizations and
Institutions that do not have a license from the relevant authorities a fine of twenty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 492. Failure to Follow the Procedure for Acquisition, Retention, and Transfer
or the sale of an air pistol, a hunting rifle, and a cold steel weapon
1. To be taken by citizens without the permission of the competent authorities
possession, transfer or sale of air pistols, assault rifles
hunting, in the amount of five to ten times the amount for calculations with the confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, in the amount of fifteen to twenty indices for calculations with confiscation of items
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.
3. To be illegally acquired by citizens, to be transferred to others, to be owned by someone
giving or taking another gas weapon, a dagger, a machete or other cold weapon, including
Weapons of Mass Destruction
- in the amount of one to two indicators for calculations with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.
Article 493. Loss or Invalidity of a Passport
1. For careless handling of a passport, which may result in its loss or unusability
has been
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of one to two times the minimum monthly wage.
2. Intentional destruction or invalidation of the passport,
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of seven to ten times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 494. Permission to Reside Without Passport or Residence Registration
For undocumented citizens or with an invalid passport or registered residence
not received by persons responsible for compliance with the rules of the passport system
residence permit, as well as for unidentified and unregistered persons
to allow citizens to live in their homes, a fine of three to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.

Page 103

2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, shall be imposed a fine in the amount of seven to ten times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 495. Recruitment to work without passport or residence registration
1. To hire unidentified persons or persons with passports
invalid, as well as persons not registered at the place of residence to assign officials in the amount of ten to twenty indicators for fine calculations
will be done.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, a fine of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 496. Illegal Acquisition of a Passport and Acceptance as a Pledge
To obtain a passport illegally, also accept it as collateral
to
- a fine in the amount of ten to fifteen times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 497. Non-observance of the rules of entry to the border area or residence in
he
1. For non-compliance with the rules by foreign citizens and stateless persons
entry into the border area, as well as the rules of residence or registration in the area
border,
A warning is issued or a fine of five to ten times the minimum wage is imposed
will be done.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in part 1 of this article,
in the amount of ten to thirty digits for calculations with or without subtraction
a fine is imposed on the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 04.07.2020 № 1700).

Article 498. Violation of the State Border Regulation of the Republic of Tajikistan
1. For violation of the Border regime by citizens of the Republic of Tajikistan
State border of the Republic of Tajikistan and the system of checkpoints of the State Border of the Republic of Tajikistan,
in the absence of evidence of a crime, a fine in the amount of thirty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. For the commission of an act by foreign citizens and stateless persons
provided by the first part of this article, in the amount of fifty to seventy indicators for calculations by exceeding the limits
The Republic of Tajikistan shall impose a fine. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 30.05.17, №1418)
Article 499. Non-observance of the rules of stay of foreign citizens and individuals
stateless person in the Republic of Tajikistan, as well as transit through the territory
Republic of Tajikistan
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 30.05.17, №1418)
1. For non-compliance with the rules of stay in the Republic of Tajikistan by foreign citizens
and stateless persons, ie living in the Republic of Tajikistan without the right of residence or
residence with invalid documents, non-compliance with the established procedure for registration
passage, a certain period of stay, refusal to leave the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan,
as well as non-compliance with the rules of transit through the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan, (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 30.05.17, №1418)
a warning is issued or a fine in the amount of ten to fifteen points for calculations
will be appointed (the Law of 04.07.2020 No. 1700).

Page 104

2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 30.05.2017 № 1418),
in the amount of fifteen to thirty digits for calculations with or without subtraction
a fine is imposed on the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 04.07.2020 № 1700).
3. For non-compliance with the rules of residence by refugees and asylum seekers
Republic of Tajikistan,
a fine of ten to twenty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 30.05.2017 № 1418, from 04.07.2020 № 1700).
Article 500. Illegal movement of a person across the State Border of the Republic of Tajikistan
Tajikistan
For by a transport organization or other international shipping organization
failure to take measures to prevent infiltration
illegal entry of a person into the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan by means of transport or use of transport for
Illegal departure from the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan, - (KJT from 30.05.17, №1418)
to legal entities in the amount of four hundred to five hundred times the minimum monthly wage
is assigned.
Article 501. Nonobservance of requirements of regulatory legal acts of the Republic of Tajikistan
on public service
1. For non-compliance with the requirements of regulatory legal acts on public service, to assign officials a fine in the amount of five to ten times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to assign officials in the amount of twenty to thirty times the fine for the calculations
will be done.
Article 501 (1) . Concealment of information about the citizenship of another state
To conceal information about having citizenship by a citizen
another state when electing or appointing to positions subject to the legislation of the Republic
Tajikistan imposes restrictions on citizenship of other countries
a fine of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 502. Non-compliance with the procedure for state registration
Formulation of regulatory legal acts of the Republic of Tajikistan
For by ministries, state committees, other state bodies, local authorities
non-compliance with the procedure by the state authorities and self-governing bodies of settlements and villages
Accounting, state registration and compilation of regulatory legal acts of the Republic
Tajikistan, to officials in the amount of twenty to thirty and to legal entities from forty to sixty
the index is set for fine calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of June 28, 2017, 17717)
Article 503. Implementation of normative legal acts of legal force
undeveloped ministries, state committees, other state bodies, local authorities
state government and town and village self-government bodies
To put into practice the normative legal acts of legal force
ministries, state committees, other state bodies, local authorities and
town and village self-government bodies,
- ten to twenty times for officials and forty to sixty times for legal entities
a fine will be imposed for the calculations.

Page 105

Article 504. Activities of legal entities without or without re-registration
accounting records of the activities of their representative offices and branches
To operate legal entities without re-registration or without registration
accounting for the activities of representative offices and their affiliates, subject to legislation
The Republic of Tajikistan, with the exception of the Law of the Republic of Tajikistan "On Registration
State legal entities and individual entrepreneurs intended it to be, ( Article
26.12.11, №774)
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of ten to twenty times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 505. Non-observance of the established procedure for publication of normative acts
Law of the Republic of Tajikistan
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of June 28, 2017, 17717)
For non-compliance with the established procedure for the publication of regulatory legal acts
Republic of Tajikistan ,
- ten to twenty times for officials and forty to sixty times for legal entities
a fine will be imposed for the calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of June 28, 2017, 17717)
Article 506. Non-observance of rules of protection of state secrets
(KJT dated 17.05.2018, № 1518)
1. For non-compliance with the established procedure for ensuring confidentiality, without
appropriate permission to carry out activities related to state secrets, as well as confidentiality
information classified in accordance with the Law of the Republic of Tajikistan "On State Secrets"
not to individuals in the amount of eight to ten and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations or their operation for a period of up to three months
is suspended.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in part 1 of this article,
to individuals in the amount of fifteen to twenty and to officials from forty to fifty
the index for the calculations is subject to a fine (CC dated 17.05.2018, № 1518).
Article 507. Non-compliance with the rules of technical protection of information
1. For non-compliance with the rules of technical protection of information, including:
- use of technical means without the relevant certificate of the authorized body
imported data protection;
- delivery (sale) and use of technical means of data protection that meet the requirements
do not meet the standard to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen and to officials in the amount of thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of sixteen to twenty and to officials in the amount of fifty
up to seventy indicators are imposed for fine calculations.
3. Sending and delivering to recipients by international mail
technical means of information processing and technical means of data protection, as well as their use
they are without certification, in the manner prescribed by the authorized body for the protection of secrecy
state are implemented, simultaneously establishing the evidence of the use of funds
technical and software for unauthorized access, in the amount of fifty to one hundred rupees for calculations with confiscation of property
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.

Page 106

Article 508. Non-compliance with the legislation on protection of state secrets
publishing it in the press and other media
1. To be observed by citizens, officials, enterprises, institutions, organizations
failure to comply with legislation on the protection of state secrets from publication in the press
and other mass media, in the absence of signs of crime, to individuals and officials in the amount of five to ten and to legal entities
the size is set from one hundred to two hundred indicators for fine calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from twenty to thirty and to persons
the legal shall impose a fine of three hundred to four hundred marks for the calculations.
Article 509. Non-observance of the established procedure for sending copies free of charge
control of periodicals and printed materials
1. Sending control copies free of charge for non-compliance with the established procedure
periodicals and printed materials by the media and printing companies that
publish such material, to assign officials in the amount of ten to twenty indicators for fine calculations
will be done.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, a fine of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 510. Carrying out activities without permits and licenses
requires permitting and licensing documents
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of January 2, 18, №1477)
1. To carry out activities without documents
requires permission to individuals ranging in size from five to ten, to individual entrepreneurs
operate patents, ranging in size from fifteen to twenty, to officials from thirty to
forty, to individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a certificate, out of fifty
up to sixty and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred marks for fine calculations
will be done. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of January 2, 18, №1477)
2. To carry out activities that require a license without a license;
to individuals ranging in size from ten to twenty, to individual entrepreneurs
operate patents, ranging in size from twenty to thirty, to officials from forty to
fifty, to individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a certificate, out of sixty
up to one hundred and to legal entities from two hundred to three hundred points for accounts with confiscation
the object of an administrative offense is imposed with or without a fine. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 02.01.18
s., №1477)
Article 511. Non-compliance with the requirements and conditions of the license or the rules of performance
certain activities
1. For non-compliance by the licensee with the requirements and conditions of the license, to individuals in the amount of five to seven indicators for calculations with suspension
The license is valid for a period of up to three months, for officials from twenty to thirty and for legal entities from
one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage with suspension of the license for a period of three
is punishable by up to six months in prison.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, -

Page 107

to individuals in the amount of ten to twelve, to officials from thirty-five to forty and to
legal entities from two hundred fifty to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage for fine or deprivation of
the license is punishable.
Article 512. Nonobservance of the Licensing Procedure
1. To be observed by officials of the authorized licensing authority
failure to issue a license to engage in certain types of activities
to obtain a license for it a fine of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. For illegal denial or delay in issuing a license, or extension
or renewal of the license, as well as an illegal requirement of submission
documents, to officials in the amount of forty to fifty times the fine for the calculations
is assigned.
Article 513. Intentional Damage to Seals and Seals
For intentional damage to the seal and seal affixed by officials
authorized state control bodies or their dismantling, shall be imposed a fine in the amount of five to ten times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 514. Denial or Postponement of State Registration of Legal Entities
For illegal denial or overdue state registration
legal entities by officials or persons in charge of registration, a fine of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 515. Non-compliance with the procedure for submitting state statistical reports
1. For non-compliance with the procedure for submission of the established state statistics report
the relevant statistical body, which does not provide in the manner prescribed by law or
failure to submit on time, as well as incorrect submission of statistical reports
or other information necessary for state statistical observations and state registers of the unit
statistical,
- to officials in the amount of six to ten and to legal entities from fifty to one hundred
the index is set for fine calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, 1219)
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article,
- to officials in the amount of ten to twenty and to legal entities from one hundred to one hundred and fifty
the index is set for fine calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, 1219)
Article 516. The Provision of Incorrect Statistical Summary
1. To be submitted by officials of state statistical bodies
inaccurate statistical summary,
- a fine in the amount of three to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article,
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of seven to ten times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 517. Destruction or destruction of registered signs
To intentionally damage or destroy registered characters,
- a fine in the amount of five to ten times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.

Page 108

Article 518. Non-compliance with standard requirements, technical specifications and rules
certification, issuance and maintenance of measuring instruments and
their use
For non-compliance with the following standards, technical requirements and regulations
certification, issuance and maintenance of measuring instruments and their use:
- export, supply and sale of products, works and services
do not meet standard requirements and specifications;
- export, supply and sale of products, works and services
do not meet the standard requirements and specifications and their use may be life threatening,
harm to human health and property, as well as the environment;
- Sale of products, performance of work and provision of obligatory services
to be certified without a certificate of conformity issued in the prescribed manner
will be;
- Marking of products with the mark of conformity without the appropriate permission
not certified;
- issuance of design, technological and design documentation to the customer or production, which
do not meet the requirements of the standard and specifications;
- non-compliance with the standard requirements and technical conditions during delivery
possession and use of the product, provided that it does not cause damage or loss in excess
to find the product;
- to put into circulation measuring instruments which have passed state inspection or certification.
have not passed metrological or other relevant tests;
- Preparation, repair and testing of measuring instruments by enterprises, institutions and
organizations that have not received the appropriate permission in the prescribed manner, as well as non-compliance
test methods and procedures;
- non-observance of rules of use of measuring instruments;
- the absence of a standard or other normative normative document that specifies the requirements for the product
and established services, to officials in the amount of ten to twenty indicators for accounts with confiscation
the object of the administrative offense is imposed a fine.
Article 519. Non-compliance with the legislation on public procurement of goods, works and
service
1. For non-compliance with the legislation on public procurement of goods, works and services, to assign officials in the amount of ten to twenty indicators for fine calculations
will be done.
2. For the decision of the authorized state body on public procurement of goods, works and
non-performance of services by organizations, enterprises and institutions of the procurement sector through the use of
public funds, to assign officials in the amount of ten to twenty indicators for fine calculations
will be done.
Article 520. Failure to Follow the Mandatory Copy
For late or incomplete delivery of documents by the manufacturer is mandatory
Relevant state bodies and organizations, to assign officials a fine in the amount of five to ten times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
Article 521. Non-compliance with the Rules of Storage of Information
1. To take measures to ensure the safety of storage or analysis of information on
organizations and enterprises, regardless of their form of ownership, which lead to theft, destruction or
other consequences in the absence of signs of crime, -

Page 109

to officials in the amount of seven to ten and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to officials in the amount of ten to fifteen and to legal entities from two hundred to three hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
3. To be supported by officials of central and local government bodies;
use by town and village self-government bodies and for other selfish purposes
giving information obtained as a result of their lawful activity in the absence of a sign
crime, - (Criminal Code of 02.01.18, №1477)
a fine of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
4. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the third part of this article, to officials in the amount of forty to fifty times the fine for the calculations
is assigned.
Article 522. Non-compliance with the rules of ensuring the protection of the documents of the Archive Fund
national
1. For non-compliance by the responsible person with the rules of ensuring the protection of the Fund's documents
national archive, in the absence of evidence of crime, a fine of ten to thirty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, a fine of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 523. Non-observance of the rules of using the documents of the National Archive Fund
1. For non-observance by the responsible person of rules of use of documents of Fund
national archive, in the absence of evidence of crime, shall be imposed a fine in the amount of five to ten times the minimum monthly wage.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, a fine of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 524. Loss, causing damage, concealment or unlawful destruction
documents included in the structure of the National Archive Fund
1. For loss of archival documents, damage, concealment or
illegal destruction of them included in the National Archive Fund;
to individuals in the amount of seven to ten and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of fifteen to twenty and to officials from forty to fifty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 525. Inadequate storage of especially valuable documents
historical and cultural significance included in the structure of the National Archive Fund
1. It is important not to store particularly valuable documents properly
historical and cultural property included in the National Archive Fund, personal property
are real, assigned to individuals in the amount of five to seven indicators for fine calculations
will be done.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first part of this article, -

Page 110

imposed on individuals in the amount of ten to twenty times the fine for calculations
will be.
Article 526. Non-observance of the rules of conducting the register of inspections
activities of business entities
1. For non-compliance with the rules of the office of registration of performance tests
business entities in the Republic of Tajikistan, as well as intentionally incorrect filling of the office
present, to an authorized official of the inspection body in the amount of twenty-five to forty
and to the person in charge of the audited business entity in the amount of seven to ten audits
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to an authorized official of the inspection body in the amount of forty-five to
fifty and to the person in charge of the audited business entity in the amount of fifteen to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 527. Nonobservance of the Rules of Inspection of Business Entities
For non-compliance with the rules of inspection of business entities, as well
conducting inspections without the written permission of the authorized body, without observing the period and duration
inspection, interference in the activities of a business entity during the inspection, which is the subject of the inspection
not related to making an illegal decision on the outcome of an inspection or committing another
illegal actions against the audited business entity, including for compliance
failure to comply with other rights of the business entity established by law;
- to an authorized official of the inspection body in the amount of forty to fifty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 527 (1) . Non-compliance with the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on
resistance to money laundering and
terrorist financing
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 14.03.2014 № 1068, from 2.01.2020 № 1659)
Non-compliance with the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on resistance to
legalization of proceeds from crime and financing
terrorism and the financing of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction in the absence of signs of crime
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 2.01.2020 № 1659), to officials from one hundred to two hundred, to individual entrepreneurs from three hundred to five hundred and to
legal entities from one thousand to two thousand times the minimum monthly wage
administrative offense is punishable by a fine (Law of RT from 14.03.2014 № 1068, from
2.01.2020 № 1659).
CHAPTER 28. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN COURT OF JUSTICE
Article 528. Disrespect for Court
For contempt of court, ie intentional non-appearance of the plaintiff, defendant, witness,
the victim and the person brought to administrative responsibility, as well as other persons or subordinates
failure to comply with the judge's order or failure to comply with the order during the court session, as well as for
the commission by an individual of an act resulting from public disregard for the court or the rules in court
established witnesses,
- in the amount of two to five indicators for the calculation of fines or administrative penalties
the term is set from three to ten days.

Page 111

Article 529. Preventing the People's Adviser from appearing in court
To prevent officials from appearing in court under any pretext
People's Consultant for the performance of his duties;
- a fine in the amount of three to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 530. Non-execution of a court decision
For non-compliance with the court decision, as well as non-compliance with the legal requirements of the executor
executive bodies on execution of court decisions,
- to individuals in the amount of three to ten, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities shall be fined from two hundred to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage. (KJT
from 20.06.19, №1611)
Article 531. Failure to take measures related to the execution of a private court decision
(judge)
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 23, 2016, №1335)
To leave a private appointment and decision without consideration by an official and
submission of the court (judge) or failure to take measures related to their implementation, as well as timely response
non- issuance of private appointments (decisions) and proposals (CJC dated 23.07.16, №1335) , a fine of three to seven times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 532. Non-fulfillment of legal requirements of a judge, prosecutor, investigator,
investigator or official reviewing cases of administrative offenses
appears
For failure to comply with the lawful requirements of a judge, prosecutor, investigator, investigator or individual
official reviewing cases on administrative offenses to individuals in the amount of three to seven and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 533. Obstruction of lawful activity of bailiffs and executive bodies
performance
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 20.06.19, №1611)
To impede the lawful activities of the bailiff and the executive
performance of their official duties, to individuals in the amount of three to seven and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 20.06.19, №1611)
Article 534. False testimony of a witness, expert's statement, expert opinion
judicial or deliberately mistranslation
For the false testimony of a witness, expert explanations, forensic expert opinion or visual evidence
deliberately mistranslating, while considering cases of administrative offenses, a fine of ten to twenty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 534 (1) . Obstruction of the legitimate activities of the Commissioner for Human Rights
Republic of Tajikistan and the Commissioner for the Rights of the Child in the Republic of Tajikistan
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of March 15, 2016, 1278)
1. To interfere in the activities of the Commissioner for Human Rights in the Republic
Tajikistan Commissioner for the Rights of the Child in the Republic of Tajikistan for the purpose of influence
to inform their decisions (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 15.03.16, №1278) ,
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of ten to twenty times the minimum monthly wage.
2. For failure by an official to comply with the lawful requirements of the Commissioner
human rights and the Commissioner for the Rights of the Child , as well as the obligations under the Law of the Republic

Page 112

Tajikistan "On the Commissioner for Human Rights in the Republic of Tajikistan"
( Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 15.03.16, №1278) ,
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of thirty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage.
3. To impede in any other way the lawful activities of the Commissioner for Human Rights
in the Republic of Tajikistan and the Commissioner for the Rights of the Child in the Republic of Tajikistan
from 15.03.16 s., №1278) ,
- a fine in the amount of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed. (KJT
from 28.06.11, 18718)
CHAPTER 29. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE FIELD OF BANKING LEGISLATION
Article 535. Non-compliance with the rules for submission of reports and information on
banking activities
1. For non-compliance with the rules for submission of reports and information on activities
banking, as well as non-compliance with binding orders of authorized state bodies, to officials in the amount of fifteen to twenty and to legal entities from fifty to one hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For failure to provide or provide information, reports or on a regular basis
incorrect information on banking activities, to officials in the amount of thirty to forty and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 536. False advertising of banking services
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 23, 2016, №1335)
To disseminate information about banking operations or services to the public,
provided that such operations (services) are not provided by a banking license or not
may mislead or harm customers or may cause harm to customers, to bank officials in the amount of forty to fifty and to legal entities from three hundred to
four hundred marks will be imposed for the fine calculations.
Article 537. Non-submission of information on the balance of payments
1. For non-submission or untimely submission of information on the composition
indicators for the development of the balance of payments, to officials in the amount of ten to fifteen and to legal entities from fifty to one hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first part of this article, to officials in the amount of twenty to thirty and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 538. Failure to Register Accounts and Deposits Outside the Republic
Tajikistan to be opened
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 30.05.17, №1418)
1. For non-registration of accounts and deposits outside the Republic
Tajikistan will be opened, - (KRT from 30.05.17, №1418)
to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from thirty to forty and to persons
the legal shall impose a fine of two hundred to three hundred marks for calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of twenty to thirty, to officials from fifty to sixty and to
legal entities shall be fined from three hundred to four hundred times the minimum monthly wage.

Page 113

Article 539. Unjustified refusal to accept the national currency of the Republic of Tajikistan
For unreasonable refusal to accept the national currency of the Republic of Tajikistan ,
- a fine in the amount of twenty to forty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 540. Use of images of national currency banknotes for advertising
Republic of Tajikistan
1. Use of images of national currency banknotes or any kind for advertising
semi-finished products of these images (with one or more colors), depending on their characteristics (size, color,
image) in circulation may be used as the original banknotes of the national currency of the Republic
Tajikistan to be adopted (CJC dated 23.07.16, №1335) , to individuals in the amount of seven to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to persons
legal from one hundred to two hundred indicators for calculations with confiscation of objects of administrative offense
a fine is imposed.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of fifteen to twenty, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities from three hundred to four hundred times the rate for accounts with confiscation of property
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.
Article 541. Illegal transactions with foreign currency
For illegal transactions in foreign currency by buying, selling, exchanging or using it
as other means of payment, in the absence of evidence of a crime, to individuals in the amount of fifty to one hundred, to officials from one hundred to two hundred and to
legal entities from three hundred to six hundred marks for accounts with confiscation of property
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine. (KJT of 14.05.16, №1308) .
CHAPTER 30. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE FIELD OF LEGISLATION
ANTI-MONOPOLY
(CCT dated 29.12.10, №650)
Article 542. Abuse of one's dominant or monopolistic position in the market
business entities as well as groups of individuals
To abuse their dominant or monopolistic position in the market
the farmer, as well as a group of individuals by committing acts that are legislative
antitrust violation, in the absence of evidence of a crime, ( Criminal Code of 29.12.10, №650;
8.08.15p., № 1220; from 20.06.19, №1610)
- to officials in the amount of eighty to one hundred and to legal entities from five hundred to two
thousand indicators will be imposed for fine calculations. (CCT dated 29.12.10, №650)
Article 543. Concluding Contracts Restricting Competition
For the conclusion of contracts, agreements or by economic entities (groups of individuals)
other types of transactions or the performance of actions agreed to by antitrust law
opposing and restricting competition, (QT from 29.12.10, №650; from 20.06.19, №1610).
- to individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent, in the amount of more than fifty
up to seventy, to officials from seventy to one hundred, to individual entrepreneurs based on
certificates operate from one hundred to two hundred and to legal entities from two thousand to three thousand
the index is set for fine calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, 1220)
Article 544. By officials of state bodies, bodies
town and village self-government to adopt an act or carry out a restrictive action
competition
(KZT from 8.08.15, № 1220; from 20.06.19, №1610)

Page 114

For by government officials, township and
rural adoption of an act or implementation of restrictive actions, (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, №
1220; from 20.06.19, №1610)
- A fine in the amount of eighty to one hundred times the minimum monthly wage for officials
is assigned.
Article 545. Unfair competition
1. For the implementation of competition by economic entities (groups of individuals)
dishonestly prohibited by antitrust law (CJC dated 29.12.10, №650)
- Individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent in the amount of thirty to thirty
fifty, to officials from fifty to one hundred, to individual entrepreneurs based on
operating certificates, from sixty to one hundred and twenty and to legal entities from three thousand to five
thousand indicators will be imposed for fine calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, 1220)
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first part of this article,
- to individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent, in the amount of more than fifty
up to seventy, to officials from one hundred to one hundred and fifty, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of
operating certificates, from one hundred and fifty to two hundred and to legal entities from six thousand to
eight thousand marks will be imposed for the fine calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, 1220)
Article 546. False advertising
To disseminate false information about the production or by the advertiser
the sale of goods, the performance of work or the provision of services in which information is far from the truth;
misleads advertising users, as well as necessarily for product advertising
to be certified without a certificate of conformity, in the absence of marks
crime, (Criminal Code of 8.08.15, № 1220)
- to individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent, in the amount of up to twenty
thirty, to officials from fifty to seventy, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of
certificates operate from sixty to one hundred and to legal entities from two hundred to three hundred
the index is set for fine calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, 1220)
Article 547. Inappropriate advertising and reciprocal advertising
To broadcast inappropriate, inappropriate, obscene and hidden or rebellious ads
business entities (groups of individuals) from the distribution of counter- advertising, (CCI from 8.08.15s., №
1220)
- to individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent, in the amount of up to twenty
forty, to officials from fifty to one hundred, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a certificate
operate from seventy to one hundred and twenty and to legal entities from two hundred to three hundred
a fine will be imposed for the calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, 1220)
Article 548. Distribution of Advertising of Goods, Performance of Works and Services
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, 1220)
To distribute advertisements on goods, perform work and without the permission of the relevant authorities
Services, (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, 1220)
- to individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent, in the amount of up to twenty
thirty, to officials from fifty to one hundred, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a certificate
operate from seventy to one hundred and to legal entities from two hundred to five hundred
a fine will be imposed for the calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, 1220)
Article 549. Advertising of Goods Prohibited by Legislation
1. For advertising of ethyl alcohol and alcohol, tobacco and tobacco products, audio products,
videos and printed materials of obscene nature, baby food and bottle-feeding
(milk bottles), macaque and nipples, drugs, psychotropic substances and

Page 115

precursors, medicines prescribed by a doctor, as well as other types
goods, the advertising of which is prohibited by law;
- Individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent in the amount of thirty to thirty
fifty, to officials from one hundred to one hundred and fifty, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of
operating certificates, from one hundred and twenty to one hundred and eighty and to legal entities from one thousand to
three thousand marks will be imposed for the calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by part 1 of this article,
- to individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent, in the amount of more than fifty
up to one hundred, to officials from one hundred and fifty to two hundred, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of
certificates, from one hundred and eighty to two hundred and fifty, and for legal entities from three to
five thousand marks for fines shall be imposed. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, 1220)
Article 550. Advertising of Medicinal Products, Medical Equipment, Medical Equipment and
sanitary and hygienic, medical and prophylactic products, food supplements and tools
cosmetic
For advertising of medicines, medical equipment, medical and sanitary equipment
hygiene, therapeutic and prophylactic products, food supplements and cosmetics
(decorative), as well as advertising methods of treatment, prevention, diagnosis, rehabilitation during
lack of a license or a permit from the Ministry of Health and Social Protection
The Republic of Tajikistan, including in the case of obtaining a patent for an invention in this field,
- to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a patent
operate, in the amount of twenty to thirty, to officials from forty to fifty, to
individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a certificate, from sixty to eighty and to
legal entities imposed a fine of one thousand five hundred to two thousand times the minimum monthly wage
will be. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, 1220)

Article 551
1. For the sale of goods, performance of work and services to the species in advertising
the offer or display is inconsistent, as well as the advertising or presentation of goods, works and
services without the intention to implement them,
- to individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent, in the amount of fifteen
up to thirty, to officials from thirty to fifty, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a certificate
operate from forty to sixty and to legal entities from three hundred to five hundred points for
fines are imposed.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by part 1 of this article,
- Individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent in the amount of up to forty
sixty, to officials from seventy to one hundred, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a certificate
operate from eighty to one hundred and twenty and to legal entities from five hundred to eight hundred
the index is set for fine calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, 1220)
Article 551 (1) . Non-compliance with the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on
protection of minors during production, placement and distribution of advertising
For non-compliance with the requirements of the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on the protection of minors
during production, placement and distribution of advertising,
- to individuals in the amount of five to ten, individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a patent
operate in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from twenty to forty, to entrepreneurs
individuals operating on the basis of a certificate, from thirty to fifty and to legal entities
a fine of two hundred to five hundred times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, №
1220; KJT from 14.03.14, № 1069)

Page 116

Article 551 2 . Non-compliance with the terms of storage of advertising materials and their copies
For non-compliance by the advertiser, manufacturer and distributor of advertising
shelf life of advertising materials and their copies,
- to individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent, in the amount of ten to ten
twenty, to officials from twenty to forty, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a certificate
operate from thirty to fifty and to legal entities from two hundred to three hundred points
fines are imposed. (KZT from 8.08.15, № 1220; KJT from 14.03.14, № 1069)
Article 551 3 . Non-compliance with sponsorship restrictions
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 18, 2017, №1445)
To interfere with the sponsor's activities, sponsor the ad
by individuals and legal entities that produce alcohol, tobacco and tobacco products
are also sponsoring news programs on current events, - (KJT from 18.07.2017
s., №1445)
to individuals ranging in size from five to ten, to individual entrepreneurs
patents operate in the amount of forty to fifty, to individual entrepreneurs
operate on the basis of a certificate, from fifty to sixty, to officials from
sixty to seventy and to legal entities from two hundred fifty to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage
a fine is imposed. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 18, 2017, №1445)
Article 552. Abuse of the seller to protect his interests
consumer inability
1. To protect the seller from abuse of his ability to profit
the inability of the consumer due to disability, illiteracy or ignorance of the language during the sale
applicable goods,
- to individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent, in the amount of up to twenty
thirty, to officials from forty to fifty, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a certificate
operate from fifty to seventy and to legal entities from two hundred to three hundred
a fine will be imposed for the calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by part 1 of this article,
- to individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent, in the amount of more than fifty
up to seventy, to officials from eighty to one hundred, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of
certificates, from one hundred to one hundred and fifty, and to legal entities from three hundred to five hundred
the index is set for fine calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, 1220)
Article 553. Failure to provide information or providing inaccurate information
to state antitrust authorities
(KJT from 29.12.10, №650; from 8.08.15, № 1220)
To be requested by the state antimonopoly authority or in the prescribed manner
Legislation fails to provide accurate documentation information, written and oral statements, and information
other that are necessary or necessary for the performance of the powers of the antitrust authority
inaccurate, distorted or inaccurate information, (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 29.12.10, №650;
- to individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent, in the amount of ten to ten
twenty, to officials from twenty to thirty, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a certificate
operate from thirty to fifty and to legal entities from two hundred to three hundred points
fines are imposed. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, 1220)
Article 553 (1) . Failure to submit the relevant request and application
1. To the authorities in the manner prescribed by the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan
the state antitrust authority fails to submit a request for prior consent for
establishment and reorganization of associations of business entities, mergers of legal entities or

Page 117

merger of a legal entity with another legal entity, establishment of a legal entity upon payment
its authorized capital (partnership) with shares (stocks) or property of another legal entity, as well as
division (separation) of a legal entity, if this leads to the formation of a legal entity
the commodity market has a dominant position,
- to officials from eighty to one hundred and to legal entities from three hundred to five hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. To submit in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan
failure to request prior approval of the state antimonopoly authority on
the purchase by a person (group of persons) of a share (stake) has the right to vote in the capital
statutory (partnership) of a business entity, as a result of which such person (group of persons)
acquires more than twenty percent of the shares (stocks) purchased, by
an economic entity (group of persons) acquires fixed assets or assets
intangible assets of another business entity or their use, if cost
the balance sheet of the property constituting the subject of the transaction of ten percent of the book value
(balance sheet) fixed assets of production and intangible assets of an economic entity
the separation of property may be increased by the person (group of persons) acquiring that right
allows the business entity to create conditions for doing business
identify this person (group of persons) or perform the functions of its governing bodies;
as well as failure to submit an appropriate application upon completion of these transactions;
- to officials from one hundred to one hundred and twenty, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of
certificates, from one hundred and twenty to one hundred and fifty, and to legal entities from five hundred
up to eight hundred marks will be imposed for the calculations.
Note:
1. Preliminary consent to perform the transactions specified in Part 2 of this Article
are necessary if the total carrying amount of the asset
persons exceeding two hundred thousand points for calculations or one of them is a business entity
is included in the list of business entities with a dominant position or
the buyer is a group of persons who control the activities of the same business entity.
2. Relevant application upon completion of the transactions referred to in Paragraph 2 of this Article
are necessary if the total balance value of the assets of individuals exceeds one hundred thousand
the index for the calculations is high. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, 1220)
Article 554. Non-Execution of Decisions (Orders) of State Antimonopoly Bodies
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from December 29, 2010, №650)
For non-performance, incomplete performance or untimely performance, as well as refusal of
Execution of the decision (order) of the state antimonopoly body, ( Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from December 29, 2010, 50650)
- to individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent, in the amount of up to twenty
thirty, to officials from thirty to fifty, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a certificate
operate from forty to seventy and to legal entities from two hundred to three hundred and fifty indicators
a fine will be imposed for the calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, 1220)
Article 554 (1) . Revealing information that is a trade secret of business entities and
individual entrepreneurs
To be detected by state antitrust officials
information constituting a trade secret of business entities and individual entrepreneurs;
in the absence of signs of a crime, except for cases stipulated by the legislation of the Republic
Tajikistan,
- to officials in the amount of sixty to one hundred times the minimum monthly wage
is assigned. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, 1220)
Article 555. Unjustified increase of prices
1. For unreasonable increase of state regulated prices (tariffs for
products, goods and services) and maximizing profitability, raising prices

Page 118

wholesale in the state antitrust authorities at the time of filing the declaration
registered, as well as raising or lowering the price of the transported product
enterprises in accordance with intergovernmental agreements with other countries, (CJC from 29.12.10, №650)
- to individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent, in the amount of up to twenty
forty, to officials from fifty to sixty, to individual entrepreneurs based on
operating certificates, from sixty to eighty and to legal entities from two thousand to three thousand
the index is set for fine calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, 1220)
2. To calculate the proposed surcharges and surcharges to the prices, if any
the existence of officially established final prices, the inclusion of the cost of works in the cost of services
actually unfulfilled or incomplete work, taking into account the value of this
services are also provided for the use of relatively inexpensive raw materials and
other technological changes that lead to lower prices without the consent of consumers (buyers)
production and price increases for products due to their design and technical shortcomings
Consumer characteristics are accepted by adjusting the degree of these characteristics (in
in the presence of the conclusion of the standardization body).
- Individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent in the amount of thirty to thirty
fifty, to officials from sixty to eighty, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of
operating certificates, from eighty to one hundred and twenty and to legal entities from two thousand
a fine of five hundred to three thousand five hundred marks shall be imposed for the calculations. (KJT from
8.08.15, № 1220)
Article 556. Non-Transfer of Income (Profit) to the State Budget
acquired legislation
(QT from 20.06.19, .11610)
In order not to transfer income (profit) to the budget without complying with antitrust law
obtained, (KJT from 29.12.10, №650)
- to individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent, in the amount of up to twenty
forty, to officials from forty to sixty, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a certificate
operate from seventy to one hundred and to legal entities from two thousand to three thousand
a fine will be imposed for the calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, 1220)
Article 557. Infliction of harm (damage) to consumers
In order to inflict damage to consumers through goods (works, services),
that do not meet the requirements for the safety of goods (works, services),
- to individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent, in the amount of fifteen
up to twenty-five, to officials from forty to fifty, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of
operating certificates, from fifty to seventy and to legal entities from five hundred to one thousand
the index is set for fine calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 8.08.15, 1220)
Article 558. Nonobservance of prices and tariffs set by the authorities
regulating the activities of a natural monopoly and failing to submit a request to it
(QT from 20.06.19, .11610)
1. For non-compliance with prices and tariffs by regulatory authorities
established natural monopoly, (CJC from 20.06.19., ,1610)
- to officials in the amount of sixty to one hundred and to legal entities from two thousand to three thousand
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. To be regulated by the subjects of natural monopolies to the authorized regulatory body
the activities of a natural monopoly fail to submit a request for consent to perform
giving actions and failing to notify it of the number of votes required by law
on natural monopolies, (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 20.06.19, №1610)
- to officials in the amount of fifty to one hundred and to legal entities from four thousand to five
thousand indicators will be imposed for fine calculations.

Page 119

3. For failure to notify the authorized body by a person or a group of persons
regulating the activities of natural monopolies in order to acquire more
votes or change of votes belonging to them in accordance with the legislation on natural monopolies
established,
- to officials in the amount of sixty to one hundred and to legal entities from two thousand to three thousand
the index is set for fine calculations. (QT from 20.06.19, .11610)
CHAPTER 31. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE FIELD OF OPERATIONS WITH PAPERS
EXPENSIVE
Article 559. Illegal Issuance of Securities
In order not to issue shares, bonds or other in due time
securities, as well as non-compliance with the procedure and terms of purchase by the joint stock company
acquisition of shares,
- a fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 560. Violation of the right of investors to receive information
completely and objectively on securities
1. To show incorrect or public information in the design of the issue
to offer or sell securities without the prescribed publication of the issue
(issue), as well as non-offer or incomplete offer to investors
information, the disclosure of which is required by the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan;
a fine in the amount of one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first part of this article, to the issuer of securities in the amount of three hundred to four hundred times the minimum monthly wage
a fine is imposed.
3. For non-publication of the report by the open joint stock company
placement of issued securities (stocks, bonds, bills) and information
annual balance sheet in mass media, to assign officials in the amount of twenty to thirty times the fine for the calculations
will be done.
4. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by part three of this article, to officials in the amount of forty to fifty times the fine for the calculations
is assigned.
Article 561. Engaging in Professional Activities Related to Securities
Qualification certificate of a specialist in the right to conduct transactions with securities
To perform securities-related transactions without a qualification certificate
specialist for the right to conduct professional activities related to securities in accordance with the procedure
is given , a fine of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 562. Unscrupulous use of official information
To be targeted by an official of the issuer of securities
personal or transfer to third parties the use of official information related to the issuer
or securities that may affect the market value of the securities;
a fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.

Page 120

Article 563. Providing Incorrect Information
1. To an official of the state body regulating the activity in
securities market providing false or defamatory information and documents
to provide information and documents, to officials in the amount of forty to fifty times the fine for the calculations
is assigned.
2. For non-compliance with the deadline for submission of documents for registration of changes
additions to the design of the issue of securities, as well as non-compliance with the deadline for submission
report on the results of its activities related to securities, to officials in the amount of forty to fifty times the fine for the calculations
is assigned.
Article 564. Obstruction of the activity of the state executive body
control over the activity of the securities market
To impede the activities of government officials
Executor of control over the activities of the securities market, as well as by an individual
the official of the issuer or the professional participant of the security market fails to perform or without consideration
setting requirements for officials exercising control over market activities
securities, while performing their official duties, to assign officials in the amount of twenty to thirty times the fine for the calculations
will be done.
Article 565. Non-Observance of the Procedure for Free Sale (Subscription) of Securities
expensive
For by securities issuer officials and professional securities market participants
valuable non-compliance with the rules and procedures established by the legislation on securities
securities for the issue and sale (subscription) of free securities, a fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 566. Nonobservance of the Rules of Maintaining the Register of Securities
1. The established rules for maintaining the register of owners of securities
non-observance or non-observance of the register of holders of securities, unreasonable refusal
inclusion of the record in the register of owners of securities, as well as refusal to promote it
in accordance with the conditions and terms established by the legislation with the involvement of a professional market participant
securities and a specialized registrar (registrar),
to officials in the amount of from seventy to one hundred times the fine for the calculations
will be appointed (Law 2.01.2020 # 1659).
2. To take measures to ensure the protection and processing of information on
register of owners of registered securities that cause destruction, robbery or other consequences
material damage, as well as non-compliance with shareholder rights, in the absence of
sign of crime,
to officials in the amount of fifty to one hundred marks for fine calculations
will be appointed (Law 2.01.2020 # 1659).
Article 567. Unfair Advertising of Securities
To publicly guarantee the return on securities in the form of a share court
(dividends), interest or payment of income otherwise, provided that such payments are made in accordance with
the terms of issue are not provided or are subject to the information of an unlimited number of investors
Provide information on the potential income of the securities by
increase its face value, as well as provide false or inaccurate information
misleading potential investors about the terms of the purchase and sale of securities
may or may not be misleading -

Page 121

to officials in the amount of forty to fifty times the fine for the calculations
is assigned.
Article 568. Nonobservance of the Rules of Closing, Registration and Registration
receiving transactions with securities
For by officials - professional participants of the securities market
non-compliance with the rules of closing, registration and registration of transactions with securities
precious, a fine in the amount of twenty to forty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 569. Failure to comply with the procedure for submitting a supporting document
Execution by the founders of payments to the authorized fund of enterprises with
foreign investment
For by the founders of enterprises with foreign capital to government agencies
authorized to keep records of the performance of the authorized fund of enterprises with capital
Failure to submit a foreign document or failure to submit the document within the prescribed period
confirming the implementation of the authorized fund, to assign officials in the amount of twenty to forty times the fine for the calculations
will be done.
CHAPTER 32. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE FIELD OF CUSTOMS LEGISLATION
Article 570. Non-fulfillment of legal orders and requirements of an official
customs
For non-compliance with legal orders and requirements of a customs official
The Republic of Tajikistan in the performance of his official duties, a fine of ten to twenty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed. (KJT
dated 14.05.2016, №1310) .
Article 571. Refusal of a person to be brought to administrative responsibility due to
non-compliance with the customs rules for the issuance or submission of proposals within the established time limits
failure to provide property, documents and other materials and information necessary for the consideration of the case
For the refusal of a person to be held administratively liable without good reason
the reasons for non-compliance with the customs rules for issuance or submission within the established time limits
failure to provide property, documents and other materials and information necessary for the consideration of the case to the persons
a customs official of the Republic of Tajikistan or an inspector (auditor) or a specialist with
acting on his instructions, a fine of ten to twenty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 572. Obstacles to Customs Inspection and Evasion
payment of customs duties
1. To prevent the performance of a customs audit by a decision of the customs authority
appointed or refused to conduct it, if conducting it in accordance with the legislation
The Republic of Tajikistan to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from thirty to forty
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. To evade payment of customs duties in the absence of a sign
crime
to individuals in the amount of twenty to thirty and to officials from forty to fifty
the index is subject to a fine for calculations (CCC from 14.05.2016, №1310) .

Page 122

Article 573. Refusal or refusal of an expert to give a conclusion, translated from
involved in the production of the case, a specialist in conducting customs inspections and
formalize its validity
In order to refuse or refrain from giving an expert opinion without good reason,
an interpreter from participating in the production of the case, a specialist from conducting customs inspections and
formalize it, the amount from five to ten indicators be fined for wage (PFA
dated 14.05.2016, №1310) .
Article 574. Refusal or refusal of an official of an enterprise, institution,
the organization from the execution of the decision or order to conduct an examination or from the execution of the requirements
about inviting a specialist or translator
For refusal or refusal of an official of the enterprise without good reason,
institution, organization to which the decision or instruction of the customs authorities of the Republic of Tajikistan
on conducting an examination or requesting the invitation of a specialist or interpreter to attend
sent for customs inspection and clearance;
the rate of ten to twenty indicators be fined for wage (PFA
dated 14.05.2016, №1310) .
Article 575. Use without Permission of the Customs Authorities of the Republic of Tajikistan
property to which seizure or non-compliance with such requirements and restrictions
use
To use the property without the permission of the customs authorities of the Republic of Tajikistan
it has been arrested by these authorities or has failed to comply with the requirements and restrictions for
such use established by the customs bodies of the Republic of Tajikistan;
the amount of twenty to thirty indicators will be fine for accounts (Article
14.05.2016, №1310) .
Article 576. Influence or unlawful interference with the purpose of influencing
decisions made or actions taken
For by enterprises, institutions, organizations, officials and other employees
they illegally influence or interfere in any form in order to influence
decisions taken or actions taken by customs authorities of the Republic of Tajikistan or;
its official, as well as the influence or interference of a person engaged in business activities
is the amount from five to ten indicators be fined for wage (PFA
dated 14.05.2016, №1310) .
Article 577 Illegal Transfer of Goods or Means of Transport across the Customs Border
Republic of Tajikistan
For transportation of goods or means of transport across the customs border of the Republic of Tajikistan free of charge
customs or covert control of it, through the use of confidentiality, other ways of detection
complicate the goods either by transferring one type of goods to another or to customs authorities
submission of forged documents, illegally obtained documents, documents
contains incorrect information, documents relating to goods or other means of transport or documents
other void or by using a false identification tool or identification tool
originals belonging to the goods or other means of transport, in the absence of signs of a crime, to individuals and officials in the amount of half to double and individuals
legal in the amount of two to three times the value of the goods or means of transport across the customs border
illegally transported with confiscation of items that the instrument is exported
is an administrative offense or its immediate object, a fine is imposed.
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 24.02.17, №1383)

Page 123

Article 578. Failure to Submit or Declare a Declaration
declaration of goods or means of transport
1. For failure to submit a declaration or incorrect submission of a declaration
goods or means of transport, which must be in the prescribed form (written, oral or electronic)
declaration to be made, to individuals and officials in the amount of half to double and individuals
legal in the amount of one to three times the value of the goods or means of transport
is an administrative offense, with the confiscation of the object of an administrative offense is a fine
will be appointed (PFA from 14.05.2016., №1310; carries 24.02.17 al., №1383) .
2. To be declared by the declarant or customs broker (representative) in the customs declaration or at
a document of another prescribed form of declaration stating incorrect information in
on the list, quantity, customs value, country of origin of the goods or means of transport;
their customs system or other information to decide on the issuance of a permit (permit)
conditional release of goods or means of transport under the selected customs regime
they affect or affect the collection of customs duties, (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from December 29, 2010, №650)
to individuals and officials in the amount of half to double and individuals
legal in the amount of one to three times the value of the goods and (or) the means of transport of the goods
is an administrative offense, with the confiscation of the object of an administrative offense is a fine
will be appointed (PFA from 14.05.2016., №1310; carries 24.02.17 al., №1383) .
3. To declare incorrect information to the decisions of the authorities
Customs of the Republic of Tajikistan on transit of goods and means of transport across the customs border
The Republic of Tajikistan shall transport or place them under the customs regime
does not affect the requested amount or the amount of customs payments.
the amount from five to ten indicators be fined for wage (PFA
dated 14.05.2016, №1310) .
4. For non-declaration or inaccurate declaration by individuals and legal entities
national currency, foreign currency or remittances from the customs border of the Republic
Transferable Tajikistan, which must be declared in writing.
to individuals in the amount of twenty to thirty, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities from two hundred to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage and when the national currency,
foreign currency or undeclared or inaccurately declared means of circulation with
legalization of proceeds from crime and financing
terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are related or committed as a result
of the main crimes obtained, as well as with the confiscation of property
an administrative offense is punishable.
Note: Movable working capital - bearer securities (shares,
bonds, checks, bills, cash payments) or other securities (checks, liabilities and
unpaid cash payments), which entitles them to submit without indicating the name
recipient (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 2.01.2020 № 1659).
Article 579. Transfer of Goods or Means of Transport without Observance of Measures
protection of economic interests of the Republic of Tajikistan and other restrictions
For import or export of goods from the Republic of Tajikistan or
the vehicle without observance of measures for protection of economic interests of the Republic
Tajikistan in foreign trade of goods, as well as other restrictions
legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan and international treaties recognized by Tajikistan,
to individuals in the amount of fifteen to twenty, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities from three hundred to four hundred times the rate for accounts with confiscation of property
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine (Criminal Code of 14.05.2016, №1310) .

Page 124

Article 580. Failure to Notify the Importation of Goods or Means of Transport
customs border of the Republic of Tajikistan
For non-compliance by the carrier with the requirements of customs legislation on
Notification of customs authorities on crossing the customs border of the Republic of Tajikistan
when importing goods or means of transport into the customs territory of the Republic of Tajikistan, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty , to officials from thirty to forty and to persons
legal from two hundred to two hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 14.05.2016, №1310) .
Article 581 Violation of the Customs Control Zone System
For the transfer of goods or means of transport or persons, including officials
state (except for customs officials) through the customs control zone
and its territory, as well as the performance of other production and commercial activities without the permission of the customs authorities
The Republic of Tajikistan, except as provided in the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan
or other activities violating the regime of the customs control zone;
the rate of ten to twenty indicators be fined for wage (PFA
dated 14.05.2016, №1310) .
Article 582. The failure to take measures in the event of an accident or force majeure
1. To be prevented by the carrier in the event of an accident or force majeure
failure to take measures to ensure the protection of goods and means of transport to the place
determined by the customs authorities, delivered or transported by transit or by road
giving for their use, which is prohibited to individuals in the amount of twenty to thirty , to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities imposed fines of two hundred to two hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage
( Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 14.05.2016, №1310) .
2. For failure to notify the nearest customs authority of the carrier on the situation
the location of the goods or means of transport to be transported to the place of origin
determined by the customs authorities, delivered or transported in transit or security
non-transportation of goods to the nearest customs authorities, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty , to officials from twenty to thirty and to
legal entities from fifty to one hundred times be fined for wage (PFA
dated 14.05.2016, №1310) .
Article 583. Non-observance of the rules of transportation of vehicles across the border
Customs of the Republic of Tajikistan
For non-compliance with the requirements set by the carrier in places
maintenance of a vehicle determined by the customs authorities of the Republic of Tajikistan
moving across the customs border of the Republic of Tajikistan or without the permission of the customs authorities
the release of vehicles under customs control from the parking lot, as well
committing similar acts in respect of a vehicle as a commodity through
carried across the customs border of the Republic of Tajikistan;
to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty , to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities imposed fines of two hundred to two hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage
( Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 14.05.2016, №1310) .

Page 125

Article 584. Excluded (CJC of 14.05.2016, №1310).
Article 585 Transfer of Goods, Means, or Means without the Permission of the Customs Authorities of the Republic of Tajikistan
transportation, loss or failure to provide the relevant authorities with the relevant documents
1. For transfer, loss or deportation without permission of the customs authorities of the Republic of Tajikistan
the delivery of goods or means of transport under control determined by the said authorities
customs to individuals, officials and legal entities in the amount of one to two
the value of the goods or means of transport, which are the object of an administrative offense, with confiscation
the object of an administrative offense is a fine (CCC from 14.05.2016, №1310) .
2. For loss of documents related to goods or means of transport under customs control
accepted for delivery to customs authorities;
to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty , to officials from twenty to twenty-five and
to legal entities from one hundred to one hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage
( Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 14.05.2016, №1310) .
Article 586. Non-Observance of the Time Limits or Lines of Movement of Goods
For non-compliance with the deadlines and the established line of traffic by the carrier
delivery of goods under customs control to the place of delivery;
to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty , to officials from twenty to twenty-five and
to legal entities from one hundred to one hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage
( Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 14.05.2016, №1310) .
Article 587. Destruction, Damage, Loss or Change of Means
identification
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of January 2, 18, №1477)
To destroy, destroy, lose or modify tools by
used by the customs authorities for identification ;

(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of January 2, 18,

№1477)
to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty , to officials from twenty to twenty-five and
to impose a fine on legal entities from one hundred fifty to two hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage
( Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 14.05.2016, №1310) .
Article 588 Observance of the Time Limits for Submission of Customs Declaration
For non-compliance with the deadlines for submission to the customs authorities
customs declaration, documents or additional information required for customs authorities;
to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty , to officials from thirty to forty and to persons
Legal hundred to one hundred fifty indicators be fined for wage (PFA
dated 14.05.2016, №1310) .
Article 589. Carrying out Carriage Operations or Other Operations Without Permission
customs authorities of the Republic of Tajikistan
For transportation, loading, unloading, reloading without the permission of the customs authorities
to repair damaged packages, re-seal or accept goods for shipment or
means of transport under customs control, specimen ( proʙa) and an example of this
loading or opening of buildings and other places where the goods or means of transport are located
are located to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty , to officials from twenty to twenty-five and
to impose fines on legal entities from two hundred to two hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage
( Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 14.05.2016, №1310) .

Page 126

Article 590. Non-observance of the procedure for placing goods for storage
its maintenance or the procedure for dealing with it
For non-compliance with the established requirements and conditions of placement of goods in warehouses
customs, temporary storage warehouses or free warehouses, the procedure or term of their storage,
as well as the procedure for conducting operations with it without the permission of the customs authorities, provided that such
Mandatory permission, except as provided in other articles of this chapter, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty , to officials from twenty to twenty-five and
to legal entities from one hundred to one hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage
( Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 14.05.2016, №1310) .
Article 591 Non-Submission of Reports to Customs Authorities and Non-Observance
accounting procedure
For failure to submit or untimely submission of the report to the customs authorities
Cases of non-compliance with the established procedure, established by the customs legislation
accounting, as well as submission of incorrect reports, to officials in the amount of twenty to twenty-five and to legal entities from one hundred to
one hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed for fines .
№1310) .

Article 592 Failure to Take Measures for Customs Clearance or Export of Goods
or vehicles under temporary maintenance
To be ordered by the carrier of the goods or means of transport on time
failure to take established measures in accordance with the customs legislation
customs clearance or issuance of a permit for the export of goods or means of transport
temporary storage, except as provided in other articles of this chapter
provided, to individuals, officials and legal entities in the amount of half to one
the value of the goods or means of transport which are the object of an administrative offense, with the confiscation of the thing
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine (Criminal Code of 14.05.2016, №1310) .
Article 593 Non-Fulfillment of Requirements of the Export Customs System
1. For non-compliance with the requirements of the export customs regime in respect of bank accounts
authorized to transfer foreign exchange earnings from the export of goods or in respect of mandatory imports
of goods, works and services or the results of intellectual activity, the value of which is equal to the value of the goods
committed is equal to to individuals and officials in the amount of half to one-time and individuals
the legal value of the goods that are the object of an administrative offense, with the confiscation of the thing
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine (Criminal Code of 14.05.2016, №1310) .
2. For non-compliance with the established procedure for fulfillment of requirements of the export customs regime
on the transfer of foreign exchange earnings from the export of goods or in respect to the account of authorized banks
mandatory inclusion of goods, works and services or the results of intellectual activity of value
they are equal to the exported goods, to officials in the amount of ten to twenty and to legal entities from fifty to one hundred
the index is subject to a fine for calculations (CCC from 14.05.2016, №1310) .
Article 594. Not to Export or Enter the Customs Territory of the Republic of Tajikistan
non-return of goods or means of transport
(KZT from 30.05.17, №1418; KJT from 02.01.18, №1477)
1. For not exporting goods or means outside the customs territory of the Republic of Tajikistan
the previously imported vehicle, provided that its export is obligatory or enters the customs territory.
The Republic of Tajikistan shall not return goods or means of transport previously exported, provided that:
its return is obligatory, - (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 30.05.17, №1418)

Page 127

to individuals and officials in the amount of half to one-time and individuals
legal from one to two times the value of the goods or means of transport that are the object of the administrative offense
be fine with confiscation of administrative offenses (Article
14.05.2016, №1310) .
2. To leave the customs territory of the Republic of Tajikistan within the established time limits
non-release of goods or means of transport previously imported, provided that their release is mandatory
or on the customs territory of the Republic of Tajikistan without observance of the established time limit
import of goods or means of transport previously exported, provided that importation is obligatory
be - (KJT from 30.05.17, №1418)
to individuals in the amount of twenty to twenty-five , to officials from twenty-five to
to impose a fine of thirty and one hundred and fifty to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage on legal entities
( Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 14.05.2016, №1310) .
Article 595. Illegal transactions with goods or means of transport under a certain system
customs clearance
1. For non-compliance with the requirements (conditions, restrictions) of the customs regime
carrying out operations with goods or means of transport, ie changing the condition of such goods or means of transport
transport, use or disposal of such goods or means of transport contrary to the requirements of the system
customs where such goods or means of transport are placed under this regime, except in cases
provided by articles 601 and 607 of this Code, to officials and legal entities in the amount of one to two times the value of the goods or
a vehicle that is the object of an administrative offense, with the confiscation of the object
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine (Criminal Code of 14.05.2016, №1310) .
2. To perform operations of the customs regime without observance of deadlines
established, to officials in the amount of ten to twenty and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred
the index is subject to a fine for calculations (CCC from 14.05.2016, №1310) .
Article 596. Nonobservance of the Procedure for Use or Disposal of Goods or Vehicles
conditionally allowed
For without the permission of the customs authorities, for purposes other than goods or means of transport
conditionally permitted privileges are granted for other purposes of use and disposal
the transfer of goods or means of transport conditionally permitted for the purpose of delivery
preferential customs payments to individuals, officials and legal entities in the amount of one to two
the value of the goods or means of transport, which are the object of an administrative offense, with confiscation of the thing
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine (Criminal Code of 14.05.2016, №1310) .
Article 597 Purchase of Goods or Means of Transport to the Customs Territory of the Republic of Tajikistan
Tajikistan were imported without complying with customs regulations
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of 30.05.17, №1418)
To purchase, store, transport, use, dispose of goods, promote
to the sale of goods or means of transport without customs control or in secret from such control or with
use of forged documents or means of identification to the customs territory of the Republic
Imported or undeclared or incorrectly declared, or cleared
their customs has not been completed, as well as the purchase of goods or means of transport related to them
preferential payment of customs duties, or goods and means of transport in respect of which it is granted
Restrictions on disposal and use under the terms of import or the declared customs regime
- (KJT from 30.05.17, №1418)
to individuals, officials and legal entities in the amount of from one to triple
the value of the goods or means of transport, which are the object of an administrative offense, with the confiscation of the thing
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine. (KJT of 14.05.2016, №1310; KJT of
24.02.17 s., №1383) .

Page 128

Article 598. Non-compliance with the deadlines for payment of taxes and fees related to
transportation of goods across the customs border of the Republic of Tajikistan shall be subject to payment
Non-payment of taxes and fees due on time must be related to the transfer
Goods may be paid across the customs border of the Republic of Tajikistan in their absence
signs of crime
to individuals, officials and legal entities in the amount of one to two taxes
and unpaid payments, a fine will be imposed. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 14.05.2016, №1310) .

Article 598 (1). Cover, show more or less the amount of customs duties and
or other payments
Intentional cover-up by customs officials or other inspectors,
Indication of the amount of customs payments or other payments, more or less
a fine in the amount of one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 07.08.2020 № 1715).
CHAPTER 33. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE FIELD OF TAX LEGISLATION
Article 599. Tax Evasion
1. To evade paying taxes and other mandatory payments in concealment
objects of taxation are expressed in the absence of evidence of a crime;
- to individuals in the amount of eight to ten, to officials from forty to fifty, to
individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a certificate and legal entities from
one hundred and fifty to two hundred marks shall be imposed for the calculations.
2. For the absence of accounting or its maintenance without following the procedure
established, misrepresentation of accounting or tax reporting, failure to submit
accounting and balance sheets, accounts, declarations, other accounting-related documents and
payment of taxes and other obligatory payments to the budget in the absence of evidence of a crime;
- to officials in the amount of forty to fifty, to individual entrepreneurs on that basis
certificates and legal entities from one hundred and fifty to two hundred indicators
a fine will be imposed for the calculations.
3. For non-compliance with the rules of production, pouring the product into containers (packaging) and
storage of excisable products without counters with fiscal memory,
- to officials in the amount of eighty to one hundred and to legal entities from three hundred to thirty to three hundred;
fifty indicators are assigned for fine calculations.
Article 600. Non-compliance with legal requirements of tax officials
1. For non-compliance with legal requirements of tax officials,
- to individuals in the amount of eight to ten, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a patent
operate, from fifteen to twenty, to officials from ten to twenty, to entrepreneurs
individuals operating on the basis of a certificate and legal entities from eighty to one hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first part of this article,
- to individuals in the amount of fifteen to twenty, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of
patents operate, from twenty-five to thirty, to officials from forty to fifty, to
individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a certificate and legal entities from
a fine of two hundred to two hundred and fifty marks shall be imposed for the calculations. (KJT from
28.12.12, №910)

Page 129

Article 601. Non-compliance with the deadline for submission of declarations and
tax reporting
1. For non-compliance with the deadline for submission of tax returns, reporting
tax and (or) other types of tax reporting, ie deferral for a period of up to 10 years
working day
- to individuals in the amount of one to three, to officials from five to seven, to
individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a certificate and legal entities from
twenty-five to thirty marks shall be imposed for fine calculations.
2. For committing an act specified in part 1 of this article, within
10 to 30 business days,
- to individuals in the amount of three to five, to officials from seven to ten, to
individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a certificate and legal entities of forty
a fine of five to fifty marks shall be imposed for the calculations.
3. For committing an act specified in part 1 of this article within a period of time
more than 30 working days,
- to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from ten to thirty, to
individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a certificate and legal entities from
ninety to one hundred marks shall be imposed for fine calculations. (KJT from 26.12.11, №774; from
28.12.12, №910)
Article 602. Non-compliance with the procedure for withholding or withholding tax at the source
payment
1. For non-compliance with the procedure for withholding or withholding tax at the source of payment
and taxes from nonresidents, as well as withholding or within the prescribed period
non-transfer of withheld (accrued) taxes to the budget or state fund,
- to officials in the amount of twenty-five to thirty, to individual entrepreneurs
operate on the basis of a certificate and legal entities from one hundred and eighty to two hundred
the index is set for fine calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 28.12.12, 10910
2. To provide funds to credit institutions for the payment of income
in the form of salary without advance payment to the budget by the taxpayer (tax agents)
transfer of the amount of income tax and social tax to the same amount of money
is related to
- to officials in the amount of sixty to eighty and to legal entities from one hundred
sixty to one hundred and eighty times the fine for the calculations. (KJT from
14.05.2016, №1310).
Article 603. Nonobservance of the Registration Period by Tax Authorities
1. For non-compliance with the deadline for registration with the relevant tax authorities during the period up to
30 days, except for persons subject to the Law of the Republic of Tajikistan “On Registration
government of legal entities and individual entrepreneurs ”. (KJT dated 26.12.11, №774)
- to individuals in the amount of one to two, to officials from ten to twenty and to individuals
legal shall be imposed a fine of fifty to one hundred marks for calculations.
2. For committing an act specified in part 1 of this article, within
31 to 90 days,
- to individuals in the amount of three to five, to officials from thirty to forty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
3. To commit an act specified in part one of this article during
more than 90 days,
- to individuals in the amount of seven to ten, to officials from forty-five to fifty and
legal entities shall be fined from two hundred to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage.

Page 130

Article 603 (1) . Non-compliance with the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan on
state registration of legal entities and individual entrepreneurs
1. For failure to submit or timely submission to the state registration body
failure to provide or provide inaccurate information about a legal entity, individual entrepreneur,
branch and representative office of a foreign legal entity in connection with the decision to liquidate or
reorganize and (or) make changes and additions to the information in the Unified Registry
state existing legal entities and individual entrepreneurs, in case of submission of such
information is required,
to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty, to
individual entrepreneurs from thirty to forty and legal entities from one hundred to two hundred
fines are imposed (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 2.01.2020 № 1659).
2. To submit documents containing false information to the authorities
the executor of the state registration, which is revealed after the completion of the state registration stage
in the absence of evidence of a crime,
to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen, to officials from thirty to fifty, to
from fifty to seventy for individual entrepreneurs and from two hundred to three hundred for legal entities
a fine is imposed for the calculations (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 2.01.2020 № 1659).
3. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first and second parts of this article,
to individuals in the amount of twenty to thirty, to officials from fifty to eighty, to
for individual entrepreneurs from one hundred to two hundred and for legal entities from four hundred to five hundred
a fine is imposed for the calculations (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 2.01.2020 № 1659).
4. To operate legal entities without constituent documents of the prescribed form
operation of a branch or representative office of legal entities without legislation and regulations;
branch or representative office of foreign legal entities for a period of more than one month after registration
government,
to officials in the amount of fifty to one hundred, to legal entities and branches or
Representation of foreign legal entities from one hundred to two hundred indicators for the calculation of fines
be (the Law of 26.12.2011 No. 774, 2.01.2020, No. 1659 ).
5. In order not to submit to the state registration body in a timely manner
failure to provide or provide inaccurate information about the owner-beneficiary
legal entity
to officials in the amount of one hundred to two hundred and to legal entities from four hundred to five hundred
the index is set for fines (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 2.01.2020 № 1659).
Article 604. Failure to indicate or incorrect indication of a unique identification number and
Taxpayer Identification Number in tax and customs returns, invoices
other documents provided by the tax code
1. To not show or incorrectly indicate the unique identification number and number
Identification of the taxpayer in tax and customs declarations, invoices and other
documents provided by the tax code, which was discovered during a tax audit, (Article
26.12.11, № 774)
- to individuals in the amount of one to two, to individual entrepreneurs from five to ten, to
officials from ten to fifteen and legal entities from fifty to one hundred points for
fines are imposed.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first part of this article,
- to individuals and individual entrepreneurs in the amount of fifteen to twenty, to individuals
officials from thirty to forty and legal entities from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage;
is assigned.
3. To commit actions (transactions) by an authorized person without observing them
requirements

Page 131

Article 45 of the Tax Code of the Republic of Tajikistan, as well as in cases provided
Legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan does not specify the taxpayer identification number;
- a fine in the amount of ten to fifteen times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
4. To perform actions (operations, transactions) established by the tax legislation
request a taxpayer identification number;
- to impose fines on officials in the amount of three to five times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
5. For failure to indicate the taxpayer identification number in correspondence with the tax authorities
and trade agreements,
- to impose fines on officials in the amount of three to five times the minimum monthly wage
will be done. (KJT dated 26.12.11, №774)
Article 605. The understatement of the amount of tax
1. To understate the amount of tax or other by a taxpayer or tax agent
mandatory payment in declarations or accounts, as opposed to the amount required in declarations or accounts
to be shown,
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of 25% of the minimum amount.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first part of this article,
- a fine in the amount of forty percent of the understated amount.
Article 605 (1). Cover, show more or less the amount of tax or other
payments
Intentional cover-up by tax officials or other inspectors,
showing more or less the amount of taxes or other payments, a fine in the amount of one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 07.08.2020 № 1715).

Article 606. Nonobservance of the Value Added Tax Rules
and excises
1. To conduct business activities without VAT registration, provided that
that such registration is mandatory
- in the amount of twenty-five percent of the amount of value-added tax, which is required for the whole
period of unregistered activity was paid to the budget, a fine is imposed.
2. For incorrect submission of a value-added tax invoice
causing understatement of the amount of value-added tax or overstatement of the amount
will be deducted, as well as failure to submit a value-added tax invoice
added,
- in the amount of fifty percent of the amount of value-added tax on an invoice;
which was to be submitted in connection with this transaction, a fine shall be imposed.
3. To submit a value-added tax invoice by
a person who is not registered for VAT in the absence of a mark
crime, ( Criminal Code of 26.12.11, №774)
- in the amount of one hundred percent of the amount of value-added tax included in the invoice
mentioned, but not included in the budget will be imposed a fine.
4. For non-compliance by a taxpayer with the procedure for writing an invoice VAT and excise tax invoices,
- in the amount of three to five indices for invoices from each invoice - invoice
incorrectly written (written) fine will be imposed.
5. For illegal submission and receipt of invoices - tax invoice
value added and excises, without actually performing taxable transactions, when
lack of evidence of crime,

Page 132

- to officials in the amount of three hundred times the minimum monthly wage, to entrepreneurs
individuals operating on the basis of a certificate and legal entities in the amount of fifty
Percentage of the amount of value-added tax specified in the invoice - the invoice is assigned a penalty
will be done.
6. For violation of the order of storage of each package of invoices - tax invoice
value added and excises as strict accounting documents that result in their loss
in the absence of evidence of a crime,
- to officials in the amount of ten indicators for the accounts for each package
Invoice - a value-added tax invoice and a penalty for lost excises
( Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 28.12.12, 10910)
Article 607. Failure to submit or late submission to the tax authorities
comparative act of mutual settlements
For failure to submit to the tax authorities by the taxpayer or its debtors
failure to submit a reconciliation document in a timely manner in the prescribed manner
entered into mutual settlements,
- to individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent, in the amount of up to twenty
thirty, officials from forty to fifty, individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a certificate
operate and legal entities from eighty to one hundred indicators for fine calculations
is assigned.
Article 608. Noncompliance by Credit Institutions with the Procedure for Opening
accounts and the deadline for notifying tax authorities of the opening of accounts
1. To open bank accounts, settlements and
other accounts for individuals, sole proprietors and legal entities (excluding
Deposit accounts of individuals) without submission of documents by the authorities
confirm the taxpayer identification number (letter of the authorities)
the tax on the place of registration of individual entrepreneurs and legal entities in the approved form);
- to officials in the amount of eighty to one hundred and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For non-compliance by credit institutions with the deadline for notification of the authorities
the tax at the place of your opening on the opening by an individual or legal entity
settlement accounts and other accounts (except for deposit accounts)
(deposit) of individuals),
- to officials in the amount of eighty to one hundred and to legal entities from one hundred to one hundred
fifty indicators are assigned for fine calculations . (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 28.12.12, №910)
Article 609. Failure by Credit Institutions to Transfer Taxes on Time
and other mandatory payments
For non-timely transfer of tax and other amounts by credit institutions
obligatory payments on payment orders of taxpayers in these organizations
have an account
- in the amount of one hundred and fifty to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage
less than fifty percent of taxes and other obligatory payments not made on time
a fine is imposed.
Article 610. Non-execution or untimely execution of collection orders
tax authorities regarding the collection of taxpayer's funds from the account
taxpayer or third party accounts of taxpayer debtors
To be opened by credit institutions where taxpayer accounts are opened,
they are served either by banks or other financial institutions in which they are located
opened and serviced accounts of third-party taxpayer debtors;
non-execution or untimely execution of collection orders of tax authorities

Page 133

collection of funds from the accounts of third-party taxpayer debtors (including from
bank accounts of the taxpayer or other financial and credit institutions;
in which the same taxpayer is served) in order to cover the debt
taxpayer,
- a fine in the amount of two hundred to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 611. Obstruction of tax audit
Failure to submit the required documents in a timely manner, obstruction or denial of the requirement
the legitimacy of the tax authorities in connection with the submission of documents, reports or other information that
to conduct a business audit;
- to individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent, in the amount of fifteen
up to twenty, to officials and individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a certificate
shall be subject to a fine of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage. (KJT from
28.12.12, №910)
Article 612. Obstruction of entry of a tax official to the territory
enterprise or building
To illegally prevent the entry of a tax official who
conducts a tax audit or other obligated person on the territory of the enterprise or premises to the taxpayer
belonging to, except for residential buildings,
- to individuals in the amount of fifteen to twenty, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of
patents operate, from twenty to thirty, to officials and individual entrepreneurs in
operate on the basis of a certificate, from forty to fifty marks for fine calculations
is assigned. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 28.12.12, 10910
Article 613. Non-observance of the procedure for possession, use or disposal of property
arrested by the tax authorities
For non-compliance with the order of ownership, use or disposal of the property by
tax authorities arrested,
- to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of a patent
operate, from twenty to thirty, on the basis of officials and individual entrepreneurs
certificates, from eighty to one hundred and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred
the index is set for fine calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 28.12.12, 10910
Article 614. Non-maintenance of documents related to the use
cash registers with fiscal memory
To ensure the maintenance of documents related to the use of control machines
cash registers containing fiscal memory, including control tapes,
- to officials in the amount of forty to fifty, to individual entrepreneurs on that basis
certificate operates and legal entities from eighty to one hundred indicators for accounts
a fine is imposed.
Article 615. Non-observance of the procedure for using cash registers
has fiscal memory, electronic terminals and cash accounting
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 14.05.2016, №1310)
1. For non-compliance with the procedure for the use of cash registers with memory
fiscal and treasury accounting (cash accounting), as well as completion
monetary settlements with consumers when selling goods or services
in cash without payment, ticket, coupon, stamps
mail or other documents equivalent to checks of strict reporting,
- to officials in the amount of eighty to one hundred, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of
certificates and legal entities from one hundred and eighty to two hundred indicators
a fine will be imposed for the calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 28.12.12, 10910

Page 134

2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first part of this article,
- to officials in the amount of one hundred and eighty to two hundred, to individual entrepreneurs;
operate on the basis of a certificate and legal entities from two hundred and fifty to three hundred
the index is set for fine calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 28.12.12, 10910
3. To maintain settlements with consumers without using cash
cash registers with fiscal memory, in case of mandatory use
such vehicles in accordance with the legislation of the Republic of Tajikistan;
- to officials in the amount of one hundred and eighty to two hundred, to individual entrepreneurs;
operate on the basis of a certificate and legal entities from two hundred and fifty to three hundred
the index is set for fine calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 28.12.12, 10910
4. To refuse to install or refuse electronic terminals
use of bank payment cards in settlements, to officials in the amount of one hundred to one hundred and sixty, to individual entrepreneurs
operate on the basis of a certificate, from one hundred and sixty to one hundred and eighty and to persons
a fine of one hundred and eighty to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 14.05.2016, №1310).
Article 616. Failure to Provide Tax Authorities with Necessary Information
For failure to submit documents and (or) information to tax authorities under Articles 19, 27,
54, 56 and 57 of the Tax Code of the Republic of Tajikistan, including at its request
the tax authorities that conduct the tax audit, as well as any other evasion of the proposal
such documents or the deliberate submission of documents containing incorrect information. (KJT from
14.05.2016, №1310) ,
- to individuals in the amount of eight to ten, to officials from forty to fifty, to
individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a certificate and legal entities from
a fine of eighty to one hundred marks shall be imposed for the calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 28.12.12, 10910
Article 617. Illegal business
1. To conduct business without state registration,
- to individuals in the amount of seventy to eighty times the minimum monthly wage
is assigned. (KJT from 04.07.20, №1698)
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by part 1 of this article,
- to individuals in the amount of one hundred thirty to one hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage
a fine is imposed. (KJT from 04.07.20, №1698)
Article 618. False Entrepreneurship
For a fictitious business, ie the establishment of a legal entity either as a participant or a shareholder
entry into a legal entity or state registration of an individual entrepreneur without
the purpose of doing business, in order to achieve by evading taxes
bringing profit without actually performing a taxable transaction, in the absence of a sign
crime. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 14.05.2016, №1310) ,
CHAPTER 34. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE FIELD OF SOCIAL INSURANCE
STATE
Article 619. Carrying out economic activity without registration with the authorities
state social insurance
To conduct economic activity without registration with the insurance authorities
state social, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from twenty-five to forty and to
legal entities shall be fined from two hundred to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage.

Page 135

Article 620. Failure to submit a report in a timely manner and in a timely manner
non-payment of social tax
1. For failure to submit reports in a timely manner and in a timely manner
non-payment of social tax,
- Individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a patent and officials
in the amount of forty to fifty, to individual entrepreneurs operating on the basis of a certificate
and legal entities from one hundred and eighty to two hundred times the fine for the calculations
is assigned.
2. To show or hide the social tax,
- to officials in the amount of eighty to one hundred, to individual entrepreneurs on the basis of
certificates and legal entities from two hundred and fifty to three hundred points
a fine will be imposed for the calculations. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan dated 28.12.12, 10910
Article 621. Misuse of the amount of social tax
For misuse of social tax funds, to individuals in the amount of one to three, to individual entrepreneurs from ten to twenty, to individuals
officials from thirty to forty and legal entities from two hundred to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage;
is assigned.
Article 622. Non-Fulfillment of Legal Requirements of Insurance Officials
state social
1. For non-fulfillment of legal requirements by officials of social insurance bodies
government, to individuals in the amount of five to ten and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of fifteen to twenty and to officials from forty to fifty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 623. Unjustified refusal or evasion of payment of social tax
1. For unreasonable refusal or evasion of payment of social tax, a fine in the amount of eighty to one hundred times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, in the amount of one hundred and fifty to two hundred times the fine for the calculations
will be.
CHAPTER 35. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE FIELD OF STANDARDIZATION
METROLOGY, CERTIFICATION, ACCREDITATION, TRADE AND SERVICESӢ
Article 624. Non-Observance of the Rules of Trade and Services
1. For non-compliance with the rules of trade and services in enterprises and organizations, spending
regardless of the form of ownership, as well as by individuals,
- to individuals in the amount of three to seven, to officials from ten to twenty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided by the first part of this article,
- to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities shall be fined from two hundred to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage.

Page 136

Article 624 (1) . Non-compliance or improper execution of the order of the state bodies on
standardization, metrology, certification and trade inspection
For non-fulfillment or improper execution of the order of the state bodies on standardization,
metrology, certification and trade inspections and other government agencies that control quality and
carry out security of goods (works and services) within the limits of their authority;
- to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from thirty to fifty and to
legal entities shall be fined from fifty to one hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
(QT dated 14.03.14, № 1069)

Article 625. Production, Sale, Issue, Delivery, Use of Products, and Performance of Work
services that meet the requirements of technical regulations, state standards and
there are no technical conditions
For the production, sale, issue, delivery, use of products, performance of work and services
do not meet the requirements of technical regulations, state standards and technical conditions,
- to individuals in the amount of three to seven, to individual entrepreneurs from seven to ten, to
to officials from twenty to thirty and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage
a fine is imposed.
Article 626. Sale, production, performance of work and provision of services subject to mandatory certification
do not have
For the sale, production, performance of work and services that do not have mandatory certification to individuals in the amount of three to seven, to officials from thirty to forty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 627. Deception of consumers
To deceive consumers by measuring less, weighing less, and more
miscalculation, sale of expired goods
to consumer characteristics and quality of goods or otherwise to deceive buyers by individuals
the actual and legal seller of goods or services to the public in the absence of evidence of a crime, to individuals in the amount of seven to fifteen, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 628. Non-compliance with the requirements of technical regulations, standards and conditions
technical, certification and service rules
1. For non-compliance with the requirements of technical regulations, standards and technical conditions,
certification and service rules, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of fifteen to twenty and to officials from forty to fifty
the index for fines with the confiscation of the object of an administrative offense is imposed a fine
will be.
Article 629. Release of measuring instruments without confirmation of their type or without
metrological testing (certification)
To issue measuring instruments without confirmation of their type or without testing
(certification) metrology, to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities from one hundred to two hundred marks for accounts with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.

Page 137

Article 630. After the Cessation of Activities to Resume Trade (Services)
To resume trading (services) after cessation of activity, to individuals in the amount of five to ten, to officials from thirty to forty and to persons
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 631. Non-observance of the legislation on protection of the rights of consumers
For unreasonable refusal to guarantee the service life of the equipment
sold, services, replacement of substandard non-food goods with similar goods
appropriate quality or refund, non-compliance with the terms of work and services;
as well as non-compliance with other requirements of consumer protection legislation, to individuals in the amount of five to ten and to officials from thirty to fifty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 632. Non-issuance of a check to the buyer
1. To refuse to issue or issue a check to the buyer (customer) with an indication of less than
paid, to individuals in the amount of three to seven and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen and to officials from forty to fifty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 633. Non-affixing of prices to the goods for sale and offer
non-payment for services
1. In order not to affix prices to goods for sale and not to offer
Tariffs for services, to individuals in the amount of one to two and to officials from ten to twenty points
a fine will be imposed for the calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of five to seven and to officials from forty to fifty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 634. The Sale of Goods Without Documents Concerning the Manufacturer
supplier and seller
1. To be without documents containing information about the manufacturer, supplier and seller
sale of goods by individuals and legal entities selling goods, to individuals in the amount of three to seven, to officials from twenty to thirty and to individuals
the legal shall impose a fine of seventy to one hundred marks for calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities from one hundred and fifty to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage

will be.
Article 635. Illegal labeling of uncertified products
For illegal labeling of uncertified products to individuals in the amount of five to ten and to officials from forty to fifty
the index is set for fine calculations.

Page 138

Article 636. Failure to provide information on change of details
legal entity
For failure to provide information on the change in the manner prescribed by law
finding details of a legal entity, to assign officials a fine in the amount of five to ten times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
Article 637. Obstacles to the Transfer of Goods to the Consumer Market and Suspension of Their Circulation
To be whipped by suppliers, regardless of the form of ownership, deliberately artificially whipped
(deficit) of goods or increase in price, restriction, unreasonable cessation of delivery, in any form
impeding the delivery of goods to the consumer market, suspending its circulation, including by
keeping it in excess of the established norms and deadlines, to individuals in the amount of twenty to forty, to officials from fifty to eighty and to
legal entities from two hundred to three hundred times the rate for accounts with confiscation of property
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.
Article 638. Illegal Use of a Trademark
For illegal use of a trademark in the absence of signs of a crime, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from thirty to forty and to persons
the legal shall impose a fine of two hundred to three hundred marks for calculations.
Article 639. Export and Sale of Tobacco and Alcohol Products Without Excise Seals
For export and sale of tobacco and alcohol products without excise stamps, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty, to officials from eighty to one hundred and to
legal entities from one thousand to two thousand times the minimum monthly wage
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.
Article 640. Trade in undesignated places
1. For the sale of all kinds of goods in unspecified places, to individuals in the amount of two to five and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For the purchase and sale of fuel and lubricants in unspecified places, to individuals in the amount of three to seven and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 641. Non-observance of the rules of production and sale of public catering products
1. For non-compliance with the rules of production and sale of products in food organizations
common, regardless of the form of ownership, as well as by individuals engaged in business activities
busy to individuals in the amount of five to ten and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of fifteen to twenty and to officials from forty to fifty
the index is set for fine calculations.
Article 642. Non-observance of the rules of activity of video establishments
1. To open video establishments (points for renting disks and cassettes without proper permission,
video theaters, recording studios, cable television studios) or operate them after reception
decided to close them, to individuals in the amount of seven to ten and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.

Page 139

2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individuals in the amount of fifteen to twenty and to officials from forty to fifty
the index for fines with the confiscation of the object of an administrative offense is imposed a fine
will be.
Article 643. The Production and Sale of Food Products Without A Medical Examination
1. For the production and sale of food products without a medical certificate, fined individuals in the amount of three to seven times the minimum wage
will be.
2. To allow the production and sale of food products without a medical examination, to assign officials a fine in the amount of seven to ten times the minimum wage
will be done.
Article 644. Illegal Sale of Goods
For illegal sale of goods subject to free sale in accordance with applicable law
prohibited or restricted in the amount of ten to twenty indices for calculations with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.
Article 645. Concealment of the Defective Goods
To hide the defect of the goods, refrain from replacing the goods with undesirable quality
when selling or concluding a contract of sale of goods, to individuals in the size of three to five, to individual entrepreneurs from ten to twenty and to
officials shall be fined from twenty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 646. Replacement, Alteration, Modification and Forgery of Goods and Documents
service
For replacement, alteration, modification and falsification of goods and service documents
(invoices, receipts, etc.) in the absence of evidence of a crime, to individuals in the amount of ten to twenty and to officials from twenty to thirty
the index is set for fine calculations.
CHAPTER 36. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE AUDITOR'S ACTIVITY
Article 647. Illegal performance of auditing activities
1. To carry out audit activities without permitting documents and vice versa
the order established by the legislation, to individual auditors in the amount of ten to twelve, to officials from thirty to forty and
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, to individual auditors in the amount of twenty to thirty, to officials from fifty to seventy
and legal entities shall be fined from two hundred to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 648. Refusal or Obstruction of the Audit
1. To evade a legal entity or individual entrepreneur that is subject to mandatory audit
to decide on its holding, as well as to prevent its holding, to individual entrepreneurs in the amount of ten to fifteen, to officials from thirty to forty and
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to two hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, -

Page 140

to individual entrepreneurs in the amount of twenty to thirty, to officials from fifty to seventy
and legal entities shall be fined from two hundred to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
CHAPTER 37. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES ON MAINTENANCE AND MAINTENANCE
USE OF PROPERTY
Article 649. Theft
1. For misappropriation of state or collective property by abuse of office
official, fraud, waste or petty theft in the absence of evidence of a crime, in the amount of five to ten times the rate for calculations with confiscation of items
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, in the amount of twenty to thirty indices for calculations with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.
Article 650. Non-compliance with the rules of maintenance and effective use
state property
To avoid compulsory measures taken by officials to improve
condition of state property, failure to use the property for its intended purpose or without good reason
state property, overuse of state property, to fine officials in the amount of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
Article 651. Non-observance of the legislation when leasing state property
For non-compliance with the legislation when leasing state property, ie:
- lease of state-owned property or use of state-owned property without consent
the owner or its authorized state body;
- non-transfer of funds received from the lease of state property to the state budget;
- unreasonable refusal to lease state property or influence
the lessee for the purpose of receiving the object of lease, to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to one hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 652. Nonobservance of the Rules for Dismissal of State Property
For non-compliance with the established rules when deregistering property
public, ie:
- write-off of state property without the consent of the owner or state bodies
authorized;
- non-compliance by the management of enterprises, organizations and institutions with the rules
acceptance of usable parts and components of the property for their further use in the process
production;
- transfer of unusable parts of the property to the points of acceptance of scrap metal without following the norms and
rules, as well as non-transfer to the state budget of the proceeds from the sale of scrap metal to officials in the amount of forty to fifty and to legal entities from one hundred and fifty to
two hundred indicators are set for fine calculations.
Article 653. Non-observance of the legislation when the system is suspended
(conservation) transfer of state property
For unauthorized use of suspended (conserved) property as well
non-compliance with the procedure for transferring the property of organizations to the suspended system
(conservation), to assign officials in the amount of twenty to thirty times the fine for the calculations
will be done.

Page 141

Article 654. Obstacles to the Inspection of the Maintenance and Use of Property
state
To obstruct the officials of the authorized body of property management
state when inspecting the maintenance and use of state property or interfering with
their activities in order to influence the decisions taken, to assign officials in the amount of twenty to thirty times the fine for the calculations
will be done.
Article 655. Non-execution of orders and decisions of the authorized state bodies
state property management
For non-execution of orders and decisions of the authorized state body on property management
government,
- to individuals in the amount of three to five and to officials from ten to twenty
the index is set for fine calculations.
CHAPTER 38. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN CORRUPTION
Article 656. Illegal Remuneration
To be appointed by officials related to their activities from government agencies and
organizations in which the person does not perform certain functions, as well as from
non-governmental organizations, public associations and individuals through money, services
and other ways of receiving any additional remuneration, provided that in accordance with the legislation of the Republic
Unless otherwise provided in Tajikistan, in the amount of forty to fifty indexes for calculations with confiscation of items
an administrative offense is punishable by a fine.
Article 657. Acceptance of gifts and other services for the performance of state duties
from persons subject to duty
To accept gifts and other services while performing a public duty from
subordinates (except for symbolic gifts and badges of honor)
formal events and other ceremonies, the total value of which is more than one hundred per year
not much for accounts), as well as offering such gifts and services to individuals
senior official, in the amount of thirty to forty points for calculations with confiscation of the offense
an administrative fine is imposed.
Article 658. The Use of Advantages Not Received by Law When Receiving
loan repayment, purchase of securities, real estate and other
property, payment of state taxes and fulfillment of other obligations
To take advantage of a provision not provided by law when receiving
repayment of loans and credits from banks and other organizations, purchase of securities, property
real estate and other property, payment of state taxes and fulfillment of other obligations, a fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 659. Granting of unlawful or unjustified privileges and privileges to individuals and
legal when developing and making decisions, placing government orders and other
orders financed from the state budget
To grant illegal or unjustified privileges and privileges to individuals and legal entities
when developing and making decisions, placing government orders, other orders from
are financed from the state budget or organizations, regardless of the form of ownership.
distribution of financial and material resources, energy and natural resources, payment of taxes,
repayment of loans and fulfillment of other financial and material obligations, -

Page 142

a fine of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 660. Nonobservance of the Procedure for Transferring Ownership of Resources
state financial and material resources or their temporary use
For non-compliance with the procedure for the transfer of ownership of state property
state business entities and other business entities belonging to them
State shares are available or for temporary use to non-governmental organizations, associations
their free transfer to the public or individuals, to officials in the amount of forty to fifty times the fine for the calculations
is assigned.
Article 661. Abuse of official authority
For abuse of office, including for personal, group or other purposes
other non-use of buildings, vehicles and communications, electronic means,
funds and other state property allocated for the performance of state functions;
in the absence of evidence of a crime, to assign officials in the amount of twenty to thirty times the fine for the calculations
will be done.
Article 662. Illegal transfer of state funds and resources
election funds of individual candidates and public associations
For illegal transfer of public funds and resources to funds
election of individual candidates and political parties in the absence of signs of crime, to fine officials in the amount of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
Article 663. Unjustified non-execution of acts of law enforcement, control and judicial bodies
For unjustified non-execution of acts of law enforcement, supervisory and judicial authorities within
in the absence of evidence of a crime, to assign officials in the amount of twenty to thirty times the fine for the calculations
will be done.
Article 663 (1) . Non-implementation of state anti-corruption programs and
their implementation plan
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of February 24, 2017, №1382)
For non-implementation of measures of state anti-corruption programs and
their implementation plan, to officials in the amount of twenty to thirty times the fine for the calculations
is assigned. (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of February 24, 2017, №1382)
Article 664. The use of information for personal or group gain
performance of public duties
To use information for personal or group gain while performing a task
the state is obtained if its disclosure and dissemination are prohibited by law in its absence
sign of crime,
- imposition of a fine on officials in the amount of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
Article 665. Illegal interference in the activities of economic entities
For illegal interference in the activities of business entities, non-compliance
their independence and rights and interests, their illegal liquidation or reorganization;
interfering in the appointment or selection to office and dismissal of managers and employees
non-state economic entities in the absence of signs of crime, -

Page 143

to officials in the amount of fifty to one hundred marks for fine calculations
is assigned.
Article 666. Non-compliance with the procedure for valuation and sale of property
conducting auctions and tenders
For violation of pricing rules, holding public bidding or tenders, or auctions,
to the owner of the property, organizer of trade or tender, or auction, buyer or other entity
economic damage, in the absence of signs of crime, to officials in the amount of fifty to one hundred marks for fine calculations
will be appointed (the Law of 07.08.2020 No. 1715).
Article 667. Illegal disposal of fixed assets of the state
For illegal disposal of fixed assets of the state (land or other assets
natural or material), ie to give or take away from individuals and legal entities in their absence
sign of crime, to officials in the amount of forty to fifty times the fine for the calculations
is assigned.
Article 668. Failure to comply with the procedure for bringing to administrative responsibility
administrative offense
To hide from the account, not to file an administrative offense
revealed, unlawful release from administrative liability or acceptance of this offense
making a decision that is clearly inconsistent with the action, to assign officials in the amount of twenty to thirty times the fine for the calculations
will be done.
Article 669. Compilation, Registration, Approval or Registration
distorted acts, deals and agreements on disposal, use or transfer of property
To compile, process, approve or register documents,
deals and agreements, declarations, primary accounting documents of purchase and sale, donation,
exchange, pledge, supply of goods, lease, privatization, write-off, purchase and
other transactions of disposal, use and transfer of property (performance of work, rendering of services) in which
price, quantity, volume, year of manufacture and other indicators of property (goods, work performance and
services) are distorted, thereby causing damage to the state, individuals and legal entities
in the absence of evidence of a crime, to assign officials in the amount of ten to twenty indicators for fine calculations
will be done.
Article 670. Artificially creating obstacles to individuals and legal entities
the exercise of their legitimate rights and interests
To artificially enable individuals and legal entities to exercise their legal rights and interests
creating barriers, requiring them to provide documents and information required by law
it is not provided for by these persons or they are not given such information in accordance with
regulatory legal acts provide for delays in the submission of information, issuance
incomplete or distorted information, unjustified seizure or pledge of documents to them
belonging to the affirmative, the right in the absence of evidence of a crime, to fine officials in the amount of thirty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage
will be done.
Article 671. Proposals to officials performing state functions
the provision of material and intangible benefits
To officials who perform public duties and persons to them
equalization, provision of tangible and intangible benefits, services and profits

Page 144

in order to persuade them to take a certain action (action or omission) in the interest of the presenter
goods and services in the absence of signs of crime, a fine of twenty to thirty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 672. Failure to provide information to law enforcement agencies
corruption-related offenses
For failure to provide information to law enforcement
corruption-related offenses or crimes of a corrupt nature while
lack of evidence of crime, a fine of ten to twenty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 673. Non-submission or late submission to the authorized body or person
preparation of documents and inspection materials
For failure to submit or late submission of the document to the authority or authorized person
investigation materials on decision-making, regardless of its results, a fine of ten to twenty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 674. Intentional Refusal to Register Financial Transactions
manipulation, distortion and destruction of documents and reports
For the malicious refusal of the person responsible for maintaining the accounting records or
the head of the organization from financial and economic operations, provided by regulatory legal acts
to process or enter financial, accounting and statistical documents
distorted information on financial or economic activities or transactions, as well as destruction
financial and other accounting documents in the absence of evidence of a crime;
- a fine in the amount of thirty to forty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 675. Collective Making Decisions of a Corrupt Nature
To collectively make a decision of a corrupt nature, the decision to
the interests of the head of this body, as well as the interests of the head of the executive body of the organization
the management of its collective bodies is carried out through the public or their close relatives
or in the interests of third parties and the head of that body is responsible for making that decision
actively promoted or did not directly impede its adoption in the absence of
sign of crime, to officials of the said bodies in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage
fines are imposed.
CHAPTER 39. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE FIELD OF SPACE, GEODESY,
CARDING AND TOPOGRAPHY
Article 676. Carrying out research, engineering and geodetic activities without examination
technical design and estimate documentation issued by the authorized state control body
Geodesy of the Republic of Tajikistan
1. To conduct research, engineering and geodetic activities without technical expertise
design and estimate documentation not approved by the authorized body for state geodetic control
Republic of Tajikistan, financed from the state budget or state credit, to officials in the amount of forty to fifty and to legal entities from one hundred to two hundred
the index is set for fine calculations.
2. To conduct research, engineering and geodetic activities without technical expertise
design and estimate documentation not approved by the authorized body for state geodetic control
Republic of Tajikistan, financed by legal entities to individuals in the amount of seven to ten, to officials from thirty to forty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.

Page 145

Article 677. Non-observance of the rules for the use of photographic and geodetic equipment
mapping
H for a non-compliance by the person in charge of the rules using geodesy equipment
photography and mapping with GPS satellite receivers (positioning satellite system), a fine in the amount of forty to fifty times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 678. Unregistered Use of Geodetic Equipment with GPS Satellite Receivers
(satellite positioning system)
For the unregistered use of geodetic equipment with GPS satellite receivers (systems)
positioning satellite), to individuals in the amount of seven to ten, to officials from thirty to forty and to individuals
legal from one hundred to two hundred times the fine for the calculations.
Article 679. Damage and Destruction of State Geodetic Points of Groups IIV, levels 1 and 2
1. To cause damage to the state geodetic points of groups I - IV, grades 1 and 2, to individuals in the amount of seven to ten, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities shall be fined from two hundred to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
2. For destruction of the state geodetic points of groups I-IV, levels 1 and 2, to individuals in the amount of ten to fifteen, to officials from fifty to seventy and to
legal entities imposed fines of three hundred and fifty to five hundred times the minimum monthly wage
will be.
Article 680. Non-Observance of Mandatory Normative Documents (Norms and Rules)
geodesy, mapping, topography and cadastre
For non-compliance with mandatory normative documents (norms and rules) on geodesy,
mapping, topography and cadastre, to individuals in the amount of five to seven, to officials from ten to twenty and to
legal entities shall be fined from one hundred to one hundred and fifty times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 681. Distortion of Scheduled Planning on Maps, Atlases and Other Documents
State border of the Republic of Tajikistan
For distortion of tabular planning on maps, atlases and other Border documents
Government of the Republic of Tajikistan, to individuals in the amount of seven to ten, to officials from forty to fifty and to
legal entities shall be fined from two hundred to three hundred times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 682. Non-execution of the order of the authorized state control bodies
Geodesy of the Republic of Tajikistan
For non-compliance with the order of the authorized body of state geodetic control
Republic of Tajikistan, to individuals in the amount of seven to ten, to officials from twenty to thirty and to persons
legal shall be imposed a fine of fifty to one hundred marks for calculations.
CHAPTER 40. ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES IN THE MILITARY FIELD
Article 683. Failure to appear at the military registration and enlistment office upon conscription
1. To be called up without good reason for the purpose of initial military registration
military commissariat for non-appearance of conscripts, a fine of five to seven times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. To be called up without good reason in order to be sent to military service
non-appearance of a conscript in the absence of evidence of a crime, -

Page 146

shall be imposed a fine in the amount of seven to ten times the minimum monthly wage.
3. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first and second parts of this article, shall be imposed a fine in the amount of ten to twelve times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 684. Failure to submit to the military registration and enlistment office the list of citizens who must
to be subject to initial military registration
1. For failure to submit a list to the military registration and enlistment office within the prescribed time
citizens who are subject to initial military registration by the person in charge
He has been entrusted with this responsibility.
a fine of three to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, shall be imposed a fine in the amount of seven to ten times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 685. Recruitment of conscripts and young men of conscription age
not registered
1. For conscripts and young men of conscription age, registered at their place of residence
are not recruited by the military and are not recruited from employers, managers , or other business officials.
institutions, organizations and educational institutions have been hired, - (Law of the Republic of Tajikistan from 02.01.18,
№1477)
shall be imposed a fine in the amount of five to ten times the minimum monthly wage.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, shall be imposed a fine in the amount of ten to twelve times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 686. Failure to notify conscripts and young men of conscription age
private conscription to the military commissariat
1. For conscripts and young men of conscription age on conscription
the military commissariat did not notify the leaders or other officials, the local authorities
state power and self-government of towns and villages , enterprises, institutions, organizations and
educational institutions responsible for military accounting work or obstructing it in a timely manner
their presence at the assembly point or place of call, - (KJT from 02.01.18, №1477)
a fine of two to three times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, a fine of three to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 687. Failure to timely submit documents for military registration
conscripts and young men of conscription age are required
1. For failure to timely submit to the military commissariat the yard office, sheet
registration and registration documents (military ID, primary military registration certificate)
conscripts and citizens of conscription age for military registration or deregistration
military registration, a fine of two to three times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, a fine of three to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.

Page 147

Article 688. Failure to provide information on conscripts and
citizens of conscription age
1. To be inspected by officials of the medical and labor diagnostic commission
the military commissariat on all conscripts and young men of conscription age
Recognized (regardless of their disability group) failure to provide information, a fine of five to seven times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. To be registered by officials of the civil status registration authorities
the district (city) military commissariat did not provide information on the change
last name, first name, patronymic of conscripts and young men of conscription age, on entry
changes to the registration of civil status documents on the date and place of their birth, as well as on
cases of death of conscripts and young men of conscription age, a fine of five to seven times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
3. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first and second parts of this article, shall be imposed a fine in the amount of seven to ten times the minimum monthly wage.
Article 689. Non-observance of the rules of military accounting
1. For non-compliance with the rules of military accounting established by law
The Republic also promptly informed the military commissariat about the change of location
non-disclosure of residence, work or position of conscripts and young men of conscription age, issued a warning or set a fine of one to two indicators for calculations
will be.
2. For repeated commission of an act within one year after the imposition of an administrative penalty
provided for in the first part of this article, a fine of three to five times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
Article 690. Intentional Destruction or Loss of Military Registration Documents
1. For intentional destruction of military registration documents (military ID, registration certificate
primary military), a fine of five to seven times the minimum monthly wage shall be imposed.
2. For loss of military registration documents (military ID, initial registration certificate
military), shall be imposed a fine in the amount of one to three indicators for calculations.
Article 691. Refusal of Medical Examination
In order to prevent a conscript from undergoing a medical examination,
- shall be imposed a fine in the amount of one to two times the minimum monthly wage.
SECTION III. Removed
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Chapter 41. Excluded
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Articles 692–695. Removed
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Chapter 42. Excluded
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Articles 696-732. Removed
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
SECTION IV. Removed
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)

Page 148

Chapter 43. Excluded
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Articles 733–740. Removed
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Chapter 44. Excluded
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Articles 741–750. Removed
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Chapter 45. Excluded
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Articles 751–769. Removed
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Chapter 46. Excluded
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Articles 770–783. Removed
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Chapter 47. Excluded
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Articles 784–794. Removed
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Chapter 48. Excluded
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Articles 795 - 809. Excluded
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Chapter 49. Excluded
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Articles 810–824. Removed
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Chapter 49 1 . Removed
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Articles 824 1 –824 14 . Removed
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Chapter 50. Excluded
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Articles 825–835. Removed
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Chapter 51. Excluded
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)
Articles 836–853. Removed
(Law of the Republic of Tajikistan as of July 22, 2013, № 980)

