Page 1

2004

63 ‫ي ساسأ نوناق ددع‬
‫ةيليوج‬27 ‫خيراتب‬

‫ةيصخشال‬
‫ةيامحب قلعتيتايطعلما‬
Organic law number 63 dated July 27, 2004
on the protection of personal data
In the name of the people,
The Chamber of Deputies having adopted,
The President of the Republic promulgates the law
organic with the following content:

CHAPTER I. General provisions
First article. - Everyone has the right to
protection of personal data
‫يف قحال صخش لكل ـ لوألا لصفالةيصخشال تايطعلما ةيامح‬
relating to his private life as one of the rights
‫ةيساسألا قوقحال نم اهرابتعاب ةصاخال هتايحب ةقلعتلما‬
fundamentals guaranteed by the constitution and
can only be treated as part of the
‫روتسدالب ةنومضلما‬. ‫راطإ يف الإ اهتجالعم عقت نأ نكمي الو‬
transparency, loyalty and respect for dignity
‫اذه تايضتقلماقفوو ناسنإلا ةمارك مارتحاو ةنامألاو ةيفافشال‬
human and in accordance with the provisions of
this law.
.‫نوناقال‬
Art. 2. - This law applies to the processing
‫ ريغو ةيلآلا ةجالعلما ىلع نوناقال اذه قبطني ـ ية‬2‫لآلا‬
‫لصفال‬
automated, as well as non-automated processing
of personal data implemented
‫وأ نييعيبطال صاخشألا نم تمت ءاوس ةيصخشال تايطعملل‬
by natural persons or by persons
.‫نييونعلما صاخشألا نم‬
moral.
Art. 3. - This law does not apply to
3 ‫لصفال‬
‫تايطعلما ةجالعم ىلع نوناقال اذه قبطني ال ـ‬
processing of personal data having
‫يلئاعال وأ ي صخشال المعتسالا زواجتت التاياغل ةيصخشال‬
purposes not exceeding personal use or
family, provided they do not pass them on to
.‫ريغال ىإل اهتالحإ مدع طرشب‬
third.
4 ‫لصفال‬
‫نوناقال اذه ىنعم ىلع ةيصخش تايطعم ربتعت ـ لك‬
Art. 4. - For the purposes of this law, the term
personal data every
‫ايعيبط اصخش لعجت يتالو اهلكش وأ اهردصم ناك امهم تانايبال‬
information regardless of its origin or
‫ءانثتساب ةرشابم ريغ وأ ةرشابم ةقيرطب فيرعتلل الباق وأ افّرعم‬
form and which directly or
indirectly to identify a natural person
.‫انوناق كلذك ةربتعلما وأ ةماعال ةايحالب ةلصتلما تامولعلما‬
or make it identifiable, with the exception of
5 ‫لصفال‬
‫نكمي يذال يعيبطال صخشال فيرعتلل الباق دعي ـ‬
information related to public life or considered
as such by law.
‫رشابم ةروصب هيلع فّرعتالةعومجم لالخ نم ةرشابم ريغ وأ ة‬
Art. 5. - Is deemed identifiable, the person
‫هصئاصخب وأ هتيوهب ةصاخ ةقلعتلما زومرال وأ تايطعلما نم‬
physical that can be identified, directly
or indirectly, through several data or
‫ةيعامتجالا وأ ةيسفنال وأ ةينيجال وأ ةيجولويزيفال وأ ةيمسجال‬
symbols which relate in particular to his identity,
.‫ةيفاقثال وأ ةيداصتقالا وأ‬
its physical and physiological characteristics,
genetic, psychological, social, economic
:‫نوناقال اذه موهفم يف دصقي ـ‬
6 ‫لصفال‬
‫ـب‬
or cultural.
‫ ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم ـ‬:‫زجنلما تايلمعال‬
Art. 6. - For the purposes of this law, the following definitions apply: ‫ةقيرطب ءاوس ة‬
- processing of personal data:
‫ىإل ةصاخ فدهت يتالو يونعم وأ يعيبط صخش نم ةيودي وأ ةيآل‬
automated operations or
‫وأ اهميظنت وأ اهظفح وأ اهليجست وأ ةيصخش تايطعم عمج‬
manual by a natural or legal person, and
which are intended in particular to collect,
‫وأ اهعيزوت وأ اهالسرإ وأ اهالمعتسا وأ اهلالغتسا وأ اهرييغت‬
registration, conservation, organization,
‫ةقلعتلما تايلمعال عيمج كلذكو اهيلع عالطالا وأ اهفالتإ وأ اهرشن‬
modification, operation, use,

Page 2

1

shipping, distribution, dissemination or
destruction or consultation of data at
personal character, as well as all operations
relating to the use of databases,
index, directories, files, or
interconnection.
- file: all character data
structured and grouped staff likely to be
consulted according to determined criteria and
to identify a specific person.
- data subject: any natural person
of which personal data are subject
treatment.
- controller: any person
physical or moral which determines the purposes and
the means of processing personal data
staff.
- third party: any natural or legal person or
the public authority as well as their subordinates, to
with the exception of the data subject, the
beneficiary, the controller, the subtreating as well as their subordinates.
- subcontractor: any natural or legal person
which processes personal data for the
account of the controller.
- The Authority: the National Authority for the Protection of
Personal Data.
- communication: the act of giving, giving or
to bring personal data to the
knowledge of one or more people
other than the data subject, under any
form whatever and by any means.
- interconnection: the fact of carrying out
correlation of the data contained in one or
several files owned by one or more
responsible.
- beneficiary: any natural or legal person
receiving personal data.
CHAPTER II. Conditions for processing
personal data
Section I. Preliminary proceedings of the
processing of personal data
Art. 7. - Any data processing operation
of a personal nature is subject to a declaration
preliminary filed at the headquarters of the national body
protection of personal data
against receipt or notified by letter
registered with acknowledgment of receipt or by any
other means leaving a written record.
The declaration is made by the person responsible for
treatment or its legal representative.
The declaration does not exempt from liability to
with regard to third parties.
The conditions and procedures of the presentation
of the declaration are fixed by decree.
The Authority's non-opposition to the processing of
personal data, within one
months from the presentation of the declaration,
constitutes acceptance.
Art. 8. - In cases where this law requires

‫عاوق لالغتسابتاقاطبال وأ تالجسال وأ سراهفال وأ تانايبال د‬
، ‫ينيبال طبرالب وأ‬
‫ ةقاطبال ـ‬:‫ةعمجلماو ةمظنلما ةيصخشال تايطعلما نم ةعومجم‬
‫فّرعتال نم نكمتو ةددحم ريياعم قفو اهيإل ذافنال نكمي يتالو‬
، ‫نّيعم صخش ىلع‬
‫ رمألاب ينعلما ـ‬:‫ةيصخشال هتايطعم نوكت يعيبط صخش لك‬
،‫ةجالعم عوضوم‬
‫ ةجالعلما نع لوؤسلما ـ‬:‫ّددحي يونعم وأ يعيبط صخش لك‬
، ‫اهقرطو ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم فادهأ‬
‫ ريغال ـ‬:‫ةيمومعال ةطلسال وأ يونعم وأ يعيبط صخش لك‬
‫ديفتسلماو رمألاب ينعلما صخشال ءانثتساب مهل نيعباتالو‬
، ‫مهل نيعباتالو لوانلماو ةجالعلما نع لوؤسلماو‬
‫تايطعلما ةجالعمب موقي يونعم وأ يعيبط صخش‬
‫ لوانلما ـ‬:‫لك‬
، ‫ةجالعلما نع لوؤسلما باسحل ةيصخشال‬
، ‫ ةئيهال ـ‬:‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةيامحل ةينطوال ةئيهال‬
‫اهغالبإ وأ اهميلست وأ ةيصخشال تايطعلما ءاطعإ‬
: ‫يأب ـ‬
‫ةالحإلا‬
‫ةّدع وأ صخش ىإل لئاسوال نم ةليسو يأبو الكشألا نم لكش‬
، ‫رمألاب ينعلما ءانثتساب صاخشأ‬
‫ ينيبال طبرال ـ‬:‫وأ لجس يف ةجردم تايطعم عم طبارت ةماقإ‬
.‫نورخآ نولوؤسم وأ لوؤسم اهكسمي تالجس‬
‫ ديفتسلما ـتايطعم ىقلتي يون‬:‫عم وأ يعيبط صخش لك‬
.‫ةيصخش‬

.‫يناثال بابال‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم طورش‬
.‫لوألا مسقال‬
‫تايطعلما ةجالعلم ةيلوألا تاءارجإلا يف‬
‫ةيصخشال‬
7 ‫لصفال‬
‫حيرصتل ةيصخش تايطعم ةجالعم ةيلمع لك عضخت ـ‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةيامحل ةينطوال ةئيهال رقمب عدوي قبسم‬
‫مالعإلا عم لوصوال ةنومضم ةالسر‬
‫ةطساوب وأ لصو لباقم‬
.‫ايباتك ارثأ كرتت ىرخأ ةليسو يأب وأ غولبالب‬
‫هلثمم وأ ةجالعلما نع لوؤسلما لبق نم حيرصتال مدقيو‬
.‫ينوناقال‬
.‫ريغال ءازإ ةيلوؤسلما نم حيرصتال يفعي الو‬
.‫رمأب هتاءارجإو حيرصتال ميدقت طورش طبضتو‬
‫يف ةيصخشال تايطعلما‬
‫ةجالعم ىلع ةئيهال ضارتعا مدع ربتعيو‬
.‫الوبق حيرصتال ميدقت خيرات نم ةيادب رهش لجأ‬
‫لوصحال نوناقال اذه اهيف ي ضتقي يتال تالاحال يف ـ‬
8 ‫لصفال‬

Page 3

2

obtaining an authorization from the Instance for the
processing of personal data,
authorization request must include
including the following information:
- the name, first name and address of the person responsible for the
treatment, and if it is a legal person, its
company name, registered office and identity
its legal representative;
- the identity of the persons concerned by the
personal data and their domicile;
- the purposes of the processing and its standards;
- the categories of processing, its place and the date of
treatment ;
- personal data of which the
treatment is considered, as well as their origin;
- persons or authorities likely to
take cognizance of this data with regard to
their function;
- the beneficiaries of the data subject to the processing;
- the place of conservation of the personal data
personnel subject to the treatment and its duration;
- the measures taken to ensure confidentiality
processing and its security;
- the description of the databases to which the
controller is interconnected;
- the commitment to process the
personal data in accordance with
legal provisions;
- the declaration that the conditions provided for by
article 22 of this law are met;
In the event of a change in the
mentions listed above, the authorization of
The Instance must be obtained.
The authorization request is presented by the
controller or his representative
legal.
The authorization does not exempt from the responsibility to
with regard to third parties.
The conditions for submitting the request
authorization and its procedures are set by
decree.
Section II - The data controller
personal data and its
obligations
Art. 9. - Processing of personal data
personnel must be carried out within the framework of
human dignity, privacy and freedoms
public.
The processing of personal data,
whatever its origin or form, must not
infringe the rights of protected persons
by the laws and regulations in force, and it is,
in any case, forbidden to use this data
to harm people or their
reputation.
Art. 10. - The collection of personal data
personnel can only be carried out for
lawful, determined and explicit purposes.
Art. 11. - Personal data must
be treated fairly, and to the extent necessary

‫نأ بجي ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعلم ةئيهال نم صيخرت ىلع‬
:‫ةيالتال تانايبال ةصاخ صيخرتال بلط نمضتي‬
، ‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم نع لوؤسلما مسا ـّهرقمو هبقلو‬
‫ةيوهو نييعامتجالا هرقمو هتيمستف ايونعم اصخش ناك نإو‬
، ‫ينوناقال هلثمم‬
، ‫مهتارقمو ةيصخشال تايطعلماب نيينعلما صاخشألا ةيوه ـ‬
، ‫اهتافصاومو ةجالعلما فادهأ ـ‬
، ‫اهتيادب خيراتو اهناكمو ةجالعلما فانصأ ـ‬
، ‫اهردصمو اهتجالعم بولطلما ةيصخشال تايطعلما ـ‬
‫تايطعلما ىلع عالطالا مهنكمي نيذال تاهجال وأ صا‬
‫خشألا ـ‬
، ‫مهلمع مكحب‬
، ‫ةجالعلما عوضوم تايطعلما نم ةديفتسلما ةهجال ـ‬
، ‫هتّدمو ةجالعلما عوضوم ةيصخشال تايطعلما ظفح ناكم ـ‬
، ‫اهنامأو تايطعلما ةيرس ىلع ظافحلل ةذختلما ريبادتال ـ‬
، ‫اهع‬
‫ةجالعلما نع لوؤسملل يتال تانايبال دعاوق نايب ـم ينيب طبر‬
‫تايضتقلما قفو ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم ةرشابمب مازتلالا ـ‬
، ‫انوناق ةبجاوال‬
‫ اذه نم‬22 ‫لصفالب اهيلع صوصنلما طورشال رفوتب حيرصتال ـ‬
.‫نوناقال‬
‫رييغت يأ ثودح ةروص يف ةئيهال صيخرت ىلع لوصحال بجيو‬
.‫هالعأ اهيإل راشلما تانايبال ىلع‬
‫هلثمم وأ ةجالعلما نع لوؤسلما لبق‬
‫نم صيخرتال بلط مدقيو‬
.‫ينوناقال‬
.‫ريغال ءازإ ةيلوؤسلما نم صيخرتال يفعي الو‬
.‫رمأب هتاءارجإو صيخرتال بلط ميدقت طورش طبضتو‬

.‫يناثال مسقال‬
‫ةجالعم نع لوؤسلما يف‬
‫هتابجاوو ةيصخشال تايطعلما‬
‫ راطإ يف ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم متت ـ‬9‫مارتحا‬
‫لصفال‬
.‫ةماعال تايرحالو ةصاخال ةايحالو ةيرشبال‬
‫تاذال‬
‫ناك امهم ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم سمت النأ بجيو‬
‫نيناوقال بجومب ةيمحلما صاخشألا قوقحب اهلكش وأ اهردصم‬
‫اهالمعتسا تالاحال لك يف رجحيو ملعال اهب يراجال بيتارتالو‬
.‫مهب ريهشتال وأ صاخشألا ىإل ةءاسإلا ةياغل‬
10 ‫لصفال‬
‫ضارغألالإ ةيصخشال تايطعلما عمج زوج‬
‫ي ال ـ‬
.‫ةحضاوو ة ّددحمو ةعورشم‬
11 ‫لصفال‬
‫ملاكب ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم متت نأ بجي ـ‬

Page 4

3

with regard to the purposes for which they were
collected. The controller must
also ensure that these data are accurate,
accurate and up-to-date.
Art. 12. - Processing of personal data
personnel cannot be carried out for purposes
other than those for which they were
collected except in the following cases:
- if the person concerned has given his
consent.
- if the processing is necessary to safeguard a
vital interest of the data subject;
- if the processing implemented is necessary for
certain scientific purposes.
Art. 13. - The processing of personal data is prohibited.
personal character relating to offenses, their
finding, criminal proceedings, penalties,
preventive measures or antecedents
judicial.
Art. 14. - The processing of personal data is prohibited.
personal character which concern, directly or
indirectly, racial or genetic origin,
religious beliefs, political opinions,
philosophical or union, or health.
However, the processing referred to in paragraph
previous is possible when performed with the
express consent of the data subject
given by any means leaving a trace
written, or when these data have acquired a
clearly public, or when such processing
is necessary for historical purposes or
scientists, or when this treatment is
necessary to safeguard the vital interests of
concerned person.
Processing of personal data
relating to health is governed by the provisions of
fifth chapter of this law.
Art. 15. - Processing of personal data
personnel mentioned in article 14 of the
this law is subject to the authorization of
The National Data Protection Authority at
Personal character except data
health related.
The body must give its answer concerning the
request for authorization within a period not exceeding
not thirty days from the date of its
reception. Failure to respond within this period is worth
refusal.
The instance can decide to accept the request any
by requiring the controller
the obligation to take precautions or
measures it deems necessary to safeguard
the interest of the person concerned.
Art. 16. - The provisions of articles 7, 8, 27, 28, 31
and 47 of this law do not apply to
processing of personal data
concerning the professional situation of
the employee, when said processing has been carried out
by the employer and is necessary for
work functioning and its organization.

‫نم تعمج يذال ضرغلل ايرورض اهنم ناك ام دودح يفو ةنامألا‬
‫هلجأ‬. ‫نوكت نأ ىلع صرحال ةجالعلما نع لوؤسلما ىلع بجي امك‬
.‫ةنّيحمو ةقيقدو ةحيحص تايطعلما‬
‫يف ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم زوجت الـ‬12‫ريغ‬
‫فاللص‬
:‫ةيالتال تالاحال يف الإ اهلجأ نم تعمج يتال ضارغألا‬
، ‫كلذ ىلع رمألاب ينعلما قفاو اذإ ـ‬
، ‫رمألاب ينعملل ةيويح ةحلصلمقيقحت كلذ يف ناك اذإ ـ‬
.‫ةتباث ةيملع ضارغألتناك اذإ ـ‬

13 ‫لصفال‬
‫ةقلعتلما ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم رجحت ـ‬
‫وأ تابوقعالب وأ ةيئازجال تاعبتتالب وأ اهتنياعمب وأ مئارجالب‬
.‫ةيلدعال قباوسالب وأ ةيزارتحالا ريبادتالب‬
14 ‫لصفال‬
‫قلعتت يتال ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم رجحت ـ‬
‫أ ةينيجال وأ ةيقرعال لوصألاب ةرشابم ريغ وأ ةرشابم ةفصبو‬
‫وأ ةيفسلفال وأ ةيسايسال راكفألاب وأ ةينيدال تادقتعلماب‬
.‫ةحصالب وأ ةيباقنال‬
‫روكذملا عونال نم ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم نكمي هنأ ريغ‬
‫يأب رمألاب ينعملل ةحيرص ةقفاومب تمت اذإ ةقباسال ةرقفالب‬
‫ي ستكت تايطعلما كلت تحبصأ اذإ وأ ايباتك ارثأ كرتت ةليسو‬
‫ةمدخل ةيرورض اهتجالعم تناك اذإ وأ ّنيب‬
‫لكشب ةماع ةغبص‬
‫ةيامحل ةيرورض تناك اذإ وأ ةيملعال وأ ةيخيراتال ضارغألا‬
.‫رمألاب ينعملل ةيويحال حالصلما‬
‫ىإل ةحصالب ةقلعتلما ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم عضختو‬
.‫نوناقال اذه نم سماخال بابال ماكحأ‬
15‫لصفالال‬
‫نم ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم عضخت ـعون‬
‫ةينطوال ةئيهال صيخرت ىإل نوناقال اذه نم‬14 ‫لصفالب روكذملا‬
‫ةقلعتلما تايطعلما ءانثتساب ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةيامحل‬
.‫ةحصالب‬
‫زواجتي ال لجأ يف ةقفاوملا بلط ىلع اهباوج ميدقت ةئيهال ىلعو‬
‫هب اهلصوت خيرات نم اموي نيثالث‬. ‫لجألا لالخ باوجال مدع ّدعيو‬
.‫اضفر روكذملا‬
‫نع لوؤسلما مازإل عم بلطال لوبق ررقت نأ ةئيهلل نكميو‬
‫ةيامحل ةمزال اهارت تاءارجإ وأ تاطايتحا ذاختاب ةجالعلما‬
.‫رمألاب ينعلما ةحلصم‬
47‫ و‬31‫ و‬28‫ و‬278 ‫و‬7 ‫لوصفال ماكحأ قبطنت الـ و‬16 ‫لصفال‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم تقلعت اذإ نوناقال اذه نم‬
‫ريجألل ةينهلما ةيعضوالبريسل ةيرورض تناكو رجؤملا نم تمتو‬
.‫هميظنتو ملعال‬

Page 5

4

The provisions of the articles cited in paragraph
previous do not apply to the processing of
personal data required by the monitoring of
the state of health of the person concerned.
Art. 17. - It is, in all cases, strictly
prohibits linking the provision of a service or the granting
of a benefit to a person upon acceptance of the
processing of their personal data or their
exploitation for purposes other than those for
which they were collected.
Art. 18. - Anyone who performs,
personally or by a third person, the
processing of personal data is
required towards the persons concerned to
take all necessary precautions to
ensure the security of this data and prevent
third parties to modify,
alteration or consultation without permission
of the person concerned.
Art. 19. - The precautions provided for in article 18 of the
this law must:
- prevent equipment and installations
used in the processing of personal data
personnel are placed in conditions or
places allowing unauthorized persons
to access it;
- prevent data carriers from being
be read, copied, modified or moved by a
unauthorized person;
- prevent the unauthorized introduction of any
given in the information system, as well as
any knowledge, erasure or
any deletion of recorded data;
- prevent the treatment system
information can be used by people
not allowed;
- ensure that can be verified a posteriori
the identity of the people who have had access to the system
information, the data that has been entered
in the system, the moment of this introduction
as well as the person who carried it out;
- prevent the data from being read,
copied, modified, deleted or deleted, when they are
communication or transport of their support;
- save the data by creating
secure reserve copies;
Art. 20. - The controller, when
entrusts certain processing operations to third parties
or all of them under a sub-contract
contracting, must carefully choose the subcontractor
treating.
The subcontractor must comply with the provisions of the
this law and must act only within the limits
authorized by the controller; he must
have, in addition, all the technical means
necessary and appropriate to accomplish the
missions for which he is responsible.
The controller and the processor
engage their civil liability in the event of
violation of the provisions of this law.

‫ىلع ةمدقتلما ةرقفالب ةروكذملا لوصفال ماكحأ قبطنت ال امك‬
‫ةالحال ةعباتم اهيضتقت يتال ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم‬
.‫رمألاب ينعملل ةيحصال‬
17 ‫لصفال‬
‫ةعفنم وأ ةمدخ ءادسإ طبر تالاحال لك يف زوجي الـ‬
‫ةيصخشال هتايطعم ةجالعم ىلع هت‬
‫قفاوم طرشب صخش ةدئافل‬
.‫اهلجأ نم تعمج يتال ضارغألا ريغ يف اهلالغتسا وأ‬
18 ‫لصفال‬
‫ةجالعمب ريغال ةطساوب وأ هسفنب موقي صخش لك ـ‬
‫عيمج ذختي نأب ةينعلما فارطألا ءازإ مزلم ةيصخشال تايطعلما‬
‫نم ريغال عنمو تايطعلما نامأ ىلع ةظفاحملل ةمزالال تاطايتحالا‬
.‫اهبحاص نذإ نود اهيلع عالطالا وأ اهب رارضإلا وأ‬
‫اهليدعت‬

19 ‫لصفال‬
‫اهيلع صوصنلما تاطايتحالا نمضت نأ بجي ـ‬
:‫يلي ام نوناقال اذه نم‬18 ‫لصفالب‬
‫تايطعلما ةجالعم يف ةملعتسلما تازيهجتالو تادعلما عضو مدع ـ‬
‫لبق نم اهيإل لوصوال نم نكمت نكامأ وأ فورظ يف ةيصخشال‬
، ‫ريغ صاخشأكلذب مهل نوذأم‬
‫نم اهلقن وأ اهليدعت وأ اهخسن وأ تادنسال ةءارق ةيناكمإ مدع ـ‬
، ‫كلذب هل نوذأم ريغ صخش لبق‬
‫يف نذإ نود تامولعلما ماظن يف تايطعم يأ ماحقإ ةيناكمإ مدع ـ‬
‫وأ اهوحم وأ ةلجسلما تايطعلما ىلع عالطالا ةيناكمإ مدعو كلذ‬
، ‫اهيلع بيطشتال‬
‫المعتسا ةيناكمإ مدع ـلبق نم تامولعلما ةجالعم ماظن‬
، ‫كلذب مهل نوذأم ريغ صاخشأ‬
‫ىإل اوذفن نيذال صاخشألا ةيوه نم قحالال تبثتال ةيناكمإ ـ‬
‫كلذ نمزو اهماحقإ مت يتال تايطعلماو تامولعلما ماظن‬
، ‫كلذ ىلوت يذال صخشالو‬
‫وأ اهوحم وأ اهليدعت وأ اهخسن وأ تايطعلما ةءارق ةيناكمإ مدع ـ‬
، ‫اهدنس لقن وأ اهتالحإ ءانثأ اه‬
‫يلع بيطشتال‬
.‫ةنمآو ةيطايتحا اهنم خسن ثادحإ ربع تايطعلما ىلع ظافحال ـ‬
20 ‫لصفال‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم نع لوؤسلما ىلع بجي ـ‬
‫دقع راطإ يف ريغال ىإل اهعيمج وأ ةجالعلما المعأ ضعبب دهع اذإ‬
.‫كلذب هيإل دهعي نم رايتخا يف ىرحتي نأ ةلوانم‬
‫ىلع بجيوالنأو نوناقال اذه تايضتقم مرتحي نأ لوانلما‬
‫ ةجالعلما نع لوؤسلما هب هل نذأي ام دودح يف الإ فرصتي‬، ‫نأو‬
‫ةلوكوملا ماهلما زاجنإل ةمئالملاو ةمزالال ةينفال لئاسوال هل نوكت‬
.‫هيإل‬
‫لك نع ايندم نيلوؤسم لوانلماو ةجالعلما نع لوؤسلما نوكيو‬
.‫نوناقال اذه تايضتقمب لالخإ‬

Page 6
Art. 21. - The controller and the sub
processing must correct, complete, modify or
update the files they have, and
erase personal data from these
files if they became aware of the inaccuracy
or the insufficiency of this data.
In this case, the controller and the sub
processing must inform, the data subject and
the legitimate beneficiary of the data,
any modification made to the data at
personal character he received previously.
The notification is made within two
months, from the date of the modification, by
by registered letter with acknowledgment of
receipt or by any means leaving a
written trace.
Art. 22. - Without prejudice to the laws and regulations in
force, the natural person or the representative
legal entity wishing to carry out the
processing of personal data and
their agents must meet the conditions
following:
- be of Tunisian nationality;
- be resident in Tunisia;
- be without a criminal record.
These conditions also apply to the subdealing and its agents.

5

Art. 23. - The controller, the sub
contractor and their agents, even after the end of
processing or loss of quality, must
preserve data confidentiality
personal information and the information processed at
the exception of those whose distribution has been accepted
in writing by the person concerned or in the cases
provided for by the legislation in force.
Art. 24. - The data controller
of a personal nature or the subcontractor who
plans to cease his activity permanently must
inform the Authority three months before the date of the
cessation of activity.
In the event of the death of the controller or
subcontractor or its bankruptcy or in the event of
dissolution of the legal person, the heirs, the
bankruptcy trustee or liquidator, depending on the situation,
must inform the Authority within a time limit.
not more than three months from the date of the
occurrence of the fact.
The Authority, within a period not exceeding one month
from the date of its information
in accordance with the previous paragraph, authorizes
destruction of personal data.
Art. 25. - The authority can decide on the communication
personal data in the event of
cessation of activity for the reasons indicated in
the previous article, in the following two cases
:
1) if it considers that these data are useful for a
exploitation for historical and scientific purposes;
2) if the person who made the notification proposes to

21 ‫لصفال‬
‫اردابي نأ لوانلماو ةجالعلما نع لوؤسلما ىلع بجي ـ‬
‫اهنييحت وأ اهليدعت وأ اهمامتإ وأ امهتزوحب يتال تاقاطبال حالصإب‬
‫مدعب ملعال امهغلب اذإ اهتنمضت يتال تايطعلما ىلع بيطشتال وأ‬
.‫اهصقن وأ اهب ةنمضلما ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةّحص‬
‫مالعإ لوانلماو ةجالعلما ىل‬
‫ع لوؤسلما ىلع بجي ةالحال هذه يفو‬
‫رييغت لكب ةعورشم ةفصب تايطعلما نم ديفتسلماو رمألاب ينعلما‬
.‫اهيلع ّلصحت نأ قبس يتال ةيصخشال تايطعلما ىلع لخدأ‬
‫ةنومضم ةالسرب رييغتال خيرات نم نيرهش لجأ يف مالعإلا متيو‬
.‫ايباتك ارثأ كرتت ةليسو يأب وأ غولبالب مالعإلا عم لوصوال‬

22 ‫لصفال‬
، ‫ملعال اهب يراجال بيتارتالو نيناوقال ةاعارم عم ـ‬
‫صخشلل ينوناقال لثملما وأ يعيبطال صخشال يف رفوتت نأ بجي‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعمب مايقال يف بغارال يونعلما‬
:‫ امهناوعأو‬، ‫ةيالتال طورشال‬
، ‫ةيسنجال ي سنوت نوكي نأ ـ‬
، ‫ةيسنوتال دالبالب اميقم نوكي نأ ـ‬
.‫ن نوكي نأ ـقباوسال ّيق‬
.‫هناوعأو لوانلما ىلع طورشال هذه قبطنتو‬
23 ‫لصفال‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم نع لوؤسلما ىلع بجي ـ‬
‫كلت مهتفص الوز وأ ةجالعلما ءاهتنا دعب ولو امهناوعأو لوانلماو‬
‫تمت يتال تامولعلماو ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةيرس ىلع ةظفاحلما‬
‫ىلع ايباتك رمألاب ينعاهرشن‬
‫ملا قفاو يتال كلت ءانثتساب اهتجالعم‬
.‫ملعال هب يراجال عيرشتالب اهيلع صوصنلما تالاحال يف وأ‬
‫ ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم نع لوؤسلما ىلع ـ‬24
‫لصفال وأ‬
‫مالعإ ةجالعلما طاشن نع ايئاهن فقوتال مزتعي يذال لوانلما‬
.‫طاشنال نع فقوتال خيرات نم رهشأ ةثالث لبق كلذب ةئيهال‬
‫هسيلفت وأ لوانلما وأ ةجالعلما نع لوؤسلما ةاف‬
‫ةروص يفو‬
‫وأ‬
‫و‬
‫وأ ةسلفال نيمأ وأ ةثروال ىلع بجي يونعلما صخشال ّلح‬
‫ةثالث زواجتي اللجأ يف كلذب ةئيهال مالعإ ةالحال بسح يفصلما‬
.‫هلوصح خيرات نم رهشأ‬
‫قبط اهمالعإ خيرات نم ارهش زواجتي ال لجأ يف ةئيهال نذأتو‬
.‫ادعإب ةمدقتلما ةرقفالةيصخشال تايطعلما م‬
25 ‫لصفال‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةالحإ ررقت نأ ةئيهلل نكمي ـ‬
‫يف‬
‫مدقتلما لصفالب ةروكذملا بابسألل طاشنال نع فقوتال ةالح‬
:‫نيتيتآلا نيتروصال يف كلذو‬
‫ الوأ‬:‫ضارغأ يف مدختست نألةحالص تايطعلما كلت نأ تأر اذإ‬
‫ةيملع وأ ةيخيرات‬

Page 7

6

communicate all personal data
personnel or a party to a natural person
or moral by determining with precision its
identity. In this case, the authority can decide
to accept the communication of data to
personal character to the proposed person. The
effective communication takes place only after
obtaining the consent of the person concerned,
his guardian or his heirs received by any
what a means leaving a written record.
In the event that this agreement is not obtained, within a
three months from the date of his
formulation, personal data
must be destroyed.
Art. 26. - In case of cessation of the activity of the
controller or processor for
the reasons indicated in article 24 of this law,
the person concerned, his heirs or any
person with interest or the public prosecutor
may, at any time, ask the Authority to
take all appropriate measures for the
retention and protection of data at
personal character, as well as their destruction.
The Authority must render its decision within
ten days from the date of its referral.
Section III. Rights of the data subject
Sub-section I - Consent
Art. 27. - Excluding the cases provided for by
this law or the laws in force, the processing of
personal data cannot be carried out
only with the express written consent of the
concerned person ; if this is a person
unable or prohibited or unable to sign, the
consent is governed by the general rules of
law.
The person concerned or his guardian may, at any
moment, retract.
Art. 28. - Processing of personal data
staff who concern a child cannot
take place only after obtaining the consent of
his guardian and with the authorization of the family judge.
The family judge can order the treatment
even without the consent of the guardian when
the best interests of the child so require.
The family judge can come back at any time
on its authorization.
Art. 29. - Processing of personal data
staff is not subject to the consent of the
person concerned when it turns out
clearly that this processing is carried out in
his interest and his contact proves impossible,
or when obtaining his consent
involves disproportionate effort, or if the
processing of personal data is
provided for by law or an agreement in which the
affected person has left.
Art. 30. - Consent to the processing of
personal data in a form
determined or for a specific purpose
not applicable to other forms or purposes.

‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما لك ةالحإ مالعإلا ىلوت نم حرتقا اذإ‬
: ‫ايناث‬
‫وأ‬
‫ةقدب هتيوه ّددحي يونعم وأ يعيبط صخش ىإل اهضعب‬. ‫هذه يفو‬
‫تايطعلما ةالحإ ىلع ةقفاوملا ّررقت نأ ةئيهلل نكمي ةالحال‬
‫حرتقلما صخشال ىإل ةيصخشال‬. ‫دعب الإ ايلعف ةالحإلا ّمتت الو‬
‫يأب ةاقلتلما هتثرو وأ هيلو وأ‬
‫رمألاب ينعلما ةقفاوم ىلع لوصحال‬
.‫ايباتك ارثأ كرتت ةليسو‬
‫نم رهشأ ةثالث لالخ ةقفاوملا هذه لوصح مدع ةروص يفو‬
.‫ اهبلط‬، ‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما مادعإ بجي‬
26‫لصفالوأ‬
‫ةجالعلما نع لوؤسلما طاشن فقوت ةالح يف ـ‬
‫ نوناقال اذه نم‬، ‫نكمي‬24 ‫لصفالب ةروكذملا بابسألل لوانلما‬
‫ةباينال وأ ةحلصم هل صخش لك وأ هتثرو وأ رمألاب‬
‫ينعملل‬
‫ةمئالملا ريبادتال ذاختا ةئيهال نم تقو لك يف اوبلطي نأ ةيمومعال‬
.‫اهمادعإ وأ اهتيامحو ةيصخشال تايطعلما ظفحل‬
‫خيرات نم ةيادب مايأ ةرشع لجأ يف اهرارق ردصت نأ ةئيهال ىلعو‬
.‫اهدهعت‬
.‫ثالثال مسقال‬
‫رمألاب ينعلما قوقح يف‬
,‫لوألا عرفال‬
‫ةقفاوملا يف‬
27 ‫لصفال‬
‫نوناقال اذهب اهيلع صوصنلما روصال ادع اميف ـ‬
‫وأ‬
‫ ملعال اهب يراجال نيناوقالب‬، ‫تايطعلما ةجالعم نكمي ال‬
‫رمألاب ينعملل ةيباتكالو ةحيرصال ةقفاوملاب الإ ةيصخشال‬. ‫اذإو‬
‫ ءاضمإلا ىلع رداق ريغ وأ هيلع اروجحم وأ ارصاق ناك‬، ‫عضخت‬
.‫ةقفاوملاةماعال ةينوناقال دعاوقال ىإل‬
.‫تقو لك يف ةقفاوملا يف عوجرال هيلو وأ رمألاب ينعمللو‬
28 ‫لصفال‬
‫لفطب ةقلعتم ةيصخش تايطعم ةجالعم نكمي الـ‬
.‫ةرسألا ي ضاق نذإو هيلو ةقفاوم ىلع لوصحال دعب الإ‬
‫يلوال ةقفاوم نود ولو ةجالعلماب نذأي نأ ةرسألا ي ضاقل نكميو‬
.‫حلصم تضتقا اذإ كلذ ىلضفال لفطال ة‬
.‫تقو لك يف نذإلا يف عوجرال ةرسألا ي ضاقلو‬
29 ‫لصفال‬
‫تايطعلما ةجالعم رمألاب ينعلما ةقفاوملعضخت ال ـ‬

ّ
‫ذعتو ةحلصلماب هيلع دوعت اهنأ ّيلجال نم نوكي يتال ةيصخشالر‬
‫تادوهجم بلطتي هتقفاوم ىلع لوصحال ناك وأ هب الصتالا‬
‫اهيضتقي ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم تناك اذإ وأ ةقهرم‬
.‫هيف ا‬
‫فرط رمألاب ينعلما نوكي قافتا وأ نوناقال‬

30 ‫لصفال‬
‫تايطعلما ةجالعم ىلع ةقفاوملا بحسنت ال ـ‬
‫تاياغال وأ الكشألا ىلع ةنّيعم ةياغل وأ نّيعم لكشب ةيصخشال‬
.‫ىرخألا‬

Page 8

7

It is forbidden to use the data processing at
personal character for advertising purposes except
express and specific consent of the person
concerned, his heirs or his guardian. The
consent in this regard is subject to the rules
general laws.
When the person concerned is a child, the
provisions of article 28 of this law
apply.
Art. 31. - After the expiry of the period fixed by article
7 of this law for the opposition of the Authority,
it is necessary to inform in advance and by any
means leaving a written record of people
concerned by the collection of personal data
staff of the following:
- the nature of the personal data
concerned by the processing;
- the purposes of the processing of personal data
staff ;
- the compulsory or optional nature of their
reply;
- the consequences of failure to respond;
- the name of the natural or legal person
beneficiary of the data, or of the one who has the
right of access and his domicile;
- the surname and first name of the controller
or its corporate name and, where applicable, its
representative and his domicile;
- their right of access to data concerning them;
- their right to return, at any time, to
acceptance of treatment;
- their right to oppose the processing of their
personal data;
- the retention period of personal data
staff ;
- a brief description of the measures implemented
works to ensure the security of data at
personal character.
- the country to which the controller
intends, if necessary, to transfer the data to
personal character.
Notification is made by registered letter
with acknowledgment of receipt or by any
means leaving a written record within one
at least months before the date set for the treatment
personal data.
Sub-section II - The right of access
Art. 32. - For the purposes of this law, by
right of access, the right of the data subject, to
his heirs or guardian to consult all
personal data concerning him,
as well as the right to correct, complete,
rectify, update, modify, clarify or delete
when they prove to be inaccurate, ambiguous, or
their processing is prohibited.
The right of access also covers the right to obtain
a copy of the data in a clear language and
in accordance with the content of the recordings, and
an intelligible form when processed at
using automated processes.

‫الإ ةيئاعد ضارغألةيصخشال تايطعلما المعتسا زوجي الو‬
‫هيلو وأ هتثرو وأ رمألاب ينعلما نم ةصاخو ةحيرص ةقفاومب‬. ‫ىقبيو‬
.‫ةماعال دعاوقلل اعضاخ‬
‫نأشال اذه يف قافتالا‬
‫ اذه نم‬28 ‫لصفال ماكحأ قبطت الفط رمألاب ينعلما ناك اذإو‬
.‫نوناقال‬
31 ‫لصفال‬
‫صوصنلما ةئيهال ضارتعال ّددحلما لجألا ءاضقنا دعب ـ‬
‫ نوناقال اذه نم‬، ‫نيذال صاخشألا مالعإ بجي‬7 ‫لصفالب هيلع‬
‫ارثأ كرتت ةليسو يأبو اقبسم ةيصخشال تايطعلما مهنع عمجتس‬
:‫يلي امب ايباتك‬
، ‫اهتجالعم دارملا ةيصخشال تايطعلما عون ـ‬
،‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم فادهأ ـ‬
، ‫مهتبوجأليرايتخالا وأ يمازلإلا عباطال ـ‬
، ‫باوجال مدع جئاتن ـ‬
‫وأ تايطعلما نم ديفتسلما يونعلما وأ يعيبطال صخشال مسا ـ‬
، ‫هرقمو اهيإل ذافنال قح هل يذال‬
‫هلثممو ةيعامتجالا هتيمست وأ هبقلو ةجالعلما نع لوؤسلما مسا ـ‬
، ‫هرقمو ءاضتقالا دنع‬
، ‫ذافنال يف مهقح ـ‬
، ‫تقو ـلك يف ةجالعلما ىلع ةقفاوملا يف عوجرال‬
‫يف مهقح‬
، ‫ةيصخشال مهتايطعم ةجالعم ىلع ضارتعالا يف مهقح ـ‬
، ‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ظفح ةدم ـ‬
‫تايطعلما نامأ نامضل ةذختلما تاطايتحالل زجوم فصو ـ‬
‫ة ةيصخشال‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما لقن ةجالعلما نع لوؤسلما مزتعي يتال دالبال ـ‬
‫ءا‬.‫ضتقالا دنع اهيإل‬
‫غولبالب مالعإلا عم لوصوال ةنومضم ةالسر ةطساوب مالعإلا متيو‬
‫لبق رهش نع لقي ال لجأ يف ايباتك ارثأ كرتت ةليسو يأب وأ‬
.‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعلم ّددحلما خيراتال‬
‫ذافنال قح‬.‫يناثال عرفال‬
‫ ذافنال قحب دصقي ـ‬، ‫ نوناقال اذه ىنعم ىلع‬،32
‫لصفالقح‬
‫تايطعلما عيمج ىلع عالطالا يف هيلو وأ هتثرو‬
‫وأ رمألاب ينعلما‬
‫وأ اهليدعت وأ اهمامتإ وأ اهحالصإ بلطو هب ةصاخال ةيصخشال‬
‫ريغ تناك اذإ اهيلع بيطشتال وأ اهحيضوت وأ اهرييغت وأ اهنييحت‬
.‫ةعونمم اهتجالعم تناك وأ ةضماغ وأ ةحيحص‬
‫نم ةخسن ىلع لوصحال يف قحال ذافنال قح ملشي امك‬
‫ةقيرطبو تاليجستال نومضلمةقباطمو ةحضاو ةغ‬
‫لب تايطعلما‬
.‫ايآل اهتجالعم تمت اذإ ةطسبم‬

Page 9

8

Art. 33. - We cannot first renounce
permission to access.
Art. 34. - The right of access is exercised by the person
concerned, his heirs or his guardian to
reasonable and not excessive intervals.
Art. 35. - The limitation of the right of access to the
the person concerned, his heirs or his
guardian of personal data
concerning is only possible in the following cases:
- when the processing of personal data
personnel is carried out for scientific purposes and
provided that these data do not affect privacy
of the data subject only in a limited way;
- if the reason sought by the limitation of the right
access is the protection of the data subject
itself or third parties.
Art. 36. - When there are several persons in charge of
processing of personal data or
when the processing is carried out by a subprocessing, the right of access is exercised with
each of them.
Art. 37. - The person responsible for automated processing
personal data and the subprocessing must implement the means
techniques necessary to enable the
the person concerned, his heirs or his guardian
the electronic sending of his request for
rectification, modification, correction, or
erasure of personal data.
Art. 38. - The request for access is presented by the
data subject or his heirs or guardian
in writing or by any means leaving a
written trace. The person concerned, his heirs or
his guardian can ask in the same way
obtaining copies of the data in a timely manner does not
not exceeding one month from the said
request.
In the event that the controller or the
subcontractor refuses to allow the person
concerned, his heirs or his guardian
consultation of personal data
required, or postpones access to these data, or denies
to provide them with a copy of this data,
the person concerned, his heirs or his guardian
may submit a request to the Authority in
a maximum period of one month from the date
of the refusal.
The proceeding, after hearing both parties and
carrying out the necessary investigations,
can order the consultation of information
required or the issuance of a copy of these
information or approval of the refusal, in
a period not exceeding one month from the
date of referral.
The person concerned, his heirs or his guardian
may present to the Authority, where appropriate, a
request in order to take all measures
appropriate to prevent destruction or
concealment of personal data.
The court must rule on the request in a

.‫ذافنال قح نع اقبسم لزانتال نكمي الـ‬33 ‫لصفال‬
34 ‫لصفال‬
‫هتثرو وأ رمألاب ينعلما لبق نم ذافنال قح سرامي ـ‬
‫وأ‬
.‫ةقهرم ريغ ةقيرطبو ةلوقعم الجآ يف هيلو‬
‫وأ هتثرو وأ رمألاب ينعلما قح نم ّدحال نكمي الـ‬35
‫هيلو‬
‫لصفال‬
‫تالاحال يف الإ هب ةقلعتلما ةيصخشال تايطعلما ىإل ذافنال يف‬
:‫ةيالتال‬
‫طرشبو ةيملع ضارغألةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم تناك اذإ ـ‬
، ‫ادودحم ةصاخال ةايحالب ةيصخشال تايطعلما ساسم نوكي نأ‬
‫هسفن رمألاب ينعلما ةيامح ذافنال نم ّدحال‬
‫نم دصقال ناك وأاذإ ـ‬
.‫ريغال‬
36 ‫لصفال‬
‫تايطعلما ةجالعم نع نولوؤسلما ددعت اذإ ـ‬
‫قح سرامي لوانم ةطساوب ةجالعلما تمت اذإ وأ ةيصخشال‬
.‫مهنم دحاو لك ىدل ذافنال‬
37 ‫لصفال‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم نع لوؤسلما ىلع بجي ـ‬
‫عضو لوانلماو ةيآل ةقيرطبنيكمتل ةمزالال ةينقتال تايناكمإلا‬
‫ةينورتكإل ةقيرطب هبلطم السرإ نم هيلو وأ هتثرو وأ رمألاب ينعلما‬
.‫اهيلع بيطشتال وأ اهحالصإ وأ اهرييغت وأ تايطعلما ليدعتل‬

‫وأ هتثرو وأ رمألاب ينعلما نم ذافنال بلطم مدقي ـ‬38
‫هيلو‬
‫لصفال‬
‫ايباتك ن‬. ‫ارثأ كرتت ىرخأ ةليسو يأب وأ بوتكم ى ضتقمبكميو‬
ّ
‫لست ةقيرطال سفنب اوبلطي نأ هيلو وأ هتثرو وأ رمألاب ينعملل م‬
.‫اهبلط خيرات نم رهشال زواجتي ال لجأ يف تايطعلما نم ةخسن‬
‫ينعلما نيكمت لوانلما وأ ةجالعلما نع لوؤسلما ضفر ةروص يفو‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ىلع عالطالا نم هيلو وأ هتثرو وأ رمألاب‬
‫مهميلست مدع ةروص يف وأ اهيإل ذافنال ليجأت‬
‫ةبولطلما‬
‫وأةخسن‬
‫ اهنم‬، ‫لجأ يف ةئيهال ىإل ابلط هيلو وأ هتثرو وأ رمألاب ينعلما مدقي‬
.‫ضفرال خيرات نم ةيادب رهش هاصقأ‬
‫نذإلا ةمزالال تايرحتال ءارجإو نيفرطال عامس دعب ةئيهال ىلعو‬
‫أ اهنم ةخسن ميلستب وأ ةبولطلما تامولعلما ىلع عالطالابو‬
‫خيرات نم رهشال زواجتي اللجأ يف كلذو ضفرال ىلع ةقداصلما‬
.‫اه ّدهعت‬
‫ هيلو وأ هتثرو وأ رمألاب ينعملل نكميو‬، ‫ ءاضتقالا دنع‬، ‫ميدقت‬
‫مادعإ عنمب ةليفكال ريبادتال عيمج ذاختال ةئيهال ىإل بلط‬
‫اهئافخإ وأ ةيصخشال تايطعلما‬. ‫يف بلطال يف تبت نأ ةئيهال ىلعو‬
.‫هميدقت خيرات‬
‫نم مايأ ةعبس لجأ‬
.‫بلطال ميدقت درجمب ءافخإلا وأ مادعإلا عنميو‬

Page 10

9

seven days from the date of
the introduction of the request.
The destruction or concealment of this data
is prohibited upon presentation of the request.
Art. 39. - In the event of a dispute over the accuracy of
personal data, the person responsible for
treatment and the subcontractor must mention
the existence of this dispute until it is ruled on.
Art. 40. - The person concerned, his heirs or
his guardian, can ask to rectify the data
of a personal nature concerning him, complete them,
modify, clarify, update,
erase when they prove to be inaccurate,
incomplete, or ambiguous, or ask for their
destruction when their collection or use
has been carried out in violation of this law.
She can also ask, free of charge and after
completion of the required procedures,
issue of a copy of the personal data
staff and indicate what has not been achieved in
regarding this data.
In this case, the controller or the
subcontractor must provide him with a copy of the
data requested within a time limit not exceeding
one month from the date of submission of
Requirement.
In case of refusal, explicit or implicit, of the
request the Authority may be seized within a
not exceeding one month from the date
expiry of the period mentioned in paragraph
previous.
Art. 41. - The authority is seized of any dispute relating to
the exercise of the right of access.
Subject to the specific deadlines provided for by the
this law, the Authority must render its decision in
a period of one month from the date of its
referral.
Sub-section III - The right to object
Art. 42. - The person concerned, his heirs or
his guardian, has the right to oppose at any time to the
processing of personal data on
concerning for valid, legitimate and
serious, except in cases where treatment is
prescribed by law or is required by the nature of
obligation.
In addition, the data subject, his heirs or
his guardian, has the right to object to the
personal data concerning them are
communicated to third parties with a view to exploiting them at
for advertising purposes.
The opposition immediately suspends processing.
Art. 43. - The National Authority for the Protection of
Personal Data is entered into all
dispute relating to the exercise of the right of opposition.
The body must render its decision within the time limit
provided for in article 41 of this law.
The family judge rules on disputes relating to
opposition when the person concerned is a
child.

39 ‫لصفال‬
‫بجي ةيصخش تايطعم ةحص لوح عازن دجو اذإ ـ‬
ّ‫لحم اهنأ ىلع صيصنتال لوانلماو ةجالعلما نع لوؤسلما ىلع‬
.‫عازنال ءاهتنا نيح ىإل ةعزانم‬
40 ‫لصفال‬
‫ةبالطلما هيلو وأ هتثرو وأ رمألاب ينعملل نكمي ـصحال‬
‫إب‬
‫وأ اهليدعت وأ اهمامتإ وأ هب ةصاخال ةيصخشال تايطعلما‬
‫وأ ةحيحص ريغ تناك اذإ اهيلع بيطشتال وأ اهنييحت وأ اهحيضوت‬
‫اهالمعتسا وأ اهعمج ناك اذإ اهمادعإ وأ ةضماغ وأ ةصقان‬
.‫نوناقال اذه ماكحألافالخم‬
ّ
‫لست بلطي نأ هنكمي امكفيراصم نود تايطعلما نم ةخسن م‬
.‫زجني مل ام ىلع صيصنتالو بولطلما ءارجإلاب مايقال‬
‫دعب‬
‫هنم‬
ّ
‫لسي نأ لوانلما وأ ةجالعلما نع لوؤسلما ىلع ةالحال هذه يفوهم‬
‫خيرات نم رهشال زواجتي ال لجأ يف ةبولطلما تايطعلما نم ةخسن‬
.‫بلطلما ميدقت‬
‫ اينمض وأ ةحارص بلطلما ضفر ةروص يفو‬، ‫ىإل رمألا عفر نكمي‬
‫ةئيهاللجألا ءاهتنا خيرات نم ةيادب رهشال زواجتي‬
‫راشلما‬
‫ال لجأ يف‬
.‫ة ّمدقتلما ةرقفالب هيإل‬

41 ‫لصفال‬
‫ةسراممب قلعتي عازن لك يف رظنالب ةئيهال دهعتت ـ‬
‫قح‬
.‫ذافنال‬
‫ةئيهال ىلع نوناقال اذه اهاضتقا يتال ةصاخال الجآلا ةاعارم عمو‬
. ‫اهدهعت خيرات نم ةيادب رهش لجأ يف اهرارق ردصت نأ‬
‫ضارتعالا قح‬.‫ثالثال ع‬
‫رفال‬
42 ‫لصفال‬
‫نوناقال اهيضتقي يتال ةجالعلما تالاح ادع اميف ـ‬
‫وأ‬
‫ مازتلالا ةعيبط‬، ‫ضارتعالا هيلو وأ هتثرو وأ رمألاب ينعملل قحي‬
‫ةهيجو بابسألو تقو لك يف ةيصخشال هتايطعم ةجالعم ىلع‬
.‫هب قلعتت ةيدجو ةعورشمو‬
‫تعالا هيلو وأ هتثرو وأ رمألاب ينعملل امكتايطعم ةالحإ ىلع ضار ه‬
.‫ةياعدال ضارغأ يف اهالمعتسال ريغال ىإل ةيصخشال‬
.‫اروف ةجالعلما ضارتعالا فقويو‬
43 ‫لصفال‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةيامحل ةينطوال ةئيهال دهعتت ـ‬
.‫ضارتعالا قح ةسراممب قلعتي عازن لك يف رظنالب‬
‫هيلع صوصنلما لجألا يف اهرارق ردصت نأ ةئيهال ىلع بجيو‬
.‫ نوناقال اذه نم‬41 ‫لصفالب‬
‫ناك اذإ ضارتعالاب ةقلعتلما تاعازنال يف ةرسألا ي ضاق رظنيو‬
.‫الفط رمألاب ينعلما‬

Page 11

10

CHAPTER III. From collection, conservation,
erasure and destruction of data at
personal character
Art. 44. - Collection of personal data
personnel are only carried out with people
directly concerned.
Collection of personal data
operated with third parties is only permitted with the
consent of the data subject, their
heirs or his guardian. Consent is not
not required when collecting data from
third parties is prescribed by law, or when the collection
with the data subject involves
disproportionate efforts, or if it turns out
clearly that the collection does not affect its
legitimate interests, or when the person
concerned is deceased.
When the person concerned is a child, the
provisions of article 28 of this law
apply.
Art. 45. - Personal data must
be destroyed as soon as the time limit set in its
retention in declaration or authorization
or specific laws or in the event of the achievement of
purposes for which they were collected or
when they become unnecessary for the activity of the
controller. A trial is established
verbal by bailiff and in the presence of a
expert appointed by the Authority.
The expert's fees set by the Authority and
the costs of the bailiff are the responsibility of the
controller.
Art. 46. ​- Personal data
communicated or likely to be
communicated to the persons referred to in Article 53
of this law cannot be destroyed or
canceled only after obtaining the opinion of the aforesaid
persons as well as the authorization of the Authority
National Protection of Personal Data
staff.
The Authority shall rule on the request within a period not
not exceeding one month from its introduction.
CHAPTER IV. Communication and
transfer of personal data
Art. 47. - It is forbidden to communicate
personal data to third parties without the
express consent given by any
means leaving a written record, of the person
concerned, his heirs or his guardian unless
these data are necessary for the exercise of
missions entrusted to public authorities in the
public security or defense framework
national, or are necessary for the implementation
implementation of criminal proceedings or the execution of
missions with which they are invested in accordance with
the laws and regulations in force.
The Authority may authorize the communication of
personal data in case of refusal, written
and explicit, of the person concerned, of his
heirs or his guardian when such

.‫ثالثال بابال‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما عمج يف‬
‫اهمادعإو اهيلع بيطشتالو‬
‫اهظفحو‬
44 ‫لصفال‬
‫صاخشألا نم الإ ةيصخشال تايطعلما عمجت ال ـ‬
.‫ةرشابم رمألاب نيينعلما‬
‫ينعلما ةقفاوم ىإل ريغال نم ةيصخشال تايطعلما عمج‬
‫عضخيو‬
‫نم اهعمج ةيناكمإ نوناقال ى ضتقا اذإ الإ هيلو وأ هتثرو وأ رمألاب‬
‫مايقال بجوتسي رمألاب ينعلما نم اهعمج ناك اذإ وأ ريغال‬
‫هحالصمب ساسلما مدع حضاوال نم ناك وأ ةقهرم تادوهجمب‬
.‫ايفوتم رمألاب ينعلما ناك وأ ةعورشلما‬
‫ اذه نم‬28 ‫لصفال ماكحأ قبطت الفط رمألاب ينعلما ناك اذإو‬
.‫نوناقال‬

‫ءاهتنا درجمب ةيصخشال تايطعلما مادعإ بجي ـ‬45
‫لجألا‬
‫لصفال‬
‫وأ ةصاخال نيناوقالب وأ صيخرتالب وأ حيرصتالب اهظفحل ددحلما‬
‫دعت مل اذإ وأ هلجأ نم تعمج يذال ضرغال ققحت ةروص يف‬
‫ةجالعلم‬. ‫رضحم كلذ يف ررحيو‬
‫ا نع لوؤسلما طاشنل ةيرورض‬
.‫ةئيهال هنيعت صتخم روضحبو ذفنم لدع ةطساوب يمسر‬
‫لدعال فيراصم كلذكو ةئيهال اهردقت يتال صتخلما ةرجأ ملحتو‬
.‫ةجالعلما نع لوؤسلما ىلع ذفنلما‬
46‫لصفالوأ‬
‫ةالحلما ةيصخشال تايطعلما مادعإ نكمي ال ـ‬
‫ اذه نم‬53 ‫الب نيروكذملا صاخشألا ىلع ةالحإلل ةدعلمالصف‬
‫صاخشألا ءالؤه يأر ذخأ دعب الإ اهيلع بيطشتال وأ نوناقال‬
‫تايطعلما ةيامحل ةينطوال ةئيهال ةقفاوم ىلع لوصحالو‬
.‫ةيصخشال‬
‫نم رهش هاصقأ لجأ يف ةقفاوملا بلط يف تبت نأ ةئيهال ىلعو‬
.‫هميدقت خيرات‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةالحإ يف‬.‫بابال‬
‫اهلقنو‬
‫عبارال‬
‫ريغال ىإل ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةالحإ رجحت ـ‬47
‫لصفالنود‬
‫كرتت ةليسو يأب هيلو وأ هتثرو وأ رمألاب ينعملل ةحيرصال ةقفاوملا‬
‫يتال ماهلما ذيفنتل ةيرورض تايطعلما هذه تناك اذإ الإ ايباتك ارثأ‬
‫ينطوال عافدال وأ ماعال نمألا راطإ يف ةيمومعال ةطلسال اهب موقت‬
‫ماهلما ذيفنتل ةيرورض تناك اذإ وأ ةيئازجال تاعبت‬
‫تالب مايقلل وأ‬
.‫ملعال اهب يراجال بيتارتالو نيناوقلل اقبط اهب موقت يتال‬
‫حنمت نأ ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةيامحل ةينطوال ةئيهلل نكميو‬
‫ينعلما ةقفاوم مدع دنع ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةالحإ يف اصيخرت‬
‫الحإلا يف ناك ا ة‬
‫ذإ ةحيرصالو ةيباتكال هيلو وأ هتثرو وأ رمألاب‬
‫ءارجإل ةيرورض تايطعلما تناك اذإ وأ ةيويحال مهتحلصلمقيقحت‬

Page 12
communication is necessary for the
realization of their vital interests, or for
carrying out research and studies
historical or scientific, or with a view to
the performance of a contract to which the person
concerned has left, provided that the
person to whom the personal data
are communicated undertakes to implement
all the guarantees necessary for the protection of
data and related rights
in accordance with the directives of the Authority, and
ensure that they will not be used for any purpose
other than those for which they were
communicated.
When the person concerned is a child, the

‫نوكي قافتا ذيفنتل ةيرورض وأ ةيملع وأ ةيخيرات تاساردو ثوحب‬
‫تانامضال ريفوتب هيإل الحلما دهعت طرشب هيف افرط رمألاب ينعلما‬
‫اهب ةطبترملا قوقحالو ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةيامحل ةيرورضال‬
‫ضرغال ريغ يف اهالمعتسا مدع نامضو ةئيهال هددح‬
‫ت ام قبط‬
.‫هلجأ نم تليحأ يذال‬
‫ اذه نم‬28 ‫لصفال ماكحأ قبطت الفط رمألاب ينعلما ناك اذإو‬
.‫نوناقال‬

11

provisions of article 28 of this law
apply.
Art. 48. - The authorization request is presented to
the Authority within a period not exceeding one month from
from the date of the person's refusal
concerned to communicate their data to
personal character to third parties.
The Authority shall rule on the request within a period not
not exceeding one month from its introduction.
The Authority informs the applicant of its decision
within fifteen days from the date
of decision-making, by letter
registered with acknowledgment of receipt or by any
other means leaving a written record.
Art. 49. - Personal data processed
for particular purposes can be
communicated for further processing
for historical or scientific purposes, to
condition to obtain the consent of the person
concerned, his heirs or his guardian, as well as
that the authorization of the National Authority of
Protection of Personal Data.
The Authority decides, depending on the case, to remove the
data likely to identify the person
concerned or leave them.
When the person concerned is a child, the
provisions of article 28 of this law
apply.
Art. 50. - It is forbidden, in all cases, to
communicate or transfer data to
personal character to a foreign country when
this is likely to jeopardize safety
public or to the vital interests of Tunisia.
Art. 51. - The transfer to another country of
personal data subject to
treatment or intended for
treatment, can only take place if this country ensures
an adequate level of protection assessed with regard to
all the elements relating to the nature of the data
to transfer, for the purposes of their processing, to the
duration of the planned treatment, and the country to which
the data will be transferred as well as the
necessary precautions implemented to
ensure data security. In all cases, the
transfer of personal data must

‫زواجتي اللجأ يف ةئيهال ىلع صيخرتال بلط ضرعي ـ‬
48 ‫لصفال‬
‫ىإل ةيصخشال هتايطعم ةالحإ رمألاب ينعلما ضفر خيرات نم رهشال‬
.‫ريغال‬
‫نم رهشال زواجتي ال لجأ يف بلطال يف ةئيهال رظنت‬
‫خيرات و‬
.‫هميدقت‬
‫نم اموي رشع ةسمخ لجأ يف اهرارقب بالطال مالعإ ةئيهال ىلوتتو‬
‫ هرودص خيرات‬، ‫غولبالب مالعإلا عم لوصوال ةنومضم ةالسرب كلذو‬
.‫ايباتك ارثأ كرتت ىرخأ ةليسو يأب وأ‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةالحإ نكمي ـتعقو ي‬49
‫لصفالتال‬
‫ةيخيرات تاياغ يف اهتجالعم ةداعإل كلذو ةنيعم تاياغل اهتجالعم‬
‫وأ هتثرو وأ رمألاب ينعلما ةقفاوم ىلع لوصحال طرشب ةيملع وأ‬
.‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعلمةينطوال ةئيهال صيخرتو هيلو‬
‫وأ رمألاب ينعلما ةيوه ىإل ريشت يتال تايطعلما فذح ةئيهال ررقتو‬
.‫سح اهيلع ءاقبإلا الحال ب‬
‫ اذه نم‬28 ‫لصفال ماكحأ قبطت الفط رمألاب ينعلما ناك اذإو‬
. ‫نوناقال‬
50 ‫لصفال‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةالحإ تالاحال لك يف رجحت ـ‬
‫وأ‬
‫ماعال نمألاب ساسلما كلذ نأش نم ناك اذإ ةيبنجأ دالب ىإل اهلقن‬
.‫ةيسنوتال دالبلل ةيويحال حالصلماب وأ‬
‫اهتجالعم عقاوال ةيصخشال تايطعلما‬
‫لقن نكمي الـ‬51 ‫لصفال‬
‫ىوتسم ترفو اذإ الإ ىرخأ دالب ىإل ةجالعملل ةصصخلما وأ‬
‫ةعيبطب ةقلعتلما رصانعال ىلع ادامتعا ردقي ةيامحال نم امئالم‬
‫ةجالعلما ةدمو اهتجالعم نم ضرغالو اهلقن بولطلما تايطعلما‬
‫طايتحالا نم هرفوت امو تايطعلما اهيإل الحتس يتال دالبالوات‬
‫تايطعلما نامأ ىلع ةظفاحملل ةمزالال‬. ‫نأ بجي تالاحال لك يفو‬
‫اذهب ةدراوال طورشلل اقفو ةيصخشال تايطعلما لقن متي‬
.‫نوناقال‬

Page 13

12

be carried out in accordance with the conditions laid down
by this law.
Art. 52. - In all cases, obtaining
authorization from the Authority to carry out the
transfer of personal data to
abroad is compulsory.
The Authority must rule on the request
authorization within a maximum period of one month from
from the presentation of the request.
When the personal data to
transfer concern a child, the request is
presented to the family judge.
CHAPTER V. Some categories
particular treatment
Section I - From data processing to
personal character by people
public
Art. 53. - The provisions of this section
apply to the processing of personal data
personnel carried out by public authorities,
local authorities and public establishments in
administrative character in the context of security
public or national defense, or for
proceed with criminal proceedings, or when said
processing is necessary for the performance of their
missions in accordance with the laws in force.
The provisions of this section apply,
in addition, to the processing of personal data
personnel carried out by public establishments of
health as well as public institutions
not belonging to the category mentioned in
previous paragraph, as part of the missions
that they ensure by having the prerogatives of the
public authority in accordance with the law
in force.
Art. 54. - The processing carried out by people
mentioned in the previous article is not subject
the provisions provided for in Articles 7, 8, 13, 27,
28, 37, 44 and 49 of this law.
Treatment performed by people
mentioned in the first paragraph of Article 53
of this law is not also subject to the
provisions of Articles 14, 15 and 42 and to
provisions of the fourth section of the fifth
chapter of this law.
Art. 55. - The persons mentioned in article 53
of this law must rectify, complete,
modify, or update the files of which they
have, as well as the erasure of data to
personal character contained in these files if
the person concerned, the guardian or the heirs has
reported by any means leaving a trace
written, the inaccuracy or insufficiency of these
data.
Art. 56. - The right of access to personal data
personnel treated by the persons mentioned in
section 53 cannot be exercised.
However, for data processed by
people mentioned in the second
paragraph of article 53 of this law, the

‫صيخرت ىلع لوصحال تالاحال لك يف بجي ـ‬52
‫لصفال نم‬
.‫جراخال ىإل ةيصخشال تايطعلما لقن يف ةئيهال‬
‫ىلعورهش هاص ن‬
‫قأ لجأ يف صيخرتال بلط يف تبت نأ ةئيهال م‬
.‫هميدقت خيرات‬
‫مدقي لفطب قلعتت اهلقن بولطلما ةيصخشال تايطعلما تناك اذإو‬
.‫ةرسألا ي ضاق ىإل صيخرتال بلطم‬

.‫سماخال بابال‬
‫ةجالعلما نم ةصاخ فانصأ يف‬
.‫لوألا مسقال‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم يف‬
‫نييمومعال صاخشألا نم‬
53 ‫لصفال‬
‫ةيمومعال تاطلسال ىلع مسقال اذه ماكحأ قبطنت ـ‬
‫ةيرادإلا ةغبصال تاذ ةيمومعال تاسسؤملاو ةيلحلما تاعامجالو‬
‫راطإ يف كلذو اهزجنت يتال ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم دنع‬
‫وأ ةيئازجال تاعبتتالب مايقلل وأ ينطوال عافدال وأ ماعال نمألا‬
‫املك موقت يتال ماهلما ذيفنتاقب‬
‫تناك اهب‬
‫ل ةيرورض ةجالعلما كلت ط‬
.‫ملعال اهب يراجال نيناوقلل‬
‫ةحصلل ةيمومعال تاسسؤملا ىلع مسقال اذه ماكحأ قبطنت امك‬
‫روكذملا فنصال ىإل يمتنت اليتال ةيمومعال تاسسؤملا كلذكو‬
‫اهزجنت يتال ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم دنع ةمدقتلما ةرقفالب‬
‫ةطلسال تايحالص المعتساب اهب‬
‫موقت يتال ماهلما راطإ يف كلذو‬
.‫ملعال هب يراجال عيرشتلل اقبط ةيمومعال‬
54 ‫لصفال‬
‫صاخشألا اهب موقي يتال ةجالعلما عضخت ال ـ‬
138 ‫و‬7 ‫لوصفال ماكحأ ىإل مدقتلما لصفالب مهيلع صوصنلماو‬
.‫ نوناقال اذه نم‬49‫ و‬44‫ و‬37‫ و‬28‫ و‬27‫و‬
‫صاخشألا اهب موقي يتال ةجالعلما عضخت ال امك نوروكذملا‬
‫اهتايضتقلماقبطو نوناقال اذه نم‬53 ‫لصفال نم ىلوألا ةرقفالب‬
‫سماخال بابال نم عبارال مسقالو‬42‫ و‬15‫ و‬14 ‫لوصفال ماكحأل‬
.‫نوناقال اذه نم‬
55 ‫لصفال‬
‫ اذه نم‬53 ‫لصفالب نيروكذملا صاخشألا ىلع بجي ـ‬
‫وأ اهمامتإ وأ مهتزوحب يتال تاقاطبال حالصإب اوموقي نأ نوناقال‬
‫اذإ اهتنمضت يتال تايطعلما ىلع بيطشتال وأ اهنييحت وأ اهليدعت‬
‫تايطعلما ةحص مدعب هتثرو وأ هيلو وأ رمألاب ينعلما مهملعأ‬
‫ارثأ كرتت ةليسو يأب كلذو اهصقن وأ اهب ةنمضلما ةيصخشال‬
.‫ايباتك‬
56 ‫لصفال‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ىإل ذافنال قح ةسرامم نكمي الـ‬
‫ اذه نم‬53 ‫لصفالب نيروكذملا صاخش‬
‫ألا نم اهتجالعم عقاوال‬
.‫نوناقال‬
‫صاخشألا نم اهتجالعم عقاوال تايطعلما ىإل ةبسنالب هنأ ريغ‬

Page 14

13

data subject, guardian, or heirs
may, for valid reasons, request
correct, complete, correct, update,
to modify or delete the data when it is
prove to be inaccurate and that they have taken
knowledge.
Art. 57. - The persons mentioned are prohibited
in article 53 of this law to communicate
personal data to individuals
private without the express consent of the person
concerned, his guardian or his heirs, given
by any means leaving a written record.
When the person concerned is a child, the
provisions of article 28 of this law
apply. Other communications
remain subject to the provisions of the laws
specific regulations in force.
Art. 58. - The person concerned, his guardian, or his
heirs may object to the processing of
personal data carried out by
persons mentioned in the second paragraph
of article 53 of this law if such processing
is contrary to the provisions of this law which
are applicable to it.
Art. 59. - The National Authority for the Protection of
Personal Data is entered, on
request of the person concerned, his guardian or
his heirs, from any dispute relating to the application of
provisions of the second paragraph of article 56
and article 58 of this law. She must return
its decision within one month of the
date of referral.
Art. 60. - In the event of dissolution or merger of
persons mentioned in article 53 of this
law, the supervisory authority must take measures
necessary for the conservation and protection of
data processed by the dissolved person or
merged.
The supervisory authority may decide to destroy the
personal data or
communicate if it considers that these data are
useful for historical exploitation and
scientists.
An administrative report is, in all
case, drawn up.
Art. 61. - The persons mentioned in article 53
of this law must destroy the data to
personal character if the period of their conservation
determined by specific laws has expired or if the
purpose for which they were collected has been achieved.
The same applies if said data is no longer
necessary for the activity pursued according to the laws in
force. An administrative report is drawn up.
Section II - From data processing to
health-related personal character
Art. 62. - Without prejudice to the provisions provided for
in article 14 of this law, the data to be
personal character relating to health may
be processed in the following cases:
1.when the person concerned, his heirs or

‫ نكمي نوناقال اذه نم‬53 ‫لصفال نم ةيناثال ةرقفالب نيروكذملا‬
‫حالصإ بلط ةهيجو بابسألو هتثرو وأ هيلو وأ رمألاب ينعملل‬
‫ييغت وأ اهنوأ اهر‬
‫ييحت وأ اهليدعت وأ اهمامتإ وأ ةيصخشال هتايطعم‬
.‫كلذب ملعو ةحيحص ريغ تناك اذإ اهيلع بيطشتال‬
57 ‫لصفال‬
‫ نم‬53 ‫لصفالب نيروكذملا صاخشألا ىلع رجحت ـ‬
‫نود ةصاخال تاوذال ىإل ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةالحإ نوناقال اذه‬
‫كرتت ةليسو يأب هتثرو وأ هيلو وأ رمألاب ينعملل ةحيرصال ةقفاوملا‬
28 ‫لصفال ماكحأ قبطت الفط رمألاب ينعلم‬
‫ايباتك ارثأ‬. ‫ا ناك اذإو‬
‫نوناقال اذه نم‬. ‫ماكحألةعضاخ كلذ ادع اميف ةالحإلا ىقبتو‬
.‫ملعال اهب يراجال ةصاخال نيناوقال‬
58 ‫لصفال‬
‫ضارتعالا هتثرو وأ هيلو وأ رمألاب ينعملل نكمي ـ‬
‫ىلع‬
‫ةرقفالب نيروكذملا صاخشألا نم ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم‬
‫ةجالعلما هذه تناك اذإ نوناقال اذه نم‬53 ‫فال نم ةيناثاللص‬
.‫نوناقال اذه نم اهيلع ةقبطنلما ماكحألل ةفالخم‬
59 ‫لصفال‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةيامحل ةينطوال ةئيهال دهعتت ـ‬
‫تاعازنال يف رظنالب هتثرو وأ هيلو وأ رمألاب ينعلما نم بلطب‬
56 ‫لصفال نم ةيناثال ةرقفال ماكحأ قيبطت نع ةئشانال‬
‫ نوناقال اذه نم‬، ‫يف اهرارق ردصت نأ اهيلعو‬58‫لجأ‬
‫اولصفل‬
.‫اهدهعت خيرات نم ةيادب رهش‬
60 ‫لصفال‬
‫ نم‬53 ‫لصفالب نيروكذملا صاخشألا لح ةروص يف ـ‬
‫ةمزالال ريبادتال فارشإلا ةطلس ذختت اهجامدنا وأ نوناقال اذه‬
‫صخشال نم اهتجالعم عقاوال ةيصخشال تايطعلما ظفحل‬
.‫اهتيامحو ج‬
‫مدنلما وأ لحنلما‬
‫وأ ةيصخشال تايطعلما مادعإ ررقت نأ فارشإلا ةطلسل نكميو‬
‫ضارغأ يف مدختست نألةحالص تايطعلما كلت نأ تأر اذإ اهتالحإ‬
.‫ةيملع وأ ةيخيرات‬
.‫ضرغال يف يرادإ رضحم تالاحال لك يف ررحيو‬
61 ‫لصفال‬
‫ اذه نم‬53 ‫لصفالب نيروكذملا صاخشألا ىلع بجي ـ‬
‫ددحلما لجألا ءاهتنا درجمب ةيصخشال تايطعلما‬
‫مادعإ نوناقال‬
‫يذال ضرغال ققحت ةروص يف وأ اهظفحل ةصاخال نيناوقالب‬
‫هب نوموقي يذال طاشنلل ةيرورض دعت مل اذإ وأ هلجأ نم تعمج‬
.‫ملعال اهب يراجال نيناوقال قفو‬. ‫يرادإ رضحم كلذ يف ررحيو‬
.‫يناثال مسقال‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم يف‬
‫ةحصالب ة‬
‫قلعتلما‬
‫زوجي نوناقال اذه نم‬14 ‫لصفال ماكحأ ةاعارم عم ـ‬
62 ‫لصفال‬
‫يف ةحصالب ةقلعتلما ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعمب مايقال‬

Page 15

14

his guardian, has given his consent to such
treatment. When the person concerned is a
child, the provisions of article 28 of this
law apply;
2.when the treatment is necessary for
achievement of purposes provided for by law or
regulations;
3.when the treatment is necessary for the
development and protection of public health
inter alia for disease research;
4.when circumstances arise that the
treatment is beneficial for the health of the
data subject or that it is necessary,
preventive or therapeutic purposes, for monitoring
his health ;
5.when the processing takes place within the framework of
scientific research in the field of
health.
Art. 63. - Processing of personal data
health-related personnel cannot be
work only by doctors or people
subject, by reason of their function, to the obligation
to keep professional secrecy.
Doctors can share the data with
personal character in their possession to
persons or establishments carrying out
scientific research in the field of health
following a request from these people or
establishments, and on the basis of an authorization
the National Data Protection Authority at
Personal character.
The body must rule on the request
authorization within a maximum period of one month from
from the date of presentation of the
request.
Art. 64. - The treatment may not exceed the duration
necessary for the achievement of the purpose for which it
is done.
Art. 65. - The authority may, when issuing
the authorization referred to in the second paragraph of
article 63 of this law, establish the precautions
and the measures to be implemented to
ensure the protection of personal data
health-related personnel.
It may prohibit the dissemination of data to
personal character relating to health.
Section III. - From data processing to
personal character within the framework of
Scientific Research
Art. 66. - Personal data
collected or recorded for research purposes
scientific cannot be processed or used
only for scientific research purposes.
Art. 67. - Personal data cannot be
must not contain elements likely to
reveal the identity of the data subject when
the requirements of scientific research
allow. Data concerning the situation
of an identified or identifiable natural person
must be recorded separately and not

:‫ةيالتال تالاحال‬
1 ‫ناك‬
‫كلذ ىلع هيلو وأ هتثرو وأ رمألاب ينعلما قفاو اذإ ـ‬. ‫اذإو‬
.‫ نوناقال اذه نم‬28 ‫لصفال ماكحأ قبطت الفط رمألاب ينعلما‬
2 ‫وأ‬
‫نوناقال اهيضتقي ضارغأ قيقحتل ةمزال ةجالعلما تناك اذإ ـ‬
.‫بيتارتال‬
3
‫اهتيامحو ةيمومعال ةحصال ريوطتل ةيرورض ةجالعلما تناك اذإ ـ‬
.‫ضارمألا نع ثحبال كلذ يف امب‬
4
‫رمألاب ينعلما ىلع دوعتس ةجالعلما نأ فورظال نم حضتا اذإ ـ‬
‫تم اهتضتقا وأ يحصال ىوتسلما ىلع ةدئافالبال هتالح ةعباةيحص‬
.‫ةيجالع وأ ةيئاقو ضارغأل‬
.‫ةحصال الجم يف يملعال ثحبال قاطن يف ةجالعلما تناك اذإ ـ‬
5
63 ‫لصفال‬
‫ةقلعتلما ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم متت الـ‬
‫مهماهم مكحب نيعضاخ صاخشأ وأ ءابطأ لبق نم الإ ةحصالب‬
.‫يهنلما رسال ىلع ةظفاحلما بجاو ىإل‬
‫زوجيومهتزوحب يتال ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةالحإ‬
‫ءابطألل ىإل‬
‫ةحصال الجم يف يملعال ثحبالب موقت تاسسؤم وأ صاخشأ‬
‫ةينطوال ةئيهال نم صيخرت ى ضتقمبو اهنع رداص بلط ىلع ءانب‬
.‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةيامحل‬
‫نم رهش هاصقأ لجأ يف صيخرتال بلط يف تبت نأ ةئيهال ىلعو‬
.‫هميدقت خيرات‬

‫قيقحتل ةيرورضال ةدملا ةجالعلما زواجتت نأ ن‬
‫كمي الـ‬64 ‫لصفال‬
.‫هلجأ نم تيرجأ يذال ضرغال‬
65 ‫لصفال‬
‫راشلما صيخرتال دانسإ دنع ددحت نأ ةئيهلل نكمي ـ‬
‫ نوناقال اذه نم‬63 ‫لصفال نم ةيناثال ةرقفال يف هيإل‬
‫ةيامح نامضل اهذاختا بجاوال تاءارجإلاو تاطايتحالا‬
‫ة‬. ‫حصالب ةقلعتلما ةيصخشال تايطعلما‬
‫ةقلعتلما ةيصخشال تايطعلما رشن رجحت نأ ةئيهلل نكميو‬
.‫ةحصالب‬
.‫ثالثالفمسقال‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم يفالجم ي‬
‫يملعال ثحبال‬
66 ‫لصفال‬
‫اهعمج مت يتال ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم نكمي ال ـ‬
‫فادهألالإ اهالمعتسا وأ يملعال ثحبال تاياغل اهليجست وأ‬
.‫يملعال ثحبال‬
67 ‫لصفال‬
‫هنأش نم امم ةيصخشال تايطعلما درجت نأ بجي ـ‬
‫ثحبال تايضتقم تحمس املك رمألاب ينعلما ةيوه ىلع ةلالدال‬
‫كلذب يملعال‬. ‫ةيعضو ىلع لدت يتال تايطعلما ليجست بجيو‬
‫عقي الو ةلصفنم ةفصب فيرعتلل لباق وأ ّفرعم يعيبط صخش‬

Page 16

15

can be gathered with the data
concerning the person only if they turn out
necessary for research purposes.
Art. 68. - Dissemination of personal data
personnel being treated in the
framework of scientific research cannot take place
only when the person concerned, his heirs or
guardian, have given their express consent by
any means leaving a written record; or
when this dissemination proves necessary for the
presentation of research results relating to
events or phenomena existing at
time of said presentation.
When the person concerned is a child, the
provisions of article 28 of this law
apply.
Section IV - From data processing to
personal character for video purposessurveillance
Art. 69. - Subject to the legislation in force,
the use of video surveillance is
subject to prior authorization from the Authority
National Data Protection Authority
Staff.
The Authority must rule on the request
authorization within a maximum period of one month from
from the date of presentation of said
request.
Art. 70. - The means of surveillance mentioned in
the previous article can only be used in
the following places:
1. places open to the public and their entrances;
2.parks, means of public transport,
stations, seaports and airports;
3. collective workplaces.

Art. 71. - Means of video surveillance
mentioned in the previous article cannot be
used in the places indicated in the article
previous only if they are necessary to ensure the
personal safety, accident prevention,
protection of property or organization of entry
and the exit of these spaces.
In any case, video recordings do not
may be accompanied by recordings
sound.
Art. 72. - The public must be informed in a manner
clear and permanent existence of means of
video surveillance.
Art. 73. - It is forbidden to communicate
video recordings collected for the purpose of
surveillance except in the following cases:
1.when the person concerned, his heirs or
his guardian, have given their consent. When
the person concerned is a child, the
provisions of article 28 of this law
apply;
2.when communication is necessary to
the exercise of the missions devolved to the authorities

‫ورض تناك اذإ الإ صخشالب ةصاخال تايطعلما عم اهعيمجتيرة‬
.‫ثحبلل‬
68 ‫لصفال‬
‫اهتجالعم عقاوال ةيصخشال تايطعلما رشن زوجي الـ‬
‫هيلو وأ هتثرو وأ رمألاب ينعلما قفاو اذإ الإ يملعال ثحبال راطإ يف‬
‫كلذ ناك اذإ وأ ايباتك ارثأ كرتت ةليسو يأب ةحارص كلذ ىلع‬
‫ةمئاق رهاوظ وأ ثادحأب ةقلعتلما ثحبال جئاتن ميدقتل ايرورض‬
.‫ا ميدقت نمزجئاتنل‬
‫ اذه نم‬28 ‫لصفال ماكحأ قبطت الفط رمألاب ينعلما ناك اذإو‬
.‫نوناقال‬

.‫عبارال مسقال‬
‫ضارغألةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم يف‬
‫ةيرصبال ةبقارملا‬
69 ‫لصفال‬
‫ ملعال هب يراجال عيرشتال ةاعارم عم ـ‬، ‫عضخي‬
‫ةئيهال نم قبسم صيخرت ىإل ةيرصبال ةبقارملا لئاسو المعتسا‬
.‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةيا‬
‫محل ةينطوال‬
ّ
‫رهش هاصقأ لجأ يف صيخرتال بلط يف‬
‫ىلعو‬
‫تبت نأ ةئيهال نم‬
.‫هميدقت خيرات‬
70 ‫لصفال‬
‫لصفالب ةروكذملا ةبقارملا لئاسو المعتسا نكمي الـ‬
:‫ةيالتال نكامألاب الإ مدقتلما‬
.‫اهلخادمو مومعلل ةحوتفلما تاءاضفال ـ‬
1
‫ىوآملا ـ‬2
‫اهيناومو اهتاطحمو مومعال نم ةملعتسلما لقنال لئاسوو‬
.‫ةيوجالو ةيرحبال‬
.‫ ةيعامجال ملعال نكامأ ـ‬3
‫ةيرصبال ةبقارملا لئاسو المعتسا نكمي ال ـ‬71
‫لصفاليف‬
‫ةيرورض تناك اذإ الإ مدقتلما لصفالب اهيلع صوصنلما نكامألا‬
‫ةيامحو ثداوحال نم ةياقوالو صاخشألا ةمالس نامضل‬
.‫اهنم جورخالو تاءاضفال ىإل لوخدال ةكرح ميظنتل وأ تاكلت‬
‫ملما‬
‫ تالاحال لك يفو‬، ‫ةقوفرم ةيرصبال تاليجستال نوكت نأ زوجي ال‬
.‫ةيتوص تاليجستب‬
72 ‫لصفال‬
‫دوجوب ةرمتسمو ةحضاو ةقيرطب مومعال مالعإ بجي ـ‬
.‫ةيرصب ةبقارم لئاسو‬
73 ‫لصفال‬
‫مج عقاوال ةيرصبال تاليجستال ةالحإ زوجت الـاهع‬
:‫ةيالتال تالاحال يف الإ ةبقارملا ضارغأل‬
1 ‫رمألاب‬
‫هيلو وأ هتثرو وأ رمألاب ينعلما قفاو اذإ ـ‬. ‫ينعلما ناك اذإو‬
.‫ نوناقال اذه نم‬28 ‫لصفال ماكحأ قبطت الفط‬
.‫ةيمومعال ةطلسال ىإل ةلوكوملا ماهلما ذيفنتل ةيرورض تناك اذإ ـ‬
2
3
‫عبتت وأ اهنع فشكال وأ‬
‫ةميرج ةنياعم ةياغل ةيرورض تناك اذإ ـ‬

Page 17

16

public;
3.when communication is necessary
for the recognition, discovery or prosecution
criminal offenses.
Art. 74. - Video recordings must be
destroyed when they are no longer needed for
achievement of the purposes for which they were
carried out or when the interest of the person
concerned requires its deletion unless these
records do not prove useful for
investigation and prosecution of criminal offenses.
CHAPTER VI. The national body of
Protection of Personal Data
Art. 75. - It is established, by virtue of this law,
an Authority called "The National Authority for
Protection of Personal Data "
having legal personality and enjoying
financial autonomy. Its headquarters are located in Tunis.
The budget of the Authority is linked to the budget of the
Ministry in charge of Human Rights.
The modalities of operation of the Authority are
fixed by decree.
Art. 76. - The National Authority for the Protection of
Personal Data is responsible for
following missions:
- grant authorizations, receive
declarations for the implementation of the treatment
personal data, or withdraw it
in the cases provided for by this law;
- receive complaints brought within the framework of the
jurisdiction assigned to it by virtue of
this law;
- determine the essential guarantees and
appropriate measures for the protection of
personal data;
- access personal data by
subject to processing in order to proceed to their
verification, and collect the information
essential for the performance of its missions;
- give its opinion on any subject related to the
provisions of this law;
- develop rules of conduct relating to
processing of personal data;
- participate in research and training activities
and study in relation to the protection of
personal data, and in a manner
general to any activity related to his
area of ​intervention.
Art. 77. - The authority may proceed to
investigations required by collecting the
statements by any person whose hearing is
deemed useful and by ordering that
findings in the premises and places where the
treatment with the exception of living quarters.
The Authority may be assisted, within the framework of
its missions, by sworn officers of the
ministry in charge of
communication to conduct research and
specific expertise, or by experts
judicial authorities, or by any person who considers it useful to

.‫اهبكترم‬

74 ‫لصفال‬
‫ريغ تحبصأ اذإ ةيرصبال تاليجستال مادعإ بجي ـ‬
‫تناك اذإ وأ اهلجأ نم تعضو يتال ةياغال قيقحتل ةيرورض‬
‫ةيرورض تناك اذإ الإ اهئاقبإ مدع ي ضتقت رمألاب ينعلما ةحلصم‬
.‫ةيئازجال تاعبتتال يف تايرحتالو ثاحبألا ءارجإل‬
.‫سداسال بابال‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةيامحل ةينطوال ةئيهال‬
75 ‫لصفال‬
‫ ىمست ةئيه نوناقال اذه بجومب تثدحأ ـ‬:" ‫ةئيهال‬
‫ "ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةيامحل ةينطوال‬، ‫ةيصخشالب عتمتتو‬
.‫ةمصاعال سنوتب اهرقم نوكيو يالملا لالقتسالاو ةيونعلما‬
‫نا‬. ‫نإلا قوقحب ةفلكلما ةرازوال ةينازيمب ةئيهال ةينازيم قحلتوس‬
.‫رمأ ى ضتقمب ةئيهال ريس قرط طبضتو‬
76 ‫لصفال‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةيامحل ةينطوال ةئيهال ىلوتت ـ‬
:‫ةيالتال ماهلماب مايقال‬
‫تايطعلما ةجالعمب مايقلل حيراصتال يّقلتو صيخارتال حنم ـ‬
، ‫نوناقال اذهب ةررقلما روصال يف اهبحس وأ ةيصخشال‬
‫اهي‬
‫ف اهيلع ةضورعلما تاياكشال يّقلتإل ـلوكوملا صاصتخالا راطإ ي‬
، ‫نوناقال اذه ى ضتقمب‬
‫تايطعلما ةيامحل ةمئالملا ريبادتالو ةيرورضال تانامضال ديدحت ـ‬
‫ة ةيصخشال‬
‫عمجو اهنم تبثتال دصق ةجالعلما عوضوم تايطعلما ىإل ذافنال ـ‬
، ‫اهماهم ةسراملمةيرورضال تاداشرإلا‬
، ‫نوناقال اذه ماكحأب‬
‫ةقالعال تاذ لئاسلما عيمج يف يأرال ءادبإ ـ‬
، ‫الجلما يف ةيكولس دعاوق دادعإ ـ‬
‫ةقالعال تاذ ةساردالو نيوكتالو ثحبال ةطشنأ يف ةمهاسلما ـ‬
‫هل رخآ طاشن لك يف ةماع ةفصبو ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةيامحب‬
.‫اهلخدت ناديمب ةقالع‬

‫ عامس نم ةمزالال ثاحبألا يرجت نأ ةئيهلل ـ‬77
‫لصفال لك‬
‫تارقلماب تانياعلما ءارجإب نذإلاو هع‬
‫امس يف ةدئاف ىرت صخش‬
‫ىنكسال تالحم ءانثتساب ةجالعلما اهيف تمت يتال نكامألاو‬. ‫نكميو‬
‫ةفلكلما ةرازوالب نيفلحلما ناوعألاب اهالمعأ يف نيعتست نأ‬
‫ءاربخب وأ ةصاخ تارابتخاو ثاحبأ ءارجإل الصتالا تايجولونكتب‬
.‫فإ يف مهاسي نأ نكمي هنأ ىرت صخش يأب وأ نييلدعاهتدا‬
‫تغلب يتال مئارجالب ايبارت صتخلما ةيروهمجال ليكو مالعإ اهيلعو‬
.‫اهلمع راطإ يف اهملع ىإل‬

Page 18

17

participation.
The Authority must inform the prosecutor of the
Territorial jurisdiction of all
the offenses of which it became aware in the
part of his work.
Professional secrecy cannot be opposed to
the instance.
Art. 78. - The Authority is composed as follows:
- a president chosen from among the personalities
competent in the field;
- one member chosen from among the members of the
House of Representatives ;
- one member chosen from among the members of the
Chamber of Councilors.
- a representative of the Prime Ministry;
- two third grade magistrates;
- two magistrates of the administrative court;
- a representative of the Ministry of the Interior;
- a representative of the Ministry of Defense
National;
- a representative of the Ministry responsible for
Communication Technologies;
- a researcher from the Ministry in charge of Research
Scientist ;
- a doctor from the Ministry of Health
Public;
- a member of the Higher Committee for Human Rights
Man and Fundamental Freedoms;
- one member chosen from among experts in the field of
communication technologies;
The president and members of the Authority are
appointed for three years by decree.
Art. 79. - It is forbidden for the president of the Instance and
to its members to have, directly or
indirectly, interests in any business
which operates in the field of
processing of personal data either
in an automated way, or in a manual way.
Art. 80. - The president and members of the Authority
must safeguard the secrecy of
personal data and information
of which they became aware because of their
quality, even after the loss of this quality
unless otherwise provided by law.
Art. 81. - The authority may decide after hearing the
controller or processor of
withdraw the authorization or prohibit the processing if it
violated the obligations provided for by the
this law.
Procedures for withdrawal of authorization or
the prohibition of treatment are fixed by decree.
Art. 82. - The decisions of the Authority are reasoned
and notified to the persons concerned by bailiff
of justice.
The decisions of the Authority are likely to
appeal to the Tunis Court of Appeal in a
a period of one month from their notification. It is
ruled on the appeal in accordance with the provisions of the Code
of civil and commercial procedure.
The decisions of the Authority are executed

.‫يهنلما رسالب ةئيهال ضراعت نأ نكمي الو‬

:‫نم ةئيهال بكرتت ـ‬78 ‫لصفال‬
، ‫الجلما يف ةصتخلما تايصخشال نيب نم هرايتخا عقي سيئر ـ‬
، ‫سلجم ءاضعأ نيب نم هرايتخا عقي وضع ـ باونال‬
، ‫نيراشتسلما سلجم ءاضعأ نيب نم هرايتخا عقي وضع ـ‬
، ‫ىلوألا ةرازوال نع لثمم ـ‬
، ‫ةثالثال ةبترال نم نييضاق ـ‬
، ‫ةيرادإلا ةمكحلما نم نييضاق ـ‬
، ‫ةيلخادال ةرازو نع لثمم ـ‬
، ‫ينطوال عافدال ةرازو نع لثمم ـ‬
، ‫الصتالا تايجولونكتب ةفلكلما ةرازوال نع لثمم ـ‬
، ‫يملعال ثحبالب ةفلكلما ةرازو‬
‫ال نع ثحاب ـ‬
، ‫ةيمومعال ةحصالب ةفلكلما ةرازوال نع بيبط ـ‬
، ‫ةيساسألا تايرحالو ناسنإلا قوقحل ايلعال ةئيهال نع وضع ـ‬
‫الجم يف نيصتخلما ءاربخال نيب نم هرايتخا عقي وضع ـ‬
.‫الصتالا تايجولونكت‬
‫ثالث ةدملرمأ ى ضتقمب اهئاضعأو ةئيهال سيئر نييعت عقيو‬
.‫تاونس‬
‫اوكلتمي نأ اهئاضعأو ةئيهال سيئرل زوجي الـ‬79
‫ةفصب‬
‫لصفال‬
‫يف اهطاشن سرامت ةسسؤم يف حالصم ةرشابم ريغ وأ ةرشابم‬
.‫ةيودي وأ ةيآل ةفصب ءاوس ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم الجم‬
‫ةظفاحلما اهئاضعأو ةئيهال سيئر ىلع بجي ـ‬80‫ىلع‬
‫لصفال‬
‫ب ملعال مهل لصحاه‬
‫يتال تامولعلماو ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةيرس‬
.‫كلذ فالخ نوناقال ضتقي مل ام اهالوز دعب ولو مهتفص بجومب‬
81‫نع‬
‫لوؤسلما عامس دعب ررقت نأ ةئيهلل نكمي ـ‬
‫لصفال‬
ّ‫لخأ اذإ ةجالعلما عنم وأ صيخرتال بحس لوانلما وأ ةجالعلما‬
.‫نوناقال اذهب اهيلع صوصنلما تابجاوالب‬
.‫طبضتوى ضتقمب ةجالعلما‬
‫عنم وأ صيخرتال بحس تاءارجإ رمأ‬

‫نيينعلما ىإل غلبتو ةللعم ةئيهال تارارق نوكت ـ‬82‫اهب‬
‫لصفال‬
.‫ذفنم لدع ةطساوب‬
‫سنوتب فانئتسالا ةمكحم مامأ ةئيهال تارارق يف نعطال نكميو‬
‫اهب مالعإلا خيرات نم رهش لجأ يف‬. ‫تبالو نعطال يف رظنال عقيو‬
‫ةير‬.‫اجتالو ةيندملا تاعفارملا ةلجم ماكحأ قفو هيف‬
‫اهيف نعطال نع رظنال عطقب ةئيهال تارارق ذفنتو‬. ‫سيئرلل زوجيو‬

Page 19

18

notwithstanding the appeal against them. The
first president of the Tunis Court of Appeal may
order in summary proceedings the suspension of their execution
until a decision is taken on the appeal when
this execution is likely to cause a
irreversible harm. The decision ordering the
suspension is not susceptible to any
recourse. The court hearing the case must rule on the
appeal within a period not exceeding three months to
from the date of its referral.
The judgments delivered by the Tunis Court of Appeal are
subject to appeal in cassation before the court
of cassation.
Art. 83. - The author of the request must record the
costs of expertise and notification of decisions
as well as the various necessary costs determined
by the President of the Authority.
Art. 84. - The movable or immovable property of
the State necessary for the execution of
The Instance can be assigned to it by assignment.
In the event of the dissolution of L'Instance, its property shall be
transmit to the State which carries out the
obligations and commitments of the Authority
in accordance with the legislation in force.
Art. 85. - The Authority transmits an annual report on
his activity to the President of the Republic.
CHAPTER VII. Sanctions
Art. 86. - Is punished by imprisonment of two to
five years and a fine of five thousand dinars to
fifty thousand dinars, anyone who violates
provisions of article 50 of this law.
The attempt is punishable.
Art. 87. - Is punished by imprisonment for two
years and a fine of ten thousand dinars, whoever
violates the provisions of Article 13 as well as the
paragraph 1 of article 14, paragraph
1 of article 28, paragraph 1 of
article 63 and articles 70 and 71 of this law.
Is also punished by the same penalties provided for in
previous paragraph, the one who violates the
provisions of paragraph 1 of article 27
as well as articles 31, 44 and 68 of this law.

‫فيقوتب ايالجعتسا نذأي نأ سنوتب فانئتسالا ةمكحلم لوألا‬
‫اهذيفنت نأش نم ناك اذإ كلذو نعطال يف تبال نيح ىإل اهذيفنت‬
‫هكرادت نكمي ال اررض ببسي نأ‬. ‫النأشال اذه يف رداصال رارقالو‬
‫تبال ةيضقالب ةدهعتلما ةمكحلما ىلعو‬.‫لبقي‬
‫هجو يأب نعطال يف‬
.‫اهدهعت خيرات نم رهشأ ةثالث زواجتي ال لجأ لالخ نعطال‬
‫نعطال سنوتب فانئتسالا ةمكحم نع ةرداصال ماكحألا لبقتو‬
.‫بيقعتال ةمكحم مامأ بيقعتالب‬

83 ‫لصفال‬
‫رابتخالا فيراصم نمؤي نأ يكاشال ىلع بجي ـ‬
‫اهددحي يتال ةمزالال فيراص‬
‫ملا نم اهريغو تارارقالب مالعإلاو‬
.‫ةئيهال سيئر‬
84 ‫لصفال‬
‫صيصختال قيرط نع ةئيهال ىإل دنست نأ نكمي ـ‬
.‫اهماهمب مايقلل ةيرورضال ةلوقنلما ريغو ةلوقنلما ةلودال تاكلتمم‬
‫ذيفنت ىلوتت يتال ةلودال ىإل اهتاكلتمم عجرت ةئيهال لح ةروص يفو‬
.‫يراجال عيرشتلل اقبط اهتادهعتو اهتامازتال ملعال هب‬
‫ايونس اريرقت ةيروهمجال سيئر ىإل ةئيهال عفرت ـ‬
85 ‫لصفال‬
‫لوح‬
.‫اهطاشن‬
.‫عباسال بابال‬
‫تابوقعال يف‬
86 ‫لصفال‬
‫ةيطخبو ماوعأ ةسمخ ىإل نيماع نم نجسالب بقاعي ـ‬
‫ماكحأ فالخ نم لك رانيد فأل نيسمخ ىإل فالآ ةسمخ نم‬
.‫ نوناقال اذه نم‬50 ‫لصفال‬
.‫باقعلل ةبجوم ةلواحلماو‬
87 ‫لصفال‬
‫ةرشع اهردق ةيطخبو نيماع ةدم نجسالب بقاعي ـ‬
‫ نم ىلوألا ةرقفالو‬13 ‫لصفال ماكحأ فالخ نم لك رانيد فالآ‬
‫ نم ىلوألا ةرقفالو‬28 ‫ لصفال نم ىلوألا ةرقفالو‬14 ‫لصفال‬
.‫ نوناقال اذه نم‬71‫ و‬70 ‫ نيلصفالو‬63 ‫لصفال‬
‫مدقتلما ةرقفالب اهيلع صوصنلما تابوقعال سفنب بقاعي امك ة‬
31 ‫ لوصفالو‬27 ‫لصفال نم ىلوألا ةرقفال ماكحأ فالخ نم لك‬
.‫ نوناقال اذه نم‬68‫ و‬44‫و‬

Art. 88. - Is punished by one year's imprisonment and
a fine of ten thousand dinars, whoever bears
a person to give consent for the
processing of their personal data using
fraud, violence or threat.
Art. 89. - Is punished by one year's imprisonment and
a fine of five thousand dinars, whoever
intentionally communicates data to
personal character to make a profit for
his personal account or the account of others or
to cause harm to the person concerned.
Art. 90. - Is punished with one year's imprisonment and
a fine of five thousand dinars, whoever:
- intentionally performs processing of
personal data without presenting the
declaration provided for in article 7 or without obtaining

‫ةرشع اهردق ةيطخبو ماع ةدم نجسالب بقاعي ـ‬88
‫لصفالفالآ‬

of the authorization provided for in Articles 15 and 69 of the
this law, or continues to process
data after the prohibition of processing or the
withdrawal of authorization.
- disseminate personal data relating to
to health notwithstanding the prohibition of the Authority
mentioned in the second paragraph of article 65
of this law;
- transfer personal data to
abroad without the authorization of the Authority;
- communicate personal data
without the consent of the data subject or
the agreement of the Authority in the cases provided for by the
this law.
Art. 91. - Is punished with one year's imprisonment and
a fine of five thousand dinars, the person responsible
processing or the processor who continues to
process personal data despite
the opposition of the person concerned made
in accordance with the provisions of article 42 of the
this law.
Art. 92. - Is punished by eight months imprisonment
and a fine of three thousand dinars, the
controller or the processor who
intentionally limits or hinders the exercise of
right of access in cases other than those provided for in
article 35 of this law.
Art. 93. - Is punished by three months imprisonment
and a fine of three thousand dinars whoever
intentionally disseminates personal data
personnel, during their treatment, of a
way that harms the data subject or their
private life.
The penalty is one month's imprisonment and one
fine of one thousand dinars when the broadcast was
performed without the intention of harming.
The person concerned can ask the court
order the publication of an extract of the judgment
in one or more daily newspapers,
appearing in Tunisia chosen by the person
concerned. Publication costs are supported
by the condemned.
Prosecutions can only be initiated at the
request of the person concerned.
Withdrawal stops the prosecution, the trial or
the execution of the sentence.
Art. 94. - Is punished by three months imprisonment
and a fine of a thousand dinars anyone who violates the
provisions of Articles 12, 18, and 19, as well as
paragraphs 1 and 2 of article 20, and
Articles 21, 37, 45, 64 and 74 of this law.
Is also punished by the same penalties provided for in
previous paragraph anyone who collects
personal data for illegitimate purposes
or contrary to public order or trafficking
intentionally personal data
inaccurate, not up-to-date or failing to
are not required for the processing activity.

7 ‫لصفالب هيلع صوصنلما‬
‫صوصنلما صيخرتال ىلع لوصحال وأ‬

‫ةجالعم ىلع هتقفاوم ءاطعإ ىلع اصخش ملح نم لك رانيد‬
.‫ديدهتال وأ فنعال وأ ةليحال المعتساب ةيصخشال هتايطعم‬
‫ةسمخ اهردق ةيطخبو ماع ةدم نجسال‬
‫ بقاعي ـ‬89
‫لصفال ب‬
‫ةياغل ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةالحإ دمعت نم لك رانيد فالآ‬
.‫رمألاب ينعلماب ةرضم قاحلإل وأ هريغل وأ هسفنل ةعفنم قيقحت‬
90 ‫لصفال‬
‫ةسمخ اهردق ةيطخبو ماع ةدم نجسالب بقاعي ـ‬
:‫نم لك رانيد فالآ‬
‫ميدقت نود ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةجالعم دمعتي ـحيرصتال‬

Page 20

19

69‫ و‬15 ‫نيلصفالب هيلع‬
‫ةجالعم يف رمتسي وأ نوناقال اذه نم‬
، ‫صيخرتال بحس وأ ةجالعلما عنم دعب تايطعلما‬
‫ةئيهال ريجحت مغر ةحصالب ةقلعتلما ةيصخشال تايطعلما رشني ـ‬
، ‫ منوناقال اذه ن‬65 ‫لصفال نم ةيناثال ةرقفالب هيلع صوصنلما‬
، ‫ةئيهال صيخرت نود جراخال ىإل ةيصخشال تايطعلما لقنب موقي ـ‬
‫ةقفاوم وأ رمألاب ينعلما ةقفاوم نود ةيصخشال تايطعلما ليحي ـ‬
.‫نوناقال اذهب اهيلع صوصنلما روصال يف ةئيهال‬

91 ‫لصفال‬
‫ةسمخ اهردق ةيطخبو ماع ةدم نجسالب بقاعي ـ‬
‫ةجالعم لصاوي يذال لوانلما وأ ة‬
‫جالعلما نع لوؤسلما رانيد فالآ‬
‫ماكحأ قفو رمألاب ينعلما ضارتعا مغر ةيصخشال تايطعلما‬
.‫ نوناقال اذه نم‬42 ‫لصفال‬
92 ‫لصفال‬
‫اهردق ةيطخبو رهشأ ةينامث ةدم نجسالب بقاعي ـ‬
‫ىإل دمعي يذال لوانلما وأ ةجالعلما نع لوؤسلما رانيد فالآ ةثالث‬
‫صوصنلما روصال ريغ يف هنم‬
‫نامرحال وأ ذافنال قح نم ّدحال‬
.‫ نوناقال اذه نم‬35 ‫لصفالب اهيلع‬
93 ‫لصفال‬
‫اهردق ةيطخبو رهشأ ةثالث ةدم نجسالب بقاعي ـ‬
‫تايطعلما ةجالعم ةبسانمب ّدمعتي نم لك رانيد فالآ ةثالث‬
.‫ةصاخال هتايحل وأ اهبحاصل ءي ست ةقيرطب اهرشن ةيصخشال‬
‫اهردق ةيطخبو رهش ةدم نجسالب باقعال نوكيو اذإ رانيد فأل‬
.‫رارضإلا دصق نود رشنال مت‬
‫رشنب نذأت نأ ةمكحلما نم بلطي نأ رمألاب ينعملل نكميو‬
‫رثكأ وأ ةيسنوتال دالبالب ةرداص ةيموي ةفيحصب مكحال نومضم‬
.‫اهراتخي‬. ‫هيلع موكحلما ىلع رشنال فيراصم ملحتو‬
.‫رمألاب ينعلما نم بلطب الإ عبتتال غوسي الو‬
.‫باقعال ذيفنت وأ ةمكاحلما وأ ع‬
‫بتتال طاقسإلا فقويو‬

94‫فأل‬
‫اهردق ةيطخبو رهشأ ةثالث ةدم نجسالب بقاعي ـ‬
‫لصفال‬
‫ نيترقفالو‬19‫ و‬18‫ و‬12 ‫لوصفال ماكحأ فالخي نم لك رانيد‬
74‫ و‬64‫ و‬45‫ و‬37‫ و‬21 ‫ لوصفالو‬20 ‫لصفال نم ةيناثالو ىلوألا‬
.‫نوناقال اذه نم‬
‫ةرقفالب اهيلع صوصنلما تابوقعال سفنب بقاعيودقتلما لك ةم‬
‫وأ ةعورشم ريغ ضارغألةيصخشال تايطعلما عمج ىلوتي نم‬
‫تايطعم ةجالعم دصق نع ىلوتي وأ ماعال ماظنلل ةفالخم‬
‫طاشنل ةيرورض ريغ وأ ةنّيحم ريغ وأ ةحيحص ريغ ةيصخش‬
.‫ةجالعلما‬

Page 21
Art. 95. - Is punished by a fine of ten thousand dinars,
the person to whom the data was
communicated that does not respect the guarantees and
the measures that the Authority has set for it
in accordance with the provisions of the second
paragraph of article 47 and of the first
paragraph of article 65 of this law.
Art. 96. - Is punished by a fine of five thousand
dinars, anyone who:
- hinders the work of the National Authority for
Protection of Personal Data in
preventing him from carrying out investigations or
refusing to issue the required documents;
- communicates in bad faith to the Authority or
notify the data subject,
intentionally inaccurate information.
Art. 97. - Article 254 of the Penal Code applies to
controller, the processor, their
agents, the President of the Authority and its members
who disclose the content of personal data
personnel except in the cases provided for by law.
Art. 98. - Is punished with a fine of one thousand dinars, the
controller, processor,
bankruptcy trustee or liquidator who violates the
provisions of article 24 of this law.

20

Art. 99. - Is punished with a fine of one thousand dinars, the
controller or the processor who
violates the provisions of article 39 of this
law.
Art. 100. - In addition to the penalties provided for in Articles
precedents of this law, the court may, in
in any case, decide to withdraw the authorization of the
treatment or to suspend treatment.
Art. 101. - When the offender is a
legal person, the penalties provided for above are
applicable personally and depending on the case
legal or de facto leader of the legal person
including responsibility for acts
completed has been established.

Art. 102. - The offenses provided for in this chapter
are observed by judicial police officers
mentioned in numbers 1 to 4 of article 10 of the
Code of Criminal Procedure, and by officers
sworn in from the ministry in charge of technology
communication; the minutes are
established in accordance with the procedures laid down by
said code.
Art. 103. - Penal mediation can be carried out
in the offenses provided for in the second
paragraph of article 87, as well as articles 89
and 91 of this law in accordance with the ninth
chapter of the fourth book of the Code of Procedure
criminal.
Miscellaneous
Art. 104. - The contrary provisions are repealed
to this law and in particular Articles 38, 41 and

95‫هل‬
‫الحلما رانيد فالآ ةرشع اهردق ةيطخب بقاعي ـ‬
‫لصفال‬
‫قبط ةئيهال هل اهددحت يتال تاءارجإلاو‬
‫تانامضالب مزتلي ال يذال‬
‫ لصفال نم ىلوألا ةرقفالو‬47 ‫لصفال نم ةيناثال ةرقفال ماكحأ‬
. ‫ نوناقال اذه نم‬65
:‫ لك رانيد فالآ ةسمخ اهردق ةيطخب بقاعي ـ‬96
‫لصفال نم‬
ّ
‫المعألضرعتي ـ‬
‫ةيصخشال تايطعلما ةيامحل ةينطوال ةئيهال‬
‫قئاثوال ميلست ضفرب وأ‬
‫ةيناديلما المعألا زاجنإ نم اهعنمب‬
، ‫ةبولطلما‬
‫رمألاب ينعلما مالعإ وأ ةئيهال ىإل ءالدإلا ةين ءوس نع ىلوتي ـ‬
.‫ةقيقحلل ةفالخم تانايبب‬
‫ىلع ةيئانجال ةلجلما نم‬254‫لصفال قبطني ـ‬97 ‫لصفال‬
‫اهئاضعأو ةئيهال سيئرو امهناوعأو لوانلماو ةجالعلما نع لوؤسلما‬
‫صوصنلما تالاحال يف الإ ةيصخ‬
‫شال تايطعلما ىوتحم اوشفأ اذإ‬
.‫نوناقالب اهيلع‬
‫ لوؤسلما رانيد فأل اهردق ةيطخب بقاعي ـ‬98
‫لصفال نع‬
‫فالخي يذال يفصلما وأ ةسلفال نيمأ وأ لوانلما وأ ةجالعلما‬
.‫ نوناقال اذه نم‬24 ‫لصفال ماكحأ‬
‫ لوؤسلما رانيد فأل اهردق ةيطخب بقاعي ـ‬99
‫لصفال نع‬
‫ اذه نم‬39 ‫يذال لوانلما وأ ةجالعلمالصفال ماكحأ فالخي‬
.‫نوناقال‬
‫لوصفالب اهيلع صوصنلما تابوقعال ىلع ةوالع ـ‬
100‫لصفال‬
‫ررقت نأ تالاحال لك يف ةمكحملل نكمي نوناقال اذه نم ةمدقتلما‬
.‫ةجالعلما فاقيإ وأ ةجالعلما يف صيخرتال بحس‬
101‫لصفال‬
‫قبطت ايونعم اصخش فالخلما نوكي امدنع ـ‬
‫بسحو ةيصخش ةفصب ةقباسال لوصفالب اهيإل‬
‫راشلما تابوقعال‬
‫يذال يونعلما صخشلل يلعفال وأ ينوناقال ّريسلما ىلع ةالحال‬
.‫ةبكترملا المعألا نع هتيلوؤسم تتبث‬
‫نم بابال اذهب ةنيبلما مئارجال ةنياعم عقت ـ‬102
‫لصفاللبق‬
‫ نم‬4 ‫ ىإل‬1 ‫نم دادعألاب نيروكذملا ةيلدعال ةطباضال يرومأم‬
‫نيفلحلما ناوعألاو ةيئازجال تاءارجإلا ةلج‬
‫ م نم‬10 ‫لصفال‬
‫رضاحلما ررحتو الصتالا تايجولونكتب ةفلكلما ةرازولل نيعباتال‬
.‫ةروكذملا ةلجلماب اهيلع صوصنلما تاءارجإلا قفو‬
103‫نم‬
‫ةيناثال ةرقفالب ةررقلما مئارجال يف نكمي ـ‬
‫لصفال‬
‫حلصال ءارجإ نوناقال اذه نم‬91‫ و‬89 ‫ نيلصفالبو‬87 ‫لصفال‬
‫ابةطاسول‬
‫ةلجم نم عبارال باتكال نم عساتال بابال ماكحأ قفو ةيئازجال‬
.‫ةيئازجال تاءارجإلا‬
‫ةفلتخم ماكحأ‬
‫نوناقال اذهل ةفالخلما ماكحألا عيمج تيغأل ـ‬
104‫لصفال‬

Page 22
42 of law n ° 2000-83 of August 9, 2000 relating to
electronic trade and commerce.

Art. 105. - Persons carrying out an activity of
processing of personal data at the
date of promulgation of this law shall
comply with its provisions within one
year from the date of its entry into force.
This organic law will be published in the Journal
Official of the Republic of Tunisia and executed
as state law.
Tunis, July 27, 2004.

‫ةنسل‬83 ‫ ددع نوناقال نم‬42‫ و‬41‫ و‬38 ‫لوصفال ماكحأ ةصاخو‬
2000‫ توأ‬9 ‫يف خرؤملا‬2000
‫راجتالو تالدابلماب قلعتلماة‬
.‫ةينورتكلإلا‬
105‫لصفال‬
‫ةجالعم طاشن نوسرامي نيذال صاخشألا ىلع ـ‬
‫ا ّووسي نأ نوناقال اذه رودص دنع ةيصخشال تايطعلما‬
‫زيح هلوخد نم ةيادب ةنس لجأ يف هماكحأ قفو مهعاضوأ‬
.‫ذيفنتال‬
‫ةيسنوتال ةيروهمجلل يمسرال دئارالب ي ساسألا نوناقال اذه رشني‬
.‫نيناوق نم نوناقك ذفنيو ةلودال‬
.2004‫ ةيليوج‬27 ‫يف سنوت‬

21

