Page 1

Saturday, May 5, 2018

Official newspaper

Number : 30412

REGULATION
From the Personal Data Protection Authority:
PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION PERSONNEL UPGRADE
AND TITLE CHANGE REGULATION
FIRST PART
Purpose, Scope, Basis and Definitions
Goal
ARTICLE 1 – (1) The purpose of this Regulation is to meet the service requirements and personnel within the framework of merit and career principles.
The promotion and title of the personnel working in the Personal Data Protection Agency, based on the planning of
to determine the procedures and principles regarding the amendment.
Scope
ARTICLE 2 - (1) This Regulation was issued by the Personal Data Protection Authority, dated 14/7/1965 and numbered 657.
Employees who work subject to the Civil Servants Law and are listed in Article 5 of this Regulation are on duty.
It covers those who will be appointed by promotion and title change.
Rest
ARTICLE 3 – (1) This Regulation is governed by the Civil Servants Law No. 657 and dated 15/3/1999 and numbered 99/12647.
Promotion and Title in Public Institutions and Organizations put into effect with the Decision of the Council of Ministers
It has been prepared based on the provisions of the General Regulation on Amendment Principles.
Definitions
ARTICLE 4 – (1) In this Regulation;
a) Sub-task: lower within the framework of the hierarchical levels specified in the Law No. 3046 dated 27/9/1984
their duties in the hierarchy,
b) Same level task: Subgroups within the same group or group in terms of hierarchy, duty, authority and responsibility
duties shown in the same subgroup, if any,
c) Chairman: Chairman of the Personal Data Protection Authority,
ç) Department: The department responsible for the human resources of the Institution,
d) Task groups: Groups with tasks of the same level and similar tasks,
e) Promotion: The duties determined in this Regulation will be made from the same or other task groups.
assignments,
f) Promotion exam: Written and written exam for those who will be appointed to the titles in the first paragraph of Article 5.
oral exam,
g) Service period: The periods listed in subparagraph (B) of Article 68 of the Law No. 657,
ğ) Business day: Days other than national holidays, general and weekend holidays,
h) Institution: Personal Data Protection Authority,
ı) Personnel: The State working in the staff of the Institution subject to the Civil Servants Law No. 657
its officers,
i) Change of title: To the titles issued as a result of vocational or technical education at least at secondary education level.
assignments to related posts,
j) Change of title exam: Those given as a result of vocational or technical education at least at secondary education level.
Written and oral exam to be appointed to duties related to titles,
k) Senior duty: Within the framework of the hierarchical levels specified in the Law No. 3046,
duties,
means.
SECOND PART
Principles Regarding Promotion and Change of Title
task groups
ARTICLE 5 – (1) The positions subject to promotion within the scope of this Regulation are listed below.
a) Management services group:
1) Branch Manager.
2) Chief.
b) Administrative services group:
1) Data preparation and control operator, officer.
c) Support services group:
1) Servant.
(2) The cadres subject to title change are as follows:
a) Lawyer, engineer, statistician, technician, technician, translator (translator).
General conditions to be sought in those who will be appointed by promotion
ARTICLE 6 – (1) The following general conditions are sought for appointments to be made to positions subject to this Regulation:
a) Having the term of service specified in subparagraph (B) of Article 68 of the Civil Servants Law No. 657
be.
b) To be successful in the promotion exam.
c) At least 6 months in the Institution, excluding the absence of personnel who meet the requirements for the announced position.
to have worked.
Special conditions to be sought in those who will be appointed by promotion in duty
ARTICLE 7 – (1) The following special conditions are sought for appointments to be made to positions subject to this Regulation:
a) In order to be appointed to the Branch Manager staff;
1) To graduate from at least four-year higher education institutions,
2) At least two years in chief, lawyer, engineer and statistician staff, technician, data preparation and control
Having worked in the operator and civil servant positions for at least five years,
b) In order to be appointed to the chief staff;
1) To be a graduate of at least two years of college,
2) Those who have graduated from higher education for four years or more, at least four years, less than four years
those who have graduated from higher education have at least six years of service,
3) Having worked as a data preparation and control operator or civil servant,
c) In order to be appointed to the staff of data preparation and control operator;
1) To be at least a high school graduate or equivalent,
2) One of the Ministry of National Education, authorized private education institutions or higher education institutions
Programming, management, computer use certificate he has given or the course given by the school he graduated
To have a document showing that he has taken a course on computer management in his curriculum, or to be in public institutions and organizations.
To be successful in the same course organized by the institutions,
3) Having worked in the service staff for at least 2 years,
ç) In order to be appointed to the staff of civil servants;
1) To be at least a high school graduate or equivalent,
2) Having worked in the service staff for at least 2 years,
must.
General conditions to be sought for those who will be appointed by name change
ARTICLE 8 – (1) The title of those who will be appointed by changing the title is based on their educational status.
It is imperative that they have won the title and be successful in the title change exam.
Special conditions to be sought for those who will be appointed by name change
ARTICLE 9 – (1) In addition to the general conditions for those who will be appointed as a result of the title change exam, the following special conditions
searched for:
a) In order to be appointed to the staff of attorney;
1) To be a graduate of the Faculty of Law,
2) To have a lawyer's license.
b) In order to be appointed to the engineer or statistician staff, the relevant faculties or four-year colleges
to graduate from departments,
c) In order to be appointed to the translator staff, the following conditions are sought;
1) Philology, translation (interpretation) departments of faculties or four-year colleges or other related departments
to graduate from departments,
2) In the 3 years before the application deadline, at least (B) in the Foreign Language Proficiency Exam (YDS)
by the Presidency of the Measurement, Selection and Placement Center (ÖSYM)
To certify that he/she is equally successful in the exams whose equivalence is accepted.
ç) In order to be appointed to the technician staff; Relevant vocational or technical colleges of at least two years
to graduate from.
d) In order to be appointed to the technician staff; from schools that provide vocational or technical education equivalent to high school
to graduate.
THIRD PART
Promotion and Title Change Exam Principles
Announcement and application
ARTICLE 10 – (1) Announcement regarding the exams to be opened for promotion or title change,
It is done at least thirty days before the exams, taking into account the staff situation and needs.
(2) Promotion or title change exam is given to the personnel via the Institution's intranet or website.
is announced. Class, title, degree and number of vacancies to be appointed in the announcement, conditions to be sought, deadline
date and other issues are specified and the application period cannot be determined as less than five working days. Upon this announcement,
Institution personnel who meet the conditions stated in the exam announcement as of the application deadline,
They apply to the relevant department head in order to participate in the exam for only one of the cadres. On unpaid leave
Personnel using the required permits in accordance with the relevant legislation, including those on
It is possible to participate in the promotion exam and the title change exam.
(3) Candidates who will participate in the promotion exam must meet the conditions specified in the announcement.
(4) In the request of the relevant department to participate in the promotion exam or the change of title exam,
By evaluating the status of the personnel in question, the personnel who meet the conditions to participate in the said exams and those who do not.
The list and other issues are announced by appropriate means, as well as on the Institution's intranet or website. Also, on the job
Written notification is made to the personnel who meet the conditions to participate in the promotion exam or the change of title exam.
(5) Applications of candidate civil servants are not accepted.
Written examination
ARTICLE 11 – (1) Written exam, subject headings related to this exam are included in the announcement.
It is done on subjects to be determined by the examination board established in accordance with Article 17 of the Regulation. Written examination
As can be done by the Institution, to ÖSYM, the Ministry of National Education, the Public Administration Institute of Turkey and the Middle East.
or one of the higher education institutions.
(2) Written exam for promotion is evaluated over one hundred full points. Written exam at least
Those who get sixty points are considered successful.
(3) Those who do not take the exams for whatever reason are deemed to have lost their rights. Those who cheat in the exam,
Those who make copies or attempt to do so, and those who put an indicative mark on the exam papers will be removed from the exam hall and
Exam papers are deemed invalid with a written report. In addition, instead of the candidate who will take the exam, another person may take the exam.
If it is understood that the student entered the exam, the exam of the relevant persons is determined with a report and is deemed invalid. Discipline about these people
The transaction is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the general provisions.
Oral examination
ARTICLE 12 – (1) Announced starting from the candidate who has the highest score among those who are successful in the written exam.
Candidates up to five times the number of staff are taken to the oral exam. All of the personnel who have the same score as the last candidate
is taken to the exam.
(2) Relevant personnel, by each member of the Examination Board;
a) The level of knowledge about the exam subjects,
b) The ability to comprehend and summarize a subject, express it and reasoning power,
c) His qualifications, ability to represent, suitability of his attitude and behavior for the job,
ç) Self-confidence, persuasiveness and persuasiveness,
d) General culture and general ability,
e) Openness to scientific and technological developments,
based on one hundred full points. The scores given by each Examination Board member
The oral exam score of the personnel is determined by taking the arithmetic average. At least seventy points out of a hundred in the oral exam
fields are considered successful.
Ranking of success
ARTICLE 13 – (1) Success in appointments equal to the number of vacancies announced by promotion.
score is based. The success score is determined based on the arithmetic average of the written and oral exam scores.
and announced on the Institution's intranet or website. In case the success points are equal, respectively; service time
giving priority to those who have more, those who have completed higher education, those who have higher education graduation grades
The success ranking is determined starting from the highest score.
(2) Although they are successful in the promotion exam, they are not appointed due to the announced number of positions.
staff, at the most, as much as the actual number of candidates, if needed by the Institution and the examination
It can be determined as a substitute in the success ranking list, provided that it is also stated in the announcement.
Objection to exam results
ARTICLE 14 – (1) Those concerned may object to the Examination Board within five working days following the announcement of the exam results.
they can. Objections are evaluated by the Examination Board within fifteen business days at the latest following the end of the objection period.
and the result is notified to the relevant person in writing.
(2) The points corresponding to the wrong questions in the exams are equally distributed to the other questions. However, the questions
Upon objections made within the period specified in the first paragraph that more than ten percent of the
If it is detected in any way, the exam will be canceled and a new exam will be held as soon as possible.
(3) The final success list, if there is no objection within five working days after the first announcement of the exam results.
the following business day, in case of an objection, it is announced after the evaluation of the objection by the Examination Board.
Appointment of exam winners
ARTICLE 15 – (1) The personnel who are entitled to be appointed, following the finalization of the success ranking list,
It is assigned according to the success points in the success ranking, starting from the highest score.
(2) Of the announced cadres;
a) Their exams are deemed invalid because they do not meet the conditions for appointment, or their appointments are canceled for this reason.
failure to start the assigned task within the prescribed time without a valid excuse, or the right to be appointed.
giving up,
b) Retirement, death, retirement or dismissal from civil service, cadres with other titles or to another institution.
transfer assignment,
for the vacancies or vacancies due to reasons of six months from the date of finalization of the success order.
Until the announcement regarding the next exam to be held for positions with the same title, provided that the time limit is not exceeded, article 13
Appointments can be made according to the success order among the substitutes.
(3) Among those who are successful in the exam, the exams of those who are found out later that they do not meet the conditions for appointment are invalid.
are not counted and assigned. Assignments of those who have been appointed will be cancelled. Those who have been dismissed
Assignments are not made until they are returned.
(4) Those who do not attend the promotion exam for any reason, and those who fail or who are substituted for six months
Those who have not been appointed until the announcement regarding the next exam in the exam or for any reason from their right to be appointed.
Those who have waived are subject to all the procedures and principles stipulated in this Regulation for the appointments to be made to the staff with the same title.
Name change exam
ARTICLE 16 – (1) To the staff subject to the title change specified in the second paragraph of Article 5, these titles are given.
Appointment of personnel who have provided vocational or technical education at least at secondary level,
According to the success of the title change exam to be held within the framework of the procedures and principles specified in the regulation.
is performed.
(2) Title change exams, the fields of duty to be determined by the President and the nature of the assignment to be made.
and those who will take these exams, who do not have anything to do with the institution or their educational background.
There is no requirement to have served for a certain period of time. To the duties within the scope of the title change exam, only
Institution staff can apply.
(3) At least sixty points out of one hundred points in the written exam for the change of title, and at least seventy points in the oral exam
fields are considered successful.
(4) Among the personnel within the scope of this Regulation, those who have completed their doctorate education can take the title change exam.
They may be appointed to roles conferred by learning without participating in them.
Exam board and its duties
ARTICLE 17 – (1) An examination board shall be established to conduct promotion or title change examinations.
is done. The examination board is chaired by the Chairman or the vice-chairman to be appointed, among them the relevant institutions of the Institution.
It consists of a total of five principal and three substitute members, including the head of the department. Members constituting the examination board
They cannot be at a lower level than the personnel to be recruited in terms of education and titles they have given. exams, exam
The chairman and members of the board of directors, blood relatives up to the third degree and in-laws up to the second degree, adopted children and
Even if the marriage bond between them is broken, if it is determined that their spouse has participated in the exam, the member of the exam board
They cannot act as In such cases, substitute member or members are appointed in their place.
(2) Examination board; exams, announcement of exam results, finalization of objections and
carries out other related works.
(3) The examination board convenes with the full number of members and decisions are taken by majority vote. Abstention in voting
cannot be used. Alternate members attend meetings in the absence of full members.
(4) The secretariat services of the examination board are carried out by the Department.
CHAPTER FOUR
Miscellaneous and Final Provisions
Transitions between groups
ARTICLE 18 – (1) The task groups and transitions between tasks specified in Article 5 are based on the following principles:
is made within the framework of:
a) Transitions in the quality of promotion between groups and transitions from sub-task to senior duty, promotion in duty
subject to examination.
b) Those who are in the sub-service group of the same main service group, stay within the same sub-group and
the same hierarchical structure without being subjected to a promotion exam, provided that they meet the conditions required by the cadre to be appointed.
may be assigned to other tasks.
c) Previous duties in the institution or other public institutions and organizations and the same duties as these
level duties or lower duties, upon the request of the personnel and the education and service required in this Regulation.
on duty, provided that he/she has the necessary certificate, driver's license and similar documents to fulfill the requirements.
Appointments can be made without being subjected to a promotion exam.
ç) The cadres subject to title change and the transitions between these cadres, the title issued for the relevant cadre
The change is made according to the result of the exam.
d) Persons who are within the scope of this Regulation and who have completed their doctorate education, for the task to be assigned
They must have the total length of service required and calculated according to Article 6, and meet the education requirement required by the legislation.
This Regulation applies to their appointment to specialist or same level positions and lower positions, provided that they
provisions do not apply.
e) Provisions of this Regulation for appointments to be made from the staff of lawyers to the staff of legal advisors.
not applicable.
Live assignments
ARTICLE 19 – (1) Granting the titles listed in this Regulation from the personnel of other public institutions and organizations
those who have the same title in the Institution or other titles in the same subgroup where this title exists, or even lower.
to titles; For the title to which they will be appointed, they must meet the conditions other than being successful in the exam stipulated in this Regulation.
They can be appointed by transfer in accordance with the general provisions.
Storage of exam documents
ARTICLE 20 – (1) Exam-related documents of the personnel who have passed the exams are in their personal files; success
If the documents of those who cannot show the documents for at least one year or the next exam, and the exam documents that are the subject of the lawsuit, the judicial decision
Until finalized, it is kept by the relevant department in accordance with the general provisions.
vested rights
ARTICLE 21 - (1) The titles covered by this Regulation, the rights of the winners in accordance with the relevant legislation.
reserved.
Cases where there is no provision
ARTICLE 22 – (1) In cases where there is no provision in this Regulation; With the Civil Servants Law No. 657
General Regulation on the Principles of Promotion and Title Change in Public Institutions and Organizations
provisions apply.
Force
ARTICLE 23 – (1) This Regulation enters into force on the date of its publication.
Executive
ARTICLE 24 – (1) The President executes the provisions of this Regulation.

